EPJ manuscript No.
(will be inserted by the editor)
9
0
0
2
 
t
c
O
5
1
 
 
 
]
Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
1
v
9
4
8
2
.
0
1
9
0
:
v
i
X
r
a
Bloggers Behavior and Emergent Communities in Blog Space
Marija Mitrovi c and Bosiljka Tadi c
Department for Theoretical Physics, Jo zef Stefan Institute, P.O. Box 3000, SI-1001 Ljubljana, Slovenia
Received: date / Revised version: date
Abstract. Interactions between users in cyberspace may lead to phenomena di erent from those observed
in common social networks. Here we analyse large data sets about users and Blogs which they write and
comment, mapped onto a bipartite graph. In such enlarged Blog space we trace user activity over time,
which results in robust temporal patterns of user Blog behavior and the emergence of communities. With
the spectral methods applied to the projection on weighted user network we detect clusters of users related
to their common interests and habits. Our results suggest that di erent mechanisms may play the role in
the case of very popular Blogs. Our analysis makes a suitable basis for theoretical modeling of the evolution
of cyber communities and for practical study of the data, in particular for an e cient search of interesting
Blog clusters and further retrieval of their contents by text analysis.
PACS. 89.75.Hc Networks and genealogical trees   89.75.Fb Structures and organizations in complex
systems   02.70.-c Computational techniques; simulations
1 Introduction
In the information society, getting information from imme-
diate users becomes an important way in opinion making,
marketing products, and in everyday life issues as health,
hazards, tra c problems, etc. In this respect the contem-
porary communication networks and social media o er on-
line interactions, which facilitate communications, but on
the other hand, they introduce a new kind of technology-
mediated social clustering not known in the history. Be-
havior of users in the cyber space may be altered in com-
parison with common social interactions, which may in-
duce new phenomena in the fast developing technology-
based society. Obvious  absence of person  (the commu-
nication is indirect, mediated by text or video material
posted on the web portals), accessibility, massive data
available, and fast communications are some of the reasons
which a ect blogging at microscopic scale. The collective
behaviors emerging in these interactions have not been yet
understood. Therefore, scienti c data analysis and model-
ing from the point of view of the complex evolving systems
appears as a necessary step towards better understanding
of the social phenomena in cyberspace.
Among variety of the currently available techno-social
organizations, Blogs are somewhat speci c, between the
ordinary Web pages, where the owner writes its contents,
and much faster information exchange between friends in
FriendFeed, Facebook or MySpace networks. On the other
hand, on Blogs the posts are short written forms, usually
dedicated to a given subject and written by known author
(or a group of authors) of the Blog. Other registered users
can read and leave comments on the posts. Registration
of users is required at many Blog sites and the action of
each user is traced in time. The action of users is delayed
compared with posting time. Apart form the subject, the
act of writing the post and/or comment often requires
certain dedication and writing skills, in which author s
personal pro le and preferences get involved. In this way,
posts may comprise an aesthetic as well as emotional and
moral contents, similar to books, movies or music items
accessible on the Web. Unlike friends networks, in-advance
relationship between authors of Blogs and other users is
not an underlying context on Blogs. This all might in u-
ence the evolution of Blogs, however, no precise measure
of the importance of these and other factors exists so far.
The mechanisms that drive user activity in the Blog space
have not been fully understood [1].
Analysis of data in di erent social media revealed cor-
related behavior manifested in power-laws in the structure
of networks and communities related to movie [2,3] and
music genres [4,5], and cascades of events in the Inter-
net forums [6] and through di erent Blogs via hyperlink
connections between them [7,8,9,10]. Further regularities
were found in the anlysis of the Blog entries [11,12]. The
approach with a targeted analysis of the contents of posted
text on Blogs and in other forms [13,14], brings a new di-
mension in the study of the techno-social communications
[15].
In this work we consider the data about actual events
occurring between users-and-posts and map them to a bi-
partite network, in which users, as one partition, do not
have a direct connection but interact through the posts,
which makes the other partition. Links between users and
posts are also directed, depending on the action (reading
or writing the post/comment). In this way, our network
2
Marija Mitrovi c, Bosiljka Tadi c: Bloggers and Blogs Communities
makes an enlarged Blog space, with users and posts (and
comments to the posts) treated at the equal level. It is also
related to a given Blog site (we consider two Blog sites
with di erent organizational characteristics). In this en-
larged Blog space we are able to study the post-mediated
interactions between users and how the behavior of users
a ects the structure of the Blogs. Note that in several pre-
vious studies of Blogs [7,9,10] di erent networks have been
considered: posts as the network nodes were connected
with the hyperlinks pointing from one post to another, as
the network edges.
Organization of the paper is as follows: In Sec. 2 we
analyse the temporal features of both users and posts and
determine statistical measures of users activity relevant
to the Blogs. In sec. 3 we de ne the bipartite networks as
emanating from the data and study their topological prop-
erties. In Sec. 4 we determine the community structure of
users and  ne clustering of posts within user groups. The
di erence between very popular and other posts is also
pointed at the level of such communities. A short Sum-
mary of the results and conclusions are given in Sec. 5.
2 Temporal features of blogging
2.1 Data Structure
We consider large Blog data, together about half of a mil-
lion entries, collected from two di erent Blog sites, which
have entirely di erent internal organization and history:
BBC Blogs and Belgrade radio B92 Blogs. The case of
B92 Blogs is interesting for the analysis for several rea-
sons. First, we have collected all data from the begin-
ning 27. May 2007 till 1. March 2009. Furthermore, on
this Blog site users are registered not just to read and
comment other posts, but to write their own post, and
more importantly, no prede ned categories of post sub-
jects are imposed. Thus, the internal structure of posts
emerges in a self-organized manner through user inter-
actions on posts and comment-on-comment actions. The
availability of posts is time limited to seven days (this rule
was imposed after  rst few months of the functioning).
Some of the users are upgraded to so called VIP authors,
whose number  uctuates in time, and their recent posts
are highlighted. Here we analyzed the posts written by all
VIP users in the above mentioned period and consider all
users related to these posts, which comprises of NU = 4598
users, and NB = 4784 posts and Nc = 406527 comments
to these posts. On the other side, the BBC Blogs exists
for much longer time. For better comparison, we have col-
lected the data form the same period as above, which gives
NB = 3792 posts, and Nc = 80873 comments written by
NU = 21462 registered users. In contrast to B92 Blogs,
at the BBC Blogs both authors of posts and category of
posts are prede ned and  xed. The users are registered
and allowed only to read and comment the posts. Acces-
sibility of posts is not limited in time. In contrast to B92
Blogs, information about ID of a comment which is com-
mented is not available in BBC Blogs, all comments are
attributed to the original post.
Fig. 1. Temporal linking pattern of users (ordered by time of
 rst appearance) within roughly  rst year since the opening of
the B92 Blogs.
2.2 User behavior in Blog Space
Data about users, kept under their registered IDs, contain
information about users  activity over time, appearance of
their posts, and their comments to other posts. In Fig. 1
we show temporal patterns of the activity of more than
3000 users, ordered by the time of their registration on B92
Blogs within  rst year. As the  gure shows, users appear
in some waves, probably related to the external events or
Blog site management, and newly registered users are ac-
tive within some time intervals, whereas their activity is
reduced in later times. Some users persist over long time
period, while many other users either reduce frequency
or stop writing on Blogs altogether. The heterogeneity in
the users  activity is further quanti ed by the analysis of
time intervals  t between two successive user s activities
and by the number of events (written posts and/or com-
ments) nU
com(i, t) within a speci ed time window TW IN ,
for instance within one day. The distribution of time in-
tervals between user s successive activities is given in Fig.
2 for both BBC and B92 Blog users. The power-law de-
pendences over several decades (time is measured in min-
utes) suggest robust non-random patterns of users behav-
ior, which is not much dependent on how the Blog site
is organized. The slopes of the curves are di erent (1.5
and 1.15 at B92 and BBC Blogs, respectively), indicating
slightly larger probability of large inactivity times at BBC
Blogs.
Further quantitative analysis of the time series of ac-
tivity, nU
com(i, t), a given user i in time window t, reveals
additional information about user behavior. An example
of such time series of a very active user from B92 is shown
in Fig. 3, with TW IN equals one day. The power-spectrum
of the time series shows long-range correlations at large
frequency region, which suggests that the user activity is
correlated over small time intervals.
We also analysed such time series for all users. In Fig.
4 the dispersion of these time series  U (j) of a given user
Marija Mitrovi c, Bosiljka Tadi c: Bloggers and Blogs Communities
3
Fig. 2. Distributions of time intervals in users activity on B92
Blogs and on BBC Blogs, averaged over all users of given Blog
site. Inset: Example of  bar-code  of a very active user on B92
Blogs.
Fig. 3. Time series of an active user on B92 Blogs and (Inset:)
its power spectrum.
j is plotted against its average over all time windows <
nU
com(j) >. Thus in this plot each point represents one
user from our list. The plot obeys the scaling relation
 X (i) = c < nX
com(i) >  ,
(1)
which is found in many complex dynamical systems from
social to biological [16,17]. It is interesting that all users in
the considered Blogs on both BBC and B92 Blogs follow
the same scale invariance, with the exponent     0.88.
Note that the largest exponent   = 1 is generally expected
in strongly driven dynamical system, whereas the lower
limit   = 1/2 is found in random (uncorrelated) events
[16]. The observed scale invariance of the user time series
in Fig. 4 strongly indicates non-randomness in the user
activity on Blogs.
2.3 Temporal Patterns in Blogs
The fractal temporal pattern of users activity is mani-
fested on events recorded at Blogs, in particular, each user
action results in either a new post or a new comment to
some of the existing posts. From the data on B92 Blogs we
Fig. 4. Scaling of the dispersion  U (i) of users activity (time
bin one day) time series plotted against its average value
hnU
com(i)i for all considered users on B92 and on BBC Blogs.
can trace where each particular user action was directed
to, by analysis of the temporal patterns of the related
posts.
The question of  How long it takes to people to react
to new posted material?  was studied in other commu-
nication systems, e.g., e-mails, Youtube videos, donation
to tsunami victims etc, see [18] and references therein.
The appearance of the power-law distribution of the re-
sponse times P (t   ti) to an event i posted at time ti
was associated with human nature of acting with priority
queues [19,18]. Assuming a single-server-queue limit and
random arrival of events to the queue, in ref. [19] a uni-
versal power-law distribution of the waiting (or response)
times was derived with the exponent 3/2 corresponding
to the situation when the average arrival rate exceeds the
average execution rate. An exponent larger than 2 is ex-
pected in the opposite situation, as discussed in Ref. [18],
where attention rather than priority was stressed as a key
mechanism. In both cases, a theory of independent queues
were considered. Note that in the network environment,
where the queues are mutually interacting, for instance in
the packet queuing processes [20] with LIFO queue, the
waiting time distribution exhibits power-law with an ex-
ponents depending of the tra c density, dropping below
2 when the jamming on the network occurs.
In the Blog data we construct the distributions P (t ti)
having the posting time ti of all posts and the action time
t, i.e., posting a comment to the post i. The distribu-
tions averaged over all posts are shown in Fig. 5 for both
B92 and BBC Blogs, with slopes 2.8 and 2.3 respectively.
Again, it s remarkable that the power-law tail in both
cases exists, which can be  tted with the q-exponential
expression
P (t   ti) = C(cid:18)1   (1   q)
t   ti
t  (cid:19)
1
1 q
.
(2)
The di erences in the exponents might be attributed to
closing the posts in B92 after a preset expire date, which is
4
Marija Mitrovi c, Bosiljka Tadi c: Bloggers and Blogs Communities
Fig. 5. Distribution of the response time to posts on B92 and
BBC Blogs. Fit curves by the q-exponential form Eq. (2).
not the case with the posts on BBC Blogs. In Ref. [18] an
exponent larger than two is expected when the subject is
repeatedly brought to people s attention, which also might
be the case with the highlighting recent (or very active)
posts on the Blogs.
The temporal pattern of linking to a particular post
is shown in Fig. 6(top) for  rst 250 posts on B92 Blogs
(no expire dates of posts was imposed at that time). It
shows that posts becomes less interesting after certain pe-
riod of time. Similar pattern was observed in the case of
BBC Blogs. Accordingly, the time series consisting of the
number of comments (within a time bin) on a typical post
shows an increase shortly after the post appearance, then
it drops to a steady value and eventually stops, an exam-
ple with time bin of 1 hour is shown in the inset to Fig.
6(bottom). The scaling plot of all posts time series, similar
to the one of users in Fig. 4, is shown in Fig. 6(bottom).
In contrast to users, here one can see that posts belong to
two distinct categories according to the popularity and,
consequently, their dispersion of the time series are di er-
ent. The active posts show large average number of com-
ments per time bin and at the same time large dispersion
of the time series according to Eq. (1) with the exponent
  = 0.68. Whereas a large group of posts both in BBC
and B92 Blogs exhibits a random variation in the time se-
ries, these posts are represented by the lower-left part of
the plot, where the exponent is   = 0.5. The behavior is
statistically similar on both Blog sites, with the exception
of few very active posts in the B92 Blogs (appearing close
to the tip of the plot).
3 Blog data mapped onto bipartite network
As mentioned in the Introduction, in our approach the
data about users and Blogs are mapped onto a bipar-
tite network, with users as one partition and posts and
comments, as the other partition. Here we explain how
the mapping is exactly done and what kind of networks
emerge. One should stress that, by de nition, in the bi-
partite networks no direct link occurs between the nodes
within the same partition. Thus two users in our network
interact with each other only through the posts that they
Fig. 6. (top) Linking pattern over times on B92 posts. (bot-
tom) Dispersion vs average for posts with time bin 20 min and
1 hour for B92 and for BBC Posts with 1 hour bin.
write and/or chose to comment. A directed bipartite net-
work is most suitable to represent the events contained in
the data. In the data we have iU = 1, 2,       NU users and
jB = 1, 2,       NB posts and comments, which make the bi-
partite network nodes. The links between users and posts
(or comments) are inserted as follows:
  a directed link from the user iU points to the post jB
which that user posted; Similarly a link iU   mcmjB
from user iU to mth comment of the post jB is drown
when the data indicate that the user iU wrote that
comment;
  a link from the post  B to the user kU is drown when
the data indicate that the user red that post and/or
one of its comments. In addition, a link points from rth
comment of the post  B towards that user, rcm B  
kU , if the user red that comment. Note that the indi-
cation that a user red a post/comment is contained in
that user comment s data.
The mapping is illustrated in Fig. 7. Note that in this
mapping multiple links are possible, e.g., if the user replied
to comments on his post or comments.
Marija Mitrovi c, Bosiljka Tadi c: Bloggers and Blogs Communities
5
Fig. 7. Example of bipartite network of blogs and users. Users,
shown as green circles, are connected with posts, shown as blue
diamonds, and to comments on posts, red diamonds, but not
among themselves.
3.1 Statistical properties of bipartite graphs
One of the immediate consequences of the above explained
linking pattern over time is the inhomogeneous network of
users and Blogs. Here we characterized it by two measures:
the degree distribution of each partition and by the num-
ber of commons: the common posts per pair of user and
vice versa, which are relevant for the community structure
further analysed in this paper.
Degree distribution in the case of our directed bi-
partite network can be determined for in- and out-degree
and in both partitions. For the user partition, the out-
degree is de ned as the number of posts and comments
written by the user, while in-degree is the number of posts
and comment red by that user. Note that in the structure
of B92 Blogs, where the users are allowed to write new
posts and where also comment-on-comment is allowed and
noti ed in the data, in- and out-degree distributions are
di erent, as shown in Fig. 8 (top panel). In the BBC Blogs,
however, the users are only allowed to write comments
on the original posts, the di erence between in- and out-
degree distribution of users entirely disappears, see Fig.
8. In te partition of of posts and comments, also shown in
Fig. 8 (bottom panel), in-degree of posts is equal to one
(each post or comment have one author), while the out-
degree of posts has a nontrivial distribution. Apart from
the multiple linking mentioned above, the out-degree of a
post is roughly equal to the number of users who wrote a
comment (including comments on comments) of that post.
Again, there is di erence in the slope of the decay of this
distribution for the BBC Blogs data and B92 Blogs data.
However, the qualitative features are similar: a power-law
decay for less popular posts (with number of comments
smaller than a characteristic value n 
com (approximately
100-200). In both cases a sharp bending of the distribu-
tion occurs for the popular posts, on which the number of
comments exceeds n 
com. As mentioned above, the slopes
Fig. 8. Bipartite network analysis: Cumulative distributions
for in- and out-degree of users (top) and out-degree of posts
(bottom) for data from B92 and BBC Blogs.
of the power-law distributions are not universal, here we
mention them for completeness. The cumulative distribu-
tions are shown in Fig. 8, the exponents are compatible
with the di erential degree distributions as follows: 1.57
and 2. for the user out-degree, and 1.98 and 1.5 for the
posts out-degree in B92 and BBC Blogs, respectively.
Distribution of Commons is another measure em-
anating from the bipartite representation of the network,
and determines weight of links in a suitable mono-partite
projection. One can consider projections in both partitions
[21]. Here we are interested in the behavior of users in the
enlarged Blog space. Therefore we will consider the pro-
jection on the user partition, where the commons, C B
ij are
de ned as the number of common posts and comments per
pair of users. Distribution shown in Fig. 9 of commons
C B
ij per pair of users obtained from the whole dataset,
non-popular, and popular posts, as de ned above, for B92
Blogs. The distribution has characteristic power law de-
cay for all sets of data. Similar features are found in the
BBC Blogs data, but with an order of magnitude smaller
cut-o . This also indicates that considerably larger over-
6
Marija Mitrovi c, Bosiljka Tadi c: Bloggers and Blogs Communities
Note that with the projection of our bipartite graph onto
monopartite (user partition) the directions of the links are
lost, thus we consider the links of the projected graph as
a symmetrical.
As discussed in detail in Ref. [26], the normalized Lapla-
cian in the form (3) has the spectrum limited in the range
[0, 2] and the orthogonal set of eigenvectors. The essence
of the community detection by spectral methods consists
in the following observations:
  Lowest non-zero eigenvalues appear to be separated
from the rest of the spectrum; Their number coincides
with the number of distinguishable subgraphs;
  Eigenvectors of these lowest non-zero eigenvalues have
non-zero positive/negative components localized on the
subgraphs;
  Scatter-plot in the space of these eigenvectors exhibits
branched structure; Points in each branch carry the in-
dex of a non-zero component, which uniquely indicates
a node in the network; Thus, well separated branches
of the scatter-plot identify di erent subgraphs on the
network.
We expect to  nd a community structure, for instance in
the case of BBC Blogs due to the predetermined cate-
gory of Blogs. However, it is not entirely clear how this
structure of Blogs a ects user behavior. In Fig. 10(top)
we show a part of the weighted matrix C B
ij obtained from
the BBC Blogs. Small and larger blocks along the diagonal
of the matrix indicate linking between subgroups of posts,
which is achieved via users of these posts. We analysed the
Laplacian matrix for the respective projection on the user
partition of the BBC Blogs, as described above, Eq. (3).
The resulting scatter-plot is shown in Fig. 10(bottom). In
this section of the eigenvector space, the scatter-plot ex-
hibits three well separated groups of users, represented by
large branches, and the central ring. Matching the iden-
tity of users at tips of these three branches, we then iden-
tify the lists of posts which thy commented. Indeed, these
three users groups appear to be related to three di er-
ent subjects of posts (Sports, Business and economy, and
Technology Blogs). Forth group is rather small and it is
also related to Sports posts. Note that here we considered
only users related to posts with the number of comments
between 50 and 100, which gives NnpB = 149 posts and
NU = 4957 users. The other group of very popular posts
on BBC Blogs will be discussed later.
In the case of B92 Blogs no prede ned category of
Blogs exists, and a community structure may appear in a
self-organized manner. We  rst consider a group of posts
with less than 100 comments (corresponding to out-degree
qB < 100, roughly the banding point in Fig. 8, bottom).
The selected set consists of NnpP = 3318 posts. These
posts together with corresponding comments constitute
subgraph of size NnpB = 137941, commented by NnpU =
3367 users. Bipartite network constructed from non-popular
group is then projected in the way described in the pre-
vious section and the monopartite weighted network of
NnpU users is determined and its spectra analysed.
Ranking of the eigenvalues of the respective Laplacian
matrix and the scatter-plot in the space of three represen-
Fig. 9. Distribution of commons: Number of common posts
C B
ij per pair of users for B92 and BBC Blogs, as indicated.
lap between users occurs on B92 Blogs compared to BBC
Blogs, which can be attributed to much larger freedom in
the authorship and the subject categories on B92 Blogs.
4 Community Structure in Blogs
The analysis of commons discussed above helps us to trace
the (mediated) interactions between users in the Blog space,
which is of our primary interest in this paper. In partic-
ular, by projecting the bipartite graph onto monopartite
user space, the common number of posts C B
ij for the pair
{ij} of users appears as a weight on the links in the user
subgraph. In weighted networks communities can be de-
tected both according to the topology, i.e., patterns of
links, (see di erent methods for the community detec-
tion in binary graphs in [22,23]), but also according to
the weights of the links, which are not necessarily as-
sociated with the topology. Recently di erent methods
were adjusted to detecting communities in the weighted
networks, such as weighted maximum-likelihood-method
(wMLM) [24] and spectral analysis of the adjacency or
other weighted matrices related to it [25,26]. Here we ap-
ply the spectral methods to determine communities in the
weighted user subgraph.
Spectral methods to  nd communities in modular net-
works is based on the properties of the eigenvalues and
eigenvectors of the adjacency matrix or other matrix re-
lated to it. We use weighted normalized Laplacian (di u-
sion operator) [26,27]
LU
ij =  ij  
(3)
C B
ij
 
plilj
where C B
ij are weighted links determined by the number of
common posts and comments for the user pair {ij}, and
li is the strength of the user node i, standardly de ned as
ij of all links at that node.
the sum of weights  i   Pj C B
Marija Mitrovi c, Bosiljka Tadi c: Bloggers and Blogs Communities
7
Fig. 10. BBC Blogs: Part of the weighted matrix of com-
mons C B
ij (top) and the scatter plot of three eigenvectors of
the Laplacian (3) of small nonzero eigenvalues, exhibiting three
user communities (bottom).
tative eigenvectors is shown in Fig. 11. Four groups (user
communities) are clearly di erentiated in the spectrum,
and are marked as gU 1, gU 2, gU 3, gU 4. In the following
we analyse the structure of Blogs to which these four user
groups are related.
The users in groups gU 1 and gU 4 (lower and upper
branch in Fig. 11), are linked to the Posts which we show
as the network Fig. 12. By inspection of the text in these
posts and related comments, we  nd that all posts in the
user group gU 1 are related to sports (football), and posts
in group gU 4 are about the urban architecture and related
urban life problems [Tables 1,2 of these posts are available
on Supportive material, in Serbian]. In Fig. 12 these posts
are further di erentiated according to the authors of the
posts or comments. Although these two groups are rather
small, one can see that the number of posts and comments
by di erent users varies, in accordance with the broad
distribution of the user degree on the bipartite network,
mentioned in sec. 3.
In contrast to the above thematic posts, the posts and
comments related to the other two user groups gU 2 and
gU 3, are on mixed subjects and involve a larger commu-
nity of users, however, they share more similarities apart
Fig. 11. Eigenvalues in ranking order (top) and the eigen-
vectors of three lowest non-zero eigenvalues (bottom) of the
weighted Laplacian matrix of the network of users on B92
Blogs. Four groups of users are marked.
from excluding the sports and the architecture subjects.
The di erence in posts related to both ends of these two
branches is the time when they appeared: that posts re-
lated to the users on the left end of the scatter plot (gU 3)
are posted at the beginning of the Blog site, as opposed
to the right branch ( gU 2), which are related to the recent
posts. As above, we can further analyse the structure of
subnetwork of posts related to the user group gU 2 and
gU 3, see Fig. 13 and the caption to the Figure for details.
4.1 Structure of Communities in Popular Blogs
In the case of popular Blogs, we  rst  lter the data ac-
cording to the number of comments that exceeds 100 on a
post and users who wrote these posts and the related com-
ments. We then construct a bipartite network consisting
of Users + Posts, while the comments are used to de ne
the weights of links between Users and Posts. Namely, the
weight Wij of the link between the user i and post j is
de ned by the number of comments that user i left on the
post j. The network of Users + Posts consists of N = 5079
nodes (1466 posts and 3613 users). The weighted Lapla-
cian matrix of the whole network is constructed as in Eq.
(3) but with the Wij weights and its spectrum computed.
8
Marija Mitrovi c, Bosiljka Tadi c: Bloggers and Blogs Communities
Fig. 12. The network of posts and comments linked to groups
of users gU 1 (top ) gU 4 (bottom) can be further split into
communities, which are related either to the subject or to the
author of the post.
Fig. 13. (top) Scatter plot of three eigenvectors of the network
of posts linked to the user group gU 2, recent posts. In the
wings are the posts written by two di erent authors. (bottom)
Network of early blogs related to user group gU 3. Three groups
are distinguished by using the weighted wMLM.
The structure of communities in this network is shown in
the 3-dimensional scatter-plot of the eigenvectors in Fig.
14. In this projection four branches of nodes can be di er-
entiated, denoted as Gi, = 1, 2, 3, 4. Note that each point
in this scatter plot is either a User (known by its IDu) or
a Post (known as its IDb). In order to separate the users
from posts (two partitions in our bipartite network) one
can, for instance, apply the wMLM metod to each of the
observed groups Gi. Here we are interested in the con-
tents of the popular Blogs. For this purpose we further
break the observed groups according to the spectrally de-
tectable communities. We demonstrate it on the example
of the network made of the groups G1 +G2 from the above
Fig. 14. The corresponding structure of the communities
is shown in Fig. 15.
By inspection of IDb and the text on these posts, we
 nd that the group G1 of the previous plot remains the
same (it is related to the Montenegrian political issues),
while the group G2 splits into three groups. A small group
appears in the vertical plane contains posts related to in-
ternal politics. In the other two branches are the posts
related to the rights of pregnant women in hospitals in
Serbia (left branch) and other still mixed issues and many
users (right branch). For  ne structure of posts in these
branch one needs to include additional criteria, e.g., re-
lated to the contents of the text in these posts. We per-
formed such analysis on popular BBC Blogs, the results
are left out of this paper.
5 Conclusions
We have presented analysis of large Blog datasets, seen
from the point of view of complex dynamical systems and
represented by bipartite graphs of Users and their Posts
and Comments. We studied in parallel data sets from two
Blog sites with entirely di erent history, cultural, and or-
Marija Mitrovi c, Bosiljka Tadi c: Bloggers and Blogs Communities
9
the appropriate network methods, reveal a lot of struc-
ture in the Blog space. The community analysis as we
presented it here, can be used as a staring point to fur-
ther e ective study of the contents on Blogs, which need
to be related with clusters of user rather than individual
users. Furthermore, by unraveling the user pro les (i.e.,
from the history of their actions stored under their reg-
istered IDs), the results of our study may be useful for
developing appropriate theoretical models, which are nec-
essary to eventually understand the key mechanisms in the
Blog dynamics. These two aspects remain for the future
study.
Acknowledgments Research supported by the pro-
gram P1-0044 (Slovenia) and by EU FP7 project CYBER-
EMOTIONS. The numerical results were obtained on the
computer grid of the Department of theoretical physics
at Jo zef Stefan Institute, Ljubljana, and on the AEGIS
e-Infrastructure at the Institute of Physics, Belgrade, sup-
ported in part by EU FP6 and FP7 projects EGEE-III,
SEE-GRID-SCI and CX-CMCS.
References
1. G. Brum el. Breaking the convention? Nature, 459:1050 
1051, 2009.
2. J. Gruji c, M. Mitrovi c, and B. Tadi c. Mixing patterns and
and communities on bipartite graphs on web-based social
interactions. IEEEXplore, 2009.
3. J. Lorenz. Universality of movie rating distributions.
arXiv:0806.2305, 2008.
4. R. Lambiotte and M. Ausloos. Uncovering collective listen-
ing habits and music genres in bipartite networks. Physical
Review E, 72:066107, 2005.
5. R. Lambiotte and M. Ausloos. On the genre- cation of
music: a percolation approach (long version). The Euro-
pean Physical Journal B, 50:183, 2006.
6. B. Kujawski, J. Holyst, and G. J. Rodgers. Growing trees
in internet news groups and forums. Physicsal Review E,
76:036103, 2007.
7. W. Bachnik, S. Szymczyk, S. Leszczynski, R. Podsi-
adlo, E. Rymszewicz, L. Kurylo, D. Makowiec, and
B. Bykowska. Quantitive and Sociological Analysis of Blog
Networks. Acta Physica Polonica B, 36:3179 +, 2005.
8. F. Fu, L. Liu, K. Yang, and L. Wang. The structure of
self-organized blogosphere. arXiv:0607361, 2006.
9. J. Leskovec, M. McGlohon, C. Faloutsos, N. Glance, and
M. Hurst. Cascading Behavior in Large Blog Graphs.
arXiv:0704.2803, 2007.
10. L. Liu, F. Fu, and L. Wang. Information propagation and
collective consensus in blogosphere: a game-theoretical ap-
proach. arXiv:0701316, 2007.
11. Y. Sano and M. Takayasu. Macroscopic and micro-
scopic statistical properties observed in blog entries.
arXiv:0906.1744, 2009.
12. M. Thelwall, A. Byrne, and M. Goody. Which types of
news story attract bloggers? Informationresearch, 12:327,
2007.
13. M. Thelwall, D. Wilkinson, and S. Uppal. Data Mining
Emotion in Social Network Communication: Gender dif-
ferences in MySpace. Journal of the American Society for
Information Science and Technology, 2009.
Fig. 14. Community structure in the bipartite network of users
+ popular posts from the data of B92 Blogs.
Fig. 15. Further splitting in the structure of groups G1 + G2
from Fig. 14.
ganizational pro les. Nevertheless, the statistical features
appear to be surprisingly similar and robust.
In this paper we have focused on two aspects:
  Evolution of the activity on Blogs leading to the robust
temporal patterns. The similarity with some other so-
cial media [18] are apparent and may be eventually
attributed to human nature and preferences;
  Emergence of user communities in the Blogs-mediated
interactions. On Blogs the users appear to be normally
clustered around preferred subjects. However, mixing
between subjects increases when a post becomes pop-
ular, suggesting another active principle, which can be
found by a direct inspection of the posted material;
Although the underlying mechanisms that drive the user
activity on Blogs are not exactly known, our results sug-
gest that the data alone, traced over time and studied by
10
Marija Mitrovi c, Bosiljka Tadi c: Bloggers and Blogs Communities
14. B. Fortuna, M. Grobelnik, and D. Mladenic. Ontogen.
http://ontogen.ijs.si/, 2008.
15. A. Cho. Ourselves and Our Interactions: The Ultimate
Physics Problem? Science, 325, 2009.
16. Z. Eisler and J. Kert esz. Random walks on complex net-
works with inhomogeneous impact. Physical Review E,
71(5):057104, 2005.
17. J.  Zivkovi c, B. Tadi c, N. Wick, and S. Thurner. Statisti-
cal indicators of collective behavior and functional clusters
in gene networks of yeast. European Physical Journal B,
50:255 258, 2006.
18. R. Crane, F. Schweitzer, and D. Sornette. New Power Law
Signature of Media Exposure in Human Response Waiting
Time Distributions. arXiv:0903.1406, 2009.
19. G. Grinstein and R. Linsker. Power-law and exponential
tails in a stochastic priority-based model queue. Physical
Review E, 77(1):012101 +, 2008.
20. Bosiljka Tadi c, Stefan Thurner, and G. J. Rodgers. Tra c
on complex networks: Towards understanding global sta-
tistical properties from microscopic density  uctuations.
Phys. Rev. E, 69(3):036102, Mar 2004.
21. J. Gruji c. Movies recommendation networks as bipartite
graphs. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 5102, 2008.
22. L. Danon, A. D  az-Guilera, and A. Arenas. The e ect of
size heterogeneity on community identi cation in complex
networks. Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory and
Experiment, 11:P11010, 2006.
23. M. E. J. Newman. Mixing patterns in networks. Phys.
Rev. E, 67:026126, 2003.
24. M. Mitrovi c and B. Tadi c. Search of Weighted Subgraphs
on Complex Networks with Maximum Likelihood Meth-
ods. Lecture Notes in Computer Science, 5102:551 558,
2008.
25. L. Donetti and M. A. Mu noz. Detecting network commu-
nities: a new systematic and e cient algorithm. Journal of
Statistical Mechanics: Theory and Experiment, 10, 2004.
26. M. Mitrovi c and B. Tadi c. Spectral and dynamical prop-
erties in classes of sparse networks with mesoscopic inho-
mogeneities. Physical Review E, 80, 2009.
27. A. N. Samukhin, S. N. Dorogovtsev, and J. F. F. Mendes.
Laplacian spectra of, and random walks on, complex net-
works: Are scale-free architectures really important? Phys-
ical Review E, 77(3):036115 +, 2008.
