1 LISC, Cemagref, Clermont Ferrand,France 
2 Embrapa Agricultural Informatics, Campinas  - SP, Brazil 
*floriana.gargiulo@cemagref.fr 
 
 
 
 
 
An iterative approach for generating statistically realistic populations of 
households 
Floriana Gargiulo1,*, S nia Ternes1,2, Sylvie Huet1, Guillaume Deffuant1 
Abstract 
 
Background 
Many  different  simulation  frameworks,  in  different  topics,  need  to  treat  realistic  datasets  to 
initialize and calibrate the system. A precise reproduction of initial states is extremely important to 
obtain reliable forecast from the model. 
Methodology/Principal Findings 
This paper proposes an algorithm to create an artificial population where individuals are described 
by  their  age,  and  are  gathered  in  households  respecting  a  variety  of  statistical  constraints 
(distribution of household types, sizes, age of household head, difference of age between partners 
and among parents and children). Such a population is often the initial state of microsimulation or 
(agent)  individual-based  models.  To  get  a  realistic  distribution  of  households  is  often  very 
important, because this distribution has an impact on the demographic evolution. Usual techniques 
from  microsimulation  approach  cross  different  sources  of  aggregated  data  for  generating 
individuals. In our case the number of combinations of different households (types, sizes, age of 
participants) makes it computationally difficult to use directly such methods. Hence we developed a 
specific algorithm to make the problem more easily tractable.  
Conclusions/Significance 
We generate the populations of two pilot municipalities in Auvergne region (France), to illustrate 
the  approach.  The  generated  populations  show  a  good  agreement  with  the  available  statistical 
datasets (not used for the generation) and are obtained in a reasonable computational time. 
1  Introduction 
With the increasing computing power, researchers tend to develop models which include more and 
more diversity and details. A considerable effort has been made, both in academic and corporate 
research, to generate modelling frameworks simulating policy impacts on complex dynamics: from 
traffic  studies  [1]  to  epidemic  diffusion  [2,3,4,5],  to  policy  impact  studies  [6,7,8,9].  These 
approaches  require  using  various  sources  of  data,  detailed  at  local  level  to  test  scenarios  with 
different  policies  (for  instance  mitigation  strategies)  and  analyse  their  impact.  For  instance,  an 
increasing research effort targets the simulation of epidemic evolution: starting from SARS [3], to 
the new virus of Influenza A (H1N1) [10]. Many different simulations, at global level or at local 
level aim at providing precise forecast on the number of infected, with the actuation of different 
containment strategies. One can expect that such tools become more and more commonly used to 
support political decisions. 
 
Many  models  consider  populations  with  an  explicit  representation  of  each  individual  or  of  the 
household  structures.  These  individuals  are  characterised  by  some  state  variables  (e.g.  age, 
profession, marital status), and often a spatial position. Two main types of modelling approaches 
can be identified in the literature - Microsimulation and dynamical Individual Based Models (IBMs) 
 
1 
 
1: The microsimulation approach defines individual economic and social trajectories through a set 
of  events  which  occur  with  given  probabilities,  generally  neglecting  interactions  between 
individuals.  It  provides  a  mechanism  to  analyse  the  effects  of  policy  changes  at  the  level  of  the 
decision making units as individuals and households. Individual based models (IBMs) consider the 
same  type  of  population  but  generally  include  more  elaborated  models  of  decisions  and  actions, 
where individuals take into account the interactions with their environment and other individuals.  
In  both  cases,  the  dynamics  of  the  whole  system  is  given  by  the  aggregation  of  all  individual 
behaviours. Hence these modelling approaches are often used to explore the link between the micro 
and  macro  dynamics.  For  instance  models  of  evolving  human  populations  yield  demographic 
patterns in geographical space, which can be compared with census-based data [11]. 
 
In  both  approaches,  the  first  step  for  the  simulation  is  to  initialize  the  system  with  a  realistic 
population: the state variables defining the agents or the individuals, must replicate, as closely as 
possible,  the  statistical  properties  of  the  targeted  population.  In  particular,  the  demographic 
evolution  must  take  into  account  the  structure  of  the  distribution  of  households.  Indeed,  for  the 
same age structure of the population, different household structures evolve differently.  
 
If  individual  data  were  available  about  the  household  structure,  the  problem  would  be  solved 
quickly by creating a one to one correspondence between the agents and the real persons. However, 
such a situation rarely occurs, because the institutes managing statistics usually provide aggregated 
datasets, describing the global properties of the households and individuals. Therefore we must use 
these aggregate data to generate the artificial sets of individuals and households.  
 
This  paper  focuses  on  the  specific  case  of  generating  a  population  distributed  in  households  to 
initialise a dynamical microsimulation model for the PRIMA project. PRIMA   Prototypical Policy 
Impacts on Multifunctional Activities in Rural Municipalities   is a European project (FP7-ENV-
2007) which aims to model the impact of European policies on land use at municipality level in a 
set of case study regions. Hence in this project, the microsimulation process represents a population 
of  individuals  at  municipality  level,  living  in  households  of  different  types.  Once  generated,  the 
initial  synthetic  population  evolves  through  different  processes  such  as  birth,  death,  marriage, 
divorce,  leaving  parental  house,  getting  a  job  and  retirement.  The  quality  of  the  final  results 
depends heavily on the accuracy with which the initial synthetic population represents the available 
real data. 
 
According  to  the  literature,  there  are  two  approaches  commonly  used  to  create  a  synthetic 
population.  In  the  first  approach,  some  data  at  individual  level  are  used  to  create  the  synthetic 
population. For instance in the SVERIGE model [9], the whole population of Sweden in 1990 is the 
starting population, and large longitudinal data sets are used for estimation of many equations for 
the  demographic  process.  In  a  similar  way,  DYNAMOD  [12]  is  a  dynamic  model  designed  to 
project  population  characteristics  over  a  50-year  period,  using  a  1%  sample.  A  second  approach 
uses  the  Iterative  Proportional  Fitting  [13]  to  estimate  the  joint  probability  of  characteristics 
belonging to different sets of aggregated data. This approach is used in the SMILE model [6] where 
the synthetic population is generated from Census of Small Area Population Statistics (SAPS) in 
1996 in Ireland, considering characteristics as gender, age, employment status and industry, for a 
given  group  of  the  population  in  a  specific  location.  IPF  can  be  applied  when  the  Census  data, 
describing  the  aggregate  properties  of  individuals  and  households,  are  integrated  with  individual 
                                                 
1 Sometimes they are also called "agent based models", because the individuals represent economic or social agents. But 
there is an ambiguity with a different research trend of "agent based models", more related to computer science, which 
investigates computer agents that cooperate for achieving some tasks, for instance foraging on the internet. To avoid 
this ambiguity, we prefer to use the expression "Individual Based Models", which originally comes from modelling in 
ecology.  
 
2 
data,  extracted  by  surveys  on  samples  that  can  be  bigger  or  smaller  than  the  size  of  the  desired 
artificial population. Thus, the initialization process consists in finding the good weight to attribute 
to each sub-element of the analyzed sample to make it representative of the objective population. 
Some methods to solve the up-scaling or downscaling initialization problem, with stochastic and 
deterministic approaches, are described in [14,15,16,17,18] 
 
In  our  problem,  individual  data  to  cross  with  the  aggregate  properties  are  not  available.  This 
situation does not allow us to apply the IPF method. Moreover computing the joint probability of 
characteristics  of  households,  including  size,  type  and  age  of  members,  implies  heavy 
computations.  In  this  paper,  we  propose  an  iterative  semi-stochastic  algorithm,  involving  a 
sequence  of  stochastic  extractions,  which  considerably  decreases  the  computational  cost  of  the 
population generation. This algorithm uses only aggregated datasets from Census, and the missing 
crossings between the data are obtained through testing procedures. 
 
The algorithm is adjusted for data from the Auvergne region (France), but the general concept can 
be easily adapted to different uses. The next section describes the details of the problem to solve. 
Section  3  describes  the  available  data  in  Auvergne  region,  as  well  the  attributes  of  the  synthetic 
population to be generated. The iterative algorithm is described in detail in section 4. Sections 5 and 
6 present the results and conclusions. 
2  Materials and Methods 
2.1  General Formulation of the problem 
The classical generation approach only considers one micro level (individuals or households). The 
specificity of this work is that we need to respect statistical constraints on the distribution of the 
individual  ages,  the  distribution  of  household  size  and  the  distribution  of  individual  ages  within 
households. 
 
More precisely our problem is to generate a set of households comprising individuals taken in a 
distribution  of  age  of  the  population,  and  which  respect  all  the  constraints  we  found  in  the  data 
about the distributions of: 
t  the type of household, the values of t can be: 'single', 'couple', 'single-parent', 'complex'; 
  
   s  the size of the household, the values of s can be: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, >5; 
   ar  the age of the head of the household; 
   a1,  , as-1 the age of the children of single-parent households; 
   ar' , the age of the head's partner, and a1,  , as-2, the age of the children for couple 
households 
(ai ) generally represents the list of the ages of the household members. 
  
 
In  a  first  approach  we  would  suppose  that  we  are  able  to  compute  a  good  approximation  of  the 
probability of a given household P(t, s, (ai)) (a possible method to compute these probabilities is 
described in section 2.3). Then, a straightforward way to proceed is described in algorithm 1.  
 
Algorithm 1: 
 
3 
sizes and types of households, 
ages of the head of the household, 
- 
- 
-  differences of age between partners, 
- 
ages of children according to mother's age. 
 
Let us call: 
1.  Generate all possible households, considering all possible combinations of types, sizes and 
2.  Associate with each of these households, defined by the values of (t, s, (ai)), the probability 
3.  Generate  a  void  list  H.  Repeat,  until  the  size  of  H  reaches  the  expected  number  of 
a.  Pick a household generated in step 1 according to its probability associated in step 2; 
b.  Add the household to list H. 
ages of members; 
P(t, s, (ai)); 
households: 
4.  Return H. 
 
This  algorithm  shows  a  significant  drawback.  Although  the  average  on  a  large  runs  of  this 
algorithms of the distribution of age will be close to the data, one can expect significant differences 
between the age distribution of a specific run and the data. Since the data about the distribution of 
ages are reliable in our problem, we would like to keep it as precise as possible in our approach.  
 
This leads to algorithm 2, where we use the list of ages of individuals directly taken from the data, 
and  a  probability  of  household  P'(t,  s,  (ai)),  independently  from  the  distribution  of  ages  in  the 
population: 
 
Algorithm 2: 
1.  Generate a population of individuals following the age structure of the population. Let us 
call it the list I = { aj} (to each element of the list an age is associated); 
2.  Generate all possible households, considering all possible combinations of types, sizes and 
ages of  members; 
3.  Associate with each of these households, defined by the values of (t, s, (ai)), the probability 
P'(t, s, (ai)) of the household, independently from the age distribution of the population; 
4.  Generate a void list H. Repeat, until list I is void or a number N of iterations is reached: 
a.  Pick a household h generated in step 2 according to its probability P'(t, s, (ai)); 
b.  If  ages (ai) are included in I then remove them from I and copy household h in H.  
5.  Return H.  
 
With algorithm 2, we guarantee to keep the final distribution of individual ages close to the data. 
Generating the list of individuals following the age structure of the population is straightforward. 
The Census data of 1990 [19], the starting point at which we initialize the model for the Auvergne 
region, chosen in the PRIMA project as a pilot region to be studied, provides the age distribution for 
the population at municipality level. Two municipalities are chosen to test the algorithm: Abrest, 
which was composed by 964 households with a total population of 2545 individuals, and Bellerive-
sur-Allier,  composed  by  8530  individuals  organized  in  3520  households.  The  choice  of  these 
municipalities was made arbitrary, considering the difference of sizes, for testing the algorithm. 
 
These data, displayed in Figure 1, allow us to generate directly the list I of individuals following the 
age structure of the population. Simply, going through all the age brackets, and for each one, we 
add to the list the corresponding number of individuals. 
 
However, the other steps of the algorithms involve several difficulties: 
   To evaluate the probability of a given household. This will be addressed in section 2.2. 
   To manage the complexity of the set of all possible households. This will be addressed in 
section 2.3. 
In  general,  the  algorithm  leaves  some  individual  ages  unused  at  the  end,  and  generates  a 
smaller  number  of  households  than  expected  (because  of  the  impossibility  to  find  the 
necessary individuals to fit the drawn households). This is also addressed in section 2.3 
  
 
4 
2.2  Calculating the probability of a household 
Census data, [19], provide also some information about households: the size distribution, the age 
distribution for people living alone (single households) and the age distribution of the head of the 
household. Figures 2 to 4 show those available data for the two municipalities.  From those data, we 
can calculate the probability of each household. 
 
Data of figure 2 provide us with P(s), the probability of having a household of size s. 
 
Data of figure 3 provide us with P(ar | s=1), the probability of age range of the head for  households 
of size 1 (single). 
 
Data of figure 4 together with data of figure 3, provide with P(ar | s>1), the probability of age range 
of the head for households of size superior to 1. 
 
Data of figure 5 provide us with P(t | ar =  ), the probability of a household type given the age of 
the  head  equals   ,  and  the  probability  P(child  |  a  =   )  for  a  individual  of  age     to  live  in  a 
household without being the head or the partner (this means, as a "child"2). Involving this constraint 
is very important to avoid to get households with very old parents (e.g. 90 years) and old children 
(around 70). 
 
Clearly these data at local level are not sufficient to characterize a household. We lack constraints 
on the distribution of ages inside a given type of household. Hence we used some data at national 
level about the age structure inside the households regarding the ages of parents on one hand, and 
the ages of children on the other hand. Figures 6 and 7 show the national level data that we use to 
calculate the probability of the structure of ages, [20,21]. 
 
Data of figure 6 provide us with P(ar' | ar =  ), the probability of the age of the head's partner, given 
the age of the head. 
 
From  data  of  figure  7,  we  can  derive  P((ai)|  am  =   ,  s  =   )  the  probabilities  of  children  ages 
knowing the number of children and that the age of the mother is  . We consider that in couple 
households, the mother is the partner, and in single-parent households, the head is the mother.  
 
We can now use these partial probabilities to evaluate the probability of a given household P(t, s, 
(ai)). We must distinguish cases 'single', 'single-parent', 'couple': 
 
P'(t='single', s , ar)   
P'(t='singlep', s, ar, (ai))   
P'(t='couple', s, ar, ar', (ai))    = 
=  P(s=1)* P(ar| s=1) 
=  P(s=  )* P(ar| s>1)*P('singlep'| ar)*   P(ai | ar) P(child | ai) 
 
P(s=  ))* P(ar| s>1)*P('couple'| ar)*P(ar'' | ar) *   P(ai | ar') P(child | ai) 
 
This evaluation theoretically allows us to apply the approach of algorithm 2. However, to generate 
all  the  combinations  of  households  and  picking  one  according  to  these  probabilities  is 
computationally expensive. In the next section, we propose an iterative algorithm which is more 
efficient computationally.  
                                                 
2 That is the definition of "child" for the French Census managed by INSEE 
 
5 
2.3  An iterative algorithm avoiding to generate all possible households 
The  principle  of  the  algorithm  is  to  build  progressively  the  household,  by  picking  its  member(s) 
according to the previously described probabilities, and, for each new member, to test if there is an 
individual of this age in the list of individuals I. If not, we stop the process for this household and 
begin to build another one. 
 
The flux diagram describing the process is represented in Figure 8. 
 
The algorithm consists of five main steps (see algorithm 3). 
 
Algorithm 3 
1.  Pick the size of the household according to P(s); 
2.  Pick the age range of the head according to P(ar|s). If there is no individual in I of the age range, 
the process is stopped and a new attempt for building a household is launched. Otherwise an 
individual of the chosen age range is added to the household, and removed from list I; 
3.  If  s  >  1,  pick  a  household  type  ('couple'  or  'single-parent')  according  to  P(t|ar).   Complex  
households are not considered at this stage.  
4.  If t = 'couple', pick the age of the partner according to P(ar''|ar).  Again, if there is no individual 
in I of the chosen age range, then the household is abandoned, the head is put back to list I, and 
a new attempt to build a household is launched. Otherwise an individual of the chosen age range 
is added to the household and remove from list I; 
5.  We pick the age of children with probability P(ai | ar)*P(child | ai) for single-parent and P(ai | 
ar')*P(child | ai) for couples. Again, for each child, if there is no individual in I of the chosen 
age range, then the household is abandoned, its members put back to list I, and a new attempt to 
build a household is launched. Otherwise an individual of the chosen age range is added to the 
household and removed from list I. 
 
This process is equivalent to pick one household according to its evaluated probability, and keeping 
it if all the ages of its members are present in list I. Indeed, the process of picking the different 
members of the household leads to the same overall probability to pick a household, and since the 
attempt is cancelled as soon as one age is lacking in list I, it changes nothing to make these tests 
iteratively. 
 
Moreover, we can constrain even more the process by considering the list of household sizes which 
is directly derived from the data. The rest of the process remains the same. Then we are sure to have 
the right number of households, even though when algorithm 3 stops, some void households remain 
in the list.  
 
Indeed, the described algorithm should a priori be repeated until all the households of the list are 
filled with all the individuals of the availability vector.  However, this situation is never reached and 
after  the  creation  of  almost  all  the  households,  the  program  reaches  a  point  where  no  more 
households can be achieved given the remaining individuals. For this reason, when this situation is 
reached,  the  algorithm  is  stopped.  The  remaining  households  can  be  considered  as   complex 
structures , namely all the housing solutions that cannot be placed into the usual categorization of 
household type (single, couple, single-parent). A complex household can be, for example, a group 
of  students  occupying  the  same  dwelling  or  two  familiar  groups  sharing  the  same  location. 
Therefore,  since  we  do  not  have  any  information  about  these  structures  from  the  data  sets,  to 
conclude  the  generation  of  the  artificial  population,  the  complex  households  are  filled  randomly 
with the remaining individuals in the availability list. 
 
6 
3  Results 
We  tested  the  algorithm  for  two  different  municipalities  in  Auvergne:  Abrest  and  Bellerive-sur-
Allier. The first one had a population of 2545 inhabitants in 1990, while the second one had 8530. 
In  the  following  we  compare  the  statistical  properties  of  the  artificial  population  with  the  real 
Census data. We use for the comparison both the data implicitly used in the building algorithm and 
other  national  and  municipality  level  data,  which  were  not  used  in  the  generation  process.  We 
calculate the distributions both for one single realization of the system and for a sequence of 100 
realizations (the random nature of the algorithm leads to some variations from one run to the other). 
 
By construction of the algorithm, the age distribution and the size distribution of the household are 
directly derived from the data for the two villages. In Figure 9 we show the distributions of the age 
of  head  for  real  data  and  the  artificial  population.  The  distribution  of  the  age  of  head  was  used 
inside the generation process, but the stochastic extractions from this distribution were spaced out 
from various tests; for this reason we can expect some discrepancy between the real data and the 
generated population.  
 
As we can observe in Figure 9, the artificial population respects quite well the real distribution.  
 
In Figure 10, we compare the obtained artificial population with the real distribution of number of 
children in households. This particular data set was not used in the generation, so the comparison 
can give an idea of the accuracy of the algorithm; this data set is reported in Table 1. Also in this 
case we can observe a good agreement between the real data and the simulations. 
 
 
The final comparison (Figure 11) regards the household typology. For this comparison we will not 
use directly the data that we have used in the generation (the probability for a person to be in a 
certain type of household) but another dataset containing the direct proportions of household types 
at national level. This dataset is reported in Table 2. 
 
In this case the differences from the real data, for both municipalities, are quite significant. It could 
be expected: the data we are using in this case for the comparison are at national data, and therefore 
keep into account of the population of metropolitan areas. The discrepancy between our results and 
the  national  data,  therefore,  do  not  highlight  an  error  in  the  generating  process,  but  show  the 
behavioural difference between metropolitan area and rural villages, with small population.  
 
Moreover, it is noticeable that the data reported in the previous graph provide relevant information 
about the complex households. We lack completely this information at village level and therefore 
we  cannot  use  any  constraint  on  complex  households  in  the  building  procedure.  In  the  proposed 
algorithm,  complex  households  are  created  randomly,  grouping  together  the  individuals  that  the 
generating  procedure  cannot  assign  to  a  household  according  to  the  selection/test  mechanism.  
Nevertheless, we observe that the proportion of complex households that we obtain is close to the 
data at national level.   
 
Finally, we need to stress that this kind of algorithm is strictly correlated to the data structure we 
have: for Auvergne region such as for France and most of occidental countries the main household 
structures are based on the concept of  nuclear family : a couple of parents and a certain number of 
children,  or  a  subset  of  this  structure.  In  some  other  cultures  the  basic  household  can  have 
completely  different  structure  (for  example  many  generations  sharing  the  same  dwelling),  and 
therefore this kind of approach can give rise to potential bias without any additional information 
about the structure of complex households. 
 
7 
4  Conclusion 
In this paper we proposed an algorithm for the generation of a synthetic population organized in 
households  that  can  be  applied  in  various  modeling  contexts.  This  method  gives  good  results 
without  using  a  set  of  prototypical  households  that,  in  many  cases,  are  not  available.  This  is  an 
advantage  compared  with  existing  methods  such  as  IFT.  Moreover  it  allows  one  to  reproduce 
exactly  some  features  of  the  real  population  that  are  particularly  important  for  the  subsequent 
analysis.  
 
This algorithm is a practical implementation of a general approach where the households are picked 
according to their probability, among all the possible household structures. The method builds the 
households iteratively. It tests the availability of the age of its members at each step, and backtracks 
as soon as an age is lacking. This saves a lot of computations. 
 
We  presented  the  example  of  the  PRIMA  project,  where  the  artificial  population  is  needed  as 
initialization  of  a  dynamical  microsimulation  model  at  municipality  level.  We  showed  that  the 
algorithm  yields  a  good  agreement  between  the  statistics  of  the  artificial  population  and  the  real 
one.  Clearly,  the  approach  can  be  adapted  to  other  cases  where  it  is  necessary  to  generate  a 
population organized in households. During the project, we shall have to adapt it to other sets of 
data that can be found in different case study regions. 
 
The algorithm can deal with other properties of the individuals and of the households. For instance, 
we could add a gender variable to describe the individuals of our example. We would need to split 
the  list  I  of  individuals  of  different  ages  into  two  lists,  one  for  males  and  one  for  females.  
Moreover,  we  would  need  to  include  the  percentage  of  household  where  the  head  is  a  male  and 
about the percentage of heterosexual couples. Then the principle of the method remains the same. 
The only difference is that to build the households, we pick either in the list of males or in the list of 
females. 
 
More  generally,  after  the  set-up  of  the  demographical  structure,  other  characteristics  can  be 
assigned to each individual, through stochastic extractions or deterministic associations: the level of 
instruction, the professional activity, the favorite recreational activities, the commuting pattern, etc. 
According  to  the  available  datasets,  these  properties  can  be  assigned  to  each  individual 
independently from the household in which it is embedded, or some correlations can be considered 
inside the same household.   
 
Acknowledgment 
This  publication  has  been  funded  under  the  PRIMA  (Prototypical  policy  impacts  on 
multifunctional activities in rural municipalities) collaborative project, EU 7th Framework 
Programme (ENV 2007-1), contract no. 212345. 
 
 
References 
 
1. Nagel K, Beckman RL, Barrett CL. TRANSIMS for transportation planning; 1999. 
2. Colizza V, Barrat A, Barthelemy M, Valleron A, Vespignani A (2007) Modeling the worldwide 
spread of pandemic influenza: Baseline case and containment interventions. PLoS Medicine 
4: 95. 
3. Colizza V, Barrat A, Barth lemy M, Vespignani A (2007) Predictability and epidemic pathways 
in global outbreaks of infectious diseases: the SARS case study. BMC medicine 5: 34. 
4. degli Atti MLC, Merler S, Rizzo C, Ajelli M, Massari M, et al. (2008) Mitigation measures for 
 
8 
pandemic  influenza  in  Italy:  an  individual  based  model  considering  different  scenarios. 
PLoS One 3. 
5. Eubank S, Guclu H, Anil Kumar VS, Marathe MV, Srinivasan A, et al. (2004) Modelling disease 
outbreaks in realistic urban social networks. Nature 429: 180-184. 
6. Ballas D, Clarke GP, Wiemers E (2005) Building a dynamic spatial microsimulation model for 
Ireland. Population, Space and Place 11: 157-172. 
7.  Ballas  D,  Clarke  GP,  Wiemers  E  (2006)  Spatial  microsimulation  for  rural  policy  analysis  in 
Ireland: The implications of CAP reforms for the national spatial strategy. Journal of Rural 
Studies 22: 367-378. 
8. Gotts NM, Polhill JG, Law ANR (2003) Aspiration levels in a land use simulation. Cybernetics 
and Systems 34: 663-683. 
9. Holm E, Holme K, M kil  K, Mattson-Kauppi M, M rtvik G (2004) The microsimulation model 
SVERIGE; content, validation and applications. SMC, Kiruna, Sweden (www sms kiruna 
se). 
10.  Balcan  D,  Hu  H,  Goncalves  B,  Bajardi  P,  Poletto  C,  et  al.  (2009)  Seasonal  transmission 
potential and activity peaks of the new influenza A (H 1 N 1): a Monte Carlo likelihood 
analysis based on human mobility. BMC Medicine 7: 45. 
11.  Mahdavi  B,  O'Sullivan  D,  Davis  P.  An  agent-based  microsimulation  framework  for 
investigating residential segregation using census data. In: Oxley LaK, D., editor; 2007. pp. 
365-371. 
12. King A, B kgaard H, Robinson M (1999) DYNAMOD-2: An overview. Technical Paper 19. 
13.  Norman  P  (1999)  Putting  iterative  proportional  fitting  on  the  researcher's  desk.  WORKING 
PAPER-SCHOOL OF GEOGRAPHY UNIVERSITY OF LEEDS. 
14. Ballas D, Clarke G, Dorling D, Rossiter D (2007) Using SimBritain to model the geographical 
impact of national government policies. Geographical Analysis 39: 44. 
15.  Ballas  D,  Kingston  R,  Stillwell  J,  Jin  J  (2007)  Building  a  spatial  microsimulation-based 
planning support system for local policy making. Environment and Planning A 39: 2482-
2499. 
16. Birkin M, Turner A, Wu B. A synthetic demographic model of the UK population: methods, 
progress and problems; 2006. 
17. Smith DM, Clarke GP, Harland K (2009) Improving the synthetic data generation process in 
spatial microsimulation models. Environment and Planning A 41: 1251 1268. 
18. Williamson P, Birkin M, Rees PH (1998) The estimation of population microdata by using data 
from small area statistics and samples of anonymised records. Environment and Planning A 
30: 785-816. 
19. INSEE (1990) French Population Census of 1990. Centre Maurice Halbwarchs, 48 Boulevard 
9 
Jourdan, Paris. 
20. Eurostat (1999) Demography, fecondity data for 1999. 
21. INSEE (1990) Enqu te sur l' tude de l'histoire familiale de 1999. Centre Maurice Halbwarchs, 
48 Boulevard Jourdan, Paris. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Figures 
 
Figure 1: Histogram of the number of individuals according to various age ranges of 5 years each 
for Abrest and Bellerive-sur-Allier. Source: INSEE, French Census data, 1990. 
 
 
Figure 2: Histogram of the number of households according to their size (number of individuals in 
the household) in Abrest and Bellerive-sur-Allier. Source: INSEE, French Census data, 1990.. 
 
 
 
10 
Figure 3: Histogram of the number of households according to the age ranges of person living 
alone in Abrest and Bellerive-sur-Allier. Source: INSEE, French Census data, 1990.. 
 
 
Figure 4: Histogram of the number of households according to the age ranges of the head in Abrest 
and Bellerive-sur-Allier. Source: INSEE, French Census data, 1990. 
 
 
 
11 
Figure 5: Histogram of the number of individuals of age > 15 according to different age ranges, 
from the top to the bottom, living as partners in couple, as head in single-parent households or 
living with parent(s) in Abrest and Bellerive-sur-Allier. Source: INSEE, French Census data, 1990 
 
 
 
 
12 
Figure 6: Histogram of the number of couples according to their difference of ages in France in 
1999. Source: INSEE,  Enqu te sur l' tude de l'histoire familiale de 1999 . 
 
 
Figure 7: distribution of live births by birth order and mother's age range in France. Source: 
Eurostat Data 1999.  
 
 
 
13 
Figure 8: Flux diagram describing the algorithm for the generation of an artificial population for 
PRIMA project 
 
 
Figure 9: Histograms for age of head distribution for the municipality of Abrest (left plot) and of 
Bellerive-sur-Allier (right plot). The light purple bars represents the real data, the dark purple bars 
the average for 100 realizations for the artificial population. The error is the standard deviation on 
the 100 replicas. 
 
 
14 
 
Figure 10: Histograms for age number of children distribution for the village of Abrest (left plot) 
and of Bellerive-sur-Allier (right plot). The light purple bars represents the real data, the dark purple 
bars the average for 100 realizations for the artificial population. The error is the standard deviation 
on the 100 replica. 
 
 
 
Figure 11: Histograms for the household type distribution for the village of Abrest (left plot) and of 
Bellerive-sur-Allier (right plot). The light purple bars represents the real data, the dark purple bars 
the average for 100 realizations for the artificial population. The error is the standard deviation on 
the 100 replica. 
 
Tables 
 
  
15 
Type  
Household without child 
Household with one child 
Household with two children 
Household with three children 
Household with four or more children 
ABREST  BELLERIVE 
1316 
580 
444 
120 
44 
360 
192 
156 
48 
16 
 
Table 1: Distribution of households according to the number of children for the municipalities 
Abrest and Bellerive sur Allier. Source: INSEE, French Census data, 1990. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Type 
Proportion 
Single 
Single-parent 
Couple 
Couple with Children 
Complex 
0,2720 
0,0660 
0,2370 
0,3640 
0,0610 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2: Distribution of households according to the type in France. Source: INSEE, 1990. 
16 
