IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2009 
ISSN (Online): 1694-0784 
ISSN (Print): 1694-0814 
44
ICT in Universities of the Western Himalayan Region in India: 
Status, Performance- An Assessment 
Dhirendra Sharma1 and Vikram Singh2 
1University Institute of  Information Technology, Himachal Pradesh  University,  
Shimla, Himachal Pradesh 171 005, India. 
2Department of  Computer Science and Engg, Ch. Devi Lal University, 
 Sirsa, Haryna 125 055, India. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract 
The present paper describes a live project study carried out for 
the universities located in the western Himalayan region of India 
in the year 2009.  The objective of this study is   to undertake the 
task  of  assessment  regarding  initiative,  utilization  of  ICT 
resources, its performance and impact in these higher educational 
institutions/universities. In order to answer these, initially basic 
four- tier framework was prepared. Followed by a questionnaire 
containing  different  ICT  components  18  different  groups  like 
vision, planning, implementation, ICT infrastructure and related 
activities  exhibiting  performance.  Primary  data  in  the  form  of 
feedback  on  the  five  point  scale,  of  the  questionnaire,  was 
gathered from six universities of the region.  A simple statistical 
analysis was undertaken using weighted mean, to assess the ICT 
initiative, status and performance of various universities. In the 
process,  a  question  related  to  Performance  Indicator  was 
identified from each group, whose Coefficient of Correlation was 
calculated.  This  study  suggests  that  a  progressive  vision, 
planning  and 
ICT 
infrastructure,    used  in  training  the  skilled  human  resource,  is 
going  to  have  a  favourable    impact  through  actual  placement, 
research  and    play  a    dominant  role  at  the  National  and 
International level. 
 
Keywords:    Information  and  Communication  Technology 
(ICT), Initiative, Status, Performance, Assessment, Impact, 
Performance Indicator. 
regarding  academic  syllabi, 
initiative 
1. Introduction 
During  the  past  decade  there  has  been  a  very  rapid 
development  in  activities  related  to  Information  and 
Communication Technology (ICT), (Sadagopan 1998), in 
various  Universities  and  Institutions  of  higher  learning. 
Such  a  transformation  was  triggered  by  more  and  more 
awareness  of  microwaves  and  tele-communication.  Its 
pervasiveness has affected almost all fields from micro- to 
 
the 
the 
leadership  of 
astronomical  level  via  class  rooms.  ICT  in  respective 
fields  makes  education  extremely  effective,  efficient  and 
engaging  due  to  its  power  of  problem  solving  and 
application.  
The impetus at the national level was set in motion by the 
Task  Force   Technology  Information  Forecasting  and 
Assessment  Council   (TIFAC),  for  Technology  Vision 
2020. One of the important pilot documents  India 2020, 
A  Vision:  for  the  New  Millennium   (1998)  prepared  by 
Technology  Information  Forecasting  and  Assessment 
Council  (TIFAC),  under 
  Dr. 
A.P.J.Kalam,  provided  a  blue  print  of  the  `Technology 
Vision  for  India .  According  to  this  document  ICT  can 
enhance  critical  thinking,  information  handling  skills, 
level of perception, problem solving capability and adding 
value  to  research  in  educational  institutions.    It  not  only 
highlighted 
importance  of  higher  educational 
institutions/  universities  to  take  prompt  and  appropriate 
initiatives in this direction, but has given further direction 
for  planning  ICT  strategies  in  which  the  role  of  higher 
educational institutions in India is going to be very crucial. 
It  emphasized  that  the  Indian  human  resource  has  great 
learning capabilities with a core competence in technology 
along  with 
and 
competitiveness. It strongly advocated the development of 
human  resource  cadre  and  the  role  of  higher  educational 
Institutions that will be the foundation of the technological 
advancement in the country. 
 
This prompted Government of India to take a major ICT 
initiative  to  lay  down  the  ICT  policy  for  whole  of  the 
country,  which 
the  planning  and 
implementation  by  the  Ministry  of  Human  Resource 
Development  (MHRD)  at  various  levels  particularly 
through higher educational institutions/ universities of the 
country.  At  the  national  level,  it  is  being  implemented 
entrepreneurship 
spirit  of 
is 
reflected 
in 
the 
 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2009 
 
45
ICT, 
vigorously  in  the  form  of  e-governance  and  is  being 
coordinated  by  National  Informatics  Centers  (NIC) 
throughout  the  country.  University  Grants  Commission 
(UGC),  All  India  Council  of  Technical  Education, 
Department  of  Science  &  Technology  (DST),  and  the 
Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) are also 
encouraging higher education Institutions and Universities 
in this direction. Latest telecommunication policy (Tandon 
2002)  is  quite  consistent  with  the  initiatives  mentioned 
above. 
 
In Jan. 2009, the Cabinet Committee on Economic Affairs, 
Government of India, gave its approval for a new scheme 
by  the  name  of  National  Mission  on  Education  through 
Information  and  Communication  Technology  (NMEICT) 
submitted by the MHRD, Govt. of India, for the 11th Five 
Year Plan. This mission has been envisaged  to leverage 
the  potential  of 
in  providing  high  quality 
personalized  and  interactive  knowledge  modules  for  all 
the  learners  in  higher  education  institutions  in   any  time 
any where mode . Further, it has to  ensure on-line access 
to  all the ICT resources viz. e- contents, the connectivity 
and  virtual  laboratories,    to  18,000  colleges  and  all  the 
universities  of  the  country  and  thus  to  bridge  the  digital 
divide.  
 
 There  has  been  another  body,  National  Association  of 
Software  and  Services  Companies  (NASSCOM),  in  the 
field of ICT, dealing with the ICT infrastructure, research 
& development and trade since 1988. According to recent 
report  of  NASSCOM  (Strategic  Review-2009),  it  has 
emphasized  the  availability  of  skilled  and  employable 
talent.  In  order  to  achieve  this  concentrated  effort  to 
enhance talent availability and quality are needed from all 
the  concerned  sections  namely  the  government  academia 
and the industry. The role of academia is supposed to be 
very  critical  in  setting  up  research  laboratories.  Specific 
initiatives  like  faculty  development  program,  upgrading 
the  curriculum, 
internship  program  and 
academia-  industry  collaboration  can  help  to  bridge  the 
gap  towards  the  development  of  talent.  NASSCOM  is 
particularly  interested  in  the  ICT-  business  process 
outsourcing  (ICT-BPO)  industry  in  India,  which  has 
become  a  grown  economy  of  the  country.  Further,  this 
body is a partner with the government of India and various 
state  governments  of  the  country.  It  has  also  played  a 
crucial  role  in  the  formulation  of  ICT  policies  which 
endeavors to narrow down the digital divide in the country 
and enables all citizens to enjoy the benefits of ICT.  
At  the  international  level,  United  Nations  Educational, 
Scientific and Cultural Organization UNESCO (2007- 08) 
has also prepared a document for Asia  Pacific countries, 
for  the  implementation  of  ICT  programs  through  the 
higher  educational  institutions.  Various  ICT  strategies  of 
launching 
former 
driving the higher education towards excellence in ICT is 
described  in  the  above  document,  in  support  of  the  core 
areas of higher education. i.e., learning, teaching, research 
and training programs.  
 
All  these  innovative  ideas  could  propagate  through  the 
concept of diffusion and adoption. It seems that adoption 
of the latest information and communication technology is 
making  all  the  difference  particularly  in  the  universities. 
During  the  last  two  decades  there  has  been  several 
attempts  to  understand  information  technology  diffusion. 
At  the  empirical  level,  the  concept  of  diffusion  was 
reviewed  by  Fichman  in  1992.  He  has  dwelled  upon 
innovation diffusion theory, in particular, how to improve 
technology  assessment,  adoption  and  implementation.  A 
framework  was  discussed  in  terms  of  classical  diffusion 
adopted  mainly  by 
individuals  and  organizations 
alongwith  achieving  critical  mass  beyond  which  the 
innovation is universally adopted. A lot of scientific work 
exists on the diffusion of innovation and its adoption given 
by  Attewell  (1992),  Rogers  (1995),  Farquhar  &  Surry 
(1994),  Anderson  et  al  (1998)  and  Wilson  et  al  (2000). 
Attewell  (1992)  put  the  work  on  diffusion  in  two 
categories  a)  Adoption  studies  and  b)  Macro  diffusion 
studies.  The 
is  primarily  concerned  with 
understanding of innovations and its assimilation during a 
time  of  adoption.  The 
is  concerned  with 
characterizing the rate a pattern of adoption of technology. 
This 
terms  of 
mathematical models of the diffusion process by Mahajan 
& Peterson (1985) and Mahajan et al. (1990). Innovation 
diffusion  has  also  been  understood 
terms  of 
mathematical approaches given by Karmeshu and Pathria 
(1980),  Lal  et  al  (1988),  Karmeshu  et  al  (1992)  and  by 
Karmeshu and Jain (1995).  
 
In  recent  years,  a  very  significant  work  on   Global 
Diffusion  of  the  Internet   by  Wolcott  and  Goodman 
(2003) appeared in Indian context. Walcott and Goodman 
(2003), presented a vision of new India as a measure of IT 
power, fully integrated with a global economy. The key to 
this  vision  was  obviously  the  internet  for  enabling  the 
technology  based  changes.  They  provided  an  analytical 
framework  which  broadly  consisted  of  dimensions  and 
determinants. Dimensions contained six variables namely 
infrastructure,  geographic  dispersion, 
organizational 
connectivity 
infrastructure, 
sectoral 
absorption  and  sophistication  of  use.  These  variables  are 
supposed to capture the state of internet within a country 
at  a  given  point  of  time.  Each  of  these  variables  was 
judged  at  five  different  levels.  Determinants  represent 
various  factors,  to  understand  the  observation  of  the 
 state . While discussing the   IT action plan, they further 
elaborated on distinctive features of the internet in India, 
type  of  work  was  understood 
pervasiveness, 
latter 
in 
in 
 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2009 
46
tried 
for  a  continued  dynamic  growth,  in  three  steps  (a)  The 
government policy (b) The nature of relationship between 
the  government,  the  state  owned  telecommunications 
service providers and private sectors as a critical variable. 
(c) The policy makers try to strike a balance between the 
interest of the society and those of individuals. Later, this 
framework  has  been  applied  to  understand  the  initiative, 
status and performance in Ghana by Foster, et al (2004) in 
Togo by Bernstien and Goodman (2005) and in Kenya by 
Ochara  et  al  (2008).  Such  a  comprehensive  analysis  was 
carried  out  in  a  broader  context  at  the  national  level  for 
different countries. 
 
In  view  of  the  above  initiatives  from  different  quarters, 
most of the universities and higher educational institutions 
have  started  adopting  the  latest  technology,  focusing  on 
the development of the skilled human resource, as part of 
its responsibility, in the field of ICT, encompassing all the 
disciplines,  particularly  in  technical  fields,  productively 
and  constructively.  Most  of 
the  universities  are 
undertaking the job of training the technical personnel s in 
the  respective  specializations  or  in  the  area  of  its 
excellence. These programs   have been going on for the 
last almost one decade. 
 
Almost after a decade, one may wonder how efficient the 
system,  particularly 
the  university/higher  educational 
institutions has become. Initiatives to have an assessment 
of 
its  utilization  and  overall 
performance  and  efficiency,  of  any  higher  educational 
institution,  are  quite  essential,      in  identifying,  planning 
and  achieving  the  ICT  strategies  at  the  respective  levels. 
Essentially,  this  has  formed  the  basis  of  motivation  to 
undertake  the  study  of  the  ICT  initiatives,  status  and  its 
academic  performance  in  various  universities  in  the 
western  Himalayan  region  of  the  country  and  then  to 
analyze,  using  simple  statistical  methods,  the  ICT  based 
academic/  technological      status  and  performance  of 
different universities, and assess in a comparative manner, 
their  vision,  planning,  initiative,  status  activities  and 
impact. 
 
The  University  Grants  Commission  (UGC),  New  Delhi, 
took steps to establish an autonomous institution, National 
Assessment  and  Accreditation  Council  (NAAC),  for 
comprehensive  assessment  of  various  universities  and  to 
place  them  according  to  certain  ranking.  NAAC  (2007) 
has developed a framework for higher education based on 
the  promotion  and  sustenance  of  quality  of  teaching- 
learning,  research  and  training  programs.  Their  most 
significant core value is quest for excellence/ innovations 
using  the  latest  technological  trends  and  fostering  global 
competence  among  students.  They  have  devised  seven 
assessment criteria namely, curricular, teaching- learning, 
infrastructure, 
ICT 
to  assess, 
research & application, innovative, infrastructure, student 
support and leadership/governance, aspects, to capture the 
micro-  level  quality  indicators  by  using  differential 
weightages.  Some  other  national  agencies  TOI  group 
2007,  also 
independently,  various 
agriculture,  horticulture  and  technical  institutions.  These 
recommendations  and  respective  gradations  are  available 
at the national level. This information may be utilized for 
comparison with the findings of this paper in the context 
of ICT. 
  
  Recently  Mokhtar  et  al  (2007),  presented  the  state  of 
academic computing in Malaysian colleges in which they 
tired to  answer  the  central  questions  regarding  indicators 
of  assessments  and  performance  of  academic  computing. 
They adopted the value chain concept originally proposed 
by Porter (1985), in connection with some business idea, 
to  describe 
the  relationship  between  academic  ICT 
activities. This framework consisted of two groups namely 
primary activities and support activities. Primary activities 
included  use  of  ICT  in  learning,  teaching,  research  and 
training as the core service area and then for enhancing the 
value  in  each.  It  further  included  remote  access  to  data, 
faster  and  more  precise  data  processing,  simulation  of 
complex systems, collaboration between research groups. 
The support activities were   linked with primary activities 
to  improve  the  effectiveness/  efficiency  and  contain  ICT 
vision,  policies  and  standards,  ICT  infrastructure,  ICT 
services.  Backer  and  Mohamed  (2008)  elaborated  on  the 
benefits  of  ICT  in  teaching.  These  studies  have  certain 
limitation keeping same immediate objectives in mind, in 
that country. However, the analysis presented by Mokhtar 
et  al  and  Bakar  &  Mohamed  was  academic  in  nature, 
carried out for colleges only and not for universities and 
higher educational institutions of training and research.  
 
We plan to undertake this work for universities of western 
Himalayan  region  in  India.  This  region  is  typically  a 
difficult terrain in which people have to really struggle for 
livelihood,  health  and  education.  It  is  in  this  context  the 
government of India is paying special attention to alleviate 
the  level  of  education  using  the  full  potential  of  ICT,  in 
this region. In view of this, a little different framework for 
the  universities  of  this  region  is  required.  A  framework 
will  be  developed  for  assessing  the  initiative,  status  and 
performance of different universities. Initiative will imply 
vision  and  planning  of 
the 
universities.  ICT  status  would  mean    complete  ICT 
infrastructure 
local  area  network  facility, 
internet  network  security,  mobile  computing  access, 
system  application  software,  website  and  information 
system, teaching display technologies, ICT technical staff, 
ICT  budget  allocation,  e-  library,  e-  placement/  alumni 
portal.  ICT  performance  will  be  related  with  various 
the  ICT  programs 
including 
in 
 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2009 
 
47
regarding 
to  various 
initiative,  utilization  of 
learning  and  ICT  based  research  at 
activities  based  on  ICT  infrastructure.  It  would  include 
teaching; 
the 
conventional level and at the advanced level in the form of 
ICT training programs. This performance is going to have 
an  impact  of  the  ICT  programs,  functional  in  the 
universities,  in  the  form  of  actual  placements  of  the 
outgoing  students,  research  publications  and  actual 
problem  solving.    This  outline  of  the  framework  will  be   
discussed explicitly in the next section. 
 
 The  objective  of  this  study  is      to  undertake  the  task  of 
assessment 
ICT 
resources,  its  performance  and  impact  in  these  higher 
educational  institutions/  universities.  In  order  to  achieve 
this,  an  overall  status  report  is  prepared  using  the 
framework  of  this  paper.  A  questionnaire  was  prepared 
accordingly,  related 
ingredients  of  ICT, 
initiative,  status  and  performance.  Then  a  survey  was 
conducted in different   universities located in the western 
Himalayan  region,  as  per  the  questionnaire.  The  analysis 
and  comparison  of  the  initiative,  status  and  performance 
through  performance  indicators  in  respective  universities 
has been carried out.  The corresponding benchmarking is 
expected  to  identify  the  future  ICT  strategies  in  order  to 
improve their status as well as the product in the form of 
professionally skilled human resource in the field of ICT. 
The reference period of the study has been the year 2009. 
 
The  paper 
the 
introduction  in  section  1,  the  basic  framework  will  be 
presented  in  section  2.  The  methodology,  preparation  of 
questionnaire,  a  survey  and  analytic  procedure  will  be 
given  in  section  3.    Section  4  will  deal  with  the  results 
obtained from the analysis of the primary data. Summary 
and  conclusions  are  given  in  Section  5.  Future  strategies 
are discussed in the final Section. 
is  organized 
in  six  sections.  After 
2. Basic Framework 
in  different  universities  and  higher 
Before  discussing  the  methodology  it  seems  proper  to 
have a framework on the basis of which the study of ICT 
initiative,  status,  performance  and  impact  in  the  field  of 
ICT 
technical 
institution, is carried out. 
The  important  building  blocks  are  supposed  to  be 
Performance Indicators (PI). One group of authors (Riley 
and  Nuttall  1994)  suggests  that  Performance  Indicators 
must  be  something  quantitative,  whereas  the  other  group 
takes a wider view in favour of qualitative and descriptive 
statement  for  PI.  The 
is  adopted  by 
International  Standards  Organisation  (1998).  Both  these 
measures, quantitative as well as qualitative, will be used 
here  that  will  allow  us      to  have  a  complete  view  of 
richness  and  diversity  of  the  ICT  based  academic/ 
latter  view 
ICT 
technological performance and the related activities. With 
these  it  should  be  possible  to  assess  and  judge  the 
effectiveness,  efficiency  and  impact  of  an  institution  in 
terms of ICT performance to have the possible projection 
to finally decide about the future strategies. 
 
In deciding the basic framework, the question is what are 
the 
ingredients/  components  and  Performance 
Indicators for assessing the ICT initiative, status and their 
performance at different levels.  The basic ingredients of 
ICT are clearly classified among four tiers, containing 117 
questions  divided  in  18  groups,  A-R.  These  groups,  in 
their respective tier, depict different academic components 
of ICT and the related activities. Schematic representation 
of four tier framework is given in Fig. 1.   
 
 
Fig. 1: Four Tier framework. Each box contains the main ICT component 
along with the number of questions in it 
 
The  basis  of  formulating  this  framework  has  been  the 
recommendations contained in the documents available at 
the  national  and  international  level,  as  mentioned  in  the 
introduction.  This  framework  is  supposed  to  be  most 
suited to the university and higher educational institutions 
which are mainly the centre of research where knowledge 
is created. In each group one of the questions, the last one, 
is  related  to  the  performance.  All  these  performance 
related  questions,  are  placed  in  another  group,  S.  These 
groups, alongwith the Performance Indicator in each, are 
presented in Table I: 
Table I: Various Groups of ICT Components in an Institution. 
 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2009 
48
Simple standard statistical tools were used to analyse the 
data  groupwise  to  find  the  Weighted  Mean,  Standard 
Deviation  and  Coefficient  of  Variation  (CV)  keeping  in 
mind the weight of respective levels. The CV indicates the 
variation around its weighted mean in the series, the lesser 
is  the  CV,  more  consistent  and  stable  is  the  series. 
However,  the  weighted  mean  was  found  to  be  a  better 
measure as compared to CV, to understand the trend in a 
particular  group.  The  use  of  median  was  another 
alternative  but  in  view  of  the  fact  that  the  data  was  not 
having extreme variation and due to the limitation of the 
median  method,  weighted  mean  was  logically  preferred.  
Another  statistical  quantity   Coefficient  of  Correlation  
among various groups was also calculated which has also 
been  used  to  ascertain  the  proper  groupings  in  the 
questionnaire. 
 
A simple tabular analysis was carried out to find out the 
results.  In  view  of  the  fact  that  queries  were  replied  on 
five  point  scale  with  the  respective  weight  from  one  to 
five, firstly weighted mean of each group was calculated 
followed  by  overall  mean  in  the  respective  tier.    The 
weighted mean was found by picking up the proper value 
of the response in a particular level on the five point scale 
(say L1 to L5). Then dividing it by the total value of the 
levels,  i.e.  sum  of  1  to  5,  multiplied  by  the  number  of 
questions in the group. This is repeated for all the groups 
for  six  universities  of  the  region.  These  are  presented  in 
Table II. The Pearson s Coefficient of Correlation of each 
group with the Performance Indicator group is given in the 
last column of the Table II. 
 
Table II: Weighted Mean and Pearson s Correlation Coefficients of 
various groups with Group R 
 
 
 
3. Methodology 
 
The universities located in the western Himalayan region 
imply those spreading over the state of Himachal Pradesh 
and  Jammu  &  Kashmir.  There  are  mainly  7  universities 
located in the  western  Himalayan  region  of  India,  out  of 
which  6  universities  have  been  selected  purposely.  Five 
universities belong to the state or the central government, 
and  one  is  a  private  university  but  deemed  university 
approved by the University Grants Commission under the 
aegis  of  Ministry  of  Human  Resource  Development, 
Government  of  India.  These  are  Himachal  Pradesh 
University (Shimla), Y.S. Parmar  Horticulture  University 
(Solan), 
  C.S.K.  Agriculture  University  (Palampur), 
National  Institute  of  Technology  (Hamirpur),  Jammu 
University (Jammu) belonging to the government and  J.P. 
University (Solan) as deemed university.  
 
In order to have the information regarding ICT initiative, 
status  and  performance  in  the  universities  of  this  region, 
the questionnaire was given to the concerned head of the 
department  of  ICT/  IT/  Computer  Science 
the 
institution/  universities  personally.  The  concerned  head   
was requested to provide information/ feed back as per the 
questionnaire.  Thus 
the 
information  was  gathered 
personally by the authors.  
 
In  the  structured  questionnaire,  the  feedback  to  various 
queries were on  five point scale arranged in a particular 
order that revealed the natural flow  from the lowest  level  
to the highest level, in increasing order of sophistication. 
That is why it was thought reasonable to give a weightage 
of 1 to 5 respectively to each level in increasing order. 
 
 
in 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2009 
 
49
4. Results and Discussions: 
The  weighted  mean  for    Tier  I,  vision,  initiative  and 
planning,  for  different  universities  has  been  presented  in 
Fig.2,  which  depicts  a  comparative  view  among  the 
universities.  
Status of ICT Vision, Initiative and Planning among different 
Universities(TIER I)
 
n
a
e
M
t
 
 
d
e
h
g
e
W
i
0.35
0.30
0.25
0.20
0.15
0.10
0.05
0.00
0.29 0.30
0.31
0.24 0.23
0.19
Status of Universties
Fig.2  Tier I. 
JPU, Solan
N.I.T, Hamirpur
C.S.K.U, Palampur
JU, Jammu
Y.S.P.U, Nauni
H.P.U, Shimla
 
and 
39.44% 
32.66% 
respectively 
This  diagram  shows  that  there  is  not  much  difference 
corresponding  to  the  vision  and  planning,  particularly  in 
the  first  three  universities  i.e.  JP  University,  NIT  and 
H.P.University.  At  the  level  of  vision,  initiative  and 
planning  all  the  universities  thought  big  with  a  minor 
difference.  Standard  deviation  and  the  coefficient  of 
variation  were  also  calculated.  A  range  of  coefficient  of 
variation (%) was found to be 14.54%, 15.13%, 18.04%, 
24.05, 
for 
H.P.University,  J.P.University,  NIT,  Hamirpur,  Nauni 
University, Jammu University and Palampur University. It 
reveals  that  first  three  universities  are  having  more 
consistency in ICT vision, initiative and planning than the 
later  three  universities.  Because  for  the  same  vision,  the 
ICT  initiatives  and  planning  were  at  different  levels. 
Further,  the  level  of  vision  also  differed  from  one 
university to another.   
 
The  overall  weighted  mean  of  all  the  different  groups 
related  to  Tier  II  which  mainly  deals  with  overall  ICT 
infrastructure  among  different  universities  in  the  region, 
has been presented in Fig. 3.  
 
n
a
e
M
d
e
 
t
i
h
g
e
W
Status  ICT Infrastructure among different Universities 
(TIER II)
0.35
0.30
0.25
0.20
0.15
0.10
0.05
0.00
0.30
0.24
0.20
0.17 0.18
0.10
Status of Universties
Fig. 3. Tier II 
JPU, Solan
N.I.T, Hamirpur
C.S.K.U, Palampur
JU, Jammu
Y.S.P.U, Nauni
H.P.U, Shimla
 
 
internet 
facilities,  video-conferencing 
From this diagram, it  may  be  seen  that  NIT  Hamirpur  is 
having  the  largest  ICT  infrastructure  followed  by  J.P. 
University,  Jammu  University,  H.P.University,  Nauni 
University and Palampur University. This difference may 
be mainly attributed to advanced ICT facilities available in 
NIT,  Hamirpur  like  better  Local  Area  Network  (LAN) 
with 
facility 
available  with  each  faculty,  Mobile  (Wi-Fi)  computing 
facility, IP telephony and assured access to all the digital 
tools/  resources  on  the  campus.  These  facilities  are  also 
available  in  the  hostels  and  faculty  accommodation  as 
well,  along  with      an  effective  web  site  and  information 
system.  In  this  respect  NIT  Hamirpur  has  an  edge  over 
other  universities.  Other  contributing  factors  are  the 
effectiveness  of  ICT  training  progammes,  organized  for 
the  faculty,  students  and  professionals  as  the  drive  for 
human  resource  development  programs.  Finally,  the 
placement of professionals in reputed establishments adds 
much more weightage in this direction. 
This  figure  further  shows  that  the  difference  between 
Jammu  University  and  Himachal  Pradesh  University  is 
very little. It is particularly because of the fact that Jammu 
University  is  having  higher  internet  bandwidth,  better 
facilities  alongwith  e-library  as 
mobile  computing 
compared 
in  Himachal  Pradesh 
University.  
Tier III, is concerned with the main ICT activities which 
can be further divided into primary activities  of teaching 
and learning  and   advanced activities like sophisticated 
training & research using ICT for developing professional 
skills. These are displayed in fig 4.  
 
those  available 
to 
n
a
e
M
d
e
 
t
i
h
g
e
W
Status of ICT based Teaching/Learning/Reseach/Training 
among differnt universities (TIER III)
0.30
0.25
0.20
0.15
0.10
0.05
0.00
0.25
0.22
0.17
0.14
0.15
0.13
Status of Universties
Fig.4 Tier III. 
JPU, Solan
N.I.T, Hamirpur
C.S.K.U, Palampur
JU, Jammu
Y.S.P.U, Nauni
H.P.U, Shimla
 
This  category  deals  with  various  academic  activities. 
Teaching and learning using ICT based tools is one of the 
effective approaches of procuring knowledge. Researches 
using e-journals and the material available on the internet 
have  become  the  lifeline  of  any  good  research  activity. 
These ICT tools have provided the academic community a 
more  versatile  powered  instrument.  Further,  awareness 
and  training  programs  at  the  advanced  level  to  produce 
professionally skilled  technological  human  resource  have 
 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2009 
50
become more and more effective using these ICT tools. In 
this  respect,  NIT  Hamirpur  has  established  superiority 
over  others 
followed  by 
J.P.University, Jammu University and H.P.University etc. 
 
this  category  also, 
in 
 
n
a
e
M
d
e
t
h
g
e
W
i
ICT Impact Status(Placement/Research)
0.35
0.30
0.25
0.20
0.15
0.10
0.05
0.00
0.32
0.30
0.23
0.22
0.17
0.15
Universities
Fig. 5. Tier IV 
JPU, Solan
N.I.T, Hamirpur
C.S.K.U, Palampur
JU, Jammu
Y.S.P.U, Nauni
H.P.U, Shimla
 
the 
the  framework  exhibits 
 
Tier  IV  of 
impact  of 
universities at the local (societal) level, at the national and 
international level as well. The impact is reflected mainly 
through  two  components.  One  is  outstanding  research 
supported with patents for the fruitful activities and for the 
benefit of mankind. Another is the placement of outgoing 
students  trained  in  professional  courses,  to      reputed 
universities, institutes, industries and other organizations. 
The impact factor has been given in Fig.5, which reveals 
that  NIT  Hamirpur  is  again  having  an  edge  over  other 
universities  in  the  western  Himalayan  region  of  India, 
followed  by  J.P.University,  Jammu  University  and 
Himachal  Pradesh  University.  The  main  reason  for  this 
variation 
research, 
particularly supported by the advanced ICT infrastructure. 
Further,  large  number  of  good  research  publications  per 
year,  along  with  successful  collaborative  research  work 
also becomes an important factor for the superiority of one 
university  over  the  other.  In  addition,  actual  placement 
contributes the most to Tier IV in the form of linkages of 
the professionals with industries.  
 
Towards  the  end,  it  was  thought  reasonable  to  have 
Pearson s  Coefficient  of  Correlation  (CC)  of  different 
groups  with  the  group  S  depicting  the  Performance 
Indicators. These Correlation Coefficients have been given 
in Table II and displayed in Fig. 6.  
 
the  value  addition 
through 
is 
0.93
0.93
0.92
0.950.91
0.70
0.60
0.70
0.640.60
0.48
0.49
0.80
0.77
0.71
0.79
0.63
0.38
n
o
i
t
a
el
r
r
o
C
 
f
o
 
f
f
e
o
C
 
1.00
0.90
0.80
0.70
0.60
0.50
0.40
0.30
0.20
0.10
0.00
Group's
Fig.6 Performance Indicator 
 group D
 Group A
 group G  group H
 group J
Group M  Group N  Group O Group P
 Group B Group C
 Group I
 Group F
 group E
 Group K
 group L
 Group Q  Group R
 
Fig. 6. Correlation with performance Indicators. 
 
On  its  perusal,  the  CCs  are  found  to  vary  between  0.38 
and 0.95. Its value, >90, was found for five groups. These 
groups are E (LAN), I (Website and Information System), 
K  (ICT  Staff),  P  (ICT  based  Research)  and  Q  (ICT 
training  programs).  It  speaks  for  the  obvious  that  the 
advanced  internet  facility  used  in  research  and  training 
programs has a better correlation with the performance of 
an  institution.  This  is  found  quite  consistent  with  the 
analysis  presented  above.  The    next  five  groups  having 
CCs  between  0.70-  0.89,  are  found  to  be  due  to  D  (ICT 
Infrastructure),  J  (Teaching  Display  Technologies),  L 
(ICT  Budget  Allocation),  M  (e-Library)  and  N  (Alumni 
portal and  placement). There is another set of five groups 
having  CCs  between  0.6-0.69,  which  is  found  just 
acceptable.  These  are  related  with  ICT  vision,  initiative, 
internet & network security, mobile computing facility and 
impact  of  ICT.  The  remaining  three  groups  having 
correlations  below  0.60  are  not  acceptable  due 
to 
inadequate planning in ICT based teaching programs.  
5. Summary and Conclusion 
from  vision, 
In  this  study  we  have  presented  an  assessment  from  the 
primary  data  gathered  as  feedback  to  a  questionnaire 
divided into 18 different relevant groups in respect of ICT 
activities  starting 
initiative,  planning, 
implementation,  ICT  infrastructure,  to  the  performance/ 
success of various  ICT initiatives in six universities in the 
western Himalayan region. Performance Indicator of each 
of the groups was identified that was utilized to gauge the 
success  of  ICT  initiatives  at  different  stages  of  the 
framework.  
 
The vision and planning covered in Tier I are not enough 
if  these  are  not  supported  with  the  proper  initiative  by  a 
visionary at the highest level in the university system with 
full support from the government along  with  a  small  but 
dynamic  team  involved  with  it.      It  may  be  emphasized 
that a good academic curriculum at the teaching level and 
better faculty are the key factors which are most essential 
to impart the latest in the field of ICT.  
 
It  further  requires  equally  good  infrastructure  (Tier  II) 
hardware,  software  and  fast  access  to  the  internet  in  the 
ICT laboratory.  
 
After  all  the  universities  are  meant  (Tier  III)  to  create 
knowledge  and 
the  professionally  skilled  dedicated 
manpower  trained      not  at  the  local  level  but  at  the 
international level. Professional spirit with dedication of a 
person is further gauged with a scale on how much busy 
 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2009 
 
51
the  four- 
tier  framework 
his academic schedule remains for understanding and for 
problem solving.  
 
The  better  performance      always  results  in  sound  impact 
(Tier IV) at the national and international level in terms of 
outstanding research publications and actual placements.  
 
It  may  be  concluded  from  the  analysis  of  all  the 
components  of 
that  NIT 
Hamirpur  has  a  clear-  cut  superiority  over  the  other 
universities  in  this  region,  due  to  the  sound  vision, 
excellent  ICT  infrastructure  and  efficient  ICT  based 
activities  and  fast  adoption  of  innovation  in  the  field  of 
ICT,  whose  impact  became  known  at  the  national  and 
international  level.  The  other  Universities  should  follow 
the live example of NIT Hamirpur.  
 
Finally,  it  is  the  performance  in  each  of  the  groups  that 
really  matters.  The  correlation  of  Performance  Indicators 
(group  S)  with  all  the  other  eighteen  groups  echoes  the 
same.  These  correlation  coefficients  further  provided  the 
strength  to  the  conceptualization  of  groups  presented  in 
the questionnaire used in this work. 
 
Our findings about the overall ICT status is on the basis of 
performance  and  impact  do  match  with  the  reported 
ranking  given  to  universities  by  NAAC  and  other 
agencies. This finding is quite interesting which proclaims 
that  overall  progress  shown  by  any  of  the  universities  is 
mainly  due  to  the  respective  progress  through  initiative, 
planning,  infrastructure  and  performance  in  the  field  of 
ICT. One could not think of scoring better ranking at the 
national  or 
the  proper 
development in ICT which has become synonym with the 
progress of the university. 
 
level  without 
international 
6. Future Strategies 
 The pattern revealed in this paper in respect of initiative, 
status  and  performance  of  different  universities  in  the 
targeted  area  of  the  country  points  towards  future 
strategies as follows: 
 
Although ICT initiatives in different universities are quite 
encouraging, its extension must be envisaged in all higher 
educational institutions of the country. It must include the 
advanced  training  programs  to  prepare  professionally 
skilled  manpower  using  ICT  for  enhancing  the  core 
competence  of  scientists  in  the  field  of  ICT  and  making 
these programs more meaningful.  
These skilled professionals should function as nucleus to 
further extend such programs to create more skilled human 
resource. 
They  must  plan  with  determination,  of    removing    the 
sufferings  of  humanity  using  the  earned  knowledge  to 
fulfill  the  objectives  of  `Transforming  the  Society   as 
envisaged in  the Kothari Commission report of 1966   and 
the  Technology  Vision  2020  document  prepared  by 
TIFAC for India 
Different  courses  in  the  form  of  e-content  inclusive  of 
video,  in  Indian  universities  are  made  available  as 
freeware  similar  to  those  of  MIT  open  courseware,  as 
envisioned  by  NMEICT.  It  will  have  an  effective  long 
term sustainable impact on society by way of advance ICT 
enabled  education  and  empowerment  of  people  in  the 
western Himalayan region of the country. 
Acknowledgments 
Authors express their sincere thanks to Dr. S.P. Saraswat, 
Agro-Economic  centre,  H.P.University,  Shimla,  for  very 
fruitful discussion during   data analysis. 
 
 
References 
 
[1]  A.  R.  Bakar  &  Shamsiah  Mohamed.   Teaching  using 
Information  and  Communication  Technology:  Do  Trainee 
Teachers  have  the  Confidence?   International  Journal  of 
Education  and  Development  using  ICT,  Vol  4,  No.1, 
(2008), 374  
[2]  T.  Anderson,  S.  Vernhagen.  et  al.,   Faculty  Adoption  of 
Teaching  and  Learning  Technologies :  Contrasting  Earlier 
Adopters  and  Mainstream  Faculty.   The  Canadian  Journal 
of Higher Education, 28 (1998), pp. 71-98. 
[3]  P,  Attewell,   Technology  Diffusion  and  Organisation 
Learning: The Case of Business Computing.   Organisation 
Science, 3, (1992), pp 1-19.  
[4] A. Berstein, and A.E. Goodman,    Global Diffusion of the 
Internet VI, The Internet in Togo  
 Communication  of  the 
Association for Information Systems, 15, 2005,pp 371-392).  
[5]  J.D.  Farquhar,  &  D.W  Surry.,  Adoption  Analysis:  An 
Additional Tool for Instruction Developers. Educational and 
Training Technology 31, pp. 19-25(1994).  
[6] G.R. Fichman, Information Technology Diffusion: A Review 
of  Empirical  Research,  Proceedings  of 
the  Thirteenth 
International  Conference  on  Information  Systems  (ICIS), 
December, Dallas, 195-206 (1992). 
[7]  R.G.  Fichman,   The   Diffusion  and  Assimilation  of 
Information  Technology 
the 
Domains of IT Management: Projecting the Future Through 
the Past , Robert Z., editor, Pinnaflex Publishing (2000) 
Innovations in  Framing 
[8]  W.  Foster,  S.E  Goodman,  E  Osiakwan,  and  A.Bernstein, 
 Global Diffusion of the Internet IV: The Internet in Ghana , 
Communication  of  the  association  for  Information  Systems, 
2004, Vol 13, 654-681. 
[9] 
International  Standards  Organisation. 
11620: 
Information  and  Documentation-  Library  Performance 
indicator.  (International  Standards  Organisation,  Geneva), 
1998 
ISO 
 
IJCSI International Journal of Computer Science Issues, Vol. 6, No. 2, 2009 
52
[10]  A.P.J  Kalam,.&  V  .Rajan,  India  2020   A  Vision  for  the 
New Millennium (Penguin Books India ), 1998. 
[11]Karmeshu & R.K. Pathria, , Stochastic Evolution of a Non- 
linear  Model  of  Diffusion  of  Information,  Journal  of 
Mathematical Sociology, 7, pp-59-71. 1980 
[12]Karmeshu, C.L. Sharma, and V.P. Jain, Nonlinear Stochastic 
Models  of  Innovation  Diffusion  with  Multiple  Adoption 
Levels, 51, 1992, pp 229-241  
[13]  L.S  Kothari,  Kothari  Commission  Report  (Government  of 
India), 1966 
[14] Kulik & Kulik Effectiveness of Computer-based Instruction: 
An Updated Analysis, Computer in Human Behavior, 7, 75-
94. 1991 
[15] V.B. Lal,  Karmeshu & S. Kaicker,  Modeling Innovations, 
Diffusions  with  Distributed  Time-lag, 
  Technological 
Forecasting and Social Change, Elsevier Science, 34, 1988, 
pp.34-113.  
[16]  V.  Mahajan,  &  R.  Peterson,  Models  for  Innovation 
Diffusion, Braverly Hills, C.A Sage Publications. 1985 
[17]  V.  Mahajan,  E.  Muller,  and  F.M.  Bass,  New  Product 
Diffusion  Models  in  Marketing:  A  Review  and  Directions 
for Research, Journals of Marketing, 54, 1990, pp.1-26  
[18]  S.A.  Mokhtar,  R.A  Alias,  and  A.A  Rahman,.,   Academic 
Computing  at  Malaysian  Colleges ,  J.  Education  and 
Development Using ICT  3, 2007, 312  
[19]MIT 
open 
courseware 
OcwWeb/web/home/home/index.htm 
12/08/2009) 
http://ocw.mit.edu/ 
(Accessed 
on 
[20]National  Assessment  &  Accreditation  Council,  New 
Methodology of Assessment & Accreditation. 2007 
[21] NASSCOM Strategic Review, 2009.  
[22] N.M. Ochara, J.P.V. Belle, and I. Brown, Global Diffusion 
of  the  Internet  XIII:  Internet  Diffusion  in  Kenya  and  its 
Determinants-  A  Longitudinal  Analysis.  23,  2008,pp.123-
150. 
[23]  M.E  Porter,  Competitive  Advantage  (Free  Press,  New 
York), 1985 
[24]  K.A  Riley,  and  D.L.  Nutall.,  Edited.  Measuring  Quality: 
Education  Indicators-  United  Kingdom  and  International 
Perspectives.  (The Falmers Press, London) pp.17-40. 1994 
(Ed.), 
and  Communication 
in  Teacher  Education,  A  Planning 
[25]P.  Resta,. 
Technologies 
Guide.(UNESCO, Paris), 2002 
Information 
[26]  E.  Roger,  Diffusion  of  Innovations,  New  York,  The  Free 
Press, 1995 
[27]  L.,Roy,  &  D.  Raitt,.,  The  Impact  of  IT  on  Indigenous 
Peoples, The   Electronic Library, 21, 411-13, 2003 
[28]  S.  Sadagopan,   Historical  Perspective  in  IT  In  India-  A 
24,1998. 
status 
http://www.allindia.com/infotechtechdesk/art1a.htm, 1998 
report, 
[29]SEUSISS  PROJECT.,   Survey  of  European  Universities 
Skills in ICT of Students and staff - Final Report .(Accessed 
on    08/05/09,  from  http://  www.intermedia.uib.no/seusiss/) 
2003 
April 
[30]Tadon.S, 
ICT  Country  Status  Report: 
India,  2002. 
ww.tc.apii.net/~apt2003/India/  Mystatus.htm  (Accessed  on 
02nd November 2009) 
[31]UNESCO, ICT Policies of Asia Pacific, 2007-08. 
[32] W. Foster, S.E. Goodman, , E. Osiakwan, and A. Bernstein, 
 Global Diffusion of the Internet VI, The Internet in Togo , 
Communication of the Association for Information Systems, 
15, 2005, pp 371-392. 
[33]  B.L.  Wilson,  L.Sherry  et  al,   Adoption  of  Learning 
Technologies  in  Schools  and  Universities   Handbook  on 
information 
training. 
H.H.Adelsberger,  B.Collis  and  J.M.Pawlowski.  New  York, 
Springer- verlag. 2000 
for  education  and 
technologies 
[34] P.Wolcott, and S,E. Goodman, ,  Global Diffusion of  the 
Internet-I:  India:  Is  the  Elephant  Learning  to  Dance? , 
Communications of Association for the Information Systems  
113, 2003, pp 560-646  
 
  
 Dhirendra Sharma is pursuing his Ph.D from the Department 
of  Computer  Science  and  Engineering,  Ch.  Devi  Lal 
University,  Sirsa,  Haryana,  India.  He  has  obtained  his  MBA 
from  Maastricht  School  of  Management,  Maasticht, 
Netherlands,  M.S  from  BITS,  Palani,  India  and  Masters  in 
Physics from Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla, India. His 
areas of interest are ICT in Educational  Institutes,  computer 
networking (wired and wireless), Sensor Networks, and Open 
source web content management. He played a very important 
role  in  the  Design  and  Implementation  of  Campus  Wide 
Optical  Fibre  Network  backbone  of  Himachal  Pradesh 
University,  Shimla.  He  is  having  more  than  10  years  of 
teaching experience in addition to his 5 years in IT Industry.  
Dr.  Vikram  Singh  is  Ph.D  in  Computer  Science  from 
Kurukshetra  University,  Kurukshetra,  India.  Presently  he 
is   working  as  Professor  and  Head  in  the  Department 
of   Computer  Science  &  Engg  and  Dean  Faulty 
of   Engineering,   Ch.  Devi  Lal  University, 
   Sirsa    
125055.Haryana, (India), since 2004 onwards.  Before this he 
was  working  with  Kurukshetra  University,  Kurukshetra.  His 
areas  of  research  are Computer  Networks,  E-Governance, 
Simulation  tools,  etc.  He  is  having  more  than  17  years  of 
teaching/research experience and has written two books and 
having more than 30 publications in international and national 
journals/conference proceedings. 
 
 
