A Mathematical Approach to the Study of the United States Code
Michael J. Bommarito II
Center for the Study of Complex Systems, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Department of Political Science, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Department of Financial Engineering, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Daniel M. Katz
Center for the Study of Complex Systems, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
Department of Political Science, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor
University of Michigan Law School
0
1
0
2
 
r
a
 
M
2
2
 
 
]
R
I
.
s
c
[
 
 
1
v
6
4
1
4
.
3
0
0
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Abstract
The United States Code (Code) is a document containing over 22 million words that represents a large and important
source of Federal statutory law. Scholars and policy advocates often discuss the direction and magnitude of changes
in various aspects of the Code. However, few have mathematically formalized the notions behind these discussions or
directly measured the resulting representations. This paper addresses the current state of the literature in two ways.
First, we formalize a representation of the United States Code as the union of a hierarchical network and a citation
network over vertices containing the language of the Code. This representation re ects the fact that the Code is a
hierarchically organized document containing language and explicit citations between provisions. Second, we use this
formalization to measure aspects of the Code as codi ed in October 2008, November 2009, and March 2010. These
measurements allow for a characterization of the actual changes in the Code over time. Our  ndings indicate that in
the recent past, the Code has grown in its amount of structure, interdependence, and language.
Keywords: United States Code, hierarchical network, citation network, language, computational legal studies
1. Formalizing the Code
The United States Code (Code) is a document con-
taining over 22 million words that represents a large and
important source of Federal statutory law. The Code is a
concise and conveniently organized compilation of all rati-
 ed legislation and treaties, and is often the  rst source of
information for lawyers, judges, and legal academics.1 The
Code is compiled through a process known as codi cation,
which is carried out by the O ce of the Law Revision
Counsel (LRC), an organization within the U.S. House
of Representatives. The LRC s goal in this codi cation
process is to transform the incremental and chronological
Statutes at Large into the Code, a current snapshot of the
law that is organized into hierarchical categories.2
Email addresses: mjbommar@umich.edu (Michael J. Bommarito
II), dmartink@umich.edu (Daniel M. Katz)
1The complete set of all rati ed legislation and treaties is known
as the Statutes at Large. As a legal technicality, the Code is only
prima facie evidence of Federal law. In the event of a discrepancy,
the Statutes at Large are the  nal authority. Furthermore, additional
sources such as the Code of Federal Regulations contains clari ca-
tions issued by other Federal agencies or bodies.
22 U.S.C.  285-  285g outlines the purpose, policy and functions
of the O ce of Law Revision Counsel.
This hierarchical organization is an important quali-
tative feature of the Code. At the  rst level of the hi-
erarchy, the Code is divided into 49 titles that represent
the broadest categories of law. Well-known titles include
the Tax Code, formally known as Title 26 - Internal Rev-
enue Code, Title 20 - Education, and Title 18 - Crimes
and Criminal Punishment. Each title is also hierarchi-
cally subdivided into some combination of subtitles, chap-
ters, subchapters, parts, subparts, sections, subsections,
paragraphs, subparagraphs, clauses, or subclauses. Out of
these vertex types, only sections, subsections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs, clauses and subclauses can contain the ac-
tual substantive legal text.
The text within these vertices can also contain explicit
citations to other portions of the Code. These citations
may be used to reference de nitions, highlight qualifying
conditions, or point to well-understood processes.
It is
critical to recognize that these citations are not restricted
by the organizational hierarchy. For example, sections
within Title 26, the Tax Code, can and do contain ci-
tations to Title 18, the Criminal Code. Thus, though the
LRC attempts to organize the Code into a cleanly divided
hierarchical network, there is also a citation network em-
Preprint submitted to Elsevier
March 23, 2010
bedded within the Code that is not constrained by this
hierarchy.
Based on the characterization above, we can formulate
a mathematical representation of the Code as a graph G =
(V, E) with an associated  text  function T (v). V is the
set of vertices composed of all titles, subtitles, chapters,
subchapters, parts, subparts, sections, subsections, para-
graphs, subparagraphs, clauses, and subclauses. These
vertices can also be divided into two subsets: (1) vertices
that do contain text, written V T , and (2) vertices that do
not contain text, written V N . For vertices v   V T that do
contain text, the associated  text  function T (v) returns
an ordered tuple containing the tokens within the text of
vertex v. For vertices v   V N that do not contain text,
T (v) =  . The set of edges E can likewise be divided
into two subsets: (1) edges that encode the hierarchical
organization of the Code, written EH , and (2) edges that
record the citation network within the Code, written EC.
For convenience, we can then write the edge-induced sub-
graphs GH and GC that represent the hierarchical network
and citation network of the Code respectively.
For the remainder of this study, we fold the subtree
under each section vertex back into its respective section
vertex. For example, the text and citations from 26 U.S.C.
 501(c)(3) are merged up into 26 U.S.C.  501. While this
choice trades o  some amount of detail in order to compare
the properties of T (v) across snapshots, we believe there
are several compelling justi cations supporting this choice.
By focusing on sections, we ensure that all leaf vertices of
the hierarchy are of the same type. This makes a number of
network calculations much simpler and easier to interpret
than otherwise. Furthermore, unlike other vertices in V T ,
sections are the only type of vertex that is guaranteed to
contain complete grammatical units. This makes section
vertices the natural unit of analysis for any statements
regarding the language within the Code.
Though our attention throughout the remainder of the
paper is on the Code as a mathematical object, it is worth-
while to note that there are many important objects that
exhibit characteristics which are qualitatively similar to
the Code. For example, Internet web pages are hierar-
chically structured by IANA country code, domain, sub-
domain, and directory structures. These web pages also
contain large amounts of language and explicit interdepen-
dence in the form of hyperlinks. Therefore, the analysis
carried out in this paper could also be applied to web pages
on the Internet or any similar document. In summary, our
representation of the Code can therefore be more gener-
ally described as a formalization of a document with hi-
erarchical structure, explicit interdependence, and a
signi cant amount of language.
2. Measuring the Code
We can measure aspects of this representation of the
Code by constructing it from empirical data. To do so, we
have obtained XML snapshots of the Code at three points
in time: October 2008, November 2009, and March 2010.
This data was provided by the Cornell Legal Information
Institute ([3]). It is important to understand that the rate
of legislation and treaty-making exceeds the LRC s rate of
codi cation. Furthermore, the LRC codi cation schedule
is based on titles, not on the chronology of the Statues at
Large. As a result, we cannot make compare the rate of
growth of di erent sections or titles of the Code with this
data. We can, however, make statements with respect to
aggregate changes in the Code.
(a) GH
(b) G
Figure 1: Network Visualization of the Code, Oct. 2008. Top: Hi-
erarchical network, Reingold-Tilford circular layout ([10]). Bottom:
Hierarchical network with citation network overlay in red.
Figure 1 o ers two visualizations of the snapshot of the
Code as of October 2008. In panel (a), the hierarchical net-
work GH is shown branching out from the rooting node.
In panel (b), the section-to-section citation network is im-
posed in red onto the hierarchical network in (a). Note
2
that all citations are from one leaf of the hierarchical net-
work to another leaf of the hierarchical network. This is
a consequence of our above choice to combine any subsec-
tions and their text into their respective section vertices.
Date
Oct 2008
Nov 2009
Mar 2010
|V (G)|
57947
59684
59988
|E(G)|
140154
144758
145908
|V (GC )|
33503
34473
34674
|E(GC )|
82208
85075
85921
Table 1: Summary of Code snapshots.
Figure 1 clearly demonstrates that the Code is a large
object. Table 1 shows a summary of the size of the Code
and its edge-induced citation network for each snapshot.
We do not need to write |V (GH )| and |E(GH )| separately,
since |V (GH )| = |V (G)| and |V (GH )| = |E(GH )| + 1 by
construction.
This table gives us the  rst opportunity to examine
changes in the Code. In assessing such changes, it is impor-
tant to note that the lag associated with the LRC codi ca-
tion schedule complicates the relationship between passage
of individuals pieces of legislation and their subsequent re-
 ection in the Code. Despite this limitation, we can still
consider aggregate net changes in the Code over our win-
dow of data.
We  rst focus on the hierarchical structure of the Code
as represented by GH . Between October 2008 and Novem-
ber 2009, approximately 4.29 vertices were added to the
Code each day, and between November 2009 and March
2010, approximately 2.71 vertices were added to the Code
each day. It is important to note that vertex creation can
be the product of (1) reorganization of existing hierarchy
and its embedded language or (2) the codi cation of new
legislation. In the  rst case, the total amount of language
in the Code is often relatively unchanged. In the second
case, however, new language from legislation must be in-
troduced and the total amount of language in the Code
increases.3 Regardless of which dynamic is responsible,
these rates show that the Code has experienced robust
growth in its hierarchical structure in recent years.
In order to assess changes in the interdependence of
the Code, we now examine GC and its corresponding de-
gree distribution.4 Table 1 shows that both |V (GC)| and
|E(GC)| have been growing at a rapid pace. Between Octo-
ber 2008 and November 2009, approximately 2.4 sections
entered the citation network and approximately 7.08 new
citations were added per day.5 Between November 2009
3In some cases, new legislation replaces old legislation by repeal-
ing existing language and structure in the Code and replacing it with
new language and structure. The  vertex creation  rates above are
thus more accurately labeled as  net vertex creation  rates.
4Readers interested in properties of the degree distribution alone
should refer to [1].
5Sections may  enter  the citation network in two ways: (1) by
being newly created and containing citations in their original form
or (2) by having previously existed but either receiving their  rst
citation or being amended to cite another section for the  rst time.
Figure 2: Log-Log Degree Distribution for GC over Time. Plotted
with Matlab code from [2].
and March 2010, approximately 1.79 sections entered the
citation network per day and approximately 7.55 new cita-
tions were added per day. These numbers clearly indicate
that the recent trend is positive.
Figure 2 shows the region of the log-log degree distribu-
tion that exhibits change across these snapshots. Though
a power-law distribution is soundly rejected for all three
snapshots, the standard deviation and skewness of the de-
gree distributions increase from 2008 to 2009 and 2009
to 2010 ([2]). Furthermore, the maximum degree also in-
creased from 2008 to 2009 and 2009 to 2010. Based on
these simple measurements of the Code, it is clear that the
Code is growing both in the size of its hierarchical struc-
ture and in the amount of conceptual interdependence.
We next turn our attention to the language contained
within the Code. Though our mathematical representa-
tion of the Code relegates this language to the function
T , we should remember that language and its organiza-
tion are the components most commonly invoked in the
popular discourse surrounding the Code. The  rst step
in this analysis is to examine the change in the amount
of language in the Code over time. Table 2 allows us to
assess these changes by comparing the language contained
within the snapshots of the Code over time. The numbers
given in this table represent the average size of each sec-
tion, i.e., |T (v)|, and the total size of the Code as measured
by  words. 6
Just as Table 1 above shows that structure of the Code
is growing, Table 2 shows that the amount of language in
the Code is growing. This growth is at a rate of approx-
imately 2,730 words per day between October 2008 and
November 2009 and 2,706 words per day between Novem-
ber 2009 and March 2010. Furthermore, since the average
word count per section is also increasing over these time
6Here,  words  correspond to those strings tokenized by the Penn
Treebank and are not necessarily restricted to words that might be
found in a dictionary ([5]).
3
periods, the rate of increase in language surpasses the rate
of growth in the number of sections. In other words, the
language in the Code is growing both through the addi-
tion of new sections containing new text and through the
lengthening of existing sections.
Year Word Count per Section Total Word Count
2008
2009
2010
22,823,405
23,919,248
24,224,985
468.16
476.03
479.85
Table 2: Word Count per Section and Total Word Count over Time.
Underlying each row in Table 2 is an entire distribution
of word counts per section. Examining the change in these
distributions over time can better explain the changes ev-
idenced in the Table. Figure 3 shows the distribution of
word count per section for the Code as of October 2008.
This  gure shows that section sizes are fairly normally dis-
tributed around the mean size of 468.16 words per section
with a standard deviation of 1,031.2.
Figure 4: Changes in the Distribution of Section Sizes by log10 Word
Count from 2008 over Time.
may contain either a single word repeated over and over
or it may contain 100 di erent words each used once. In
order to capture di erences such as these, we next inves-
tigate the Shannon entropy of the word distribution for
each section of the Code ([9]). Entropy values will allow
us to distinguish between the above cases, with the for-
mer example having much lower entropy than the latter
example.
In many ways, the entropy of the section word distri-
bution can be related to some of the characterizations of
complexity o ered by legal scholars ([4] [8] [7]). If we as-
sume that words map to distinct concepts, then this mea-
sure corresponds to the uncertainty or variance in the con-
cept distribution. Concept variance is important because,
all else equal, it is more di cult for an individual to un-
derstand a set of concepts with high variance than one
comprised of homogeneous material. However, there is
a signi cant di erence between complexity and di culty
and we should be careful to explain entropy as  concept
variance  ([6]).
v   V T , we need to calculate
In order to calculate the section entropy for a section
W ={w : w   T (v)}
H =   (cid:88)
p(w) log2 p(w)
w W
where p(w) is the proportion of tokens in T (v) that are
w. By calculating H for all v   V T , we can observe the
actual distribution of section entropy.
Figure 5 shows the distribution of section entropy in
October 2008. The distribution is relatively normal with
a right lean. The mean section entropy is 5.89 with a stan-
dard deviation of 0.81, and the maximum section entropy
is 8.65. As a comparison, the  rst two paragraphs of this
paper have an entropy of approximately 6.7.
Figure 6 plots the distribution of changes in the section
entropy distributions over time. The circles and pluses cor-
respond to the change in the section size distribution from
4
Figure 3: Distribution of Section Sizes by log10 Word Count in Oc-
tober 2008.
The di erences between the distributions are shown in
Figure 4. The circles and pluses show the change in the
section size distribution from October 2008 to November
2009 and from October 2008 to March 2010 respectively.
This  gure shows that the changes are relatively small
and primarily contained in the bulk of the distribution
in sections between 10 and 1,000 words. Furthermore, the
overall trend in changes indicates an increasing number of
sections at sizes between 102 and 103.5. The maximum sec-
tion size did increase from 43,183 words in October 2008
to 44,962 words in November 2009. These observations
imply that the average section size is increasing due to a
larger number of sections in this region, not because of a
drastic change in the sizes of sections contained within the
Code.
Language can change in ways that are not captured by
word counts. One important factor that is not captured
by the number of words alone is the distribution of these
words. For example, a section with a word count of 100
Furthermore, the sections of the Code have become more
explicitly interdependent.
In future work, we hope to obtain snapshots of the
Code over a longer period of time. By obtaining data
for at least one LRC codi cation cycle, we could evaluate
both aggregate changes over longer windows and changes
in speci c sections or titles of the Code. This would al-
low us to directly evaluate claims made by both policy
advocates and scholars. Furthermore, we hope to more
seriously address the concept of  legal complexity  by de-
veloping a complexity measure based on this mathematical
representation of the Code.
Figure 5: Distribution of Section Entropy in October 2008.
4. Acknowledgments
We would like to thank the Center for the Study of
Complex Systems (CSCS) at the University of Michigan
for a fruitful research environment. This work was par-
tially supported by an NSF IGERT fellowship through the
Center for the Study of Complex Systems (CSCS) at the
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor. We would also like
to thank Dave Shetland at the Cornell Legal Information
Institute and Joel Slemrod, J.J. Prescott, and Abe Gong
at the University of Michigan for their assistance and feed-
back.
[1] M.J. Bommarito II, D. M. Katz. Properties of the Code Citation
Network. http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.175.
[2] A. Clauset, C.R. Shalizi, M.E.J. Newman. Power-law distribu-
tions in empirical data. SIAM Review, Vol. 51:4, pp. 661-703,
2009. http://arxiv.org/abs/0706.1062.
[3] Cornell University Law School, Legal Information Institute.
http://www.law.cornell.edu/.
[4] S.B. Long, J. Swingen. An Approach to the Measurement of Tax
Law Complexity. Journal of the American Taxation Association,
Vol. 8, pp. 22-36, 1987.
[5] M. Marcus. The Penn Treebank: A Revised Corpus Design for
Extracting Predicate Argument Structure. Proceedings of the
ARPA Human Language Technology Workshop, Princeton, NJ,
March 1994.
[6] S.E. Page. Uncertainty, Di culty, and Complexity. Journal of
Theoretical Politics, Vol. 20:2, pp. 115-149, 2008.
[7] L. Rook Laying Down the Law: Cannons for Drafting Complex
Legislation. Oregon Law Review, Vol. 72, pp. 663-688, 1993.
[8] P. Schuck Legal Complexity: Some Causes, Consequences and
Cures. Duke Law Journal, Vol. 42, pp. 1-52, 1992.
[9] C. Shannon. A Mathematical Theory of Communication. Bell
System Technical Journal, Vol. 27, pp. 379-423, 1948.
[10] E. Reingold, J. Tilford. Tidier Drawing of Trees. IEEE Trans-
actions on Software Engineering, Vol. SE-7:2, pp. 223-228, 1981.
Figure 6: Changes in the Distribution of Section Entropy from 2008
over Time.
October 2008 to November 2009 and from October 2008 to
March 2010 respectively. This  gure shows a strong trend
away from the October 2008 snapshot for both November
2009 and March 2010. The proportion of sections with
entropy between 4.5 and 6 has decreased nearly symmetri-
cally with the increase in sections with entropy between 6
and 8. Furthermore, the trend is more pronounced in the
March 2010 snapshot than in the November 2009 snap-
shot. These observations imply that there is a shift from
less conceptual variance per section to more conceptual
variance per section, implying an increase in  legal com-
plexity  over our window of observation.
3. Conclusion & Future Work
In this paper, we o er a mathematical formalization
of the United States Code that incorporates its impor-
tant qualitative features including hierarchical structure,
explicit interdependence, and language. We use this repre-
sentation to measure the changes in the Code in the period
between October 2008 and March 2010. These measure-
ments imply that in the recent past the Code has become
larger both in its hierarchical structure and its language.
5
