0
1
0
2
 
r
p
A
8
2
 
 
 
]
h
p
-
p
o
p
.
s
c
i
s
y
h
p
[
 
 
1
v
9
0
0
5
.
4
0
0
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Public debates driven by incomplete scienti c
data: the cases of evolution theory, global
warming and H1N1 pandemic in uenza
Serge Galam 
Centre de Recherche en  Epist emologie Appliqu ee (CREA),
 Ecole Polytechnique and CNRS,
Boulevard Victor, 32, F-75015 Paris, France
Abstract
Public debates driven by incomplete scienti c data where nobody
can claim absolute certainty, due to current state of scienti c knowl-
edge, are studied. The cases of evolution theory, global warming and
H1N1 pandemic in uenza are investigated. The  rst two are of con-
troversial impact while the third is more neutral and resolved. To
adopt a cautious balanced attitude based on clear but inconclusive
data appears to be a lose-out strategy. In contrast overstating argu-
ments with wrong claims which cannot be scienti cally refuted appear
to be necessary but not su cient to eventually win a public debate.
The underlying key mechanism of these puzzling and unfortunate con-
clusions are identi ed using the Galam sequential probabilistic model
of opinion dynamics [1, 2, 3]. It reveals that the existence of in exible
agents and their respective proportions are the instrumental parame-
ters to determine the faith of incomplete scienti c data public debates.
Acting on one s own in exible proportion modi es the topology of the
 ow diagram, which in turn can make irrelevant initial supports. On
the contrary focusing on open-minded agents may be useless given
some topologies. When the evidence is not as strong as claimed, the
in exibles rather than the data are found to drive the opinion of the
 serge.galam@polytechnique.edu
1
population. The results shed a new but disturbing light on Designing
adequate strategies to win a public debate.
2
1 Setting the problem
Public opinion is today a key ingredient in modern societies policy making.
To discover the laws and eventual biases which govern its forming is thus a
major challenge to avoid political choices founded on distorted expressions
from what is the overall majority of individual opinions [4, 5, 6, 1, 7, 8, 9,
10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19]. Any progress in the understanding of
opinion dynamics could have drastic e ects on the way sensitive issues are
tackled.
Among them stand the public debates initiated from  science  in pres-
ence of incomplete scienti c data. They are driven by the necessity to  ll
up the missing parts to come up with a complete view of the issue from
which rationally motivated political decisions can be made. It is therefore of
central importance to determine if what is accepted as the complete theory
corresponds to the real scienti c status of the issue. Evolution theory, global
warming and H1N1 pandemic in uenza debates are emblematic of this class
of public issues. Accordingly we investigate the conditions in which those
debates were set with an emphasis on the scienti c facts, the scientist po-
sitions, the associated general beliefs, the political stakes and the resulting
public opinions.
First, we examine the two cases of Evolution theory and global warm-
ing, which both have controversial impact. Similarities and di erences are
enumerated as well as some apparent contradictions between the respective
outcomes. A throughout analysis reveals that to adopt a cautious balanced
attitude based on clear but inconclusive scienti c facts is a lose-out strategy.
In contrast, overstating arguments and asserting wrong statements which
cannot be scienti cally refuted, is found to be necessary but not su cient to
eventually win a public debate.
These  ndings are then confronted to the more neutral case of the H1N1
pandemic in uenza, which has neither emotional nor religious character.
Moreover, it has the advantage of being over with available data on the
debate  nal outcome together with both opposed side retrospective stances.
On this basis, to identify the underlying key mechanism, which produces
these puzzling but unfortunate conclusions, we use the Galam sequential
probabilistic model of opinion dynamics [1, 2, 3]. It is shown that the ex-
istence of in exible agents, i.e., agents who never change their opinion, is
the instrumental parameter to determine the faith of a public debate based
on incomplete data. Depending on their respective densities the associated
3
opinion forming obeys either a non threshold or a threshold dynamics. Initial
supports may thus turn to be irrelevant.
The results shed a new but disturbing light on Designing adequate strate-
gies to eventually win public debates. To produce in exibles in one s own
side is thus critical to win a public argument whatever the rigor cost and
the associated epistemological paradoxes. At odds, to focus on convincing
open-minded agents is useless. In summary, when the scienti c evidence is
not as strong as claimed, the in exibles rather than the data are found to
drive the collective opinion of the population. Consequences on Designing
adequate strategies to win a public debate are discussed.
2 Revisiting evolution and global warming is-
sues
The issues of global warming and evolution theory have triggered intense
public debates to enforce eventual political decisions in order to modify fun-
damental setting in the society organization. Both issues are concerned with
the understanding of global phenomena whose characteristic timescales are
extremely long. However, only scarce and incomplete data are available. It
was thus necessary to build ad hoc theories to produce a coherent explana-
tion of the whole respective  elds, embodying isolated facts, fuzzy measures
and partial knowledge. To bridge the missing links, complicated models have
been elaborated under the constraint of reproducing all past known data [20].
Ultimately, large scale simulations were performed on big computers to make
predictions about possible evolution in the future as well as Designing new
research programs with guidelines for research funding.
Nevertheless, these theories are su ering the basic fact that up to date no
global science has been established in any  eld of research. The recent e ort
to develop the so called science of complex systems aims to remedy these
de ciencies [21]. But yet without any major breakthrough so far. Present
 sciences  are restricted to local domains and can produce scienti c evidence
only for isolated phenomena. Along these di culties, it is worth to stress
that the major limitation of both evolution and climatology theories is their
incapacity to make predictions, which could be refuted by setting an experi-
ment. This is due to the huge timescales involved in each case, of the order
of millions of years for evolution and hundreds of years for the climate. It
4
thus prevents these theories to reach the status of hard science like physics
and chemistry although they do use scienti c methods. They could possi-
bly reach this status in a few hundreds of years after a series of successful
predictions, which would allow to evaluate a degree of reliability.
Current data being incomplete, a large amount of speculation is incorpo-
rated to compensate the missing parts, and numerous assumptions are made,
which cannot be checked. Therefore any result obtained from the numerical
simulations should be taken with extreme caution in particular if political
decisions are to be implemented.
Accordingly, scientists working on these  elds, while dealing with some
speci c questions, often use the expression  we believe that... , which states
a clear di erence with  it is proved that...  [22]. Unfortunately the same
caution often does not hold while de ning the key mechanism at work be-
hind the phenomenon [23]. Natural selection is asserted to be the operating
criterion for evolution and anthropogenic carbon dioxide is designated as the
cause of recent global warming. Both assertions being stated as if they were
scienti cally proved. Up to the present moment they constitute the most
convenient key to yield a coherent picture of the respective  eld but this
does not constitute a scienti c proof of their validity.
Such overestimates of the scienti c validity of a theoretical hypothesis
could be without any solid consequence like for instance with the big bang
theory. To believe that the big bang hypothesis is proven scienti cally does
not imply anything neither in the organization of our societies nor in our
personal lives. Indeed, no one is drawing social consequences from the sup-
posed existence of the big bang. No  political  complain was neither made
so far against its assumption.
In contrast evolution and climate issues have direct political implications
making their status and validity an instrumental key to set up decisions on
very crucial and sensitive political arbitrages. While the climate trend deals
with the planet future and thus with the human survival on the planet, evo-
lution touches to the sensitive question of the existence of God. Accordingly
confusion about what is believed to be true and what has been proven to be
true reveal itself to be problematic with rather controversial impact. It could
drive political decisions followed with social catastrophes [24].
The case of H1N1 pandemic in uenza is treated separately in Section 4
since the public debate is over and of a di erent nature.
5
2.1 Evolution theory
Evolution theory being taught in high schools it could be perceived as putting
at stake the genesis description of the world creation. Religious people could
thus feel interfered in their beliefs by the teaching of Darwin theory, although
creationism has been dismissed by science and prohibited from being taught
as science by the 1987 US Supreme Court ruling [25]. However creation-
ists did not give up their refusal of the natural selection and recently they
launched a massive campaign to relativize Darwin theory with a challenging
theory called the Intelligent Design [26, 27]. It is indeed a creationist view
of evolution dressed under a scienti c set up [28].
They succeeded in initiating a vast public debate with the requirement to
have Intelligent Design taught in public schools on the same footing as Dar-
win theory. After a  erce battle, a federal judge for the U.S. District Court
has decided in 2005 against the request dismissing the scienti c character
of the Intelligent Design [29]. During the impassioned debate, advocates of
Darwin theory opposed the Intelligent Design view asserting Darwin theory
is scienti cally proved [30]. They did win both the legal issue and the public
debate with the support of a majority of the public, but yet with a substantial
part still abiding along the Intelligent Design frame [31].
2.2 Global warming
The global warming situation di ers for climatology, which up to thirty years
ago was not among the  rst priorities neither in science nor in society. It
has been the scary feeling due to an increase in natural catastrophes (this in-
crease is di cult to evaluate precisely), combined with a so called anomalous
increase of the earth global temperature from 1978 till 1998 followed by a
plateau and a slightly decrease in the last years, which has propelled climate
evolution at the top of world government agendas [23].
Contrary to evolution theory it has been the current ground reality which
has prompted a public debate to determine both the cause of the global
warming and the means to curb it. Rather quickly a new paradigm has
been established to embrace the phenomenon. The increasing production of
carbon dioxide from man activities has been claimed to be identi ed as the
cause of global warming and its drastic and immediate reduction set as the
clear solution [23].
Only a few skeptics dispersed over the world have resisted this explanation
6
but failed in gaining a substantial public support [32]. The alarmists have
won the public debate asserting their claim is scienti cally proved. Soon
they may well have world governments to abide along their requests with a
profound rearrangement of our way of life. For an in depth analysis of the
social aspect of the global warming phenomenon see [24].
2.3 Similarities between the two issues
  The core and the majority of involved scientists in each  eld and more
generally scientists from all  elds support the claim that the identi ed
major mechanisms at work, respectively Darwin natural selection and
anthropogenic carbon dioxide, have been scienti cally established.
  Both communities have won the public debate against their opponents,
respectively Intelligent Design advocates and human-caused global warm-
ing skeptics.
  Both groups convinced policy makers to respectively forbid the teaching
of Intelligent Design and to oblige a drastic decrease in carbon dioxide
emissions to curb global warming.
2.4 Di erences between the two issues
  A substantial part of the public still support Intelligent Design while no
substantial support oppose the global warming human responsibility.
Although this last fact has been changing in the US recently, due in
part to last years slight global temperature decrease [33].
  Intelligent Design supporters took the initiative to launch a public de-
bate and scientists had to oppose it. In contrast, climatologists took
the initiative to alert the public on global warming with only a few
scientists to oppose them.
  Up to 2000 most people did not consider the climate is an issue and did
not look at carbon dioxide emissions as causing global warming. The
situation has heated up with the 2007 publication of the IPCC [23].
  It is the opponents to Darwin theory who were asking changes while
its advocates have no peculiar demand beside to reject their request
7
as unfounded scienti cally. In contrary it is the proponents of global
warming man responsibility who are demanding drastic changes in our
way of life with a substantial cut in our carbon dioxide emissions while
the skeptics are opposing the claimed man responsibility.
  Supporters of Intelligent Design are convinced that the true explanation
of evolution resides in a superior entity while climate skeptics are only
pointing to the absence of a scienti c proof of the human responsibility
in the global warming.
3 The paradoxical questions
In the case of evolution theory, the quasi totally of the scienti c community
was united to oppose the tentative to incorporate Intelligent Design as an
alternative to Darwin theory in the educational curriculum [26, 27]. It suc-
ceeded in dismissing the alleged scienti c character of Intelligent Design and
thus did convince institutions and a majority of the public to reject the call
for changing school programs not mixing science and religion. However they
failed to convince a substantial part of the public for which Intelligent Design
is as scienti c as Darwin theory. Several puzzling questions arise :
  Why in order to refute scienti cally Intelligent Design did scientists
sometimes overdo the scienti c validity of Darwin theory?
  Why did scientists fail to convince such a large proportion of the pop-
ulation that Intelligent Design is not science?
The rigorous attitude would have been to state that Darwin theory is
the best frame up to date to explain evolution in conformity with available
data, but one cannot claim it has been scienti cally proven. Such a tempered
position is not contradictory with proving Intelligent Design is not science
compatible.
With respect to global warming a large part of the scienti c community
has supported the climatologists launching a public alert about the imme-
diate emergency of cutting down carbon dioxide emissions to curb a coming
climate driven apocalypse. The goal was to convince the public and the au-
thorities to enforce a drastic change in our way of life. It was not like for
evolution theory to oppose a hostile group holding a di erent view on the
climate.
8
And here too the claims were and are overdone, in particular about man
responsibility, which is asserted by many to be scienti cally proven. However
the scienti c ground on which this claim relies is far much thiner than for the
natural selection of Darwin theory. Yet most scientists were asserting that
we are in an anomalous global warming trend and man is responsible for it.
They end up successful in having a large majority of the public opinion to
back their view and in putting the world policy makers under a tremendous
pressure to act.
In reaction to the excess and exaggeration of the alarmist discourse an
increasing number of scientists did stand to denounce such a non scienti c
practice. They dismissed the fears and refuted the man responsibility claim
as not scienti cally proved. However they did not claim to have an alternative
explanation. Moreover they could not prove man is not responsible since it
is impossible to prove the non-existence of something which does not exist.
Skeptics failed in spreading their doubts staying con ned to a tiny minority
against a huge majority holding as true the man responsibility. They also
failed in convincing policy makers not to get engaged in a huge program to
cut carbon dioxide emissions. The questions here are:
  Why did the alarmists succeed in getting the majority of public opinion
to align along their unproved claim ? Even if the support has decreased
recently [33] due to the disclosure of a series of mistakes in the 2007
IPPCC report.
  Why they made their overstatements so dramatic while there exists no
substantial opposition?
  Why the tptics who adopt a rigorous scienti c position without advo-
cating an alternative claim failed to crystallize at least some part of
the public opinion?
  Why despite the skeptic failure the alarmist majority has been very
adamant in slamming the skeptic behavior and banning them from
both scienti c institutions and the media?
9
4 The circumvented case of H1N1 pandemic
in uenza
Above two cases have controversial impact. The legal question of evolution
theory has been settled with the 2005 U.S. District Court ruling and the
public debate is closed so far. But the intelligent Design people keep on
their view and will certainly try to relaunch a debate once the conditions
will permit. In contrast the global warming issue is still under active debate
and not much has been settled yet.
On this basis, it is fruitful to confront our  ndings to the H1N1 pandemic
in uenza case, which is more neutral with neither emotional nor religious
aspects. In addition the public debate is over [34]. The case is circumvented
and completed with all data now available. However there exists an essential
di erence with above two issues. Those are concerned with an opinion which
in principle can be reversible. In contrast, the vaccination act is irreversible.
Accordingly the model can provide an explanation about the readiness among
the population to get vaccinated during the vaccination campaign. Indeed
many of the vaccination centers were used below their capacities to  nally
get closed at the beginning of 2010.
To be more precise we consider the case of France where the government
had ordered more than ninety millions of individual doses of vaccine, with a
result of only around six millions people vaccinated [35]. The issue was for
each person to decide on wether or not to get vaccinated. Moreover it was
free of charge. Accordingly it can appear as a paradox to have such a low
rate of vaccination [36].
Without tracing back the whole history of the H1N1 pandemic in uenza
we can just recall that the World Health Organization (WHO) has declared
in June 2009 a pandemic situation and about 15000 people died from it [37].
However, there has been so much controversy over whether or not to get the
H1N1  u vaccine. The paradox here being that a series of people opposed
adamantly the vaccination process although there was no clear danger to it,
non withstanding the fact that its bene t was not proved neither.
On the other hand, people who advocated the vaccination only claimed
it was a good thing to do but without stating people must do it. They only
strongly recommend vaccination, even often setting an example by getting
vaccinated themselves but without pretending it is a must. This subtle po-
sitioning stems from the fact that some dangerous side e ect, although very
10
rare, were not totally precluded. To order an action whose consequence is
not 100% sure may turn to some unwanted dangerous act making people
cautious.
In contrast people who were asserting the H1N1 pandemic in uenza is not
more dangerous than usual seasonal in uenza virus and the vaccine not being
a solid defense, did not state not to get vaccinated always mentioning it is an
individual choice to be decided by each person. They casted a doubt on the
prospect. It is therefore not symmetrical to dismiss the immune character of
a vaccine than to order someone to get vaccinated. In particular with respect
to a few millions of cases for which it is certain that a few cases could turned
with bad secondary e ect opening the way for possible prosecution of the
people in charge.
There was much more conviction on the refusal side than on the vacci-
nation side and the net result among the public has been an overwhelmed
majority who did not get vaccinated putting the french government with the
burden of getting rid of tens of millions of vaccines. This brief overview of
the case is coherent with our general  ndings with respect to both evolution
and global warming issues.
It is also of importance to focus on the fact that once the danger was
over, a great deal of criticism has been directed against policy makers as
well as members of the WHO putting light on their professional links with
pharmacologic industry. Several investigations have been set to check the
matter [38].
5 Setting the model to hint at some under-
standing
To tackle the problem via the prism of opinion dynamics might be fruitful
to provide above questions with a new light. Two kinds of agents seem
to be involved, the ones who are claiming a truth about the issue and the
ones who have no direct access to the frame of the truth and thus want to
make up their mind via discussions with others. In the  rst category stand
scientists convinced Darwin theory or global warming man responsibility has
been proven scienti cally as well as believers who take literally the Genesis
description of the world creation. All others belong to the second category
including the skeptical scientists who discard man responsibility for climate
11
change. With respect to the H1N1 pandemic in uenza scientists were present
on both sides with a net majority on the refusal side.
Denoting in exibles the  rst agents and  oaters the others leads to evoke
the Galam sequential probabilistic model of opinion dynamics [1, 2, 3]. It
considers a mixture of heterogeneous agents with in exibles and  oaters. In-
 exibles discuss with other agents but in order to convince them of their
own truth. They can eventually convince a  oater to shift its opinion but
they will preserve their own opinion no matter they are successful or not in
convincing others. In contrast,  oaters do have an opinion about the issue
but are inclined to shift opinion if eventually given su cient convincing argu-
ments. Using a one-person-one-argument principle, the model implements an
opinion shift via small group discussions monitored by local majority rules.
5.1 The bare local majority model
The model consists of a group of N agents undergoing a public debate. Each
agent holds either one opinion A or B. Before the public debate is turned
on agents did make a choice individually according to their information and
belief.
Initial global proportions of both opinions are respectively pt and
(1   pt). They can be evaluated using polls.
The opinion dynamics is then driven by a series of repeated cycles of local
discussions. In each cycle, random groups of agents are formed with size r
with r = 1, 2, ...L. Within each group all agents eventually update their own
opinion to adopt the opinion which got the local majority. All agents are
 oaters.
In case of a tie in an even size group a local majority rule does
not operate and agents keep on their opinion unchanged. One cycle of local
update thus leads to new proportions pt+1 and (1   pt+1) with
pt+1 =
r
Xm= r+1
2
m!pm
  r
t (1   pt)r m .
(1)
for odd sizes, and for even sizes
r
pt+1 =
2 +1  r
Xm= r
m!pm
t (1   pt)r m +
1
2  r
r/2!p
r
2
t (1   pt)
r
2 ,
(2)
where (cid:16) r
m(cid:17)  
r!
m!(r m)!
is a binomial coe cient.
In the even case, taking
r = 2l, Eq. (2) can be shown to reduce to Eq. (1) with r = 2l   1.
12
Separator pc,r = 1/2
Attractor pB = 0
Opinion A has
disappeared
Attractor
pA = 1
Opinion A has invaded
the whole population
Figure 1: The opinion  ow for the A opinion with pc,r = 1/2.
The dynamics driven from repeating these update rules is obtained solving
the  xed point Equation pt+1 = pt. It yields two attractors pA = 1 and pB = 0
and a critical threshold pc,r = 1
2, which separates the  ow opinion in direction
of either pA or pB. From pt > pc,r there exists a number n of updates to reach
equilibrium with pt < pt+1 < pt+2 < . . . < pt+n = pt+n+1 = pA = 1 where
only opinion A exits. From pt < pc,r there exists a number m of updates to
yield pt > pt+1 > pt+2 > . . . > pt+m = pt+m+1 = pB = where now opinion
A has disappeared as seen from Figure 1. The actual values (n, m) are a
decreasing function of r. In cases people meet in groups of di erent sizes a
combination of Eq. (1) is taken with the various sizes r which are involved,
each weighted by the proportion of the corresponding size [1].
13
5.2 The mixed in exible- oater model
We now investigate the e ect of having in exible agents. Denoting a and b
the percentages of respective in exibles for A and B the associated respective
proportions of  oaters are (pt   a) and (1   pt   b). We thus have pt   a and
1   pt   b    pt   1   b, which combine to
a   pt   1   b,
(3)
to which we add the constraints
0   a   1
and
0   b   1
with
0   a + b   1.
(4)
To keep the calculations simple we restrict the present study to groups of
size 3 with Eq. (1) writing
pt+1 = p3
t + 3p2
t (1   pt),
(5)
which corresponds now to the case of zero in exible. It is exhibited in Figure
(2). The opinion which starts with a majority of initial support wins the
debate. Including in exibles with respective densities a and b turns Eq. (5)
to
(6)
pt+1 = p3
t + 3p2
t (cid:20)(1   pt   b) +
2
3
b(cid:21) + 3(1   pt)2(cid:20) 1
3
a(cid:21) .
To compare readily the di erence in in exible supports we write a   b+x
where x = a   b measures the actual di erence. Eqs. (4) and (6) become
  b   x   1   2b,
and
pt+1 =  2p3
t + p2
t (3 + x) + ( 2pt + 1)(b + x).
(7)
(8)
The  xed points of Eq.(6) are real solutions of the equation pt+1 = pt =,
which is a cubic equation in pt.
It exhibits three cases depending on the
sign of the associated discriminant D, which is a function of b and x. Three
distinct real solutions are found for D < 0, two distinct real solutions of
which one is double at D = 0, and one single real solution when D > 0 [3].
The associated  ow dynamics are shown in Figures (3, 4, 5).
When three  xed points are obtained, dynamics consistency implies that
the one in between must be a separator while the two others are attractors.
One case with a = 0.15, b = 0.10, x = 0.05 is shown in Figure (3). The two
14
0.45
0.5
0.55
pC
0.55
0.5
0.45
pA
pC
 pt+1 - pt 
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
1
+
p
t
0.2
pA
0.0
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
pt
Figure 2: Case a = b = x = 0 with two attractors pA = and pB = 0
and a separatorpC = 1/2. The winning opinion is the one which start with
a majority of initial support. Arrows indicate the directions of the public
opinion dynamics. The inset shows the area in the vicinity of pC. The lower
curve shows the evolution of the di erence (pt+1   pt) as a function of pt.
15
1
+
p
t
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
0.889
0.887
pB
0.887
0.889
pA
pA
pC
 pt+1 - pt 
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
pt
Figure 3: Case a = 0.15, b = 0.10, x = 0.05 yielding two asymmetric attrac-
tors pB = 0.19 (A is minority, B is majority) and pA = 0.89 (A is majority,
B is minority) with a separator pC = 0.45 (advantage to A). Arrows indicate
the directions of the public opinion dynamics. The inset shows the area in
the vicinity of pA. The lower curve shows the evolution of the di erence
(pt+1   pt) as a function of pt.
16
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
1
+
p
t
0.0
0.0
0.25
0.35
0.45
pA
pBC
0.45
0.35
0.25
pBC
 pt+1 - pt 
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
pt
Figure 4: Case a = 0.19, b = 0.10, x = 0.09 where pBC = pB = pC = 0.33
is double and pA = 0.89 (A is majority, B is minority). Arrows indicate the
directions of the public opinion dynamics. The inset shows the area in the
vicinity of pBC, which is very  at making the dynamics almost stable. The
lower curve shows the evolution of the di erence (pt+1   pt) as a function of
pt.
17
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
1
+
p
t
0.0
0.0
0.88
0.89
0.9
pA
pA
0.895
0.89
0.885
 pt+1 - pt 
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
pt
Figure 5: Case a = 0.30, b = 0.10, x = 0.20 with one  xed point pA = 0.89 (A
is majority). Arrows indicate the directions of the public opinion dynamics.
The inset shows the area in the vicinity of pA. The lower curve shows the
evolution of the di erence (pt+1   pt) as a function of pt.
18
asymmetric attractors are located at pB = 0.19 and pA = 0.89. The  rst
yields a B majority which coexists with a A minority while it is the opposite
for the second one with a A majority with a B minority. The separator
pC = 0.45 gives a substantial advantage to A for the democratic process of
public forming since A must start with an initial support greater than 45%
to be sure to win the debate. The lower curve shows the evolution of the
di erence (pt+1  pt) as a function of pt. It is zero at the  xed points, negative
when the opinion  ows towards pB and positive when it is towards pA.
It is worth to underline that a positive value of x, i.e., at the advantage
of A, shifts simultaneously the separator below  fty percent and pB to a
higher value since the incompressible A minority increases. The reverse holds
true for negative x, i.e., the separator gets larger than  fty percent and pA
decreases. However these shifts are not linear functions of x. Given b there
exists a critical value xcA at which pC and pB coalesce giving two real  xed
points, one pBC = pB = pC being double. One case is exhibited in Figure
(4) with a = 0.19, b = 0.10, x = 0.09 where pBC = 0.33 and pA = 0.89. By
symmetry, there also exists a critical value xcB at which pC and pA coalesce
giving two real  xed points, one pAC = pA = pC being a double one.
In the vicinity of pBC the variation of pt is very  at as seen in the Figure
(4). It yields an extremely slow dynamics. It is a misleading geometry from
which one could conclude wrongly that the opinion is stable with B as a
majority. It means that while several consecutive polls would conclude an
attractor has been reached, later on, all of a sudden the A opinion will start
to increase quickly to become a majority as a surprise to everyone.
An in nitesimal increase of x from xcA erases pBC leaving only one unique
attractor pA. Then, any initial condition leads to the victory of A with an
opinion  ow leading towards pA. Figure (5) shows the case a = 0.30, b =
0.10, x = 0.20. Initial conditions are irrelevant with the A opinion reaching
always the majority with pA = 0.89.
When x > xcA or x < xcB the dynamics outcome is certain yielding a
large majority to the opinion which has the surplus of in exibles. It invades
the majority of the population, A for the  rst case and B for the second one.
6 The instrumental key to win the debate
From above three cases, di erent strategies can be elaborated to win a pub-
lic debate. However, to determine the parameters for which the debate is
19
going to be held is of a central importance. But, beforehand we can al-
ready single out two major strategies, either to act to get the largest initial
support among the population or instead to focus on  buiding  in exibles
on one s own side with eventually the de-making of other side s in exibles.
Both strategies not being exclusive. Nevertheless, it sounds reasonable to
assume that to make or de-make an in exible requires much more e ort and
investment than to convince a  oater. It should be stressed that working on
in exible proportions modify the topology of the  ow diagram while dealing
with  oater assumes a given topology.
Analyzing the various topologies and the way they are changed by the
in exible proportions it appears than the key sensitive issue is to ensure
one has more in exibles than the other side since even a small di erence in
proportions has a dramatic e ect on the resulting topology of the opinion
 ow diagram. To substantiate that point we show in Figure (6) how the
opinion  ow topology varies as a function of x for a given value b = 0.15,
where b is the proportion of B in exibles.
Two main regimes are present, the one with a separator pC for x   0.055
and the one with a single attractor pA for x > 0.055. The lower and upper
values of p are respectively b + x = 0.15 + x and 1   b = 0.85 due to a
proportion of b + x of A in exibles and b of B in exibles. When x   0.055 a
separator determines the fate of the public debate, which means the initial
conditions are crucial to eventually win or lost the public debate. In contrast
for x > 0.055 the intial conditions become irrelevant with A certain to reach
the comfortable majority of more than 80%, even if its initial support is low
as 22%.
6.1 Two di erent strategies
From above topology of the opinion  ow two di erent strategies can be elab-
orated in order to win the public debate. Standing from the opinion A view
point the focus can be either on convincing more  oaters prior to the begin-
ning of the public debate, i.e., the initial conditions, or to concentrate on the
building of in exibles. Here these parameters are set and then the dynamics
is turned on. But in reality, additional external changes can also be achieved
during the public debate.
Consider for instance a case where at time t we have a value x =  0.15,
i.e., A has no in exible while the B align 15% of in exibles. From Figure (6)
it is seen that for pt < 0.625 including pt > 0.50, the B opinion is certain to
20
C
p
,
B
p
,
A
p
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
pC
pA
b=0.15
pB
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
x
Figure 6: Attractors and separator pA, pB, pC as a function of x for a  xed
value b = 0.15. Filled areas represent the p lower (b + x = 0.15 + x) and
upper (1   b = 0.85) values produced by both sides in exibles. For x   0.055
a separator determines the faith of the public debate while in the range
x > 0.055, A is certain to reach the confortable majority of more than 80%,
even for initial supports as low as 22%. Filled circles represent several initial
conditions. Arrows indicate the directions of the public opinion dynamics.
The square represents pt = 0.40 with a = 0.15. The associated strategies to
reverse its otherwise loosing faith are discussed in the text.
21
convince the whole population to adopt its view. Such a total victory, which
includes the possible reversing of a large majority, being driven naturally by
the democratic debate among all the agents. In order to win the debate A
must succeed in getting more than 62.5% individual support.
Another case corresponds to having the same proportion of in exibles for
A as for B with a = b = 0.15. It means that pt is located somewhere on the
dashed line in Figure (6). The square indicates pt = 0.35. From this initial
minority condition A is going to loose both the public debate and most of
its supporters.
We now investigate the possible strategies given to A to reverse its fate
and obtain a victory in the public debate. Several options are available as
shown in Figure (6). Circles indicate some modi ed initial position for A. It
includes two changes, the proportion a of A in exibles and the total support
in the population.
Indeed, as seen from Figure (6), depending on the nature of support, i.e.,
its composition in terms of  oaters and in exibles, the associated dynamics
outcome can be reversed or not. As long as the new pt is lower than pC, even
if larger than  fty percent, the A faith is set to loose the debate drastically.
In order to win, A must reach an initial position either above pC or to be
located in an area where pC does not exist, i.e., for x > 0.055    a > 0.205.
Above di erent strategies can be apprehended as putting the e orts ei-
ther in convincing holders of opinion B to shift to A, or to turn some A
opinion holders into A in exibles. As seen from Figure (6), it might be more
convenient to increase a from  fteen percent up to 21%, i.e., to increase x
from zero to 0.06, even if loosing total support down to 21%. From that new
initial point the public debate will drive p towards more than eighty percent
with a tremendous victory.
Last but not least, the  oater strategy, which consists in gaining more
support from  oaters may be hazardous to implement, in particular in the
vicinity of pB and pC. A wrong evaluation like reaching 57% percent instead
of 60% could turn the whole e ort useless as seen from Figure (6) with the
opinion dynamics driving back the support toward minority values. The
question of the respective cost of each strategy and its feasibility must be
also addressed in a real implementation.
It will depends on each speci c
case.
22
6.2 The get more in exibles winning strategy
Above analysis emphasizes the necessity to increase one s own side in exi-
bles in order to make more certain the debate outcome in one s own favor.
However, with both sides acting along the same strategy, the race becomes
on how to get more in exibles than the other side. In the range b   0.25 only
one single attractor monitors the opinion dynamics  ow [3]. Figure (7) shows
the opinion  ow diagram at b = 0.25 as a function of x. We have only pB for
 0.25   x < 0 and only pA for 0 < x   0.50. At x = 0, pA = pB = 0.50.
Accordingly, as long as x < 0, B is certain to win the public debate even
for very low initial supports pt of the order of a few percents. At x = 0
the debate reaches a perfect equality. For x > 0, A becomes the systematic
winner as exhibited in Figure (7).
It is worth to stress that the total  oater proportion decreases with in-
creasing x as exhibited by the white part of Figure (7). It is also essential to
underline the fact that as soon as one opinion, here B, reaches a proportion
of 25%, the only feasible option for A is to accumulate in exibles. Failing to
do so will result into a total disaster in terms of the public debate. To get a
large support of  oaters is meaningless within this situation.
7 Application to evolution, global warming
and H1N1 pandemic in uenza debates
The above analysis along Galam model [1, 2, 3] does not provide an exact
explanation to the various puzzles and contradictions singled out during the
discussion of the three issues of evolution theory, global warming and H1N1
pandemic in uenza mentioned in Sections 2 and 4, but it sheds a new light
on the di erent strategies used in the debates. In particular it justi es used
attitudes and dismisses others opening a way to reposition some current
strategies.
In the case of evolution theory it appears that in exibles were and are
present on both sides. Scientists refuting Intelligent Design as well as believ-
ers supporting Intelligent Design will never change their mind since both are
convinced of an indisputable truth of their respective opinion. On this basis
Figure (7) seems to be the adequate topology to describe the associated opin-
ion dynamics. It could explain why the debate reaches an equilibrium. The
fact that the Darwin supporters got a majority would thus be the result of a
23
C
B
A
p
1.0
0.8
0.6
0.4
0.2
0.0
pA
b=0.25
-0.2
-0.1
0.0
pB
0.1
x
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Figure 7: Filled areas represent the pt lower (pt   b + x = 0.25 + x) and
upper (pt   1   b = 0.75) values produced by both sides in exibles. Arrows
indicate the directions of the public opinion dynamics.
24
larger amount of in exibles in contrast to the Intelligent Design proponents,
i.e., a positive x.
However the major outcome of our modeling is to con rm the rightness
in overstating the validity of Darwin theory to oppose Intelligent Design in
terms of success in the public debate. Afterwards our results suggest that
in case opponents to Intelligent Design had been more circumspect about
the  status  of Darwin theory, they would have lost the public debate. It is
a somehow disturbing hypothesis with an embarrassing result for an honest
scientist.
For the global warming issue, in exibles exist only on the human re-
sponsibility side, which according to our model results, makes their victory
unavoidable in a public debate. A  rst conclusion from our results is to
stress that in case alarmists had only expressed their concern about a possi-
ble man responsibility, they would have lost the debate against the skeptics
as illustrated with Figure (2) since in the late ninety not many people were
concerned with the climate and did not consider man activities are modifying
it. Alarmists were thus well inspired on exaggerating their statements with
respect to their goals. However this result rises the ethical question of such
a behavior.
In contrast, skeptics adopted a caution attitude and thus lost the debate.
In case they had followed the alarmists attitude by overstating an alternative
explanation to the observed global warming to challenge the claimed man
responsibility, they would have certainly win the debate. But by so doing they
would have exit the limit of scienti c rules, the very fact they are blaming
the alarmists of doing. Accordingly skeptics are trapped in a contradictory
antagonism with their epistemological stand on the issue, which prevent them
to make unfounded statements. They are thus bound to loose the public
debate.
From such a state of a air only a breakthrough in the understanding of
the mechanisms behind global warming could reverse the current situation by
dismissing alarmist claims. It would imply to provide a validated explanation
to the observed climate changes. Such a scenario is a priori not expected soon
due to the di culty of the problem. On the other hand, a change on the
climate trend with a continuation of the recent ongoing global cooling [39]
will reduce the public fears and put at stake the alarmist threat. But such
an hypothesis is independent of a human will.
The only feasible option for skeptics to have a chance to reverse the opin-
ion dynamics is to rebuke alarmists by shaking the solidity of their in exibil-
25
ity. A rather uneasy program since it is the nature of an in exible to be not
 exible. Nevertheless the very recent publication of a large amount of private
emails from climatologists, which showed some misconducts in the handling
of scienti c data, could result in a weakening of the alarmist in exibility
status [40]. It could drive a renewal of the public debate with an eventual
change in the direction of the opinion dynamics. Indeed it is what happened
in the beginning of the 2010 year when several errors were identi ed within
the 2007 IPCC report. In particular the assertion that Himalayan glaciers
are likely to disappear by 2035 is false and has produced a solid shake in the
public con dence about the IPCC claims.
In the case of H1N1 pandemic in uenza, the situation is more simple.
In exibles were not numerous, but most of the existing ones were on the
refusal side. In addition, most of the french population were not favorable
to the full scale vaccination campaign launched by the government. While
for global warming issue the initial minority in exibles have driven a reversal
of the majority to adopt their support of the IPCC view, for the H1N1
pandemic in uenza, the few in exibles , which were on the side of the initial
majority did stabilize this majority against the minority, which thus remained
a minority. This frame may provide an explanation to the overwhelmed
abstention of the french population to get vaccinated.
8 Conclusion
Putting in parallel the three issues of evolution theory, global warming and
H1N1 pandemic in uenza it appears that for the  rst case, scientists were
right in asserting Darwin theory is proved since otherwise they would have
lost the debate against the Intelligent Design proponents. A  wrong  state-
ment has authorized a valid outcome, i.e., to reject the  wrongly  claimed
scienti c theory of Intelligent Design.
For the second case, proponents of man responsibility in the global warm-
ing have won the public debate by making exaggerated assertions, which
cannot be refuted apart using alternative exaggerated statements about a
natural cause to global warming. Simultaneously, would the alarmists have
defend their claims as strong presumptions instead of scienti c proofs, the
public opinion would have certainly reject the necessity to curb carbon diox-
ide emissions.
The last case of H1N1 pandemic in uenza shows the key role of the reso-
26
luteness to carry out successfully the implementation of a campaign even if
billions have been spent for it. The fact that the implementation is free of
charge for the people and at their potential bene t is not su cient to ful ll
the campaign goal.
Our  ndings lead to the unfortunate and disturbing conclusion that to
adopt a fair discourse is a de nite lose-out strategy to promote a cause in
a public debate. On this basis one could conclude that to adopt a cynical
behavior is the obliged path to win a public debate against unfair and rigid
opponents. However, an alternative conclusion could be to dismiss the in-
creasing weight given to the public opinion in the process of policy making
by decision makers.
It is worth to notice that the IPCC has gone through a series of set back
starting before the Copenhagen summit with the so called  Climategate 
and followed by the summit failure and the discoveries of errors in the 2007
report. It has prompted a substantial shift in both the media and the public
opinion which can be linked to the fact that the basis for in exibilty has been
shaken. As a consequence the public opinion has been driven in a resuming
of the debate which is going on at the moment.
Above results may enlighten the mechanisms by which the public debate
about the human culpability with respect to the global warming has gained
such an increasing support all over the world.
It also enlightens the ebb
tide which occurred recently in the public support during the  rst months of
2010. Such a quick reversal looked as rather improbable up to a few month
ago till the end of 2009. But that is not a formal proof of the validity of our
model. It is another way to tackle the associated dynamics which on this
basis deserves more investigation.
Last, but not least, sociophysics is a promising  eld by its speci c capacity
to reproduce some complex social situations within a new coherent frame.
It allows the discovery of novel and counter intuitive dynamics active in the
social reality. However, it is of a crucial importance to keep in mind that we
are using models to mimic part of the reality. They are only an approximation
of that reality. They are not the reality. To forget the di erence may lead to
some misleading conclusions of what should be done to implement a policy.
The limits of the approach must be always discussed before making any
prediction. At this stage, the collaboration with experimentally motivated
researchers from social sciences could be valuable to make predictions on
selected social phenomena.
27
Acknoledgement
I would like to thank Marcel Ausloos for fruitful comments on the manuscript.
References
[1] S. Galam,  Minority Opinion Spreading in Random Geometry , Eur.
Phys. J. B 25 Rapid Note, 403-406 (2002)
[2] S. Galam,  Heterogeneous beliefs, segregation, and extremism in the
making of public opinions , Phys. Rev. E 71, 046123-1-5 (2005)
[3] S. Galam and F. Jacobs,  The role of in exible minorities in the breaking
of democratic opinion dynamics , Physica A 381 366376 (2007)
[4] C. Castellano, S. Fortunato and V. Loreto,  Statistical physics of social
dynamics , Rev. Mod. Phys. 81, 591-646 (2009)
[5] G. De uant, D. Neau, F. Amblard and G. Weisbuch,  Mixing be-
liefs among interacting agents  Advances in Complex Systems 3, 87-98
(2000)
[6] K. Sznajd-Weron and J. Sznajd, Opinion evolution in closed commu-
nity , Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 11, 1157-1165 (2000)
[7] F. Slanina and H. Lavicka,  Analytical results for the Sznajd model of
opinion. formation, , Eur. Phys. J. B 35, 279-288 (2003)
[8] M. Mobilia and S. Redner,  Majority versus minority dynamics: Phase
transition in an interacting two-state spin system  , Phys. Rev. E 68
(2003) 046106 (1-11)
[9] L. Behera and F. Schweitzer,  On Spatial Consensus Formation: Is the
Sznajd Model Di erent from a Voter Model? , Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 14
(2003)1331-1354
[10] C.J. Tessone, R. Toral, P. Amengual, H.S. Wio, and M. San Miguel,
 Neighborhood models of minority opinion spreading , Eur. Phys. J. B
39 (2004) 535-
28
[11] J. J. Schneider and C. Hirtreiter,  The Impact of election results on the
member numbers of the large parties in bavaria and germany, Int. J.
Mod. Phys. C 16 (2005) 1165-1215
[12] R. Lambiotte and M. Ausloos,  Coexistence of opposite opinions in a
network with communities , J. Stat. Mech.: Theor. Exp. P08026 (2007)
[13] M. Ausloos and F. Petroni ,  Statistical dynamics of religions and ad-
herents , Euro. Phys. Lett. 77 (2007) 38002 (1-4)
[14] R. Lambiotte, M. Ausloos, and J.A. Holyst,  Majority model on a net-
work with communities , Phys. Rev. E 75, 030101(R) (2007)
[15] P. Contucci and S. Ghirlanda,  Modeling Society with Statistical Me-
chanics: an Application to Cultural Contact and Immigration , Quality
and Quantity 41 (2007) 569-578
[16] K. Kulakowski and M. Nawojczyk,  The Galam Model of Minority Opin-
ion Spreading and the Marriage Gap , Int. J. Mod. Phys. C19, 611-615
(2008)
[17] A. C. R. Martins,  Continuous opinions and discrete Actions in opinion
dynamics problems , Int. J. Mod. Phys. C 19, 617-624 (2008);
[18] A. C. R. Martins, C. B. Pereira and R. Vicente,  An Opinion Dynam-
ics Model for the Di usion of Innovations , Physica. A 388, 3225-3232
(2009)
[19] S. Galam,  Sociophysics: a review of Galam models , Int. J. Mod. Phys.
C 19 409440 (2008)
[20] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Climate model
[21] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Complex systems
[22] R. Knutti,  Hotter or not? Should we believe model predictions of future
climate change? , Signi cance 5, 159-162 (2008)
[23] http://www.ipcc.ch/publications and data/publications ipcc fourth assessment report wg1 rep
29
[24] S. Galam,  Les scienti ques ont perdu le Nord , Plon, Paris (2008);
Global warming : a social phenomena , Complexity and Security, The
NATO Science for Peace and Security Programme, Chap. 13, J. J. Rams-
den and P. J. Kervalishvili (Eds.), IOS Press, 237-245 (2008)
[25] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edwards v. Aguillard
[26] M. J. Behe,  Darwins Black Box: The Biochemical Challenge to Evolu-
tion , Free Press, New York (1996)
[27] W. A. Dembski,  No Free Lunch: Why Speci ed Complexity Cannot
Be Purchased without Intelligence , Rowman & Little eld Publishers
(2002)
[28] Behe, M. J. (2001). A response to reviews of Darwin s Black Box: The
Biochemical Challenge to Evolution. Biological Philosophy, 16, 685; R.
T. Pennock, Creationism and Intelligent Design, Annu. Rev. Genomics
Hum. Genet. 4 (2003) 143-163
[29] http://www.agiweb.org/geotimes/dec05/WebExtra122005.html
[30] http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charles Darwin
[31] A. Garca Cant`u and M. Ausloos, Organizational and dynamical aspects
of a small network with two distinct communities : Neo creationists vs.
Evolution Defenders, Scientometrics 80 (2009) 457-472
[32] X. Zhao,  Media Use and Global Warming Perceptions: A Snapshot of
the Reinforcing Spirals , Communication Research 36, 698-723 (2009)
[33] http://www.gallup.com/poll/116590/increased-number-think-global-warming-exaggerated.asp
[34] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pandemic H1N1/09 virus
[35] http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Grippe A %28H1N1%29 de 2009-2010
[36] http://www.news-assurances.com/grippe-h1n1-seulement-17-des-francais-sont-prets-a-se-faire-v
[37] http://www.eurosurveillance.org/ViewArticle.aspx?ArticleId=19463
[38] http://www.tritz1.org/?p=12373
[39] http://wattsupwiththat.com/2008/02/19/january-2008-4-sources-say-globally-cooler-in-the-past-12-mon
30
[40] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Climatic Research Unit e-mail hacking incident
31
