1
From Social Data Mining to Forecasting Socio-Economic Crises
Dirk Helbing1,2 and Stefano Balietti1
1 ETH Zurich, CLU, Clausiusstr. 50, 8092 Zurich, Switzerland
2 Santa Fe Institute, 1399 Hyde Park Road, Santa Fe, NM 87501, USA
  E-mail: dhelbing@ethz.ch and sbalietti@ethz.ch
Abstract
The purpose of this White Paper of the EU Support Action  Visioneer (see www.visioneer.ethz.ch)
is to address the following goals:
1. Develop strategies to quickly increase the objective knowledge about social and economic systems
2. Describe requirements for e cient large-scale scienti c data mining of anonymized social and eco-
nomic data
3. Formulate strategies how to collect stylized facts extracted from large data set
4. Sketch ways how to successfully build up centers for computational social science
5. Propose plans how to create centers for risk analysis and crisis forecasting
6. Elaborate ethical standards regarding the storage, processing, evaluation, and publication of social
and economic data
1
Introduction
Modeling social and economic systems has been notoriously di cult in the past. As a consequence, many
of the grand challenges mankind is facing in the 21st century are either of socio-economic nature or
involve human factors in a substantial way. Examples include
  how to avoid socio-economic crises, systemic instabilities, and other contagious cascade-spreading
processes,
  how to design cooperative, e cient, and sustainable socio-technical and economic systems,
  how to cope with the increasing  ow of information, and how to prevent dangers from malfunctions
or misuse of information systems,
  how to improve social, economic, and political participation,
  how to avoid  pathological  collective behavior (panic, extremism, breakdown of trust, cooperation,
solidarity etc.),
  how to avoid con icts or minimize their destructive e ects,
  how to cope with the increasing level of migration, heterogeneity, and complexity in our society,
  how to use environmental and other resources in a sustainable way and distribute them in the best
possible way?
1
1
0
2
 
l
u
J
 
6
2
 
 
]
Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
5
v
8
7
1
0
.
2
1
0
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
2
Many of these challenges cannot be solved by technology alone, but require us to understand the
collective social dynamics as roots of these problems and key to their solution. Despite the substantial
contributions that complexity science can make (and has already made) in this connection, many of its
implications have remained largely theoretical so far. This is basically due to the lack of data, the lack
of computational power, and the lack of computationally tested institutional designs in the past.
This White Paper will primarily address, how the data gap may be closed, while the EU project
Visioneer [1] will also produce two further White Papers addressing the other two issues. We expect that
ground-breaking ICT research, in intense collaboration with multiple other scienti c disciplines, will in
future be able to identify the success factors of societies and to better address the grand challenges of
humanity.
2 Strategies to quickly increase the objective knowledge about
social and economic systems
In the past, collecting data of human activity has been largely obstructed by  nancial, technological
and ethical issues. While the ethical issues must be taken even more seriously in the future (see Sec.
7), investments into experimental research and data mining must be increased to reach the standards
in the natural and engineering sciences and to collectively bene t from the increasing opportunities of
collecting data and learning from them. While traditional research in the social sciences typically require
many years to generate relatively small data sets, new techniques to gather data have recently become
available. This includes lab experiments [17,62 65], Web experiments [18], or the study of massive multi-
player on-line games [19 21, 164]. Moreover, some new technologies have created an abundance of new
data, allowing analyses with a previously unseen spatial and/or temporal resolution, and also an analysis
of the e ects of the social environment or the social interaction network, etc. [22 25,105,106]. New terms
such  Information Cornucopia ,  Data Deluge  [73] or  Information Bonanza  [74] have been coined to
refer to the enormous amount of information produced by all these sources (1200 exabytes1 this year,
only 150 exabytes in 2005).
In September 2008, the  Jerusalem Declaration  [107] stated:  We are entering the era of a high rate
of production of information of physical, biological, environmental, social and economic systems. The
recording, accessing, data mining and dissemination of this information a ect in a crucial way the progress
of knowledge of mankind in the next years. Scientists should design, explore and validate protocols for the
access and use of this information able to maximize the access and freedom of research and meanwhile
protect and respect the private nature of part of it.  Moreover, it is rightly pointed out that  several
scienti c disciplines once characterized by a low rate of data production have recently become disciplines
with a huge rate of data production. Today a huge amount of data easily accessible in electronic form is
produced by both research and, more generally, human activity. 
A short overview of data available to institutions, businesses, governments, or everyone is given in
Appendix A.
A massive mining of socio-economic data or  reality mining  can have quite substantial advantages
(see Sec. 6):
  It can reduce serious gaps in our knowledge and understanding of techno-social-economic-
environmental systems.
  Crises Observatories (analyzing and mapping  nancial and economic stability, con icts, the spread-
ing of diseases...) could predict crises or identify systemic weaknesses, and help to avoid or mitigate
impacts of crises.
11 exabyte is 260 bytes.
3
  Real-time sensing and data collection ( reality mining  of weather data, environmental data, co-
operativeness, compliance, trust, ...) could reduce mistakes and delays in decision-making, which
often cause an inaccurate or unstable system management.
In the past, data about the spreading of diseases and the gross national product, for example, became
available with signi cant delays (often weeks, months or years). Recently, however, it has been discovered
that the gross domestic product can be estimated in real-time by measuring the light intensity at night,
which can be determined with satellite sensors [113]. Similarly, Google  u trends has been able to estimate
epidemic spreading from search requests [111]. Furthermore, the  wisdom of crowds  e ect [16] is more and
more used by crowd sourcing approaches [26 28] such as prediction markets to estimate future economic
developments, outcomes of elections, fashions, and socio-economic trends [29, 30]. These areas are now
becoming an own business branch, complementing classical consultancy, o ering services like: real-time
measurement of actual user activity, identi cation of trendsetters, opinion leaders, and innovators in
social networks, trend prediction, trend tracking, etc. [196, 197]. They  t well with other Internet-based
applications such as eBusiness [31, 32] or eGovernance [33, 34], for example.
So far, it seems that the underlying technological innovations are mainly driven by businesses in the
US. This, however, is partly a matter of legal regulations, which give American companies a large degree
of freedom regarding what can be done with data of customers.
With the right institutional settings and the knowledge accelerator proposed in another Visioneer
white paper [3], Europe should be able to catch up with the breath-taking developments in this area,
which will largely determine scienti c and economic leadership in the future.
The potential of the newly available data has been also articulated by leading scienti c journals.
Nature, for example, had a special issue on Big Data, while Science hat an issue on Complex Systems and
Networks. Moreover, the National Science Foundation (NSF) has launched a large  Digging into data 
initiative, providing not only large budgets, but also data (e.g. of science funding). A strategic program
on massive social data-mining, which was called for in Nature [51], is currently being worked out [172].
Scienti c progress in the  eld requires a number of institutional setting, which have to be either
created or improved in the near future [107]:
  Supranational organizations, states, funding agencies and research institutions should recognize that
information infrastructures are essential resources for the progress of the scienti c knowledge, and
are even more so in the future.
  Supranational organizations should coordinate national projects collecting large databases to en-
large and harmonize the national databases in international information infrastructures.
  Research societies should set up committees selecting protocols for the optimal access, use and
dissemination of data produced by research activities or by the society.
  States, funding agencies and research societies should take into consideration (i) the  OECD Prin-
ciples and Guidelines for Access to Research Data from Public Funding  endorsed by the OECD
Council on 14 December 2006, (ii) the results of the 1997 CODATA studies on e ective access to
data for scienti c research purposes in the natural sciences and (iii) the principles pertaining to re-
search and statistical uses of data held by government agencies proposed at the Bellagio Conference
in 1977.
  For the promotion of access and use of data in scienti c research, data produced while performing
publicly funded scienti c research should be made available to all scientists willing to use them,
along with protocols describing the details of the data recording and data evaluation. Scientists
using data produced by other research groups need to acknowledge the origin of data. Failures to
do so should be considered as scienti c misconduct.
4
  Scientists should organize the data produced by their research activity in a way, which makes the
access to their data simple for other scientists. Funding agencies should support research consortia,
Internet-based repositories and programs promoting data sharing both, by promoting these aspects
in research grants and by special grants only devoted to these aspects.
  Private companies producing large quantities of data should be given public incentives to make
their data accessible to the scienti c community. In order to protect intellectual rights and legiti-
mate priority exploitation, data should be disseminated after a limited period of exclusive use (e.g.
between 2 and 5 years).
  Private companies operating under state license and producing large quantity of data should make
their data available for research (in part or fully). When making a contract with a public institution,
companies should be made contractually responsible for data dissemination (e.g. of tra c  ow data
or other recorded data of interest). They should make the data available after a reasonable period
of time.
  Also public entities (e.g. administrations) collecting and producing large quantities of data should
make their data available for research, namely in a coded or surrogated form and, if restrictions of
transparency are in the public interest (e.g. for security reasons), after a su cient period of time.
  Research on data containing private or con dential information on individuals, groups or business
organizations should be performed in a way that respects the privacy and protects the con dentiality
of the agents investigated.
  Data containing private information should be carefully managed when performing research
projects, in order to prevent any illegal use or dissemination of the information or any abuse by
third parties. Scientists need to take appropriate measures to ensure the best practice of managing
such kind of information.
  Public data with sensitive information should not be made publicly available for security reasons.
However, it may still be in the public interest to provide surrogate versions of the datasets to
researchers, which would have to be prepared by specially experienced and authorized research
groups for public research.
  Supranational organizations, states, funding agencies and research institutions should promote the
discussion about protocols and policies for the dissemination and processing of data, in order to
increase the sensitivity for privacy issues among scientists and programmers such that the possibility
of disclosure or exploitation of private information is avoided.
In Europe, Great Britain is already undertaking  rst steps along the above lines. In fact, in the  Big
Society Declaration  [75], the UK government stated its intention to implement a people s  right to data
so that government-held datasets can be requested and used by the public, and then published on a
regular basis.  This ambitious promise is supported by continuous upgrades and improvements of the UK
government data Web site [173]. With the mission to unlock innovation, the British public sector is making
more and more datasets available for download. For example, the Combined On-Line Information System
(COINS) gives free access to all UK Government expenditures. This decidedly innovative initiative, which
even goes beyond its American counterpart [174], is taking the lead in Europe.
3 Requirements for e cient large-scale scienti c data mining of
anonymized social and economic data
The study of complex systems (such as techno-social, economic, and environmental systems) must take
into account their sometimes counter-intuitive behaviors, which implies that linear, conventional, and
5
straight-forward modeling attempts will usually be inappropriate. More advanced models (e.g. non-linear
models with many heterogeneous interacting elements) require more data to calibrate them, or to discover
them with a data-driven approach. It is obvious that this task requires new computational approaches
and the availability of large dataset of techno-socio-economic-environmental systems. In the social and
economic sciences, data mining approaches have been largely lacking the the past. This has to change in
the future, if we want to  nd better answers, how to address problems such as  nancial instabilities and
social con cts (see Sec. 6 for further examples).
Fortunately, in the foreseeable future, scientists will have at hand the volume and production rate
of data needed to perform meaningful analyses and even predictions. Back in 1890, at the Harvard
Astronomical Observatory in Cambridge, Massachusetts, large data-mining activities (for that time) were
still manually executed, who were scanning thousands of photographic glass plates with the only aid of
magnifying the glasses [98]. Today, the scenario has dramatically changed. The pervasive proliferation of
small- and medium-sized computing devices into modern society, and the steady in ux of more people into
the world s middle classes during the last 20 years have enormously increased the total number of persons
leaving, producing and handling data every day. Nowadays, people have great demand for knowledge
and information, while information overload is becoming a serious problem. This has pushed the overall
information production far beyond the available storage capacities (see Fig. 1). Ironically enough, even
if they were able to store all the information currently being produced, latency and bandwidth would
become the new bottlenecks that would most likely prevent us to read what has been stored [83].
Figure 1. Projection of future information overload (from [73]).
The current scenario is characterized by the following developments:
  More and more decentralized data-sources are added everyday.
  People continuously leave  digital traces  [51] in their everyday lives.
  Not only are there more data sources. The data generation rates are higher as well.
  There exists a fast, pervasive network, allowing easy interconnection and data exchange among a
growing number of data sources.
Given these trends, there is no doubt that petabyte datasets are rapidly becoming a standard. However,
besides of the potential of these data for business and research, there are also a number of related scienti c
challenges:
6
  Finding information in a targeted way becomes like seeking a needle in a hay stack.
  The sheer number of such data sources, along with the amount of data produced, is shifting com-
putation closer to the data sources, requiring streaming algorithms that produce decomposable and
incrementally updatable results.
  An increasing number of applications is calling for a close integration of on-line and o ine processing
of data (e.g., process monitoring and control, algorithmic trading, real-time data warehousing, and
others).
  The wide heterogeneity of data representations makes any form of integrated processing extremely
hard.
  It is less and less clear what is valuable information and what is junk. The relevance of the content
could even change over time, as socio-economic or environmental conditions change.
  More and more often, dataset or data collections contain personal and sensitive information.
These challenges require scienti c breakthroughs, as will be addressed in more detail throughout this
White Paper. However, it becomes visible already that, with an approach employing massive data-mining,
science can be pushed towards a new methodological paradigm, which transcends  the boundaries between
theory and experiments  [94]. In fact, while expert knowledge will still be needed to judge how meaningful
a certain model is, starting from empirical data it may become possible to construct scienti c models
in a semi-automated way (see [2]). This development is already progressing in meteorology, epidemiol-
ogy, and systems biology, and soon a data-driven approach will be also possible in the socio-economic
sciences. This would require an ICT system capable of combining various facts, logical reasoning, and of
assessing the relevance of outcomes. Such a system would not only have to include the state-of-the-art
modelling techniques. It would also have to be able to systematically study implications of di erent pos-
sible interpretations of the data. Furthermore, it should also be able to determine the reliability of the
respective conclusions, considering the statistical validity of the underlying models in order to estimate
the likelihood that certain scenarios would happen.
So far, an integrated approach to techno-socio-economic-environmental data mining seems to be miss-
ing. In order to change this, it will be necessary to
1. e ciently transfer existing and future data-mining knowledge from other research areas into the
social and economic sciences,
2. build up a distributed data center and a multi-disciplinary international community of scientists
participating in its activities (as outlined in Sec. 5),
3. develop tools to extract signi cant patterns and relationships from large datasets (see Sec. 4),
4. elaborate suitable visualization tools for large dataset, be they of empirical nature or results of
large-scale computer simulations (see [2]),
5. address the ethical, legal, and institutional issues related to these activities (see Sec. 7).
4 How to collect stylized facts extracted from large data sets
In order to stimulate the modeling and computer simulation of social and economic systems, it would be
important to have a collection of stylized facts of these systems, i.e. a book of all the empirical observations
that have been consistently made in a number of contexts. The current lack of such collections seriously
impedes the progress in the area of developing realistic computer models. In order to create such lists,
the following measures can be taken:
7
  One could employ crowd sourcing methods by creating specialized Wikis or by organizing so-called
 Hilbert workshops . Such workshops would be multi-disciplinary forums to assess the existing
empirical evidence for or against theoretical pillars in economics and the social sciences (pretty much
the same as the famous Copenhagen workshop addressed the controversies of quantum mechanics).
Hilbert workshops would also determine knowledge gaps, future scienti c challenges and promising
research routes to address them. Results of such crowd sourcing approaches should be summarized
from time to time by review papers or books.
  Targeted laboratory or Web experiments could be performed to study behavioral regularities under
well-controlled conditions.
  Pattern recognition and machine learning approaches could be applied to identify signi cant rela-
tionships in an automated way.
Some people think that the lack of collections of stylized facts in the socio-economic sciences may be a
result of the complexity of these systems and the non-existence of such facts due to the great degree of
 exibility of social and economic systems. However, there are actually a number of stylized facts, as the
following list indicates:
1. Moore s law (according to which the number of transistors that can be placed inexpensively on an
integrated circuit is doubling approximately every two years) [35],
2. the Fisher equation of  nancial mathematics (which determines the relationship between nominal
and real interest rates under in ation) [36],
3. the fat tail character of many  nancial and economic distributions [37, 38],
4. the Mattew e ect (rich-gets-richer e ect) [39, 40]
5. Dunbar s number (limiting the number of people one can have stable social relations with) [41],
6. Pareto s principle (according to which roughly 80 percent of an e ect comes from about 20 percent
of the causes) [42],
7. Zipf s law (determining the distribution of city rank sizes and many other things) [43],
8. the gravity law (describing the distribution of trade  ows and migration) [44 46],
9. Goodhart s law (according to which any observed statistical regularity, e.g. a risk model, breaks
down once pressure is placed upon it for control purposes ) [47 49].
We do not want to imply here that the above  laws  would always be true, but still they are quite useful
to understand certain behaviors of socio-economic systems. Moreover, it should be pointed out that there
are many more recurrent observations that would qualify as stylized facts, i.e. abstracted, generalized,
simpli ed, or idealized features that are characteristic for certain aspects of social or economic systems.
A confusing feature of social and economic systems is the fact that some characteristics are true under
certain circumstances, but other, often incompatible or contradictory characteristics apply under other
circumstances. This can be caused by parameter- and/or history-dependencies of the behavior of social
and economic systems (or complex systems in general). Some of this confusion can be probably resolved by
representing such dependencies through phase diagrams, considering the possibility of multi-stability [5].
This, however, requires an accurate description not only of the di erent types of behaviors observed
in social and economic systems, but also of the conditions under which they occur. We anticipate that
massive data mining can lead here to a substantial advances and breakthroughs.
In fact, the emerging ICT-based ability to collect stylized facts from massive datasets has been cel-
ebrated as the  fourth paradigm of science , after theory, experiments and simulations [84]. There is
8
a growing literature supporting this perception. For example, Banko and Brill [85] have shown that,
given a su ciently large amount of training data, the accuracy of di erent machine learning algorithms
eventually converge. Another paper by three Google researchers [86] argues that the  biggest success in
natural-language-related machine learning have been statistical speech recognition and statistical machine
translation , just because  large training set of the input-output behavior [. . . ] were already available in
the wild  . Brant et al. [87] even demonstrated how, in natural language models, a worse technique called
 stupid backo   could outperform the state-of-the-art approach, if opportunely trained on a large enough
datasets (two trillion words). This is, because we have such large data sets today that traditional algo-
rithms are no longer e cient enough for mining and analysing [93]. Sophisticated and computationally
expensive models can simply not cope anymore with the web-scale amount of data.
Massive datasets are clearly bene cial for science and they will facilitate new scienti c breakthrough
as they will lead to better algorithms and systems capable of overcoming the problems of traditional
data-mining approaches. We will review a few here.
4.1 The way Google does it: MapReduce and distributed storage systems
Cory Doctorow in his Nature article  Welcome to the Petacenter  says  you can t go far in this world
without some sort of comparison with Google  [100]. This is absolutely true when it comes to data center
operations, which Google keeps very secret. Nonetheless, during conferences or other special events, it is
possible to get an insight of company s internal organization [101].
The core of modern computational datamining infrastructures relies on two cardinal pillars: (i) a
software to store the data over thousands of machines; (ii) a software to retrieve and perform computation
with data spanned over thousands of machines. The former is accomplished by two main components:
a special File System (GFS) and a special BigTable, to guarantee fault-tolerant access respectively to
unstructured and structured data. The latter is achieved through a special program called MapReduce.
MapReduce [89] is a patented implementation of the famous Divide and Conquer algorithm design
paradigm in computer programming. It is aimed to support distributed computing on large data sets on
clusters of computers.
In a nutshell, the MapReduce approach takes a computational problem and  maps  it to di erent
nodes that will take care of solving a part of it. Moreover, since they are also running an instance of
MapReduce, they can split their task into sub-tasks for distribution in the computer cluster as well,
and so on. Once the single computational tasks are completed, they get  reduced  to a single output
and returned back to the initial caller. There exists also a speci c language on top of MapReduce called
Sawzall [90], which exploits the parallelism inherent in having data and computation distributed across
many machines.
Apparently, MapReduce is so fundamental that it was not released as open source, in contrast to what
has been common for similar developments so far. Nonetheless, the concept behind MapReduce inspired
Hadoop, which is a free implementation released in 2009. In certain distributed contexts, the fact that
Hadoop runs in JAVA can represent a serious disadvantage, since it may create a coding overhead as
compared to other languages. Hence, PIG latin, a speci c high-level language for expressing data analysis
programs in parallel environments, has been developed for the same reason for which Sawzall was created.
4.1.1 Hadoop
Since Hadoop is a kind of open implementation of MapReduce, we will focus on this software system,
although most of the considerations apply to both of them.
Hadoop is a scalable fault-tolerant grid operating system for data storage and processing [91]. The
advantage of its programming model is that it provides a powerful abstraction of what to do and how
in the large-scale processing of data. This is accomplished by applying the MapReduce paradigm on
unstructured and structured data, over a self-healing high-bandwidth clustered  le system (HDFS).
9
 The speed of Internet has not kept pace with the growth of scienti c datasets . Therefore, today, and
most likely in the future as well, we cannot copy a petabyte database to our personal workstation. Rather,
the only viable solution is  sending the computations to the data  [95]. Within Hadoop, computing is
actually moved to the data. Even more impressively, this is achieved with linearly scaling performance.
The following list gives examples what Hadoop is suitable and currently being used for [91, 92]:
  parsing and manipulating large text collections,
  building the Web search index,
  processing news/content feeds,
  content/ad targeting optimization,
  classi cations (e.g. fraud and spam and detection) and clustering,
  lexica of social networking Web Sites: trends of words on walls,
  collaborative  ltering,
  batch video/image transcoding,
  gene sequence alignment,
  individual node/edge-level (e.g. clustering coe cient, breadth- rst search, etc.) calculations.
Nevertheless, Hadoop is still not the de nitive answer to all kinds of storage-processing problems. At
present, relational databases are still the optimal solution when transactional consistency, schema-
dependency and a highly interactive response to complex queries are required up to hundreds of terabytes.
4.2 Real-time knowledge mining
Until now, organizations have followed the paradigm to gather data  rst, and to analyze them later.
However, this paradigm falls short in view of the contemporary challenges, which require for real-time
reactions to changes in the respective environment. This calls for a new generation of data mining and
knowledge generation.
This is a very active research direction in data mining and it may be organized around three main
themes:
1. Continuous data analysis over streaming data: Techniques for the on-line monitoring and analysis
of high-rate data streams [199]. Part of this theme is to develop mechanisms for handling uncertain
and inexact data [200].
2. On-line ingestion of semi-structured data and unstructured ones (e.g., news items, product reviews,
etc.), which is important to allow one to pro t from the wealth of information outside the realm of
structured data, both inside and outside an organization [201, 202].
3. Real-time correlation of streaming data (fast streams) with slowly accessible historical data repos-
itories: Mechanisms for correlating and integrating real-time data (fast streams) with historical
records (usually stored in large and slow-to-access static data repositories), in order to deliver a
contextualized and personalized information space. This adds considerable value to the data, by
providing (historical) context to new data [203, 204].
The three above-mentioned research themes are not to be seen separate from each other. Exploring
the interactions among them could leverage large positive externalities due to their synergistic roles.
10
4.3 Reality mining: capturing collective and social behaviours in an ubiqui-
tous ICT society
Capturing human collective and social behaviours on a large scale can play an important role in the
response to unexpected events such as crises or disasters, and for the support of populations in di cult
situations. Deviations of the dynamical system from nominal states may become key predictors of situ-
ations requiring societal and individual adaptation. While capturing the state of the complex dynamical
system and its changes on a large scale and with a su ciently  ne-grained temporal and spatial reso-
lution was impossible in the past, it now becomes feasible to understand social and collective dynamics
in humans systems with a resolution unseen before. This will allow one to design real-time large-scale
societal surveys, to facilitate eGovernance solutions, and to create support and response strategies for
adverse events.
Reality mining projects would be crucial:
  to increase our understanding of collective and social behaviours through larger datasets and
  to re ne social and cognitive models of human behaviour,
  to devise individual or societal response strategies in order to assist and help coping with major
challenges; examples would be
  emergency, evacuation and crisis management operations (real-time collective behaviour sens-
ing can be used to inform individuals about appropriate actions and suitable relief operations),
  well-being and painless ageing (changes in the of social dynamics may indicate the onset of
depression, which may be counter-acted by appropriate social support strategies),
  shaping the metropolis of the future (knowledge of the collective behavior in existing urban
spaces could provide data required for better future designs),
  creating a  multinational adapter  or  multi-cultural guide  (a real-time ICT-enabled trans-
lator for verbal communication and non-verbal expectations like cultural values and norms, to
lower communication and cultural barriers).
4.4 Some problematic issues of data mining
Having talked about the virtues of machine learning and automated pattern recognition before, we would
like to end this section with a word of warning. The following problems illustrate that one must be
aware of the limitations of such approaches, and the use of complementary approaches, such as human
intuition, experimental studies, and computer simulations [2], appears to be absolutely necessary to avoid
potentially serious consequences (see also Refs. [5, 6]):
  Na  ve data mining and wrong models: Large datasets support the temptation to perform  blind 
data mining, i.e. to apply pattern recognition tools and statistical methods without a deeper un-
derstanding of the underlying assumptions and implications of the results. Most algorithms deliver
numerical results under a wide range of conditions, even when their applicability is not given or
questionable. Typical problems of data mining are
1. (mis-)interpreting correlations as causal relationships,
2. collinearity of variables, leading to non-unique parameter  ts and more or less arbitrary pa-
rameter choices,
3. under tting or over tting of mathematical models,
4. ignorance of underlying simpli cations or critical approximations. In fact, a large fraction of
statistical conclusions are scienti cally invalid [50].
11
5. Large amounts of data (BigData) can produce the illusion of control over complex systems. This
is quite dangerous and probably what happened during the recent  nancial crisis. Banks and
rating agencies were feeding their models with enormous amounts of data, but the upcoming
crisis was not noticed, as the models did not re ect reality well enough. This was maybe  the
 rst crisis to be sparked by big data  [134].
  Information pollution: Usually, there is no guarantee that data in the Internet would be in any
way reliable. In fact, many comments and blogs have a relatively low quality, and co-creation
platforms such as Wikipedia have to cope with a considerable level of manipulation attempts and
 vandalism . Rumors about other people and companies may be placed to promote self-interest
(e.g. pursue marketing strategies), and the reliability of their contents is often questionable. Viral
marketing strategies make it even more di cult to distinguish facts from fake. It is also known
that some users try to manipulate page ranks and reputation values by using multiple identities,
robots and other tricks. Further problems result, as the Web is dominated by a majority of  time-
rich , rather than experts. For example, more and more users upload contents to the Web, most of
which are not the results of specialized skills. Some contents may even be intentionally misleading.
Therefore, the quality and representativeness of data on the Web is a problem, and  information
pollution  is an issue that will have to be addressed by future data mining attempts. Another
problem is the herding e ect (and the related multiplication of certain kinds of information), which
easily occurs in information-rich environments due to a lack of overview and a desire to  nd hints
for orientation.
5 How to successfully build up centers for computational social
science
Data-intensive processing is beyond the capability of any individual machine and requires clusters of
hundreds or even thousands of computers. At the same time, data is also becoming increasingly more
complex, and call for new advanced visualization techniques to support the intuition of scientists in the
hypothesis generation process. In this  eld, the new advances in virtual reality can play a vital role. The
augmented complexity of the data requires the analysis to become more and more a collaborative task.
Applied computer science is gradually taking the role which mathematics had until the end of the
last century. That consisted in:  providing an orderly formal framework and explanatory apparatus
for the other sciences  [96]. As a direct consequence, more and more fundamental experiments require
computers and customized software as essential components of their design. They crunch large datasets
and eventually yield more data, the analysis of which is complex and increasingly more di cult to
reproduce [95, 97].
In order to avoid the risk of con ning computational social science behind the curtains of private data
with no replicability of experiments and methods, one needs to set up a common environment establishing
legal rules, ethical and technological requirements
  to de ne interoperability standards for data archiving,
  to settle protocols for documenting instruments, procedures and measurements, and
  to guarantee the security and privacy of the data
(see Sec. 7).
An institutional approach to establish such a framework is encouraged by many stakeholders [99, 102,
103], and bene ts would be manifold and immediate. In particular, community standards would facilitate
12
the data reuse by  making easier to import, export combine and understand data  in a safe environment.
They would also  eliminate the need for each data creator to develop unique descriptive practices  [99].
However, as Lazer et al. [51] pointed out, the privacy issue on data archiving and disclosing must be
handled with special care, since  a single dramatic incident involving a breach of privacy could produce
rules and statutes that sti e the nascent  eld of computational social science . A well-known incident,
which revealed the identities and sur ng behaviors of a large number of users, is the publication of a paper
by the research division of a large Internet provider [104], to which a not completely anonymized version
of the dataset used for their study was attached. More recently, a one million dollar prize competition for
developing a better recommender algorithm was cancelled, because two scientists from the University of
Texas showed that it was possible to easily de-anonymize the training dataset [211].
In order to prevent new incidents from happening and to foster the use of a privacy-preserving data
mining, we envisage an ethical framework, which would maintain the research potential of a data-rich
socio-economic science, while protecting data privacy (see Sec. 8.2). At the same time, mechanisms (e.g.
special reputation points) are required to reward researchers [95, 97] sharing their data (without compro-
mising their ownership). For example, new scienti c performance indices may allow scientists to pro t
from the citations of all publications using their data, which would require to create a unique way of citing
datasets. The Dataverse Network Project [175] is a  rst attempt to enable data archiving based on stan-
dards and exchange protocols, rewarding data owners through data management and persistent citations.
Other Web data-sharing initiatives have already been launched, with di erent focuses and targets. For
example, Many Eyes wants  to provide masses with access to visualization tools, especially interactive
ones  [72]. Swivel instead allows easy dataset composition and reuse. For references see Appendix A.
Finally, de ning clear rules in a protected data-free environment as such would foster innovation by
stimulating di erent factors, e.g. multidisciplinary collaborations among scientists, the re-use of the data,
secondary and tertiary data processing, critical re-analyses, etc. Results will thus cumulate more rapidly
in multiple disciplines and increase the knowledge needed to build up new models that are necessary for
the understanding of modern techno-socio-economic-environmental systems [110].
5.1 Why and how to get computation to the data
Lin and Dyer [88] have recently published a list of  Big Ideas  that are essential for the realization of big
data centers. We will report and comment them here, integrating contributions of other authors as well.
5.1.1 Scaling out
While  scaling up  is a term used to describe a technical upgrade of the processing power of a data
center using high-end servers,  scaling out  is used to describe a strategy using a larger number of low-
end servers. Obviously, the latter also means that one needs to design the applications such that they can
e ciently run in a highly distributed environment. This is exactly what software based on the MapReduce
approach, e.g. Hadoop, is for.
Scaling out has a de nitive advantage: it is cheaper. In fact, the cost of scaling up does not scale
linearly, i.e. machines twice as fast will most likely be notably more than double priced. On the other
hand, low-end servers are served by a very competitive market with a large economy of scale. While the
higher costs of scaling up would be justi ed by signi cantly higher performances, these are actually not
reached. In fact, in 2007 scaling up has been compared to scaling out in the context of search applications
for the Web [119]. The conclusion was  that scale-out solutions have an indisputable performance and
price/performance advantage over scale-up for search workloads . In 2009, Barroso and H olze [120], after
testing both approaches under several workload con gurations have declared that the huge costs of the
scaling-up solution does not  nd a justi cation in clearly superior benchmarks. This fact speaks clearly
for a grid or cloud computing concept.
13
5.1.2 Reliability on software
Hardware failure must be assumed as a fact of large computer clusters. Certi cations and periodic controls
of the hardware are necessary, but not su cient to avoid hardware faults: In a data center with thousands
of machines at least one failure per day is inevitable. This is why big companies have started implementing
reliability at the level of the application for many years [101].
5.1.3 Move processing to the data
Traditionally, storage and processing of data has been kept separated for technical and logical reasons, but
this approach is no longer e cient for dealing with huge amounts of data. In fact, storage  lers can become
a signi cant bottleneck when large chunks of data need to be copied to the grid for processing. Problems
appear to be even more acute when dealing with raw-data and their transformation into structured
information [91], namely for the following reasons:
  Data errors and reprocessing. Data errors may be encountered even a long time after the original
processing. Given this and the prohibitive costs to reprocess tape-data, raw data have to retain
on-line for extended periods.
  Conformation loss. Conversion from a raw format to structured information implies a certain degree
of information loss. Again, this requires to retain the raw data for longer time periods.
  Ad-hoc queries on raw data. Running ad-hoc queries on storage  lers is not possible, since they only
store and cannot compute.
  Schema pre-processing. It is usually not possible to process unstructured data, which need a pre-
processing stage in order to  t into a prede ned schema. With huge amount of data, such a task is
increasingly causing large delays in processing.
  Limitations of access. Storage  lers often do not o er an optimal solution to access and process
data from any branch of the organization.
A hybrid  Storage-Compute  solution with distributed  le system (e.g. such as Hadoop) is able to
overcome all the above issues by coupling processors and storage.
5.1.4 Organize and process data sequentially
Notwithstanding predictions that hard-disks will replace tapes, and solid-state drives may replace hard-
disks, rotating media storage devices are still the unchallenged standard for data-warehousing solutions
and this dominance is not going to be undermined in the near future.2
In rotating devices, the seek operation takes more time than any other part of the input/output
process. In these, accessing data sequentially is orders of magnitudes faster (up to 150.000 times faster)
than accessing them randomly. Moreover, even random access to memory may be slower than sequential
access to disks [121]. While an e ciency loss in accessing information may still be acceptable for normal
data collections,  Big Data greatly magni es the performance impact of suboptimal access patterns  [121].
In spite of the steady increase in required storage space, it is therefore largely desirable to organize the
data on disks, and to do all the data access in a sequential order at any level of the hierarchy of processing
stages.
2Solid-state  ash memories have incredibly increased life-cycle and capacity [122], but their cost per megabyte is still
prohibitive compared to traditional drives.
14
5.1.5 Redundancy can improve e ciency and reliability
Data replication is a good shield against single-node hardware failures (see 5.1.2), but it has also another
important advantage. A major problem of parallel computing is how to uniformly distribute the workload
across the nodes. In fact, when the hardest part of a job is executed on a single machine, that node will
become the bottleneck of the whole computational task, thereby losing all the advantages of parallelism.
This scenario is not infrequent, and its occurrence depends (i) on the type of analysis performed with the
data and (ii) on how the data is ordered and aggregated locally (see Sec. 5.1.3). In fact, whether data are
aggregated according to the time stamp or another suitable identi er (index) can transform a local task
to a distributed one and viceversa. Given su cient storage space, it is possible to replicate the data in
the cluster such that the gain of the distributed approach is not lost, regardless of the type of analysis
performed.
5.1.6 Service oriented architecture
In the last decade, the software industry has moved giant steps in the direction of integration. Business-
to-business transactions, as well as Web mash-ups have  ourished thanks to the great proliferation of
public api (application programming interface), and Web services. Behind all this stands the idea of a
Service Oriented Architecture (SOA).
SOA is actually not a new concept. Service is in fact just another name to indicate large-scale compo-
nents wrapped behind a standard interface. The term architecture instead is referring to previous ideas
such as software bus, IT backbone, or enterprise bus.
Probably, the real novelty of SOA is the rigorous use of standard interfaces, mostly Web services,
through which it is possible to automatically develop local components capable to exchange data with
remote counterparts, regardless of the operating platform and programming language.
It basically added a transparent layer on top of standard components, which has pushed a large part
of the complexity of programming into its underlying infrastructure (containers, middleware stacks, etc.),
hiding the details of the implementation to developers, who in this way can focus on the application.
Apache WSIF (Web Service Invocation Framework) [176] probably represents the state-of-the-art of
service-oriented architecture. In fact, it allows a completely dynamic service invocation, allowing plugging-
in and choosing new bindings at run-time.
Such a solution can incredibly extend software life-time, as it supports debugging, enhances scalability,
and promotes integration. For an average software company only 20% of the costs are strictly related to
software production, while about 80% result from its maintenance, e.g. updating and integration. This
clearly shows how bene cial the approach of SOA and WSIF can be. Furthermore, insisting on such
concepts will eventually give birth to next-generation data centers. They will be so seamlessly integrated,
that it will be possible to move jobs from one data center to another, more or less automatically [101].
6 How to create centers for risk analysis and crisis forecasting
Weather forecasts are perhaps the most acknowledged example of successful prediction of the behavior of
a complex system, even though restricted to short time scales. They are the  nal product of the relentless
integration of sensor data and historical patterns into computational simulations, which are performed
by supercomputer centers. Weather forecast can estimate the trajectory and intensity of hurricanes or
extreme weather and possibly save many lives as well as large economic values in agriculture. They
unmistakably show us that is not an utopia to predict, within a certain degree of approximation, the
behavior of complex systems, provided a mathematical description of real world patterns, and a su ciently
large amount of data [108]. In fact, Takens  theorem of chaos theory has been successfully applied to the
prediction of the behavior of real complex systems [60]. Moreover, typically there are advance warning
15
signs of impending regime shifts, such as a critical slowing down of relaxation times and an increase in
autocorrelations and variances [67].
Socio-economic systems, however, are even more complicated to model. Predicting the behavior of
the economy or society incorporates not only a higher degree of complexity, as the aggregated behavior
in such systems originates from the dynamic interaction of a massive number of heterogeneous agents.
The agents also react to the knowledge of the forecast itself and adjust their behavior. In other words,
once made public, a prediction becomes part of the system dynamics. Nevertheless, a forecasting system
considering the response patterns of people seem to be possible, as lab experiments suggest [61].
Therefore, the huge amount of socio-economic data currently accumulated from various sources [51]
lets a number of leading scientists believe that  the complex systems that we are most likely to tackle
 rst in a truly quantitative fashion will not be the cell or the Internet but rather society itself  [109].
6.1 A distributed Center for risk analysis and crisis forecasting
To cope with the new needs of societies to deal with risk analysis and crisis forecasting, we envision the
establishment of an ICT Infrastructure in form of a distributed Center on top of the existing European
and National Grid Infrastructures (EGI) along with the emerging Cloud Infrastructures. Decentralized
structures seem to be most adequate and to perform best in highly variable and heterogeneous complex
systems such as network tra c, ubiquitous computing systems (the Web of things), or smart grids [66].
The overall scope of the multi-hub data Center should be to strengthen the multi-disciplinary col-
laboration of the European research community of complex systems scientists through the creation and
deployment of services and tools which will be built mainly upon the EGI Infrastructure with the aim of
both facilitating new research groups joining the community and increasing the research capacities and
capabilities. Interdisciplinary science has received an increasing amount of attention over the last two
decades. Particularly due to changes in the rate and nature of data collection in the physical, economic,
social, climate, seismological, physiological and biological sciences, new systematic approaches emerge.
The distributed ICT infrastructure based on cloud or grid computing will permit associate scientists
to conduct data-analyses from a signi cant number of European research institutions, using the resources
of the Center. This will be particularly bene cial for scientists working at smaller universities, where
researchers are often lacking powerful computer equipment, particularly in the social sciences. Further
proposals regarding novel ways to accelerate scienti c progress are made in the Visioneer white paper
 How to create an Innovation Accelerator  [3]. The same white paper addresses, which ICT-based commu-
nication, coordination, cocreation, quality assessment and management tools should be developed in order
to support an e cient collaboration of large numbers of scientists from di erent  elds and institutions.
The Center should also issue special grants for young researchers from di erent disciplines to en-
courage them to join the Center and work in a goal-oriented manner. Calls for Ph.D. programs could
be o ered world-wide and applicants would be evaluated by an international scienti c committee. Suc-
cessful candidates would enter a highly multi-disciplinary scienti c career, which would guarantee them
extended visiting periods abroad at the other member institutions. At the end of the program, they would
be internationally recognised as specialists in data-analysis.
Moreover, the tight collaboration between social scientists, ICT researchers and engineers in the
Center would be bene cial not only concerning the analysis of the available data, but it would positively
a ect also the methods and techniques of data-gathering. For example, new embedded privacy-respecting
solutions could be tried in a well-de ned test-bed and, if successful, successively implemented on a larger
scale. This would put social scientists into the position to get exactly the data they need to advance
their theories (as determined in so-called  Hilbert workshops , which shall identify pressing research
challenges). Furthermore, it is likely that the advanced research activities taking place in this Center
would give birth to new hardware or software spin-o  companies.
Speci cally, the realization of such a Center for risk analysis and crisis forecasting will
16
1. increase the usage of grid and cloud computing technologies by the training of potential users in
targeted workshops, summer schools, etc.,
2. develop Web-based scienti c gateways providing intuitive access to the resources,
3. provide a common development framework providing users directly with frequently used algorithms
and data curation tools,
4. build parallel versions (based on MPI) and hybrid versions (based on MPI and OpenMP) of basic
algorithms, which will help to optimize the usage of the Center,
5. foster theoretical progress of novel data-mining techniques through the development of new powerful
computational algorithms able to automatically classify and distinguish spurious patterns from
statistically signi cant ones,
6. build data repositories containing climate, social and economic data relevant for risk analysis and
crisis forecasting. A special data repository shall be built to collect and document stylized facts of
techno-socio-economic-environmental systems similar to the genetic databases available today,
7. promote a large-scale data-based approach in the socio-economic sciences,
8. attract brilliant minds to this new  eld of science by providing interesting good data sources, new
research challenges of practical relevance, and o ering career perspectives in a multi-disciplinary
and stimulating international environment, and
9. generate new hardware or software spin-o  companies.
The Center will pursue the integration of computational, storage and data resources within the wider
European Grid Infrastructure. It will obviously requires a scale far beyond what has been used in the
socio-economic sciences so far. A collection of services and tools that will help users bene t from this
distributed infrastructure will be designed and implemented. The sustainability of this Center will result
from its decentralized and nationally rooted approach, but it will also depend upon the general usability of
the resources and services and, thus, their thorough documentation, interoperability, and integration the
implementation of the Center needs to consider this.
6.2 Towards predicting socio-economic crises
Many crises in techno-socio-economic-environmental systems are caused by random coincidences or over-
critical perturbations, which trigger cascade failures (also known as domino or avalanche e ects) in such a
way that the impact of random local events or perturbations becomes systemic in size [7]. The sensitivity
of the system often results from the occurence of instabilities, which create fertile ground for so-called
regime shifts. Such regime shifts happen at so-called critical points ( tipping points ). Interestingly, when
a system gets close to a tipping point, it is often characterized by
1. slow relaxation (recovery) from perturbations,
2. increasing auto-correlations, and
3. critical  uctuations (a large variability).
Therefore, these features can serve as advance warning signs [67]. Since they can be determined from
empirical data, massive data mining will be able to increase the level of awareness of upcoming crises and
to trigger early preparations in order to avoid or mitigate them.
While the above analyses are based on features of phase transitions, methods from time series analysis
may be applied as well. For example, Taken s theorem from chaos theory provides a method to identify
17
the mathematical regularities, which determine the dynamics in a complex system with strong non-linear
interactions (for which a classical time-independent statistical analysis mostly leads to messy results) [60].
Moreover, methods from statistics or statistical physics can provide additional insights. For example,
entropy methods allow one to measure the degree of predictability of a system [59]. In addition, analyses
based on supply network models considering stock levels and  ows facilitate the predication of shortages
in resources [68], which are often the basis of con icts. Finally, causality networks provide a method
allowing one to anticipate possible courses of events, e.g. after a natural disaster strikes [69].
Techniques like these have not been extensively applied to anticipate and  ght systemic crises in
the past. They certainly promise better solutions for the future, supporting crises containment and the
detection of feedback loops and possible cascading e ects, before they cause wide-spread damage. They
should be an integrative part of new ICT concepts for an adaptive risk management, facilitating and
supporting a better disaster preparedness and response management.
The following subsections mention a number of  elds, in which it would be possible to build up Cri-
sis Observatories. While Crisis Observatories for di erent application areas could be created in di erent
countries and institutions, it is obvious that problems in economic and environmental systems are inter-
connected. Similarly, the spreading of diseases does not only depend on virological and other biological
factors, but also on the social behavior and the usage of the transport system, while it impacts the
economy. Consequently, technical, social, economic and environmental systems are all mutually linked,
forming one huge system that may be imagined as network of networks [8]. This makes it mandatory to
foresee the future integration of the di erent Crisis Observatories, which requires the application of
  the same standards,
  the creation of suitable interfaces, and
  interoperability.
6.3 Building up Crisis Observatories
Many important changes in human systems as well as in most natural systems take place in rare crises
or catastrophes that often appear as sudden and unanticipated  storms . The Crisis Observatories can
be imagined as laboratories devoted to the gathering and processing of enormous volumes of data on
both natural systems such as the Earth and its ecosystem, as well as on human techno-socio-economic
systems, so as to gain early warnings of impending events.
While national and European statistical o ces (like EUROSTAT) are carefully studying demographic
changes of the population structure (change of birth rate, migration, integration, e ects of ageing on
the health and retirement system, etc.), there seems to be potential for more intensive analyses in other
areas such as  nancial and economic stability, social con ict, etc. The methodology of data-driven Crisis
Observatories can, of course, also be extended beyond the range of examples given below, e.g. to observe
cyber risks and critical infrastructures.
6.3.1 Financial and economic Crisis Observatory
As the economic crisis has clearly revealed, it would be desirable to have a better picture of the stability
of the  ancial system. Due to the strong systemic interactions,  healthy  looking balance sheets of most
banks do not necessarily imply systemic stability. It is clearly necessary to have better models not only
for each single aspect of the economy (such as the  nancial market, the housing market, the national
economies, or the investment and consumption behavior on the microeconomic level). It is equally im-
portant to develop realistic systemic models, which integrate all of the above aspects and their non-linear
interactions [5, 6].
18
While  nancial markets show a large degree of unpredictability, technical analyses are wide-spread
and indicate that many players belief in their applicability. There seem to be a number of early indica-
tors that may serve as warning signs, e.g. extremely high volatilities, increasing correlations in market
activities, a quant meltdown (the sudden reduction in the leverage of hedge fonds), the liquidity of the
interbank market, or the Arms index (a measure for the pressure to sell stocks). Further measures (for
 nancial bubbles) have recently been proposed by Didier Sornette, who is establishing a Financial Crisis
Observatory (FCO) at ETH Zurich [177]. He has also detected bubbles in the housing markets in several
countries in the past. On a much longer time scale, the gap opening between consumption and wages in
the Unites States many year ago may have indicated the creation of market forces, which would sooner
or later lead to a  nancial earthquake [10].
As a consequence, market monitoring seems to be promising to detect possible crashes in the  nancial
and housing markets in the future. It would certainly make sense to analyze the  nancial  ow network,
considering besides the  nancial markets also factors such as debts and in ation, public spending, the
sustainability of social bene t systems (and its dependence on the labor market), private investments
(including the housing market), or impending shortages in resources (such as food, water, rare minerals
[like Yttrium, Indium, Neodym, Tantal, Gallium, Kobalt], oil, etc.). Massive real-time data mining is
expected to have an even greater impact, when combined with large-scale computational economic models.
6.3.2 Crisis Observatory for con icts
A problem of similar severity as  nancial instability is the recurrence of con icts in many areas of the
world. While Europe has enjoyed a peaceful period for a long time, it has faced con icts in former
Yugoslavia and it has also been involved in international con icts in Afghanistan and Irak. Europe is
furthermore trying to solve the con ict in the Middle East, which has impacts all over the world. Besides,
several countries in Europe are troubled by independence movements (France, Spain and Britain, for
example), and some countries are experiencing social unrest in the wake of the current economic crisis
(such as Greece and France). Last but not least, many European countries face problems with the increase
of certain kinds of crime, with the social and economic inclusion of young people, and with immigration.
This suggests to build up a crisis observatory, which maps, follows, and predicts con icts in time
and space. For this it should also evaluate factors provoking con ict, such as social, economic or political
exclusion, the scarcity of resources, or the distribution of incompatible cultural values in space. In a multi-
polar world, a particular focus needs to be put on the balance of power on di erent levels (countries,
economic centers, cultures). Well-functioning democratic societies also need a suitable balance between
individual and collective rights, central and decentral control, political and company power, etc. One
furthermore needs to keep an eye on the situation of minorities, as their discrimination happens easily
and often creates con icts.
6.3.3 Crisis Observatory for crime and corruption
It seems also natural to establish a crisis observatory for crime and corruption. It would try to determine
hot spots of crime and corruption, particularly their spatio-temporal dependencies. Furthermore, methods
from network theory could be employed to reveal networks underlying organized crime and corruptions,
and to help reduce their harmful e ects on society. The method also seems to be promising to  ght
terrorism, drug dealing, and fraud networks, particularly as certain techniques allow one to reconstruct
unknown parts of the networks.
Moreover, while collective social behavior can be powerful and positive, e.g. in creating public goods,
our culture, and shared values, it can also assume pathological sides. Well-known examples for this are
riots, hooliganisms, extremism, or terrorism. It may therefore make sense to track extremist opinions
within public Internet forums, where attempts to mobilize support for illegal activities are made. This
19
tracking will not be oriented at identifying individuals, but at  nding hot spots triggering violent activity,
which may be hard to detect without a systematic data mining.
6.3.4 Social Crisis Observatory
The Social Crisis Observatory will be particularly focused on identifying factors that may sooner or later
create dissatisfaction and con ict, such as social, economic or political exclusion of people of a certain
gender, age, health, education, income, religion, culture, language, or preference. Similarly, it may be
good to measure the level of social integration and factors in uencing it. This information will allow one
to determine the need for political action before social tension builds up to such a degree that it  nally
causes violent eruptions.
It could also be useful to measure factors sometimes summarized under the phrase  social capital .
This includes factors such as solidarity, cooperation, trust, loyalty, compliance, which are relevant for the
quality of life, but also for decisions regarding economic investments. Over-regulation, corruption, and
other factors, however, which may speak against investments, would be equally important to measure.
Further data-mining activities on an aggregate level may study factors such as consumption habits,
travel behavior, recycling e orts, or energy use, which are relevant for an environmental-friendly behavior
and its spreading. Going one step further, one may also consider to create something like  moral sensors 
to identify changing norms.
6.3.5 Crisis Observatory for health risks and disease spreading
Another signi cant application of Crisis Observatories are health risks. Not only diseases such as the
 u, SARS, H1N1 or HIV are spreading by certain kinds of social interactions. Also obesity, smoking, or
the tendency to commit suicide seem to be transmitted socially [11, 22, 23]. It is obviously important to
map these risk factors to health in space and time, to gain a better understanding of the mechanisms
underlying their spatio-temporal spreading.
Without any doubt, a particularly important, but also very challenging task is the real-time monitoring
and prediction of the spreading of emergent diseases. Initially, the infection ways and rates of new diseases
are not well-known. Hence, the parameters used in disease spreading models must be calibrated and
adjusted over time. In the ideal case, this would happen automatically based on real-time infection data.
Recent network-based measurement methods indicate the possibility of two-week forecasts [112], which
promises major breakthroughs in terms of more e cient vaccination strategies.
However, the prediction of pandemic or epidemic spreading scenarios over longer time periods will
require to model also human response to diseases. People change their behavior, which in uences the
spreading scenarios. Therefore, massive data mining will be needed to establish a behavioral epidemiology,
facilitating more reliable forecasts than it was possible in the past.
6.3.6 Transport and logistics Observatory
For the  rst time in our history, the majority of humanity is living in an urban setting and this proportion
will increase in the future. Congestion and property price bubbles are symptoms of coordination problems.
Congestion generates losses of productive time, wastes energy, and pollutes the environment (particularly
with CO2). It creates economic losses of 10 Billion US$ each year in the US alone and often makes
transport and supply systems temporarily dysfunctional.
Congestion spreading has the typical features of failure cascading phenomena: Due to spill-over e ects,
certain links of the road network essentially fail to perform their transport task and a ect further road
sections. This can reduce the performance and throughput of an urban road network dramatically, while
it may handle the same travel demand without any signi cant problems on other days. Tra c and supply
systems are, therefore, an excellent example to study systemic failures based on cascade spreading.
20
The Transport and Logistics Observatory is expected to support the smoother and environmental-
friendly operation of tra c  ows and supply systems. It could also reveal important properties of cascade
spreading events, which can have system-wide impacts. Moreover, it should be able to provide powerful
approaches for the short-term planning of large-scale evacuation scenarios, considering real-time feedbacks
regarding actual threats and the tra c situation. Finally, the Transport Observatory should address the
interconnections between tra c and land use, which are relevant for the development of real estate prices
and industrial and urban development.
6.3.7 Crisis Observatory for environmental changes
Environmental changes have become a larger concern over the years, as their wider implications have been
better understood. They trigger changes in soil, water, ecosystems, forests, and biodiversity. Moreover,
they have a relevant impact on food and water availability,  ood and storm disasters, forest  res etc., which
may a ect huge numbers of people. Environmental changes a ect the availability of energy, health, and
wealth. They may cause agricultural degradation, economic decline, social unrest and political instability.
This may impair the stability of societies, potentially causing riots, insurgencies, urban violence, or war.
These circumstances require one to
1. better understand the linkages between environmental change and social dynamics,
2. analyze the risks and con icts that could a ect societal and political stability,
3. assess how human beings and social systems respond to environmental change,
4. detect and predict cascading e ects and tipping points,
5. identify conditions for cooperation and sustainable problem solving.
The above issues can only be addressed by mining Big Data.
7 Ethical and policy issues related with socio-economic data
mining
Large-scale data mining is opening up previously unimaginable, new perspectives for science (see Section
2) and, of course, even more for business. At the same time, it a ects fundamental rights of individuals
in ways, which are hard to fully oversee. Among these, the right of privacy is surely one of the most
endangered, but it is not the only one. Such risks result not only from single research or data-mining
activities. They arise in particular from the combination of singular observations in larger datasets, which
contain more and more information, and are capable eventually to depict accurate personal pro les. With
these giant data conglomerates at one s disposal, making sense of unpersonalized and apparently irrelevant
information is easier than one could think [114]. However, it is still not clear what the implications
of developing such informational cornucopias are. In the meantime, the construction, enlargement or
acquisition of mega data centers run by private companies and national security agencies spreads more
and more [76 80]. Intel, the largest CPU manufacturer in the world, has declared that already by 2012
mega data centers will account for 20 to 25 per cent of its server chip sales [81].
In the following sections, we will discuss ethical aspects of building gigantic supercomputing ICT
facilities for large-scale data mining, as the ones mentioned before. Our analysis will be primarily based
on and guided by a literature review of ethical research in the social sciences. The approach followed
can be characterised essentially (but not exclusively) by a positivist and structuralist standpoint, and
our discussion will concentrate mainly on privacy issues. However, in section 7.5 we will consider other
ethical concerns inherently related to large-scale data-mining activities. Further ethical issues related to
social super-computing are addressed in Ref. [2].
21
7.1 A source-based taxonomy of available personal information
Given that today, more information is available about us than we are usually aware of, let us start the
discussion of ethical issues with a picture of the personal data traces almost everyone leaves most of
the time. The following paragraphs provide a non-exhaustive taxonomy of available data organized by
data-sources.
Data in public registries
Data belonging this category is generally already public, or available after the payment of small fees to
public institutions.
  phone books,
  land registries,
  car plate registries,
  health data,
  salary registries (available primarily for the public sector)
  tax data (public in the US),
  religious confession,
  social security and passport numbers.
Data generated by electronic services
Today, the correct and e cient functioning of our everyday lives is more or less dependent on a few
essential services, which are increasingly supported by ICT and electronic infrastructures. This means
that, by using such services, a lot of data are automatically generated as by-product. Data in this category
are usually available only to certain public institutions and/or some private companies providing these
services.
  phone call logs,
   ight passenger information (such as e-mail addresses, credit cards, etc., particularly for  ights to
the USA),
  bank account data,
  credit card numbers,
  money transactions (e.g. Swift system),
  consumer data ( people who bought X have also bought Y ),
  behavioural analyses.
Data generated by Internet activities
 Look but do not touch  was considered a wise advice to follow when entering unknown environments.
However, in the Internet, this is no longer su cient. The sheer sur ng activity, without any content and
without accessing any service requiring authentication, e.g. reading a certain news, is enough to generate
a wide range of di erentiated digital traces. These traces are stored on private remote servers as well as
on the local drives. This includes
22
  Internet service provider logs (e.g. IP and MAC addresses),
  logs of remote access to phones and computers,
  browser history,
  browser cache,
  cookies,
  search queries, and
  click streams.
Data from portable devices
In many social strata, the everyday usage of portable devices is becoming a wide-spread habit. The
current integration trend makes portable devices more and more interconnected with each other through
wireless communication networks. This facilitates the spatial tracking of persons via location data, which
are exchanged by their devices. Such data include
  GSM, UMTS, and GPS location data,
  WLAN/WiFi open hot-spots,
  bluetooth devices,
  RFID data,
  car transponders for automated highway toll payment systems,
  electronic badges (e.g. for conferences [162], hotel rooms, etc.)
Moreover, the large availability of peer-to-peer connections and Internet access points increases the
risk of security breaches and data leaks, especially when these devices are used by people unaware of
their vulnerabilities.
Finally, the portability of such media introduces the risk of loss of the device itself and consequently
of all data stored in them. Given the ongoing miniaturization process and the steady improvements in
capacity, the privacy concerns arising from the lack of encryption or other data-protection techniques for
such devices are real and concrete. This concerns, in particular,
  video and photo-cameras,
  mobile phones,
  electronic agendas and smart phones,
  laptop,
   ash memory cards and external hard drives, and
  smart multimedia players.
23
Unauthorized content captured from diverse multimedia devices
Individual actions that reveal the way of living of people may be recorded in both public and private
venues and made public at any time and without any previous warning. This concern is increasingly more
concrete due to the integration of multimedia contents into global projects such as Street View, and the
success of photo and video on-line repositories. This concerns
  uploaded content on social Web sites (e.g. embarrassing party snapshots or videos),
  Google Street View photographs,
  public webcams.
User-generated contents
Many users  voluntarily  share personal opinions or even detailed personal information on their on-line
pro les. Whether they are aware of all the risks of this practise it is not entirely clear, but the material is
su cient to identify political, religious and/or sexual preferences of many Internet users. This concerns
  blogosphere data (forums, blogs, chats, etc.),
  the archive of mailing lists or discussion groups,
  keyword scans of free mail accounts,
  social network data.
Security data
Under the  ag of security, people were willing or forced to reduce the range of their personal freedoms,
with consequences often also for personal privacy. This can happen through an explicit disclosure of
personal data, e.g.  lling in a security form to enter a foreign country or through accessing a given
service, or tacitly, e.g. through public surveillance cameras.
  video surveillance (CCTV),
  face recognition data,
  biometric data,
  audio recordings, directional microphone observations,
  phone call surveillance,
  speed radar photographs,
  scanned items and body scans at airports,
  security forms that must be  lled in.
24
Intercepted data
From very basic to very sophisticated techniques, despite this may be for illicit purposes, electronic
communications can be intercepted. Examples include
  network eavesdropping (emails tra c, phone calls, etc.),
  identity theft,
  hardware trojans,
  software trojans,
  the physical analysis of variations in electromagnetic  elds of wireless devices (keybord and mouse)
and of computer screens,
  the monitoring of  uctuations in the electricity consumption of electronic devices.
While the above lists are probably not complete, it is obvious that the combination of only some
of the above data can eliminate privacy to a large extent. Modern information services give a striking
picture of this (see e.g. [178]). On the one hand, they show how much information can easily be gained
about a single person (contact data, pictures, videos, news, etc.). On the other hand, they illustrate
how easily wrong information not related to the person searched for is mixed between correctly retrieved
information. Therefore, we will discuss below whether privacy is just an outdated concept, or whether it
is crucial for the functioning of democratic societies.
7.2 Why would the honest be interested to hide?
When it comes to private data, some people suggest that privacy is mainly in the interest of dishonest,
criminal, or pervert people. In the following, we will argue that this is a dangerous misconception. Privacy
has been granted not as a concession of the state to the individual, but because a modern society needs
it in order to  orish.
Although di erent in several respects, commercial con dentiality may serve as useful illustration to
explain why privacy is needed by individuals. For example, if con dentiality would be dropped, there
would be no incentive for companies to invest into expensive long-term innovations, which pay o  only
through a winning margin. It would be so much cheaper to copy inventions of others as soon as they
occur. (There would not be such a  erce discussion about copyright protection/patent enforcement, if
this would not be the case.) Secrecy and con dentiality are needed to gain a competitive advantage (in
particular in time) that makes innovation commercially pro table. There are two other interesting point
about innovation:
  Innovation usually starts o  in a minority position [123]. In the beginning, there are a few supporters
and customers only. In other words, there is little innovation without the existence of minorities.
  As is known from evolutionary theory, innovation thrives best when there is a large diversity of
variants [124]. In other words, diversity or  pluralism  is the motor driving innovation. Would we
just orient ourselves at the majority or what is  normal  (the average), the innovation rate and,
with this, adaptability to changing (environmental) conditions would be poor. This is actually the
reason why totalitarian regimes are sooner or later destined to fail.
These principles can also be transferred to individuals. Without privacy, pluralism is in danger, as the
following lab experiment shows [58]: Experimental subjects had to guess the correct answer to a factual
question such as  How many murderers occurred in the year 2006?  They received a certain amount of
25
money, whenever their answer was close enough to the correct one. In one setup, they decided several
times without any information feedback, in another setting, they were informed about the estimates of
the others. In the  rst round, the variation of answers was high, but the correct answer was always within
the range of answers and was usually well approximated by the geometric mean value of all estimates.
When information feedback was provided, the answers converged over time, which may be taken as sign
that the right answer was identi ed. Instead, however, it often happened that the relevant spectrum of
answers did not contain the correct answer anymore. In other words, social imitation created herding
e ects, which were often misleading.3
The  nancial crisis is probably an example for such herding e ects, which led to extremely expensive
mistakes. Herding-related mistakes would become even more likely, when people were put under pressure
to conform with frequent opinions or behaviors, and as the above experiment shows, even when they
would only be exposed more often to other opinions than they used to be. This applies as well to many
current Web services and recommender systems, which reinforce dominating opinions.
Revealing private data would increase this tendency of conformism enormously and would have other
unwanted side e ects, as the following points indicate:
1. If behaving  normal  would become the standard and individualism would be discouraged, life
would become more predictable, but for sure also much more boring.
2. Conformism implies a danger of discrimination (for having a certain religious belief, age, gender,
disease, sexual preference, etc.; it is not without reason that Americans apply for jobs without a
birth date and without a photograph). It is well-known that minorities need protection. One must be
aware that it is usually minorities who create the concepts and life-styles of tomorrow, and that it is
hard to say in advance, which ones will it be. The minority behavior that eventually wins a majority
largely depends on environmental changes and historical developments. A society, therefore, needs
to have a pool of minorities to successfully adapt to the challenges and opportunities of the future.
Minorities are an indispensable ingredient in the process for evolutionary innovation [82, 124].
3. The majority behavior of today may be a minority behavior of tomorrow. What is normal today may
be perceived as abnormal tomorrow. For example, it is hard to predict how we will think in the future
about the appropriateness of certain kinds of food we eat or the environmental and labor conditions
under which goods that we buy are produced. Hence, nobody can be that sure his or her current
behavior would be considered proper in the future. Social norms are continuously changing [9]. For
example, in the 60ies, the values of society were changing dramatically, and the establishment got
under enormous pressure. There are many other examples, such as racial segregation, which was
considered  normal  by many people in the past, but is seen in a totally di erent way today.
4. Private data could be misused by companies. For example, insurance companies have an interest to
o er cheap contracts to the majority of people and to charge minorities for special risks (e.g. inborn
or past health risks, or higher hospital costs of women giving birth to children). This, however,
clearly undermines solidarity.
5. Publicly available data could be misused also for criminal purposes. For example, the city of Oakland
releases information on where and when arrests are made, which is later on displayed on a private
Web site [179]. From that Web Site, it was possible for criminals to infer the police tactics, patrolling
times and other valuable information [134].
6. Companies start charging money to people who want certain private information to be deleted
[165 168, 182]. A recent newspaper article even predicts that privacy in future will be a privilege of
the rich [12].
3Note that taking the wrong decision occurred here even without social pressure, while it is known since the famous
Asch experiment that individuals give predominantly wrong answers (against their own judgement), if the people before
them do so [125].
26
7. Disclosing the wealth of people explicitly or implicitly (e.g. through Street View services) can
endanger individuals and increases the chance that they may become victims of crime. Therefore,
being rich may become less rewarding, and all the private initiative, innovation and commitment
leading to it as well.
8. Generally, people with professions that require them to take unpopular decisions sometimes (such as
judges, policemen, or teachers) need a certain degree of protection of their private sphere. Otherwise,
they will not be able to exercise their job seriously anymore and end up doing what pleases those
they have to judge.
9. People may lose the chance of forgiveness of the mistakes they have made, if information about them
remains publicly accessible forever [133]. In the past, after a reasonable punishment, depending on
the gravity of the misconduct, the policy of societies was to forget about them. In the worst case,
delinquents could still emigrate to other countries, where nobody knew them, paying with the
abandoning of their hometown a high price for getting a second chance. Now, however, wherever
one may go, the digital traces left behind will follow him or her. This is not necessarily bad, but
it certainly requires a savvier society that is able to remember and forgive at the same time. As
Thomas Szasz said  The stupid neither forgive nor forget; the naive forgive and forget; the wise
forgive but do not forget.  Without an adequate mix of tolerance and solidarity, the ability of a
society to (re-)integrate people could be seriously undermined. Outcasts would only have a chance
to  nd friends among other outcasts. As a consequence, this would fragment society into a variety
of subsocieties a tendency, which can be observed already.
10. Whenever a huge amount of personal information is available, individuals, private businesses or
public institutions may try to infer individuals behaviors, preferences and attitudes and to classify
them according to certain pro les. This tendency is as strong as dangerous, since there is no such
thing as an accurate classi cation. Moreover, in the presence of information asymmetries, which are
extremely common in everyday life (such as market exchange, buyer/seller interactions, insurance
contracts, bank operations, job interviews, etc.), an inappropriate or wrong classi cation may be
hard to correct or oppose to. Moreover, it may a ect the lives of people in manifold and unexpected
ways, given the high degree of interconnectedness of di erent services. In the worst case, it can even
drive people through no fault of one s own into circuli vitiosi, from which they cannot escape. For
example, missing the repayment of the leasing of the car once could mark somebody as  insolvent 
to the system. This label would prevent this person from getting future loans, which he or she
would need in case of temporarily  nancial reverse. However, it could lead to even more paradoxical
situations. For example, by skipping one installment, the system would automatically register the
fact  interruption of contract , and tag one s pro le with a negative label. Ironically, the real
motivation behind the fact  interruption of contract  could even be that the whole amount of
money due was paid at once, without waiting until the contract expired.
The above example is real, and wrong classi cations like these are already happening. But that
is not yet the worst possible scenario imaginable. In fact, we must be aware that any form of
classi cation introduces elements for discrimination, because the  labels  are often not  tting and
not mutually agreed on [126]. Classi cations (be they justi ed or not) create peer groups and may
seriously undermine the basis of cooperation and shared norms in our society. They may also cause
unnecessary con icts [127].
11. As it becomes possible to learn quickly what kind of people we are interacting with and what they
do and think, this will undermine an independent judgement of their qualities (and weaknesses).
Rather than giving everybody a fair chance to  nd the right kind of friends, people might be put
into a certain  box  and socially excluded. It is known that people need to be protected from
intolerance, mobbing, blackmailing and bribery. To live in peace, people often choose to segregate
27
themselves from others. Given the availability of a lot of personal information to everyone, however,
the Internet does not allow this anymore. In this connection, it is important to note that undermining
the mechanism of voluntary segregation can seriously a ect the cooperation among people, to the
disadvantage of everybody [128, 129].
12. The more the Internet knows about everyone, the closer we get to to a situation where we can
e ectively read other people s minds. Such a situation, however, would potentially generate a lot
more con icts than we have today.
13. It must also be noted that having more information freely available does not necessarily lead to a
more transparent, fairer or better society. In an information-rich environment, people spend only
a short time on a certain subject, and it easily happens that people get a wrong impression and
form unjusti ed prejudices based on such a pars pro toto approach (assuming that the  rst or a
randomly picked piece of information would be representative for the full information). Therefore,
large amounts of information can promote misjudgements of somebody s behavior by the press
and by the public opinion [135]. Such reputational e ects are di cult to correct, particularly as
recti cations (e.g. when a suspect in a crime case has been found innocent) are often poorly noticed.
This may have a serious impacts on individual lives.
14. When everybody has the same information at the same time (and at negligible costs), this may
have negative feedback e ects such as herding e ects. A typical example is the information about
a tra c jam, which is provided to everybody via the public news. One can easily imagine that this
leads to over-reactions of drivers to the news and, thereby, to overcrowded alternative roads, while
the originally congested route may become underutilized. A possible solution of this problem is to
provide user-speci c information according to probabilistic rules [61] or to overlay randomness to
the information signal [13].
15. Systems where a high degree of transparency has already been implemented for years have shown
to become more sensitive to sudden regime shifts. Examples are market hysteria and volatility
clustering phenomena, which can cause failure avalanches. In some cases, transparency on the
producer side can also facilitate the establishment of tacit collusive practises, as it has been found
in on-line markets, auctions, and laboratory experiments [116 118].
16. Decisions to reveal private information may even spread in an  epidemic  way. For example, if
someone decides to provide access personal data (such as GPS car tracking data, in order to get a
cheaper car insurance contract), this can deteriorate the conditions and potentially narrow down
the options for those, who do not want to give up their privacy. In other words, revealing ones own
data can have an impact on other people who did not like to do so, but who are eventually forced to
provide private information in order to maintain the same contract conditions and the same price
they had to pay before. This also applies to private health insurances, for example.
17. The data on the servers of certain Internet companies probably know more about us than our
friends and partner, and maybe even better than ourselves. However, when knowing the preferences
of customers, companies may try to manipulate their choices, and possibilities to do so may increase
with personalized recommendations (special o ers may even have addictive e ects). As it becomes
possible to shape the customers expectations, this is likely to decrease the willingness of producers to
tailor products and services to the needs that customers really have. In fact, due to the  economies
of scale , businesses have a natural interest in providing a number of standard products.
18. Going one step further, knowledge of the private preferences of individuals may be misused for
targeted manipulation and exploitation, which can  nally result in a breakdown of trust into com-
mercial o ers and services. One must be aware that both, the  nancial and commercial system of
28
today are largely dependent on trust, and that damaging trust can seriously undermine the basis
of future business and its related pro ts.
19. Furthermore, recent scienti c studies indicate that pluralism in a society may get lost, as new
technologies change the parameters of the opinion formation dynamics [14]. Socio-diversity and its
bene ts (as outlined above), may easily get lost in favor of conformism and monoculture. It requires
the mechanism of individualization, i.e. the desire to be di erent from others. Therefore, technologies
or circumstances promoting conformism may seriously endanger the basis of democracies. In fact, the
danger to suppress minority opinions and preferences increases as large datasets containing private
information are centrally stored, and as it becomes possible connect di erent kinds of datasets. It
is clear that knowledge implies power, and it would be na  ve to think that people would not use it.
In fact, there are many examples of misuse of private data (see the section on cyber risks below).
It would be surprising, if organized crime would not try to get access to Google s data. One of
the few laws of social systems, which have been con rmed again and again is:  Anything that can
go wrong ... generally does go wrong sooner or later,  This is concerning, as today s information
systems probably would give someone the power to damage today s pluralistic societies, if he or
she really wanted. After all, the Internet contains more sensitive information and about a larger
number people than secret services of totalitarian states ever had. In addition, experience tells us
that no database is absolutely safe. In 2009, for example, several large sensitive datasets have been
stolen from public institutions in Great Britain, where they should have been well protected [130].
20. Another important point to consider is that the public and private sphere are two sides of the
same coin. Interestingly, public order cannot  orish without the protection of privacy. Not only
is privacy needed to provide personal freedoms as a compensation for the everyday submission
to social norms in public life. Privacy is a valve for psychological pressure relief. Without private
freedoms, everybody s thousandfold submission to a large number of rules and regulations of public
life would be unbearable for many people, triggering rebellion sooner or later. The more rules people
are asked to conform with, the more personal freedoms are needed to compensate for this. Finally,
unveiling private life also means unveiling how many times people actually violate social norms.
Recent scienti c studies have shown that such knowledge undermines social norms and consequently
leads to an erosion of social order [136]. One prominent example is the sexual revolution in the
60ies, which was triggered by the publication of scienti c studies revealing people s private sexual
behavior [137, 138].
Therefore, the storage and processing of large datasets of socio-economic activities is a very sensitive
issue. They certainly have the potential to harm pluralistic societies. The interests of individuals (such as
privacy) and companies (such as details of their business) must be protected. Therefore, it is necessary to
address cyber risks and ethical issues by scienti c, legal and technological means. The following sections
provide guidelines, how this could be done.
7.3 Cyber risks and trust
Big data aggregates represent much sought-after targets for cyber criminals and big challenges for security
experts. The Symantec Internet Security Threat Report XV [139] mentions a 100% increase in the number
of new malicious programs identi ed (more than 240 million in 2009) and estimates the number of Internet
users (companies and individuals), who have been victims of cyber-attacks trying to steal money or
con dential information, to be of the order of 360 millions. More and more attacks are aiming at identity
theft. Sixty percent of all data breaches that revealed identities were in fact the result of hacking.
An incomplete list of the risks one must be aware of when using the Internet today is given below:
  data theft,
29
  theft of pin codes and passwords,
  identity theft,
  viruses, worms, and trojan horses (damaging software, steeling passwords, etc.),
  data manipulation,
  wrong evidence (wrong accusations),
  damaging rumors [171],
  information pollution,
  spam and unwanted advertisements.
These risks may seriously undermine the trust of people in the Internet and services based on it. For
example, the theft of access data for electronic banking through phishing attacks has recently become a
wide-spread problem. However, trust is essential for economic exchange. Systems which would e ectively
not work without a certain level of trust include:
  electronic banking,
  e-mail,
  eBusiness,
  eGovernance, and
  social networking.
To solve the above problems, the right mixture between legal regulations and technical innovations is
needed.
7.4 Current and future threats to privacy
Whether personal data disclosure in the Internet is the result of a truly voluntarily and deliberate choice is
rather questionable. In social research, voluntarily participation is considered a basic human right, which
overlaps considerably with the principle of informed consent [148]. Moreover, European law, for example,
gives individuals an individual right of control over personal information.
There is no unanimous de nition for informed consent, but according to Diener and Crandall [131]
it is  the procedure in which individuals choose whether to participate in an investigation after being
informed of the facts that would be likely to in uence their decision . In principle, any decision can be
considered as informed consent if it has been taken after being provided with the amount of information
that a reasonable and prudent person would want to know [53]. In the Internet this is seldom the case.
In fact, it is both possible and relatively common for individuals to access Web sites without reading the
terms and conditions (which may be several dozen pages long). It it also unlikely that most people would
understand the full contract, while they actually have to approve this. Moreover, they are usually not
given any options rather than accepting the conditions in order to get the requested service or rejecting
them at the cost of no service, which does not give users a reasonable choice. Under these circumstances,
people may nominally give consent, but without being fully aware of or agreeing with the terms and
conditions. Such a situation would not be considered as informed consent [149]. This contravenes a
widely accepted principle in Social Science Ethics that states that  as far as possible, participation in
sociological research should be based on the freely given informed consent of those studied   [146, 147].
Moreover, fully informing the respondents it is not yet enough, since researchers should endeavour to
30
make sure that the participants of an experiment have fully understood risks and consequences [53]. This
applies in particular for physically or mentally challenged individuals [52, 146], but cannot be ensured in
the Internet [149].
Whether large data-mining companies are aware of the above mentioned ethical issues is questionable,
especially when CEO s of big data mining companies make statements about privacy such as the following
one:  If you have something that you don t want anyone to know, maybe you shouldn t be doing it in the
 rst place  [70]. This is worrying, because if ethical standards turned out to be insu cient at some of the
fundamental places of command of the biggest data-mining companies, or if market competition would
push them to pursue only the logic of pro t, what would refrain them from collecting and using people s
data even in illicit ways? Data mining techniques improve every day, while regulations and control over the
gathered data are lacking far behind. For example, tracking the source of collected information once it is
stored in secured and not publicly accessible databases is virtually impossible; knowing who has access
to which kind of personal data is also not possible today. Relevant to this discussion and particularly
controversial is the latest case of Street View cars. For several months, these cars have been storing
personal data, including passwords, credit card information and accessed email contents, which were
intercepted from private WiFi networks. The incident was reported as result of a programming error, but
others have suggested that this was rather a case of WiFi sni ng, as there exists a software patent which
involves intercepting data and analyzing the timing of transmission as part of the method for pinpointing
user locations. At the time of writing this White Paper, the actual situation is still unclear [142 145].
Also when not possessing a sophisticated and expensive data mining system, criminals can collect
illicit data easily through Web browsers, as these are daily a ected by new malicious exploits (see [195]).
The most common attacks are now based on a technique called  history stealing . Some Web sites even
show this security issue to visitors [184, 185], thereby demonstrating how easy it is to extract personal
sur ng habits of Internet users. Scienti c literature on the topic is vast, and latest studies conducted
on 243,068 users found that 76% of them were vulnerable to history detection by malicious Web Sites.
Newer browsers such as Safari and Chrome were even more a ected, with 82% and 94% of vulnerable
users [140]. Unfortunately, there is yet another privacy issue related to recent generations Web browsers:
their inherently high customization capabilities have made them unique, and therefore trackable. In
fact, even disabling cookies, and blocking history stealing-like exploits, individual Web sur ng can still
be reconstructed by simply following the customized   ngerprint , which the browser is carrying around
from site to site. This  ngerprint is actually made up by all the con guration information that the browser
is exposing to remote Web sites. According to the Electronic Frontier Foundation [186], information such
as which plugins are installed, which fonts are available and which operating system the browser is running
on, can create a unique portrait of 94% of the visitors (for a self-demo see Ref. [187]).
Unethical or dishonest intents are not the only pitfalls glooming over on-line data sharing. Even in a
scenario, in which one has consciously provided his or her own personal data to a company, which is using
them lawfully, unforeseen issues can suddenly arise. For example, such a company could be sold or merged
with another one, or simply, the data could be sold, based on a change in the data handling policies.
Users are typically not noti ed of such changes, and they usually have no e ective possibility to draw
back their data and their consent to use them. Some social network Web pages are examples for this. In
fact, because of the continuous updating and modi cation of the terms of use [151], the Electronic Privacy
Information Center (EPIC) has  led a formal complaint at the US Federal Trade Commission [152], and
more lately US senator Charles Schumer (D-N.Y.) has petitioned the Federal Trade Commission to request
that the agency addresses the issue of social network privacy policies [150]. Moreover, some national
data protection commissioners have publicly warned of using certain social network sites [160, 161]. Just
recently, the vulnerability of these services has been demonstrated by someone, who downloaded 100
million user pro les and made them publicly available for download [71].
Joining groups within social networks can o er another exploit for potentially malicious de-
anonymization attacks. A recent paper [141] proved that 42% of users that use groups can be uniquely
31
identi ed. This results are noteworthy, because traditional privacy attacks were based on aggregating
information from multiple datasets. Such methods were based on collaborative  ltering [154] and enabled
an e cient and highly reliable characterization of a person from a few data. The underlying technology
is quickly advancing [155], and it may give service providers, such as mobile phone, Internet television, or
social gaming centers an unprecedented amount of personal information. Research on related privacy is-
sues and their potential explicit or implicit consequences is still in its infancy [156]. Moreover, an e cient
legal protection seems to be missing, while a simple-to-establish solution to some of the above problems
would be accountable pseudonyms [157].
Additional risks for the privacy of users emerge, when companies are forced to reveal private data
to governments or legal institutions. Google o ers a picture of the quantity of data which is handed out
to governments [180]. There are also joints startup companies with the CIA [153]. Finally, when data
are not subpoenaed or stolen from cyber-criminals outside of the company, they can be leaked in the
most fanciful ways, which go from mislaying a physical device containing sensitive information, to the
dishonest action of a single employee from inside the company [158, 159].
7.5 Additional ethical concerns
Ethical problems are intrinsically  ambiguous, uncertain and prone to inevitable disagreement  [52], i.e
the correct answer cannot be deduced algorithmically from general rules to particular claims. They are
related to cultural values and social norms. In the following, we raise a number of open ethical questions
connected with large-scale data-mining activities, to which, of course, we cannot provide de nite answers
here. Related research programs seem therefore in place. For the time being, governments and companies
engaged in large-scale data-mining are advised to follow the procedural ethics approach presented in
section 7.6.
  As large-scale data-mining activities are increasingly successful in predicting (aspects of) individual
behavior [198], they will constitute an extremely powerful tool. This raises issues of the possibility
of misusing it. More importantly, it raises the question of who gets to use these tools on what
grounds. Will it be national governments and international corporations? Would there be a moral
imperative to make the systems available to developing countries, NGOs etc.?
  What about competing claims of systems? If an early warning system recommends certain activities,
how should societies respond to such recommendations? For example, how to handle situations, in
which a scarcity of resources occurs?
  Who will own the algorithms and the outcomes of the data mining activities? Intellectual property is
often discussed in terms of ownership of data used for input, but the more interesting question would
seem to be: who owns the predictions? As they could potentially be subject to patent protection
for computer programs and business methods, a rigorous analysis of the implications of intellectual
property protection for data mining activities is needed.
  If policy is based on predictions, how open is the system to critical review? Who will know and
understand the algorithms? How can mistakes in algorithms be identi ed and recti ed?
7.6 How to address ethical issues in large scale social data mining
Large-scale data-mining raises both procedural and substantive ethical issues. Some of the latter are
predictable and solvable by implementing legislative and technical solutions. In the case of privacy, for
example, this would include
  the use of scanners for viruses, trojan horses, etc.,
  encryption,
  fragmentation of data [189],
  restriction of access/read/write/execution rights (depending on the type of data and purpose),
  selecting higher security standards in the browser (for example, turning o  cookies or deleting the
32
browser history),
  anonymous sur ng [190, 191],
  use of pseudonyms.
Nonetheless, one needs to underline that a full understanding of substantive ethical issues would
require a full knowledge of uses and applications of the system, which is impossible to acquire a priori.
In order to ensure a future-oriented approach to ethics, every project performing large scale data mining
should therefore incorporate procedures that will allow the identi cation of substantive ethics as well as
ways of addressing them. Such procedures should include the governance of the project from inception to
delivery and cover governance recommendations for the individual components (early warning systems).
It should incorporate re exivity in the project team, continuously discussing the following questions (and
regularly seeking independent feedback from outside):
  What are the substantive ethical issues that can be foreseen at any given point in time?
  What are the assumptions underlying the project itself as well as those underlying the ethical
analysis (what is perceived to be an ethical issue, and why?)
  How can appropriate processes be established to address known ethical problems (e.g. informed
consent procedures)?
  How can factual knowledge about the product and its likely consequences be gained?
  Who are the stakeholders a ected by the system and how can their local knowledge be fed into the
re ective process?
8 Towards privacy-preserving data analyses
Privacy concerns, although often justi ed, can cause serious obstacles to socio-economic data mining,
while in many cases such data-mining would be in the public interest, when done in a privacy-respecting
way. For example, socio-economic data mining would be needed to gain a better understanding of socio-
economic problems, how they arise and how they can be addressed. Therefore, the following sections
elaborate concepts, how data mining could be done in a privacy-respecting way.
8.1 Deliberate participation
The simplest possibility to do social data mining is to do it with data that individuals share deliberately.
For example, some Web sites, such as Blippy.com, Skimble.com or Swipely.com, collect everything from
consumer data over the last movie you have seen up how many push-ups you have done in your last
training session. Participants of these Web services intentionally make their data available to everybody,
and they can be analyzed in any possible way. The only concern from a statistical point of view is that
the set of people participating in these Web2.0 activities is not representative for the whole population,
i.e. one would need to make complementary analyses in order to learn, how it is possible to correct for
33
biases in these data. Typically, participants are younger than average and are not concerned to share
their data because they lead pretty much  average lives .
Further data can, in principle, be analyzed by crawling the Web. The data out there are usually
traces of, for example, shopping activities at eBusiness platforms or social networking activities. They are
accessible to everybody in small numbers, and it is not clear whether and how much people would care
about a company or person analyzing these data in large amounts, as they can be gathered by automated
programs such as  spiders . There are certainly problematic applications of this kind, in particular when
the resulting datasets are used to do business, although the data were not intended for this, or if they
are sold to third parties with unknown intentions.
As the recent discussions about the activities of large data mining companies shows, legal regulations
against unauthorised processing of individual data are urgently required. Scienti c analyses, which lead to
discoveries of public interest, may have a better justi cation, but it must nevertheless be decided in each
single case, whether individual rights are touched and what is the public bene t of such analyses. Shear
curiosity and the publication of a scienti c paper may not be a su cient justi cation, and therefore, the
consultation of an ethical committee seems appropriate.
As a consequence, it would be much better to work with data that people provide intentionally for a
given purpose. Statistical samples can already be quite useful. Special  on-demand-data-gathering  tools
could allow people to easily opt-in and opt-out of data-collection programs in a situation-speci c way.
For example, while people may usually object to provide their data, it is likely that the participation
rate increases in special situations such as crises, where people tend to change their priorities and make a
contribution. However, it is fundamental that the gathered data will be used only for the purpose people
have explicitly given consent to. With the project  Gaydar  [215], the MIT demonstrated how easy it
is to  lter out from publicly available data sensitive personal information, which may be misused. This
study predicted the sexual orientation of Facebook users by analyzing the publicly accessible pictures of
their friends. Such studies suggest that the processing of data should be allowed only for a certain time
period and for the purpose they have been provided, requiring that users have adhered to an explicit,
fair, and informed opt-in procedure. For sensitive data-mining activities it would be appropriate to apply
the standards followed in clinical studies today. In order to support on-demand participation, particular
trust-worthy Internet platforms should enable the case-wise sharing of personal data according to the
speci ed purposes. This could be a special function of future eGovernance platforms.
8.2 Anonymization and randomization
To satisfy the data protection directive 95/46/EC, any data containing personal information needs to
be anonymized before it is evaluated. While this may be su cient for many simple analyses, it may
not guarantee that the identity of individuals cannot be revealed from anonymized datasets. Substantial
research has been and is currently being performed in the database community on privacy preserving
data mining, re ecting the importance of this subject [205 209] (for a comprehensive state-of-the-art
summary see the  Privacy-Preserving Data Publishing  survey [210]). Nevertheless, there are still a
number of open problems, and many approaches are standing next to each other, lacking user-friendliness,
integration, and a consequent systemic approach. Problems occur in particular when datasets contain a
list of many di erent features, and some combinations of features are rare. As a consequence, such data
must be su ciently coarse-grained and/or randomized to make sure that combinations of features occur
in su ciently large numbers and cannot be individually resolved. Furthermore, it must be avoided to
save lists with many features in one single dataset. It is safer to store them separately on di erent
computers and to access the separate datasets only with programs, which are guaranteed to determine
coarse-grained properties only such as (su ciently rough) statistical distributions. The resulting derivative
datasets should be comparatively small and unspeci c, or they should be surrogate datasets, in which
the relevant statistical properties are the same, but the underlying individuals (persons, companies, etc.)
are randomly reshu ed and not identi able anymore.
34
The generation of the anonymized, derivative, and surrogate datasets for the original data should
be done by particularly quali ed and trustable institutions, while a larger number of people can work
with the resulting, less critical datasets. In the last decade, research in privacy-preserving data analyses
has produced methods and tools aimed at publishing data under a privacy-preserving shield. For exam-
ple, data are made anonymous with respect to a certi ed trustable anonymity notion, which essentially
guarantees that the probability of tracing back any data to the identity of the person to whom the data
originally belongs is so low that it can be considered null in practice. Another active research line concerns
the privacy issues in case of mobility data such as those produced by location aware devices [213, 214].
To protect the original datasets from theft and unauthorized access, the specially secured and autho-
rized data centers should store them in an encrypted way, and decryption should be done only piecewise
and for the miliseconds, when the derivative data are generated. All commands and source codes of com-
puter programs involved in sensitive operations should be automatically protocoled on a separate server,
which is unaccessible to persons who are authorized to deal with original datasets.
8.3 Coarse-graining, hierarchical sampling, and recommender systems
As indicated before, in case of sensitive data (such as pregnancy, religious confession, diseases or the
sexual orientation), it must be ensured that individuals and group memberships cannot be identi ed
from socio-economic datasets. For this reason, datasets for statistical analyses must be coarse-grained in
a suitable way. This may also be done by real-time data-mining ( reality mining ) approaches, if they
are suitably designed. For example, to determine congestion on a freeway, it is possible to analyze mobile
phone usage data, but it is not at all necessary to know who is calling whom and what is the content. The
same applies to GPS localization information of mobile phones, if the distribution of people is determined
for the sake of an e cient evacuation. It is just necessary to make sure that any potentially sensitive data
(such as the underlying phone number) is thrown away before the statistical evaluation is performed.
However, as the recent case of WiFi recordings by Street View cars has shown, transparency is needed
for such applications, as one needs to make sure that really no sensitive data are stored. In principle, it
could be legally required that the underlying algorithms are published, and no algorithms may be used
which are not open source.
One particular approach in reality-mining could be a hierarchical sampling via ad-hoc networks of, for
example, sensors or mobile phones, where detailed information is only processed locally, and any trans-
mitted information undergoes a certain level of aggregation. That is, as data are distributed over larger
distances, they undergo several aggregation steps, which may be imagined like a hierarchical sampling
method. Whoever wants to process a large dataset, would only get a coarse-grained view of the data,
since they would be accessible only via a high level in the data-processing hierarchy. Whoever managed to
see data on a lower and, therefore, detailed level, would only have a very short-sighted and limited view,
i.e. see very little. It appears, however, that the technical details of such systems matter in order to be
su ciently privacy-protecting and acceptable to users of the resulting services (e.g. location-based ones).
A transparency of the data processing algorithms and related legal regulations appear to be needed. It
should be explicitly forbidden and prevented to collect and store low-aggregation-level data. It must be
ensured that they are deleted directly after they have been processed and before they are transmitted.
To be uncritical and widely acceptable, the processing should happen in the technical devices used by
the individuals and not on company-owned infrastructures (as it is common today).
A possibility to make low-level data robust to interception would look as follows: Given that the
data of interest can be represented as points in a (quasi-)continuous space, one could add random num-
bers according to a certain statistical distribution. Rather than transmitting the correct value (such as
the exact location of the individual), a random number ( noise ) would be added, before the value is
transmitted to the ad-hoc network performing the reality mining. Such random falsi cation would make
low-level-aggregated data useless and create a  foggy  situation that protects the individual from being
revealed [163].
35
However, if done in a suitable way, the aggregation of the individual data could still lead to reasonably
accurate results due to the law of large numbers, according to which errors average out in a statistical
sense.
Services of recommender systems, of course, need to target an individual speci cally, which seems
incompatible with overlaying noise. However, recommender systems could still be realized by applying a
two-component strategy: The  rst component would be a rough search, which does not consider individual
information or preferences (or only, when su cient noise is overlayed). Among the search results, the
personal computer or smart-phone of the user would then select the individually  tting search hits,
products, or advertisements, based on personal information and preferences that are exclusively stored on
the individual computer rather than on a system of servers. Putting it di erently, recommender systems
should be changed from an approach, where individually customized recommendations are pushed to
the user, to a pull approach, where the user selects in con dence one option out of a larger spectrum
of downloaded recommendations in a way that does not reveal his or her preferences. Individuals who
are even concerned about storing personal information and preference data on their own computational
device should have the possibility to turn o  the second component, which would then result in untargeted
research results and in recommendations, which would not be individually customized.
The same approach can be used in connection with location-based services, the great comfort of
which many people do not want to miss anymore. Let us assume somebody wants to be guided to a erotic
shop, but does not want the guiding company to know this. The person would go to the center of town,
and based on his or her falsi ed, approximate position, the GPS location service would forward to the
mobile phone information about shops in the area. The user could then select among these according to
categories, but the selection would only be known to his or her phone. It would not be forwarded to the
content provider, nor would the exact location of the user be known to the provider.
8.4 Multi-player on-line-games, pseudonyms, and virtual identities
Another possibility to study social interactions are o ered by multi-player on-line games such as Second
Life. The advantage of these games is that players can participate under pseudonyms, without revealing
their real identity. From an experimental point of view, this has some side e ects, as people may behave
di erently under anonymous conditions as compared to conditions with face-to-face interactions. Still,
these e ects may be compensated for, and there are a number of behaviors, which come out quite re-
alistically. For such reasons, studying interactions in multi-player on-line games is becoming a research
technique, which is used complementary to lab and Web experiments [15, 164].
Some of the artifacts of studying multi-player on-line games result from the following facts (here we
assume that the system would not allow the registration of several identical pseudonyms):
1. People may change identities, i.e. register as a new user if their previous behavior is sanctioned by
other players or by the system ( whitewashing ).
2. People may use multiple identities, potentially also in parallel.
To overcome these problems, the following measures can be taken:
  Everybody could get a unique virtual identity, which would be needed to create unique pseudonyms.
  Registering a new identity could be made very time-consuming or costly.
  People may be allowed to join a multi-player on-line community by invitation only (and there would
be separate lists of members and pseudonyms, which would be secret and encrypted).
An additional problem is that people may buy an identity (pseudonym) with high reputation or scores
from somebody else. This problem may be addressed by performing behavioral consistency checks to
36
reveal the use of the same identity by di erent people. Alternatively or complementary, the matching of
pseudonyms with the unique virtual identity could be sporadically checked (by requiring to enter it).
A unique virtual identity can be generated by a trustable public institution such as the registration of-
 ce. It is practically an electronic signature that can be used to submit documents such as tax declarations
or payments. Note that there are already private companies o ering trusted virtual identities/electronic
signatures, among which Verisign, GeoTrust and Thawte.
The unique virtual identity would have a  nite validity (i.e. it would have to be regularly renewed),
and plausibility checks for identity thefts would be made, to invalidate stolen identities (such as for credit
or debit cards). The identities could, for example, be generated as follows (where the system would log
which administrative person handed out what card): When asking for the virtual identity, a box would
be ticked in the  les of the respective person, indicating that a unique identity card has been handed
out. The identi cation number of this card would be randomly generated, and the receipt of this card
would be con rmed with a signature, showing a valid photo document (ID or passport). The identi cation
number, however, would not be known to the o ce handing out the card.
To reveal the real identity behind a virtual identity in case of a severe crime, this should require
the simultaneous agreement of several independent authorities (e.g. judges [who could also be from
trusted non-pro t organizations]). Only by combining the keys of two thirds of the respective responsible
authorities, it would be possible to reveal the real identity. This can be ensured by saving bits of the
identity code in di erent databases, all in an encrypted way. The access keys and responsible persons
controlling these keys would be regularly replaced by new ones in order to avoid corruption. It would also
be good to let computers randomly decide, which ones of a number of authorized persons would have to
decide whether to reveal the identity or not. This would minimize external in uence on the decisions of
the respective responsible authorities.
8.5 Anonymous lab experiments
Social behavior can also be studied in lab experiments [61]. In these experiments, it may be desired
to ensure anonymity of the participants, as they may otherwise not reveal their true opinions or their
normal behaviors. In such experiments, it may be needed that the experimental subjects do not meet the
experimenter, and maybe not even meet other experimental subjects.
There are di erent ways of implementing such a design. For example, individuals randomly passing by
an information stand could be invited to participate in the experiment. If they were willing to participate,
they would draw a lot with a unique number, and they would enter the number of the lot into a time table,
which is hidden from the experimenter. At the time of the experiment, the experimental subjects would
show up in separate rooms, where they take their decisions in isolation, based only on information coming
from a computer screen. Their decisions would then be transferred via Internet to the other experimental
subjects. After the experiment, the experimental subjects would get an envelope with their compensation,
which would be pushed into their rooms through small slits under their locked room doors. The subjects
could leave their rooms two minutes later. The experimental setup would ensure that nobody would know,
who participated in the experiments, and it would be unlikely that the same person would participate
several times. Nevertheless, participants may be suspicious whether this setup will really be executed in
an anonymous way or whether there is a chance of hidden observation, and this may still a ect their
behavior.
A similar and even more privacy-protecting setup can be realized via a Web experiment. A large
number of people would be informed that the experiment takes place at a certain time and could log on
with pseudonyms. Among the people who have logged on the experimental Web page, the computer would
randomly match individuals to form experimental groups. At the end of the experiment, each individual
would get a voucher with a unique code, which can be exchanged for the compensation for participating
in the experiment. One of the following ways of payment may be chosen (listed in increasing order of
anonymity):
37
1. The experimental subject gets the compensation from an independent cashier (e.g. the university
cashier) against showing the voucher, without the need to sign a receipt.
2. The person gets the money from an independent, i.e. trusted third-party payment service (e.g. bank
or post), when presenting the voucher (i.e. the voucher would basically be a cheque). For example,
it would be possible to use the mechanical turk [181] for a third-party payment.
3. The experimental subject gets the compensation by entering the unique code of the voucher into a
special cash machine.
Experimental subjects could be recruited in di erent ways: The simplest would be to display posters in
public areas, calling for participation at a speci ed time via a certain Web page (and people could actually
participate from a computer in a computer pool or Internet cafe, if this gives them a better feeling of
anonymity). Similarly, the announcement could be made via an advertisement on a heavily frequented
Web portal. At the speci ed time, an algorithm would match visitors of the Web Site in a random way
and try to make sure that groups of friends could not play with each other.
Avoiding that certain subjects participate in the same experiment multiple times is more di cult (at
least as long as only a few people have unique virtual identities). One possibility would be to send out
invitations to a large number of e-mails, making sure that there is only one e-mail address per person.
People willing to participate would enter into a Web page their e-mail address or a unique code sent with
the invitation e-mail. This is required for authorization, to prevent multiple access. After this, they would
be redirected to a Web page, which shows a large list of unique codes, one of which can be randomly chosen
by clicking on it. This will cancel it from the list and inform a Web service hosted by an independent,
third party (e.g. a computer center) that this code has been authorized. When the participant enters the
code into the Web page of the independent Web service, another code is returned, which is randomly
selected from a long list of unique codes. That code will be needed to get access to the experimental
platform at a later point.
The above procedure makes sure that the  rst step prevents multiple access. Afterwards, the selection
of an individual code makes sure that the third party cannot have any clue of the relation between this
chosen code and the e-mail address of the experimental subject. While it knows the list of acceptable
codes, it does not know the identity of the person, just the fact that it is authorized to get a randomly
chosen code from a list of unique codes, which are accepted by the experimenter. However, which code
is randomly selected by the computer of the third party cannot be known by the experimenter. Finally,
any temporal correlation among individual registrations is lost by implementing a su cient time delay,
after which the actual Web experiment takes place.
9 Concept of a future, self-organizing and trusted Web
In the following, we will describe technologies, which give people back control over the data available
about them. Some of the following runs under the label of privacy enhancing technologies (PET). For
example, most Web browsers today allow one to turn o  cookies (which, however, makes certain Web
services disfunctional). Furthermore, there are tools such as Tor [190] and Freenet [191], which support
anonymous Web browsing and anonymized content sharing by obfuscating the IP address of a computer.
However, this is still not su cient to guarantee anonymous web browsing [187, 188]. Furthermore, one
serious problem of today s Internet still is the fact that it does not forget and that it does not provide
control over copies of data, which somebody has uploaded in the past (e.g. party photos). First solutions
for data with  nite lifetimes have become available only very recently [132].
38
9.1 Data format
The following concept of a future, self-organizing and trusted Web is aimed at overcoming the above
mentioned and other problems. The basic feature of the concept is a new  Helbietti   le format, which
electronically signs and encrypts contents, but has a number of unencrypted speci ers such as
1. a unique  le identi er (which is di erent for copies),
2. the kind of content (factual information, advertisement, opinion, unspeci ed),
3. the lifetime (from ... to ...),
4. a public annotation  eld allowing to tag the  le and link it to others or to link it to comments or
ratings, and
5. information regarding the price of producing and receiving a copy of the  le.
There would also be encrypted speci ers (readable only to authorized users), such as
  the originator of the data (anonymous, pseudonym, real name, or company name),
  the owner (anonymous, pseudonym, real name, or company name),
  the date and time of generation,
  a unique content identi er (e.g. check sum),
  locations of authorized copies, and
  the persons or groups authorized to read, modify, or execute the  le (which would again be based
on real names or pseudonyms etc., but one possible speci cation would be  everybody ).
  Annotations, which could be read only by the authorized persons or groups.
The following data would be double encrypted and accessible only to the owner of the  le (and jointly
to a specially authorized group of inspectors, see below):
  the  le identifyer(s) of the  le(s) it has been derived from (i.e. the previous version(s), if one existed,
otherwise null) and the  les that have been derived from it (e.g. any identical or modi ed copies),
  all information regarding money transfers between customers or users of a  le and the owner of its
content as well as the respective tax authority, and
  the digital rights management settings (e.g. maximum number of copies that can be made from the
original  le).
To ensure that privacy and intellectual property rights are not undermined, checksum error-detection
techniques would immediately reveal unauthorized manipulations to the original copy. Semi-automatic
 ltering measures could be implemented on servers which would refuse storage and forwarding of tampered
copies. This kind of  ltering may be compared to the immune defence system of the body against harmful
viruses etc. For issues of copyright protection see Secs. 9.2 and 9. Moreover, depending on the sensitivity
of the data (public, restricted, con dential, secret, etc.), they would be fragmented and distributed over
several  les stored in di erent locations [189]) and additionally password-protected, potentially requiring
several passwords from independent authorized persons to access them.
39
9.1.1 Finite life-time data that can be controlled
This concept immediately allows one to limit the life time of data, as they could only be decrypted within
the speci ed time period. (Although there are  rst software solutions in this direction [132, 183], they
seem to require further enhancements.) In order to avoid tricking the  le by modifying the time on a
particular computer, the  le would automatically have to verify the time with one or several randomly
chosen, trusted servers (depending on the level of con dentiality; of course, there would be a long list of
such servers). Additionally, the  le could be opened in this time window only by individuals or groups
that are listed as authorized.
Besides, one could foresee a further restriction to the access of a  le by requiring that either the
original  le or one of the authorized copies are still accessible somewhere in the Internet. That is, if the
owner of the  le would delete the original  le and the authorized copies he or she may have created as
backups, no copies of the  le may be opened any longer. This would give the owner of the  le perfect
control over its distribution a fact which is also important for copyright protection (see Sec. 9.2).
9.2 Intellectual property rights
The new data format also provides new possibilities to protect copyrights better. As music or video  les
would be encoded and require a certain password to open it, access to the  le could be restricted to a
single user or group of users. Moreover, Helbietti-formatted  les could be set up in a way that a certain
prize is charged (e.g. to a prepaid account) whenever a copy is produced. During the copy process, this
amount of money would automatically be transferred to the owner of the intellectual property rights, the
intermediate seller (e.g. a shop or the person whose  le is copied) and the respective tax authorities. This
would facilitate a  viral marketing , where users are distributors, who can earn money by disseminating
 le contents, while bene ting the owner of the intellectual property rights. This would, of course, not
prevent the  lming of videos and the illegal distribution of related copies. However, this problem could
be minimized by a combination of the following measures:
  using pricing schemes that people consider fair,
  selling copies of di erent quality at di erent prices,
  allowing users to download contents with pseudonyms and anonymous payment services (e.g. [182]),
such that providers cannot track which contents are bought by what customers.
Massive copyright violations could be reduced by using the labeling, reputation and sanctioning mecha-
nisms described in Sec. 9. Also note that the proposed  le format allows one to make all copies unaccessible
by deleting the single  le that the copies were derived from (see Sec. 9.1.1). Finally, for serious cases of
piracy the new  le format provides a possibility to track from what  le a copy was derived, if decryption
has been dcided by a number of specially authorized people (see Sec. 9.3).
9.3 Trust management
9.3.1 Rating and reputation
Many public goods such as reliable information systems are very di cult to create and easy to exploit
and/or destroy. This creates dangers for the quality of  the commons  (public goods). In absence of clear
responsibilities, such as it is often the case in the Internet, large collaborative e orts are not encouraged.
In fact, contributors are more di cult to identify and to reward, while vandals and other detractors can
easily thrive.
Therefore, the self-control of the Web, based on suitable reputation concepts, would be a desirable
feature. In principle, people should be able to rate, tag and comment on any data they have accessed. Also
40
ratings and comments could be rated, which would earn the rater a certain reputation. Ratings would not
be one-dimensional, but done on a multi-dimensional scale (which could be customized in a user-speci c
way). The multi-dimensionality is important to support pluralistic, community-speci c views.
Note that details of the design of the rating mechanism are crucial. Manipulations of ratings must
be prevented. The rating of the raters can serve this purpose, if well constructed. It determines their
weight in the calculation of an aggregate rating. The design should be able to distinguish votes coming
from robots and from humans. Furthermore, whitewashing (a new pseudonym) and sybil attacks (the
creation of many pseudonyms) should be prevented (see the previous section regarding possible ways to
do this). Furthermore, to disclose a manipulation of the own reputation via pseudonyms one is controlling
(or a mutual manipulation through a friendship network), consistency checks will be needed. That is,
at random times, it will be necessary to compare the reputation values that a pseudonym has from the
point of view of several others (randomly chosen interaction partners, also independent outsiders). This
comparison of reputation values is something like a gossip strategy. If the values are su ciently consistent,
everything is  ne and the reputation seems reliable. Otherwise, there are reasons to be suspicious. In such
a case, the pseudonym would be labeled for the purpose of intensi ed observation in order to reveal the
manipulation. Such a di erentiated inspection strategy, which focuses on indviduals with a suspicious
reputation (and newcomers), but which otherwise restricts to random inspections, saves computational
resources but can keep the level of fraud low.
Furthermore, the contents that users upload in the Internet would be rated by other users who have
access to them, earning the provider of the content a certain reputation. This o ers a tool to separate
high-quality from low-quality contents. In order to avoid opinion dictatorship by the majority and ensure
socio-diversity (pluralism), it will be necessary to allow for community-speci c and multi-criterial ratings.
Communities would either result from social networks, or they could be determined via community
detection algorithms, identifying groups of people with similar rating, tagging, and commenting habits,
i.e. with similar preferences and tastes (so-called  quality collectives  [192]). It should be remembered
here that the identities of the people belonging to a community will usually not be known, but rather be
composed of virtual identities, namely when pseudonyms are used.
The community-speci c ratings, tagging and comments can serve to create  lters for certain contents.
Therefore, it is possible to design community-speci c recommender systems which prioritize contents
 tting a community s or an individual s taste. Similarly, undesired contents can be excluded so that it
becomes possible, for example, to protect children from sexually explicit or violent contents. In other
words, users could tag illegal or inappropriate contents. In serious cases, this could trigger sanctions
(see below) or even legal action. For instance, the access to the  le could be restricted (e.g. to people
above a certain age), or the decryption could be disabled by a certain code foreseen by the cryptographic
algorithm. Also, in case there is evidence that access to certain encrypted contents is in the public
interest (e.g. relevant for public security), the encryption method could foresee a decryption. In order to
avoid misuse such as censorship or violation of privacy, both, the decision to restrict access and to enforce
decryption of a  le or list of  les, would need a certain number of randomly selected, generally trusted and
authorized people to agree on the action that needs to be taken. Consequently, such actions would require
the application of several keys at the same time. To avoid unjusti ed decryption by bribing authorized
people, these should be replaced after a certain time period, which means that the keys unlocking a  le
need to change or be changed over time.
9.3.2 Sanctioning mechanisms
In reality, a reputation is hard to earn, but easy to lose. This suggests that, besides a reputation mecha-
nism, the self-organizing Internet could foresee certain sanctioning mechanisms to facilitation a high level
of quality. Sanctions may include everything from low ratings, over certain kinds of tags and critical com-
ments, up to banning speci c contents within a certain user community. Particularly destructive behavior
may be sanctioned by temporary bandwidth reduction. For instance, manipulating ratings or reputation
41
values by sybil attacks (self-ratings via multiple pseudonyms) should be sanctioned in one way or an-
other. The same applies to wrong declarations (e.g. labeling advertisements or opinions as information).
People should have a freedom to express their opinions, but they also need to have a chance to distinguish
opinions from facts. Furthermore, spamming the Internet with low-quality contents should be sanctioned.
Note, however, that what constitutes low-quality content for one community could constitute high-quality
content for another community. That is, the sanctioning would usually be community-speci c. Only in
exceptional cases would it be generally applied.
9.4 Microcredits and micropayments
It also seems wise to foresee in the future Internet the possibility to collect microcredits for small contri-
butions to the public good  Internet . Such microcredits would allow one to reward people, for example,
for contributions to public encyclopedias or also for rating contributions or reviewing (commenting on)
them.
The data format of microcredits would, therefore, not only contain a certain value ( number of
points ). It would potentially also contain (usually in a su ciently anonymized or encrypted way) in-
formation about who owns it and what it was earned for or paid for. Moreover, it would be a tradeable
unit, which could contain pointers to who owned it last and whom it is being paid to (again in an en-
crypted way). Having both backward and forward pointers supports double book-keeping when needed.
In mathematical terms, rather than a being scalar (which implies a number of fundamental problems),
a microcredit would be an element of a microcredit network connecting values with pseudonyms and
merits or items bought. These elements would have a certain number of weighted links (in-degrees and
out-degrees) re ecting cash  ows. Therefore, it would be possible, in principle, to distinguish di erent
kinds of currencies for di erent kinds of contributions, and it would also be feasible to a certain extent to
analyze  ows of microcredits between pseudonyms over time in a privacy-respecting and con dentiality-
protecting way (see the section on reality mining regarding how to do this; note that companies could
use di erent pseudonyms for di erent organizational units, and that they may change them over time).
Such kinds of analyses would be enormously useful to determine instabilities in the microcredit market. It
would also be possible to give money a history and, therefore, distinguish  dirty money  (such as  blood
diamonds ) from ethical investments, as certain customers demand them today.
9.5 Transparent Terms of Service
In order to sign-up to a service in the Internet, one is more and more often placed in front of a long list of
obligations and contractual clauses applicable for any sort of special case, which an ordinary user has not
the adequate competency nor the necessary time to understand. The result is that they are skipped and
blindly accepted. Based on such  acceptance , companies can grant themselves a great freedom of action
in handling the personal data of their users. This should not be allowed, and large-scale data mining
activities should be protocoled and publicly controlled.
Anybody willing to start collecting data from the Internet, or other private and public nets should  rst
publicly provide a legally binding declaration about what is done with the data and why. In particular,
it should contain whom (what companies, institutions, etc.) the data will be shared with, and what is
done with them exactly.
This declaration should also comply with an international  data-collecting protocol  , which needs to
be established to set legal and ethical constraints to the action of data harvesters. The protocol should
de ne minimum quality of service standards, e.g. regarding waiting times of customer services, times to
delete private data, fees, how to contact the data management center s service, whom to contact in case
of complaints.
Compliance to the protocol would allow companies to show a  Privacy-Safe Badge  on their Web
site, which would immediately be recognised by surfers (see [169,170]). Showing the privacy badge would
42
probably become fundamental for certain categories of companies operating the Net (e.g. search engines,
social networks, banks, etc.). Not having the badge, could make a relevant di erence in the trust level
of customers. Moreover, it is easily foreseeable, as data-mining activities become more pervasive in the
future, the importance of the badge would eventually extend to other general purpose Web sites.
The badge would be granted by newly created (ideally super-national) rating institutions, which should
also have the authority to enforce the standards related to the respective security badge by inspection.
Such an institution will be the only legal parties empowered to issue privacy badges and revoke them
in case of misconduct. In future, the collection of personal data on the Internet without a proper badge
could be considered an illicit activity and insofar be sanctioned by users accordingly.
To obtain the badge, interested parties would have to demonstrate that they possess both, the ethical
and technical standards necessary to accomplish such a delicate data mining task. After proper checking,
and depending on the purpose of the data collection speci ed in the harvesting declaration, di erent
types of badges could be issued. Each badge would also be linked to a standardized user licence.
In order to add dynamism and a more democratic taste, the badge could foresee user ratings and
comments. These opinion feedbacks per se, would not generate legal consequences for the owner of the
badge, but would help to detect misconducts earlier and to alarm the community, and it would trigger
inspection procedures by the issuer of the badge.
Finally, users should be able to a-priori set their preferences and conditions on their browsing devices
under which participating or not to data-collection campaigns4. Browsers would immediately examine the
badge of any visited Web site, comparing it with its stored preferences and automatically notify any threat
to the privacy of the users. Besides, this would solve the notorious issues of unreadable or over-technical
 Term of Services  conditions, which should not any longer be read directly by users themselves.
9.6 Privacy-respecting social networks
Social networking has been rapidly spreading in the past years despite frequent warnings regarding a lack
in privacy protection. Recently, for example, somebody succeeded with downloading 100 Million user
pro les and upload the dataset for free download by everybody [71]. It is often claimed that users simply
do not seem to care about uploading private information to the Internet. However,
  this does by far not apply to everybody (in fact, most computer users still do not have social
networking pro les),
  the terms of use have changed since most of them have uploaded their private data (e.g. pho-
tographs),
  some users may assess the comfort of the service provided by social networking sites higher than
the current side e ects, but this may change over time.
Besides, a recent empirical study has impressively demonstrated that people do care about the use of
their activity data [193].
It certainly appears necessary to have alternative technical solutions for social networking, which
protect privacy better. A  rst project of this kind is DIASPORA [194], which wants to decentralize the
storage of sensitive information.
Privacy-protecting social networks could be imagined as follows: Individuals would only see part of the
network. Individuals and communities could determine what can be seen to outsiders of the community
and to whom (friends, friends of friends, second-next-nearest neighbors, or everyone; same with business
partners). Depending on this, certain kinds of information would not be visible to outsiders, others would
be (as communities may want to gain new members). In essence, sur ng in social networks would be
like travelling between communities, and this would feel like visiting other countries. While certain things
4For example, willingness to allow collection of personal data only for scienti c purposes.
43
would be visible, others (the private part of the information) would remain hidden to strangers (as private
houses are).
9.7 Summary
In essence, many of the problems of the Internet today result from Web2.0 and other applications, which
the Internet was originally not designed for. Consequently, current technical solutions are insu cient. A
new way of organizing the Internet appears to be needed and possible. Suitable solutions can be developed
by transferring concepts of social self-organization to the design of the future Internet. This constitutes
an interesting challenge within the research  eld of techno-social systems.
10 Recommended legal regulations
Currently, data about people are probably processed, used and misused in any conceivable way. Since
regulations are insu cient and heterogeneous, the situation has sometimes been paraphrased as Wild
Wild Web. It is therefore not surprising that the EU Fundamental Rights and Citizenship Commissioner
Viviane Reding has recently pointed out [115] that Europe needs more harmonization regarding a data
protection law. Determining the best routes towards this goal deserves targeted research. However, as the
problems are actute, action needs to be taken soon. Therefore, the following sections make a number of
suggestions.
Given the problems of the current Internet and the foreseeable future developments, data collection
for research or for business should be regulated taking into account privacy, legal requirements, science s
and business  interests. We foresee that methods of data collection should be open, controllable and
veri able by legal authorities and the public. Legal procedures and the law should establish what type of
data can be collected, what type of data may not be collected, and how the sensitive part of the collected
data must be hidden from people or organizations collecting them at each point of the data collection
procedure. Methods of warranting the safety of sensitive data should be public and should be veri able
at all times before, during, and after collection. For example, we recommend to work out legal regulations
for the following:
  Data storage, access, processing and usage standards should be  xed for public, commercial and
private entities operating in a certain country. Transparency regarding the storage, access, process-
ing and use of data should be enforced. In particular, there should be a binding public declaration
of what kind of private data are being stored, processed and used, and how this is done.
  Personal data should always be stored in an encrypted way. However, it should be made easy to
inform oneself free of charge about the data determined and stored by other individuals, companies
or institutions, and how these data are accessed, protected and used. Therefore, technical solutions
should be required, which allow individuals to access (and decrypt) their personal data on-line and to
delete data one does not want to be stored (if there is not a law that requires such storage). Further
on, it should be easy to opt out from the determination, storage and/or processing of certain kinds
of data. It should be possible to sanction violations of this right e ciently, and a ected individuals
should be properly compensated.
  One should establish standards ensuring informed consent of users with the data an information
system is determining, storing, or processing. Users should not be forced to agree with a storage,
processing and use of information that is not technically required for the services a user wants to get.
For example, providers of media contents should not force customers to reveal their identities (and
e ectively their preferences via the contents they buy), as the contents or services can also be paid for
anonymously. Putting it di erently, companies should be required to o er, in a clearly marked way,
44
options to customers that allow them to choose at any time between a data-rich variant (providing
the service provider with many detailed individual data) and a data-poor (privacy-protecting)
variant without arti cially created disadvantages (which would e ectively force customers to reveal
their data). Within fair limits, it would be acceptable though to charge a higher price for data-rich
services to users, who have decided for the data-poor variant themselves.
  Licence and usage agreements of software products and information services should be regulated
and standardized. As most users do not read or understand the terms of use, and as they do not
have any chance to negotiate these conditions, there should be a few (certainly less than ten) stan-
dard licences, which should be signalized by a color or other codes, whenever a certain software or
information-based service is used. Alternatively, softwares and services should be rated by indepen-
dent agencies based on the bene ts users can expect from them and the degree to which privacy
and con dentiality are potentially a ected.
  It would be useful to de ne the individual and corporate responsibilities for damages created in the
virtual or real world by activities in the Internet.
  However, considering the fact that the content of a  le is revealed only when it is accessed, it should
not be possible to punish people for the access of contents, if the contents are not warned of in
advance in a su cient and quali ed way (e.g. based on the rating and reputation system suggested
above). In other words, users should be protected from legal traps in the Internet.
  Considering the abundance of free contents in the Internet, it is advised to implement a copyright,
which considers the facts of modern information systems and requires copyright holders to make
proper attempts to protect their products from unauthorized access (e.g. to indicate their copyrights,
encode electronic  les, and o er simple, fair, and anonymous payment procedures).
  Compensations for privacy violations would have to be  xed, and legal procedures would need to
be simple and e ective to allow people to protect their rights. For example,  nes to companies,
which sell private data without authorization, should be signi cantly higher than the likely pro t
they can make on such business.
  The priorities in cases of con icts of interest should be worked out clearly (protection of individual
human rights comes before collective public interests, which comes before institutional interests of
companies or political parties, which comes before individual interests).
  Legal regulations should protect individuals against discrimination based on private data and guar-
antee an e cient compensation in case of violations.
  The introduction of class action would allow users to better defend their rights at court against
individuals, companies, or institutions violating them, but the implementation should consider that
the way attorneys are compensated and the way discovery is organized in civil procedures largely
determines how desirable and e ective class action lawsuits are.
  Unique virtual identities/electronic signatures should be o ered for everybody.
  It should be required to specially mark Web links that are redirected to contents with a di er-
ent character, or Internet services that are changing their character (e.g. from non-commercial to
commercial), or the use of pseudonyms that have been used before by others.
  It may be useful to  x a statute of limitations, i.e. a time period after which violations of Internet-
related regulations cannot anymore be sued. These time periods should increase with the seriousness
of the violation and its consequences. It should also depend on whether the e ect of the violation
was in the past or relevant for the presence and future as well.
45
  There should be legal procedures regarding the random and targeted control of the ful lment of
legal standards regarding the storage, access, processing and use of private data.
  Conditions should be worked out for imposing access restrictions or forced decryptions of suspicious
Internet contents, in case there is evidence that they seriously threaten the public security (such
as instructions how to build bombs). Such measures, their extent and results would have to be
reported to the public, and individuals would have to be compensated, if it turned out that they
were unjusti ed.
  Companies receiving public money should be required to make data of public interest available for
research, after they have been processed in a way that removes sensitive information (see the above
sections on how this can be done).
  It would be good to have neutral, publicly controlled third-party infrastructures, which allow to
perform anonymous Web experiments and data mining.
  Special procedures should be de ned for cases, where access to original or sensitive anonymized data
is justi ed and required (e.g. for certain kinds of research of public interest). A good example is the
way in which Harvard University regulates the access and processing of the data of the Framingham
Heart Study, which allowed scientists to discover social processes promoting the spreading of obesity,
smoking, depression, or happiness, to mention just a few relevant examples of gained insights that
can be bene cial for individuals and the public [11].
  There should be a fair right of information and participation in social activities mediated by ICT
systems. For this reason, information businesses directed at a mass audience and with a large market
share should be required not to discriminate and exclude certain user groups through inappropriate
pricing schemes or terms of use (e.g. the requirement to agree with the arbitrary use or transfer
of personal data or the requirement to allow for cookies, where this is technically not needed to
provide the requested service). Individuals should always have the possibility to opt out of data
uses they do not agree with, without losing access to information services not requiring these data.
11 Recommended infrastructures and institutions
In order to have a powerful, largely self-regulating Internet, the following kinds of institutions would be
useful to have:
1. Public data centers, which perform a neutral and independent data collection that is not driven by
the need to make money, but serves the purpose to inform the public in the best possible way. Such
a system could implement the reputation, community formation, sanctioning and privacy respecting
mechanisms discussed before in connection with the concept of a self-organizing Internet.
2. Research centers, which study what can be done with publicly available data, to assess the potentials
and risks. These centers should also develop the technology of the self-organizing Internet sketched
above.
3. Publicly controlled, neutral institutions, which can serve as independent third parties in experimen-
tal designs that ensure anonymity (see Sec. 8.5).
4. Independent quality audit centers, which evaluate the level to which companies protect privacy and
provide good services and fair terms of use.
5. One or several complaint center(s), which collects complaints of Internet users and can take action
against illegal or unethical practices. These centers should be well connected with the public media.
46
6. An ethical committee, which assesses risks of information technologies and markets. It should set
ethical standards regarding the storage and processing of data and support the preparation of
required legal regulations.
7. A center working out contingency plans for the case of large-scale failures of information and
communication infrastructures, e.g. due to denial of service attacks, spam, viruses, trojan horses,
worm or phishing problems, or solar-storm-related failures of electronic systems.
8. A committee working out suggestions for legal settings, as the need for institutional regulations
arises through new technological developments.
12 Summary
Socio-economic data mining has a great potential in terms of gaining a better understanding of problems
that our economy and society are facing, such as  nancial instability, shortages of resources, or con icts.
Without large-scale data mining, progress in these areas seems hard or impossible. Therefore, a suitable,
distributed data mining infrastructure and research center should be built in Europe.
Reality mining provides the chance to adapt more quickly and more accurately to changing situations.
For example, it will facilitate a real-time management of challenges like evacuation scenarios or economic
stimulus programs. Further opportunities arise by individually customized services, which however should
be provided in a privacy-respecting way. This requires the development of novel ICT (such as a self-
organizing Internet), but most likely new legal regulations and suitable institutions as well.
As long as such regulations are lacking on a world-wide scale (and potentially even thereafter), it is
in the public interest that scientists explore what can be done (in a positive and negative sense) with the
huge data available about virtually everybody and everything. Big data do have the potential to change
or even threaten democratic societies. The same applies to sudden and large-scale failures of ICT systems.
Therefore, dealing with data must be done with a large degree of responsibility and care. Self-interests
of individuals, companies or institutions have limits, where the public interest is a ected, and public
interest is not a su cient justi cation to violate human rights of individuals. Privacy is a high good, as
con dentiality is, and damaging it would have serious side e ects for society.
Acknowledgements
The authors are grateful for  nancial support by the Future and Emerging Technologies programme
FP7-COSI-ICT of the European Commission through the project Visioneer (grant no.: 248438). They
would also like to thank for stimulating discussions, feedback on the manuscript and contributions to
the Visioneer wiki: Karl Aberer, Andras L orincz, Panos Argyrakis, Endre Bangerter, Andrea Bassi,
Stefan Bechtold, Bernd Carsten Stahl, Rui Carvalho, Markus Christen, Mario J. Gaspar da Silva, Fosca
Giannotti, Aki-Hiro Sato, David-Olivier Jaquet-Chi elle, Daniel Roggen, Themis Palpanas, Elia Palme,
J urgen Sche ran, David Sumpter and Peter Wagner.
A On-line repositories for the socio-economic sciences
A.1 Internet and historical snapshots
  Internet Archive / Wayback machine
The Internet Archive o ers permanent access for researchers, historians, scholars, people with dis-
abilities, and the general public to historical collections that exist in digital format. Founded in 1996,
47
now the Internet Archive includes texts, audio, moving images, and software as well as archived
Web pages.
http://www.archive.org/index.php
  Wikipedia
Wikipedia is the most famous cooperatively edited encyclopedia. Since every change is stored, Web
pages  history can o er a detailed subject-based overview of the most important references of the
past.
http://www.wikipedia.org
  The Knowledge Centers
A collection of links to other resources for  nding Web pages as they used to exist in the past.
http://www.searchengineshowdown.com/others/archive.shtml
  Whenago
Whenago provides quick access to historical information about what happened in the past on a
given day.
http://www.whenago.com
  World Digital Library
The World Digital Library (WDL) makes available on the Internet, free of charge and in multilingual
format, signi cant primary materials from countries and cultures around the world.
http://www.wdl.org/
  Books Ngram Viewer
Timeseries for the two billion words and phrases, based on 5.2 million books written in seven
languages.
  Datasets: http://ngrams.googlelabs.com/datasets
  Application: http://ngrams.googlelabs.com/
A.2 Information retrieval engines
  Freebase
Freebase is an open, Creative Commons licensed repository of structured data of more than 12
million entities. It provides collaborative tools to link entities together and keep them updated.
http://www.freebase.com
  Wolfram Alpha Computational Knowledge Engine
An attempt to compute whatever can be computed about anything. It aims to provide a single
source that can be relied on by everyone for de nitive answers to factual queries.
http://www.wolframalpha.com/
48
A.3 Text mining on the Web
  Google Trends
Google Trends shows visual statistics about how often keywords have been searched on Google over
time. Google Trends also shows how frequently topics have appeared in Google News stories, and
in which geographic regions people have searched for them most.
http://www.google.com/trends
  Google Flu Trends
Google Flu Trends uses aggregated Google search data to estimate  u activity. Data available for
download as well.
http://www.google.org/flutrends/
  The Observatorium
The Observatorium project focuses on complex network dynamics in the Internet, proposing to
monitor its evolution in real-time, with the general objective of better understanding the processes
of knowledge generation and opinion dynamics.
http://www.theobservatorium.eu/
  We Feel Fine
A database of several million human feelings, harvested from blogs and social pages in the Web.
Using a series of playful interfaces, the feelings can be searched and sorted across a number of
demographic slices. Web api available as well.
http://www.wefeelfine.org/
  CyberEmotions
The CyberEmotions project focuses on the role of collective emotions in creating, forming and
breaking-up ecommunities. It makes available for download three datasets containing news and
comments from the BBC News forum, Digg and MySpace, only for academic research and only
after the submission of an application form.
http://www.cyberemotions.eu/data.html
A.4 Social data sharing
  Linked Data
Linked Data is about using the Web to connect related data that was not previously linked, or
using the Web to lower the barriers to linking data currently linked using other methods.
http://linkeddata.org
  Dataverse Network Project
The Dataverse Network is an application to publish, share, reference, extract and analyze research
data. It facilitates making data available to others, and allows to replicate others work. Researchers
and data authors get credit, publishers and distributors get credit, a liated institutions get credit.
http://thedata.org/
49
  Data360
Data360 is an open-source, collaborative and free Web site. The site hosts a common and shared
database, which any person or organization, committed to neutrality and non-partisanship (meaning
 let the data speak ), can use for presentations and visualizations.
http://www.data360.org/
  Swivel
Swivel is a Web site where people share reports of charts and numbers. It is free for public data,
and charges a monthly fee to people who want to use it in private.
http://www.swivel.com/
  Many Eyes
A IBM initiative that allows users to upload their datasets and use a collection of tools to obtain
meaningful visualizations from them. Each visualization is publicly stored on a dedicated page,
where users can comment, rate and tag it. Reuse of the data is possible and encouraged.
http://manyeyes.alphaworks.ibm.com/manyeyes/
A.5 Con ict data
  CSCW Data on Armed Con ict
CSCW and Uppsala Con ict Data Program (UCDP) at the Department of Peace and Con ict
Research, Uppsala University, have collaborated in the production of a dataset of armed con icts,
both internal and external, in the period 1946 to the present. Currently, probably the most extensive
dataset repository available, in particular for historic data.
http://www.prio.no/CSCW/Datasets/Armed-Conflict/
  WarViews
The aim of the WarViews project is to create an easy-to-use front-end for the exploration of GIS
data on con ict. It can run on a Web browser or it can be displayed using Google Earth.
http://www.icr.ethz.ch/research/warviews/
The following are civil war speci c datasets with additional empirical information:
Ethnic group location dataset: http://www.icr.ethz.ch/research/greg
Ethnic power balances dataset: http://www.icr.ethz.ch/research/geoepr
  UCDP Datasets
Collection of updated datasets and codebooks from the Uppsala Con ict Data Program (UCDP).
http://www.pcr.uu.se/research/UCDP/data_and_publications/datasets.htm
  ACLED
Partially contained in the PRIO dataset, ACLED (Armed Con ict Location and Events Dataset) is
designed for disaggregated con ict analysis and crisis mapping. This dataset codes the location of
all reported con ict events in 50 countries in the developing world. Data are currently being coded
from 1997 to 2009 and the project continues to backdate con ict information for African states to
the year of independence.
http://www.acleddata.com/
50
  CERAC
The Con ict Analysis Resource Center hosts several cross country con ict data sets and a few
datasets of particular countries. Repositories also have datasets of political instability and con ict.
http://www.cerac.org.co/datasets.htm
  The Cross-National Time-Series Data Archive
The Cross-National Time-Series Data Archive provides annual data for a range of countries from
1815 to the present. Frequently cited, it is one of the  leading datasets on political violence ,
according to Robert Bates at Harvard University. It is  possibly the most widely used event dataset 
according to Henrik Urdal, International Peace Research Institute, Oslo (PRIO).
http://www.databanksinternational.com/
  Country speci c repositories
  Iraq: http://www.iraqbodycount.organdhttp://www.icasualties.org/
  Afghanistan: http://www.icasualties.org/
  Terrorism
Collection of datasets of terrorist acts.
http://people.haverford.edu/bmendels/terror_attacks
A.6 Data in economics and  nance
  Bloomberg
International real-time data provider for decision makers in  nance, business and government.
http://www.bloomberg.com/
  Maddison Data
Historical statistics about GDP and population data.
http://www.ggdc.net/maddison/
  UNCTAD Statistics
UNCTAD o ers the following databases on-line:
  The UNCTAD Handbook of Statistics on-line provides time series of economic data and de-
velopment indicators, in some cases going back as far as 1950.
  The Commodity Price Statistics Online Database.
  The UNCTAD-TRAINS on the Internet (Trade Analysis and Information System) for trade
control measures as well as import  ows by origin for over 130 countries.
  The Foreign Direct Investment database (FDI).
http://www.unctad.org/Templates/Page.asp?intItemID=2364&lang=1
  OECD Statistics Portal
Large collection of datasets covering economics, demographics. Extractions are freely available, full
access requires subscription.
http://www.oecd.org/statsportal/0,3352,en_2825_293564_1_1_1_1_1,00.html
  EUROSTAT
Detailed statistics on the EU and candidate countries, and various statistical publications for sale.
51
http://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/
  Where s George?
Spatial tracking system for U.S. and Canadian dollars.
http://www.wheresgeorge.com
  Eurobilltracker
Spatial tracking system for Euro banknotes.
http://en.eurobilltracker.com
  EPO Worldwide Patent Statistical Database
Snapshot of the EPO master documentation database (DOCDB) with worldwide coverage, contain-
ing 20 tables including bibliographic data, citations and family links.
http://www.epo.org/patents/patent-information/raw-data/test/product-14-24.html
  World Bank
The World Bank Data Catalog provides download access to over 2,000 socio-economic indicators
from World Bank data sets.
http://data.worldbank.org/
  Penn World Tables
The Penn World Table provides purchasing power parity and national income accounts converted
to international prices for 188 countries for some or all of the years 1950-2004.
http://pwt.econ.upenn.edu/
  World Input Output Database
Exposes data about the e ects of increasing globalization on trade patterns, environmental degra-
dation and economic development that uncovers the global interrelatedness of production and its
socio-economic and environmental e ects. More in detail, data are available for the period from
1995 to 2006, and for some major countries back to 1980 27 EU countries and 13 other major
countries in the world More than 30 industries and at least 60 products
http://www.wiod.org/database/index.htm
  International Monetary Found
The IMF publishes a range of time series data on IMF lending, exchange rates and other economic
and  nancial indicators.
http://www.imf.org/external/data.htm
A.7 Scienti c collaboration data
  ISI Web of Knowledge
Comprehensive source of information in the sciences, social sciences, arts, and humanities. It en-
compasses several datasets, among which the following are maybe the most noteworthy:
52
  Journal Citation Reports. It allows one to evaluate and compare journals using citation data
drawn from over 7,500 scholarly and technical journals.
  Web of Science. It consists of seven databases containing information gathered from thousands
of scholarly journals, books, book series, reports, conferences, and more.
http://isiknowledge.com
  Google Scholar
Google Scholar is search engine specialized in scholarly literature. It indexes di erent sources (ar-
ticles, books, abstract, thesis, etc.) from several disciplines and sort them according to number of
citations, author and journal impact factor.
scholar.google.com
  Scholarometer
Scholarometer is a social tool to facilitate citation analysis and help evaluate the impact of an
author s publications. It works as a software plug-in for the Firefox browser.
http://scholarometer.indiana.edu
  Scopus
Scopus is a very large abstract and citation database of research literature. It is available only for
registered users.
http://www.scopus.com
  Living Science
Living Science is a real time global science observatory based on publications submitted to arXiv.org.
It covers real time (daily) submissions of publications in areas as diverse as Physics, Astronomy,
Computer Science, Mathematics and Quantitative Biology. Currently, contents are dynamically
updated each day. Living Science is a powerful analysis tool to identify the magnitude and impact
of scienti c work worldwide.
http://www.livingscience.ethz.ch/
  PubMed
PubMed comprises more than 20 million citations for biomedical literature from MEDLINE, life
science journals, and online books.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed
A.8 Social sciences
  ICPSR of the University of Michigan
ICPSR o ers more than 500,000 digital  les containing social science research data. Disciplines rep-
resented include political science, sociology, demography, economics, history, gerontology, criminal
justice, public health, foreign policy, terrorism, health and medical care, early education, education,
racial and ethnic minorities, psychology, law, substance abuse and mental health, and more.
http://www.icpsr.umich.edu/icpsrweb/ICPSR/
  UK Data Center of the University of Essex
The UK s largest collection of digital research data in the social sciences and humanities.
http://www.data-archive.ac.uk/
53
  Berkeley s UC DATA Archive
UC DATA s data holdings are primarily in the areas of Political, Social and Health Sciences.
http://ucdata.berkeley.edu/data_record.php?recid=6
  The Economic and Social Data Service (ESDS)
The Economic and Social Data Service (ESDS) is a national data service providing access and
support for an extensive range of key economic and social data, both quantitative and qualita-
tive, spanning many disciplines and themes. It contains a map of additional datasets from several
European countries.
  http://www.esds.ac.uk/
  http://www.esds.ac.uk/findingData/map.asp
  CESSDA
Wide data collections including sociological surveys, election studies, longitudinal studies, opinion
polls, and census data. Among the materials are international and European data such as the
European Social Survey, the Eurobarometers, and the International Social Survey Programme.
http://www.cessda.org/
  Gapminder Data
Gapminder is a popular technology and Web application for cross-visualisation of trends in time
series of data. It also opens an archive of multiple datasets on diverse socio-economic indicators.
http://www.gapminder.org/data/
  World Value Survey
The World Value Survey provides data about values and cultural changes in societies all over the
world.
http://www.worldvaluessurvey.org/
A.9 Urban data
  Global Urban Observatory database
The Global Urban Observatory (GUO) o ers policy-oriented urban indicators, statistics and other
urban information.
http://www.devinfo.info/urbaninfo/
  Urban Observatory
U.S. based datasets about wealth, innovation and crime across cities.
http://santafe.edu/urban_observatory/
  Urban Audit
Urban Audit contains a collection of comparable statistics and indicators for European cities. Data
for most recent years is missing at the time of writing.
http://www.urbanaudit.org/
  Globalization and World Cities Research Network
The Globalization and World Cities Research Network (GaWC) promotes himself as the leading
academic thinktank on cities in globalization. Several datasets are available for large cities networks.
http://lboro.ac.uk/gawc/data.html
54
A.10 Tra c data
  NGSIM
The Next Generation Simulation (NGSIM) program was initiated by the United States Department
of Transportation (US DOT). The program developed a core of open behavioral algorithms in
support of tra c simulation, and collected high-quality primary tra c and trajectory data intended
to support the research and testing of the new algorithms.
http://ngsim-community.org/
  Swiss Federal Roads O ce FEDRO
The Swiss Federal Roads O ce o ers a comprehensive overview on tra c  ows in Switzerland.
Data are collected by permanent automatic tra c counting stations and complemented by regular
manual checking since 1961.
http://www.astra.admin.ch/verkehrsdaten/00297/index.html
  Tra cData
The aim of the International Tra c Database (ITDb) project is to provide tra c data to various
groups (researchers, practitioners, public entities) in a format according to their particular needs,
ranging from raw measurement data to statistical analysis. ITDb promotes a  exible tra c data
provision format based on user needs and standard habits.
http://www.trafficdata.info/
  Clearing House for Transport Data
The Clearing House for Transport Data in the German Aerospace Center is the  rst point of
contact for a quick overview of the available data. It is targeted at both organizations who gather
transport-relevant data and those who wish to use the results of such research. The information
o ered includes the preparation of detailed metadata on the data sets, as well as notes on possible
uses and sources.
http://www.dlr.de/cs/en/desktopdefault.aspx/tabid?669/1177\_read?2160/
  Desweiteren das Regiolab Delft
The regiolab-delft initiative started just after 2000 as a joint project led by TU Delft in association
with the Municipality of Delft, the TRAIL research school, the Province of South Holland, the
Ministry of Transport and several industrial partners. The archived dataset consists of over 6 years
of 1 minute averaged speed and aggregate  ow data from densely spaced inductive loops on the
freeway network in the province of south Holland and other data from intersection controllers,
license plate detection camera s and much more.
http://www.regiolab-delft.nl
  RITA The Research and Innovative Technology Administration (RITA) of the U.S. Department
of Transportation o ers several datasets about maritime, freights, airline, passengers, etc. tra c
statistics.
http://www.bts.gov/data_and_statistics/
  ETH Travel Data Archive (ETHTDA)
The ETH Travel Data Archive (ETHTDA) is a virtual platform allowing end users to browse the
archived travel data over the Web and enabling simple statistical analysis.
http://www.ivt.ethz.ch/vpl/publications/ethtda
55
  Metropolitan Travel Survey Archive
The Metropolitan Travel Survey Archive to store, preserve, and make publicly available, via the
Internet, travel surveys conducted by metropolitan areas, states and localities.
http://www.surveyarchive.org/
  Infoblu
Infoblu is a private company providing real-time tra c monitoring services for Italy. All services
are available for a fee.
http://www.infoblu.it
  ENAC
Our Air Transport database comprises rich and detailed information on airlines, airports and tra c
 ow. In order to increase its scope and its reliability, ENAC also carries out annual surveys of
airlines and airports.
http://www.enac.fr/recherche/leea/databaseA.htm
A.11 Open maps
  Google Maps
World-famous map service. It o ers several additional services such as: Street View, user-uploaded
content (photos, comments and ratings) and personalized overlays through service apis.
http://maps.google.com
  OpenStreetMap
OpenStreetMap (by UCL) is a free editable map of the whole world. OpenStreetMap allows you to
view, edit and use geographical data in a collaborative way from anywhere on Earth.
http://www.openstreetmap.org/
  Tracksource Brasil
Tracksource is a collaborative project aimed at creating and distributing for free maps of Brasil.
http://www.tracksource.org.br
A.12 Logistics data
  National Household Travel Survey
The National Household Travel Survey (NHTS) collect data on both long-distance and local travel
by the American public. The joint survey gathers trip-related data such as mode of transportation,
duration, distance and purpose of trip. It also gathers demographic, geographic, and economic data
for analysis purposes. It is part of RITA (A.10).
http://www.bts.gov/programs/national_household_travel_survey/
  Commodity Flow Survey
The Commodity Flow Survey (CFS) is the primary source of national and state-level data on domes-
tic freight shipments by American establishments in mining, manufacturing, wholesale, auxiliaries,
and selected retail industries. Data are provided on the types, origins and destinations, values,
weights, modes of transport, distance shipped, and ton-miles of commodities shipped. It is part of
RITA (A.10) and it is conducted every  ve years (last sampling on 2007).
http://www.bts.gov/publications/commodity_flow_survey/
A.13 Health Data
  World Health Organization
The World Health Organization publishes on line several statistics and supply direct access to four
rich databases:
- Global Health Observatory - WHO Global InfoBase - Global Health Atlas - Regional statistics
56
http://www.who.int/research/en/index.html
A.14 Climate and Environmental data
  J ulich
Climate data from J ulich Research Center. I did not  nd data available for download!
http://www.fz-juelich.de
  Google.org
Google introduces its data-driven philanthropic projects, among which two environmental satellite
observatories:
- the Earth Engine: for monitoring trends in world deforestation;
- the Crisis Response: for monitoring the oil spill from the Deep Horizon sank platform.
http://www.google.org/
  Footprint Network
Ecological Footprint and the biocapacity results for more than 100 nations, based upon data from
2007, the most recent year for which source data are available. The tables re ect the calculations
from the 2010 National Footprint Accounts.
http://www.footprintnetwork.org
  PSD Climate and Weather Data
PSD archives a wide range of data ranging from gridded climate datasets extending hundreds of
years to real-time wind pro ler data at a single location. The data or products derived from this
data, organized by type, are available to scientists and the general public at the links below.
http://esrl.noaa.gov/psd/data/
  EPA DataFinder
The Environmental Protection Agency Data Finder is a single place to  nd EPA s numerical data
sources so that people can access and understand environmental information. All of the data sources
are available on the Internet and have been organized by topics such as air, water, and chemicals.
http://www.epa.gov/datafinder/
A.15 Energy
  International Energy Agency
Vast repository of statistics about supply and consumption of energy sources. Some datasets avail-
able only for sale.
http://iea.org/stats/index.asp
A.16 Governance, Trade and Settlements Data
  Govindicators
The Worldwide Governance Indicators (WGI) project reports aggregate and individual governance
indicators for 213 economies over the period 19962009, for six dimensions of governance:
57
1. Voice and Accountability
2. Political Stability and Absence of Violence
3. Government E ectiveness
4. Regulatory Quality
5. Rule of Law
6. Control of Corruption
http://info.worldbank.org/governance/wgi/index.asp
  WTO International trade and tari  data
The World Trade Organization o ers an updated and comprehensive outlook over trade policy and
multilateral trading systems.
http://www.wto.org/english/res_e/statis_e/statis_e.htm
A.17 Reality mining
  Reality Mining
Behavioral data collected from 100 mobile phones over 9 months. Includes both proximity and phone
usage statistics. Two anonymized datasets available: single user (MySQL) and global (Matlab).
http://reality.media.mit.edu/
A.18 Other open data initiatives
  Data.gov
Wide collection of public US datasets available for research.
http://www.data.gov
  Data.gov.uk
Wide collection of public UK datasets available for research.
http://data.gov.uk/
  Digging Into Data
Launched by the National Science Foundation (NSF), it o ers a collection of diverse data reposito-
ries.
http://www.diggingintodata.org/
  Guardian Data Blog
Data journalism initiative that posts public interest (primarily UK relevant) datasets together with
their analysis. A few collaborations with data visualization artists are present as well.
http://www.guardian.co.uk/news/datablog
  Google Public Data
Google o ers several large datasets on diverse world socio-economic indicators and provides tools
for easy visualization.
http://www.google.com/publicdata/
58
References
1. Visioneer, envisioning a socio-economic knowledge collider. http://www.visioneer.ethz.ch.
2. D. Helbing and S. Balietti, From social simulation to integrative system design. Visioneer White
Paper (2010), see http://www.visioneer.ethz.ch.
3. D. Helbing and S. Balietti, How to create an Innovation Accelerator. Visioneer White Paper
(2010), see http://www.visioneer.ethz.ch.
4. D. Helbing and S. Balietti, Formulating grand fundamental challenges. Visioneer White Paper
(2010), see http://www.visioneer.ethz.ch.
5. D. Helbing, Pluralistic Modeling of Complex Systems (July 18, 2010). CCSS-10-009. Available at
SSRN: http://ssrn.com/abstract=1646314(2010).
6. D. Helbing and S. Balietti Fundamental and real world challenges in economics, in print (2010).
7. D. Helbing, Systemic risks in society and economics, Sante Fe Institute, working paper (2009).
8. S. V. Buldyrev, R. Parshani, G. Paul, H. E. Stanley and S. Havlin, Catastrophic cascade of failures
in interdependent networks. Nature 465, 08932 (2010)
9. D. Helbing, W. Yu, K.-D. Opp and H. Rauhut, The emergence of homogeneous norms in hetero-
geneous populations. American Journal of Sociology, submitted (2010).
10. See http://hussonet.free.fr/toxicap.xls.
11. K.P. Smith and N.A. Christakis,  Social Networks and Health, Annual Review of Sociology 34:
405-429 (2008).
12. Privatsph are als Luxusgut.
http://www.nzz.ch/blogs/nzz_blogs/betablog/privatsphaere_als_luxusgut_1.7266824.
html
13. D. Helbing and M. Christen (2010). Mit Rauschen und Reibung gegen  nanzielle Blasen, submit-
ted to Wirtschaftswoche.
14. M. M as, A. Flache, and D. Helbing (2010) Individualization as driving force of clustering phe-
nomena in humans. PLoS Computational Biology, in print.
15. The Future of Social Experimenting: The Full Story.
http://www.soms.ethz.ch/research/socialexperimenting
16. J. Surowiecki, The wisdom of crowds: Why the many are smarter than the few and how collective
wisdom shapes business, economies, societies, and nations. Random House, Inc. (2004).
17. J. H. Kagel and A. E. Roth, The Handbook of Experimental Economics Princeton University,
(1997).
59
18. M.J. Salganik, P.S. Dodds and D.J. Watts, Experimental study of inequality and unpredictability
in an arti cial cultural market, Science 311, 854-856 (2006).
19. W.S. Bainbridge, The scienti c research potential of virtual worlds. Science 317, 472-476 (2007).
20. N.F. Johnson, C. Xu, Z. Zhao, N. Ducheneaut, N. Yee, G. Tita and P.M.Hui, Human group
formation in online guilds and o ine gangs driven by a common team dynamic. Phys. Rev. E 79,
066117 (2009).
21. M. Szell and S. Thurner, Measuring social dynamics in a massive multiplayer online game, sub-
mitted to Social Networks (2009). E-print http://arxiv.org/abs/0911.1084.
22. N.A. Christakis and J.H.Fowler, The spread of obesity in a large social network over 32 years.
New England Journal of Medicine 357(4): 370-379 (2007).
23. N.A Christakis and J.H. Fowler, The collective dynamics of smoking in a large social network.
New Englang Journal of Medicine, 358(21): 2249-2258 (2008)
24. J.H. Fowler and N.A. Christakis, Dynamic spread of happiness in a large social network. British
Medical Journal 337: a2338 (2008).
25. J.H. Fowler and N.A. Christakis Cooperative behavior cascades in human social networks (2009).
E-print http://arxiv.org/abs/0908.3497.
26. J. Howe, The Rise of Crowdsourcing. Wired Magazine 14(6) (2006).
27. J. Howe, Crowdsourcing: why the power of the crowd is driving the future of business. Crown
Business (2009).
28. D. Tapscott and A. D. Williams, Wikinomics: how mass collaboration changes everything Portfolio
Hardcover (2008).
29. C.R. Sunstein, Infotopia: How many minds produce knowledge. Oxford University Press, USA
(2006).
30. M.Abramowicz, Predictocracy: Market Mechanisms for Public and Private Decision Making, Yale
University Press (2009).
31. Designing E-Business Systems. Markets, Services, and Networks. 7th Workshop on E-Business,
WEB 2008. Editors C. Weinhardt, S. Luckner, J. St osser Paris, France, (2008).
32. R. Kalakota and M. Robinson, E-business 2.0: Roadmap for success, Addison-Wesley Longman
Publishing Co., Inc. Boston, MA, USA (2001).
33. C.S.R. Prabhu, E-governance: Concepts and case studies. PHI Learning (2006).
34. Electronic Government: 8th International Conference, EGOV 2009, Linz, Austria, August 31 -
September 3, 2009, Proceedings. Editors: M.A. Wimmer, H. J. Scholl, M. Janssen, R. Traunmller
(2009).
35. G. E. Moore, Cramming more components onto integrated circuits, Electronics Magazine. pp. 4.
(1965).
ftp://download.intel.com/museum/Moores_Law/Articles-Press_Releases/Gordon_Moore_
1965_Article.pdf
36. I. Fisher, The Theory of Interest. NY: Macmillan (1930).
60
37. B. B. Mandelbrot, The variation of certain speculative prices. Journal of Business, 36: 394 419
(1963).
38. E. F. Fama, The behavior of stock market prices. Journal of Business, 38: 34 105 (1965).
39. R.K. Merton, The matthew e ect in science: The reward and communication systems of science
are considered. Science 159: 56 63 (1968).
40. A. Barabasi, Emergence of scaling in random networks. Science 286: 509512. (1999).
41. R. Dunbar. Grooming, gossip, and the evolution of language. Harvard University Press (1998).
42. V. Pareto, Translation of Manuale di economia politica ( Manual of political economy ), A.M.
Kelley (1971).
43. G. K. Zipf, Human Behavior and the Principle of Least-E ort. Addison-Wesley (1949).
44. E. Ravenstein, The birthplaces of the people and the laws of migration. The Geographical Magazine
III, 173 177, 201 206, 229 233. (1876)
45. G. K. Zipf, The P1 P2/D hypothesis: on the intercity movement of persons. American Sociological
Review 11, 677 686 (1946).
46. J. Tinbergen, Shaping the world economy : suggestions for an international economic policy.
Twentieth Century Fund (1962).
47. C.A.E. Goodhart  Monetary relationships: a view from threadneedle street . Papers in Monetary
Economics (Reserve Bank of Australia) (1975).
48. K. A. Chrystal and P. D. Mizen, Goodhart s law: its origins, meaning and implications for mon-
etary policy. Vol. 1 of Central Banking, Monetary Theory and Practice: Essays in Honour of
Charles Goodhart, ed. Paul D. Mizen. Northampton, MA: Edward Elgar. (2003)
49. J. Danelsson, The emperor has no clothes: limits to risk modelling. Journal of Banking and
Finance 26, pp. 127396 (2002).
50. Ioannidis, John P.A., Why most published research  ndings are false. PLos Medicine, 2:8, 2005.
51. D. Lazer et al., Computational Social Science, Science 323, 721-723 (2009).
52. Recommendations of the Association of Internet Researchers (AoIR) Ethics Working Committee.
http://www.aoir.org/reports/ethics.pdf
53. Chap. 4 on  Ethics in Social Research  of the book  Research Methods in the Social Sciences 
by C. Frankfort-Nachmias and D. Nachmias (Worth Publishers, New York, 2008)
54. L. C. Bollinger, Announcing the Columbia committee on global thought.
http://www.columbia.edu/cu/president/.../051214-committee-global-thought.html
55. H. Spencer, The Principles of Sociology (Appleton, New York, 1898; the three volumes were
originally published in serial form between 1874 and 1896).
56. L. von Bertalan y, General System Theory: Foundations, Development, Applications (George
Braziller, New York, 1968).
57. J. M. Epstein, Generative Social Science. Studies in Agent-Based Computational Modeling
(Princeton University, 2006), p. 51.
61
58. J. Lorenz, H. Rauhut, F. Schweitzer, and D. Helbing, How social in uence undermines the wisdom
of crowds. Submitted (2010).
59. L. Molgedey and W. Ebeling, Local order, entropy and predictability of  nancial time series,
European Physical Journal B-Condensed Matter and Complex Systems 15/4 pp. 733737 (2000).
60. G. Sugihara and R.M. May, Nonlinear forecasting as a way of distinguishing chaos from measure-
ment error in time series. Nature 344 (6268): 734741 (1990).
61. D. Helbing et al., Dynamic decision behavior and optimal guidance through information services:
Models and experiments. Pages 47-95 in: M. Schreckenberg and R. Selten (eds.) Human Behaviour
and Tra c Networks Springer, Berlin (2004).
62. N. Bardsley, R. Cubitt, G. Loomes, G., P. Mo att and R. Sugden, Experimental economics:
Rethinking the rules, Princeton University Press (2009).
63. D. Friedman and A. Cassar, Economics Lab: An Intensive Course in Experimental Eco-
nomics,Routledge (2004).
64. D. Friedman and S. Sunder, Experimental methods: A primer for economists, Cambridge Univer-
sity Press (1994).
65. F. Guala, The Methodology of Experimental Economics, Cambridge University Press (2005).
66. S. L ammer and D. Helbing, Self-control of tra c lights and vehicle  ows in urban road networks.
JSTAT P04019 (2008).
67. M. Sche er, J. Bascompte, W. A. Brock, V. Brovkin, S. R. Carpenter, V. Dakos, H. Held, E. H.
van Nes, M, Rietkerk and George Sugihara, Early-warning signals for critical transitions. Nature
461, 53-59 (2009).
68. D. Helbing and S. L ammer Supply and production networks: From the bullwhip e ect to business
cycles. Page 33-66 in: D. Armbruster, A. S. Mikhailov, and K. Kaneko (eds.) Networks of In-
teracting Machines: Production Organization in Complex Industrial Systems and Biological Cells
(World Scienti c, Singapore) (2005).
69. D. Helbing, H. Ammoser, and C. Khnert, Disasters as extreme events and the importance of net-
work interactions for disaster response management. Pages 319-348. in: S. Albeverio, V. Jentsch,
and H. Kantz (eds.) Extreme Events in Nature and Society (Springer, Berlin) (2005).
70. Google chief: Only miscreants worry about net privacy.
http://www.theregister.co.uk/2009/12/07/schmidt_on_privacy/
71. Details of 100m Facebook users collected and published.
http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-10796584
72. Odling-Smee L., Data-sharing: the next generation. Nature 446 10-11 (2007)
73. The Data Deluge, The Economist, Feb 25th 2010. http://www.economist.com/node/15579717
74. Information is Power, The Guardian Data Blog.
http://www.guardian.co.uk/media/2010/may/24/data-journalism
75. Building Big Society. www.cabinetoffice.gov.uk/media/407789/building-big-society.pdf
62
76. Apple con rms $1bn data center.
http://www.theregister.co.uk/2009/06/04/apple_1bn_north_carolina_data_center/
77. NSA plans massive, 65MW, $2bn data center in Utah.
http://www.theregister.co.uk/2009/07/03/new_nsa_data_center/
78. Microsoft consumes Chicago data center.
http://www.theregister.co.uk/2009/05/20/ascent_ch2_datacenter/
79. Google admits Scandinavian data center landing.
http://www.theregister.co.uk/2009/03/05/google_finland_data_center/
80. Google pays $51.7m for newspaper destruction metaphor.
http://www.theregister.co.uk/2009/02/12/google_buys_defunct_paper_mill/
81. Intel sees future in Mega Data Center.
http://www.theregister.co.uk/2009/02/18/the_intel_cloud/
82. R. Axelrod, The Evolution of Cooperation, Basic Books, 1984 pp. 169 170.
83. Leventhal A., Triple-parity RAID and beyond, ACM Queue, 7(11), 2009.
84. Hey T., Tansley S. and Tolle K., Jim Gray on eScience: A transformed scienti c method. Hey
T., Tansley S. and Tolle K., editors, The Fourth Paradigm: Data-Intensive Scienti c Discovery.
Microsoft Research, Redmond, Washington, 2009.
85. Banko M. and Brill E, Scaling to very very large corpora for natural language disambiguation,
Proceedings of the 39th Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics (ACL
2001), 26 33, Toulouse, France, 2001.
86. Halevy A., Norvig P. and Pereira F The unreasonable e ectiveness of data, Communications of
the ACM, 24(2):812, 2009.
87. Brants T., Ashok C., Popat, Xu P., Och F.J. and Dean J, Large language models in machine
translation, Proceedings of the 2007 Joint Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing and Computational Natural Language Learning, 858 867, Prague, Czech Republic,
2007.
88. Lin J. and Dyer C., Data-Intensive Text Processing with MapReduce, Synthesis Lectures on
Human Language Technologies, Morgan & Claypool, 2010
89. Dean J. and Ghemawat S., MapReduce: Simpli ed data processing on large clusters, Proceedings of
the 6th Symposium on Operating System Design and Implementation (OSDI 2004), pages 137150,
San Francisco, California, 2004.
90. Pike R., Dorward S., Griesemer R. and Quinlan S., Interpreting the data: Parallel analysis with
Sawzall, Scienti c Programming Journal Special Issue on Grids and Worldwide Computing Pro-
gramming Models and Infrastructure 13:4, pp. 227-298.
91. Awadallah A, How Hadoop Revolutionized Data Warehousing at Yahoo and Face-
http://www.slideshare.net/awadallah/
book.
how-hadoop-revolutionized-data-warehousing-at-yahoo-and-facebook
(2009).
CTO,
Cloudera,
Inc.,
92. Hofman J. Large-scale social media analysis with Hadoop. Yahoo! Research 2010.
http://www.slideshare.net/jakehofman/largescale-social-media-analysis-with-hadoop
63
93. Manus A. Mc and Kechadi M.-T., Scalability issue in mining large data sets, Data Mining V:
Data Mining, Text Mining and Their Business Applications, pp. 189-199. 2004
94. Muggleton S. H., Exceeding human limits, Nature 440, 409410 (2006)
95. Szalay A. and Gray J., Science in an exponential world, Nature 440, 413414 (2006)
96. Foster I., A two-way street to science s future, Nature 440, 419 (2006)
97. Eds., Community cleverness required, Nature, 455 1 (2008)
98. Nelson S., The Harvard computers, Nature, 455 36 37 (2008)
99. Lynch C., How do your data grow?, Nature, 455 28 29 (2008)
100. Doctorow C., Welcome to the petacenter. Nature, 455 16 21 (2008)
101. Google
spotlights
3-9955184-7.html
data
center
inner workings.
http://news.cnet.com/8301-10784_
102. Butler D., Data sharing threatens privacy. Nature 449:644 645
103. Eds., A matter of trust: Social scientists studying electronic interactions must take the lead on
preserving data security. Nature 449:637 638
104. Pass G., Chowdhury A. and Torgeson C., A Picture of Search. Proc. 1st Int. Conference on
Scalable Information Systems. Hong Kong (2006)
105. Eagle N., Pentland A., Reality Mining: sensing complex social systems. Personal Ubiquitous Com-
put 10:255 268 (2006)
106. Eagle N., Pentland A., Lazer D., Inferring friendship network structure by using mobile phone
data. PNAS 106:36 (2009)
107. The Jerusalem Declaration is part of the WP9  Data in complex systems  of the GIACS Coordi-
nation Action n. 012380. http://portale.unipa.it/ocs/home/jerusalemSubscription.html
108. A. Vespignani, Predicting the behavior of techno-social systems. Science 325, 425-428 (2009).
109. Barabasi A., Scale-free networks: a decade and beyond. Science 325 412-413 (2009).
110. Ostrom E., A generalized framework for analyzing sustainability of social-ecological systems.
Science 325 419-422 (2009).
111. Google Flu Trends. http://www.google.org/flutrends/
112. N.A. Christakis, J.H. Fowler, Social Network Sensors for Early Detection of Contagious Outbreaks.
PLoS ONE 5(9): e12948. (2010)
113. Henderson J. V., Storeygard A., Weil D. N., Measuring Economic Growth from Outer Space.
NBER Working Paper No. w15199 (2009)
114. Backstrom L., Dwork C. and Kleinberg J., Wherefore Art Thou R3579X? Anonymized Social
Networks, Hidden Patterns, and Structural Steganography. Proc. 16th Int. World Wide Web
Conference (2007)
115. EU Commission plans more harmonisation of data protection law.
http://www.out-law.com/default.aspx?page=11228
64
116. Bajaria P. and Yeo J., Auction design and tacit collusion in FCC spectrum auctions. Information
Economics and Policy 21:2 90-100 (2009)
117. Schultz C., Transparency and tacit collusion (2001)
118. Kluger B. and Wyatt S. B., Preferencing, Internalization of Order Flow, and Tacit Collusion:
Evidence from Experiments. Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis 37:3 pg:449 (2002)
119. Michael M., Moreira J.E., Shiloach D. and Wisniewski R.W., Scale-up x Scale-out: A Case Study
using Nutch/Lucene. Parallel and Distributed Processing Symposium, IEEE International (2007)
120. Barroso L. A. and H olzle, The Datacenter as a Computer: An Introduction to the Design of
Warehouse-Scale Machines. Morgan & Claypool Publishers (2009)
121. Jacobs A., The pathologies of big data. ACM Queue, 7:(6) (2009)
122. SSD Myths and Legends -  write endurance .
http://www.storagesearch.com/ssdmyths-endurance.html.
123. A. Mazlouimian, D. Helbing, Y-H. Eom, S. Lozano and S. Fortunato, How citation boosts trigger
scienti c paradigm shifts. (in preparation) (2010).
124. D. Helbing, M. Treiber, and N. J. Saam, Analytical investigation of innovation dynamics consid-
ering stochasticity in the evaluation of  tness. Physical Review E 71, 067101 (2005).
125. S. E. Asch, Studies of independence and conformity: a minority of one against a unanimous
majority. Psychological Monographs, 70:9 (1956).
126. F. Winter, H. Rauhut and D. Helbing, How norms can generate con ict. Jena Economic Research
Papers (2009).
127. D. Helbing and A. Johansson, Cooperation, norms, and con ict: A uni ed approach. SFI Working
Paper #09-09-040 (2009).
128. D. Helbing and W. Yu, The outbreak of cooperation among success-driven individuals under
noisy conditions. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences USA (PNAS) 106(8), 3680-
3685 (2009).
129. D. Helbing, W. Yu and H. Rauhut, Self-organization and emergence in social systems. Modeling
the coevolution of social environments and cooperative behavior. SFI Working Paper #09-07-026
(2009).
130. Four million British identities are up for sale on the Internet.
http://technology.timesonline.co.uk/tol/news/tech_and_web/the_web/
article6718560.ece
131. E. Diener and R. Crandall, Ethics in social and behavioral research. University of Chicago Press,
Chicago (1978).
132. Geambasu R., Kohno T., Levy A. and Levy H. M., Vanish: Increasing Data Privacy with Self-
Destructing Data. Proceedings of the USENIX Security Symposium, Montreal, Canada, August
(2009)
65
133. It seems it not so easy to clear ones name on-line, even when trying hard. This is spe-
cially true for traces left on social network Web sites, for which speci c applications, such
as http://suicidemachine.org/, have been created in order to accomplish this task. For a
discussion based on a true story see http://ask.slashdot.org/story/09/12/10/2115238/
Best-Way-To-Clear-Your-Name-Online.
134. Data, data everywhere, The Economist, Feb 25th 2010
135. L. Lessig, Against Transparency, The New Republic, 9th Oct, 2009.
http://www.tnr.com/article/books-and-arts/against-transparency
136. A. Diekmann, W. Przepiorka, and H. Rauhut, Die Pr aventivwirkung des Nichtwissens im Exper-
iment [Experimental Evidence of the Preventive E ect of Ignorance]. Zeitschrift f ur Soziologie
40(1), 74 84 (2011).
137. A.C. Kinsey, W.B. Pomeroy, W.B., and C.E. Martin, Sexual Behavior in the Human Male (Saun-
ders, Philadelphia, 1948).
138. A.C. Kinsey, W.B. Pomeroy, C.E. Martin, and P.H. Gebhard, Sexual Behavior in the Human
Female (Saunders, Philadelphia, 1953).
139. Symantec Internet Security Threat Report.
http://www.symantec.com/business/theme.jsp?themeid=threatreport.
140. A. Janc and L. Olejnik , Feasibility and Real-World Implications of Web Browser History Detection
141. G. Wondracek, T. Holz, E. Kirda and C Kruegel, A Practical Attack to De-Anonymize Social
Network Users. Technical Report TR-iSecLab-0110-001
142. Google admits it accidentally gathered WiFi data.
http://www.ft.com/cms/s/2/8a23b394-5fab-11df-a670-00144feab49a.html
143. Google to hand over intercepted data.
http://www.ft.com/cms/s/2/db664044-6f43-11df-9f43-00144feabdc0.html
144. Lawyers Claim Google Wi-Fi Sni ng  Is Not an Accident .
http://gizmodo.com/5554960/lawyers-claim-google-wi+fi-sniffing-is-not-an-accident
145. Wi-Fi Data Captured By Google Street View Cars Included Passwords.
http://gizmodo.com/5567460/wi+fi-data-captured-by-google-street-view-cars-included-passwords
146. Statement of Ethical Practice for the British Sociological Association, BSA, the British Sociolog-
ical Society, 2002. http://www.britsoc.co.uk/equality/Statement+Ethical+Practice.htm
147. Ethical Guidelines, Social Research Association , (2003).
http://www.the-sra.org.uk/ethical.htm
148. Dench Sally, Iphofen Ron, Huws Ursula, An EU Code of Ethics for Socio-Economic Research, The
Institute of Employment Studies, 2004
149. The British Psychological Society, Report of the Working Party on Conducting Research on the
Internet, 2007. http://www.bps.org.uk/the-society/code-of-conduct/
150. Senator calls on FTC to tackle social-net privacy.
http://news.cnet.com/8301-13577_3-20003415-36.html
66
151. The Electronic Frontier Foundation published a timeline of Facebook s privacy policy modi ca-
tions over the years. http://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2010/04/facebook-timeline
152. Watchdog  les complaint over Facebook  privacy  settings.
http://www.theregister.co.uk/2009/12/17/epic_facebook_privacy_complain/
153. Exclusive: Google, CIA Invest in  Future  of Web Monitoring.
http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2010/07/exclusive-google-cia/
154. X. Su and T. M. Khoshgoftaar, A Survey of Collaborative Filtering Techniques, Advances in
Arti cial Intelligence (2009).
155. E. J. Candes and T. Tao, The power of convex relaxation: Near-optimal matrix completion. IEEE
Trans. Inform. Theory, 56: 2053-2080 (2009).
156. Privacy and identity management for life. Eds. M. Bezzi et al. Springer (2009).
157. G. Ziegler, C. Farkas, and A. L orincz, A framework for anonymous but accountable self-organizing
communities, Information and Software Technology, 48: 726-744 (2006).
158. Apple s Worst Security Breach: 114,000 iPad Owners Exposed.
http://gawker.com/5559346/apples-worst-security-breach-114000-ipad-owners-exposed
159. T-Mobile con rms biggest phone customer data breach.
http://www.guardian.co.uk/uk/2009/nov/17/t-mobile-phone-data-privacy
160. EU warns on Facebook privacy.
http://www.nytimes.com/2009/01/27/technology/27iht-facebook.4-417144.html
161. German minister warns Facebook over privacy rules.
http://blog.foreignpolicy.com/posts/2010/04/05/german_minister_warns_facebook_
over_privacy_rules
162. Cattuto C., Van den Broeck W., Barrat A., Colizza V., Pinton J.-F. and Vespignani A., Dynamics
of person-to-person interactions from distributed RFID sensor networks. PLoS ONE 5(7): e11596
(2010)
163. J. Krumm, A survey of computational location privacy. Personal and Ubiquitous Computing 13
(6), 391 399 (2009).
164. D. Helbing and W. Yu, The future of social experimenting. PNAS 107(12) 5265-5266, (2010).
165. Internet Reputation Management: neutralize negative publicity.
http://www.internet-reputation-management.com/
166. Reputation Management Consultants.
http://www.reputationmanagementconsultants.com/
167. Reputation Defender. http://www.reputationdefender.com/
168. Squidoo: Internet Reputation Management.
http://www.squidoo.com/internet-reputation-management
169. European privacy seals for IT products and IT-based services.
https://www.european-privacy-seal.eu/
67
170. Ixquick: the world s most private search engine. http://ixquick.com/
171. RottenNeighbor.com was a website created to post information about neighbors and  nd infor-
mation about new potential neighbors before moving. Launched in July 2007, it was discontinued
in July 2009.
172. Digging into Data. http://www.diggingintodata.org/
173. Transparency is at the heart of this Government. Data.gov.uk is home to national & local data
for free re-use. http://data.gov.uk.
174. Data.Gov Empowering people. http://www.data.gov.
175. Dataverse Project: An Open-Source Application for Publishing, Citing and Discovering Research
Data. http://thedata.org/.
176. Apache WSIF: Web Service Invocation Framework. http://ws.apache.org/wsif/.
177. ETH Financial Crisis Observatory. http://www.er.ethz.ch/fco/index.
178. 123 People. http://www.123people.com.
179. Oakland Crimespotting is an interactive map of crimes in Oakland and a tool for understanding
crime in cities. http://oakland.crimespotting.org.
180. Government requests directed to Google and YouTube.
http://www.google.com/governmentrequests/.
181. Mechanical Turk is a market place for work. https://www.mturk.com/mturk/welcome.
182. Micro Payment: professional payment provider. http://micropayment.de.
183. Vanish: self-destructing digital data. http://vanish.cs.washington.edu.
184. Did you watch porn? http://www.didyouwatchporn.com.
185. What the Internet knows about you. This page checks your browser history and determines which
of the 5000 most popular Internet websites you ve recently visited.
http://www.whattheinternetknowsaboutyou.com.
186. Peter Eckersley, How Unique Is Your Web Browser? Electronic Frontier Foundation (2009)
187. Panopticlick: How unique and trackable is your browser? https://panopticlick.eff.org.
188. EFF: Forget cookies, your browser has  ngerprints. http://www.computerworld.com/s/
article/9176904/EFF_Forget_cookies_your_browser_has_fingerprints
189. WUALA, Backup. Store. Share. Access Everywhere. http://www.wuala.com/.
190. Tor: anonymity online. http://www.torproject.org/.
191. Freenet, the free network. http://freenetproject.org/.
192. QLectives (Quality Collectives). http://www.qlectives.eu.
193. Datenschutz
fr
iPhone-Apps.
http://www.ethlife.ethz.ch/archive_articles/100930_
MBusiness_Apps_sch/index
68
194. DIASPORA, The privacy aware, personally controlled, do-it-all, open source social network.
http://www.joindiaspora.com/
195. Security Focus. http://www.securityfocus.com
196. ICKN Galaxy Advisors. http://ickn.org
197. PostRank: Intelligence from the social web. http://www.postrank.com/
198. Soziale Netzwerke verraten k unftiges K auferverhalten. http://www.tagesanzeiger.ch/
digital/internet/Soziale-Netzwerke-verraten-kuenftiges-Kaeuferverhalten/story/
19928880
199. A. Bifet and R.K. August, Data Stream Mining: A Practical Approach. The University of Waikato
(2009).
200. C. Aggarwal, Managing and Mining Uncertain Data. Springer Publishing Company, Incorporated
(2009).
201. M. Tsytsarau and T. Palpanas, Mining Subjective Data on the Web. In Data Mining and Knowl-
edge Discovery Journal (2011).
202. J. Ho art, F.M. Suchanek, K. Berberich, E. Lewis-Kelham, G. de Melo, and G. Weikum, YAGO2:
exploring and querying world knowledge in time, space, context, and many languages. In Proceed-
ings of the 20th international conference on World Wide Web 2011, Hyderabad, India.
203. N. Polyzotis, S. Skiadopoulos, P. Vassiliadis and A. Simitsis, and N.-E. Frantzell, Meshing Stream-
ing Updates with Persistent Data in an Active Data Warehouse. IEEE Trans. Knowl. Data Eng.,
20:7, pp 976 991 (2008).
204. A. Camerra, T. Palpanas, J. Shieh and E.J. Keogh, iSAX 2.0: Indexing and Mining One Billion
Time Series. In ICDM, pp. 58 67 (2010).
205. R. Agrawal and R. Srikant, Privacy-preserving data mining. Proceedings of the 2000 ACM SIG-
MOD international conference on Management of data, pp. 439450 (2000).
206. P. Samarati and L. Sweeney, Generalizing Data to Provide Anonymity when Disclosing Informa-
tion. Proceedings of the Seventeenth ACM SIGACT-SIGMOD-SIGART Symposium on Principles
of Database Systems. ACM Press (1998).
207. C. C. Aggarwal and Philip S. Yu, Privacy-Preserving Data Mining: Models and Algorithms.
Springer, pp. 530, (2008).
208. M. Atzori, F. Bonchi, F. Giannotti and D. Pedreschi, Anonymity preserving pattern discovery.
VLDB Journal, 17:4, pp. 703 727, (2006).
209. B.C.Chen, D. Kifer, K. LeFevre and A. Machanavajjhala, Privacy-Preserving Data Publishing.
Foundations and Trends in Databases Vol. 2, Nos. 12 pp.1167 (2009)
210. B.-C. Chen, D. Kifer, K. LeFevre and A. Machanavajjhala, Privacy-Preserving Data Publishing
(Survey).Foundations and Trends in Databases 2, Nos. 12 1167 (2009).
211. A. Narayanan and V. Shmatikov, Robust De-anonymization of Large Sparse Datasets. IEEE
Symposium on In Security and Privacy SP 2008. IEEE Symposium. pp. 111-125. (2008).
69
212. R.Jones, R. Kumar, B. Pang, A.Tomkins, Vanity fair: privacy in querylog bundles. CIKM  08:
Proceeding of the 17th ACM conference on Information and knowledge management pp. 853-862
(2008).
213. F. Giannotti and D. Pedreschi, Mobility, Data Mining and Privacy: Geographic Knowledge Dis-
covery. Springer pp. 410 (2008).
214. A. Monreale, G. Andrienko, N.Andrienko, F. Giannotti, D. Pedreschi, S. Rinzivillo and S. Wrobel,
Movement Data Anonymity through Generalization. Transactions on Data Privacy 3:2 pp. 91 121
(2010). http://www.tdp.cat/issues/abs.a045a10.php
215. Project
Gaydar.
http://www.boston.com/bostonglobe/ideas/articles/2009/09/20/
project_gaydar_an_mit_experiment_raises_new_questions_about_online_privacy/.
