Green Cellular Network Deployment
To Reduce RF Pollution
Sumit Katiyar
Research Scholar 
Singhania University
Prof. R. K. Jain
Research Scholar 
Singhania University
Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan, India
sumitkatiyar@gmail.com
Jhunjhunu, Rajasthan, India
rkjain_iti@rediffmail.com
Prof. N. K. Agrawal 
Sr Member IEEE
Inderprastha Engg. College
Sahibabad, Ghaziabad, India
agrawalnawal@gmail.com
ABSTRACT
As  the  mobile  telecommunication  systems  are  growing 
tremendously all over the world, the numbers of handheld and 
base  stations  are  also  rapidly  growing  and  it  became  very 
popular  to  see  these  base  stations  distributed  everywhere  in 
the  neighborhood  and  on  roof  tops  which  has  caused  a 
considerable  amount  of  panic  to  the  public  in  Palestine 
concerning  wither  the  radiated  electromagnetic  fields  from 
these  base  stations  may  cause  any  health  effect  or  hazard. 
Recently UP High Court in India ordered for removal of BTS 
towers  from  residential  area,  it  has  created  panic  among 
cellular communication network designers too. Green cellular 
networks  could  be  a  solution  for  the  above  problem.  This 
paper  deals  with  green  cellular  networks  with  the  help  of 
multi-layer  overlaid  hierarchical  structure  (macro  /  micro  / 
pico  /  femto  cells).  Macrocell  for  area  coverage,  micro  for 
pedestrian and a slow moving traffic while pico for indoor use 
and  femto  for  individual  high  capacity  users.  This  could  be 
the  answer  of  the  problem  of  energy  conservation  and 
enhancement of spectral density also.
Keywords
Smart  /  Adaptive  Antenna,  Picocell,  Femtocell,  Remote  RF,
Hierarchical Structure   
1. INTRODUCTION
Across 
the  developed  and  developing  world,  wireless 
communications has proven a  necessity. There seems  no end 
in sight to the proliferation of mobile communications as over 
120,000  new  base  stations  are  deployed  yearly,  and  there  is 
growth  across  every  demographic 
to 
businessmen  to  the  poorest  Indian  village.  The  developing 
world  has  turned  to  wireless  communications  as  a  leap  frog 
technology past wired communications which spurs its growth 
even  more.  Simultaneously,  the  industrialized  world  has 
developed an insatiable demand for broadband data (including 
internet  and  multimedia  services)  delivered  through  their 
cellular handset. This meteoric rise in users and data demand 
alone does not create a crisis; however when one evaluates the 
communications  ecosystem  from  a  carbon  footprint  and 
energy  cost  perspective,  the  results  are  startling.  A  medium 
sized cellular network uses as much energy as 170,000 homes. 
While the cost of powering the needed base stations accounts 
for a staggering 50% of a service provider s overall expenses. 
This  impact  is  magnified  by  the  requirement  for  expensive 
 dirty   diesel  fuel  for  many  locations  in  developing  regions. 
The  deteriorating  economic  landscape  combined  with  the 
emerging  emphasis  on  stewardship  to  the  environment  has 
made the  greening  of communications an imperative.
teenagers 
from 
R.F.  pollution 
neurological, 
is  harmful 
cardiac, 
to  mankind  and  can  cause 
ophthalmological, 
respiratory, 
dermatological  and other conditions ranging in severity from 
headaches,  fatigue  and  add  to  pneumonia,  psychosis  and 
strokes.
This  paper  provides  the  probable  solution  for  keeping  RF 
pollution level with in harmless limits.
Rising  energy  costs  and  the  recent  international  focus  on 
climate  change  issues  has  resulted  in  a  high  interest  in 
improving  the  energy  efficiency  in  the  telecommunications 
industry.  In  this  work,  the  effects  of  a  joint  deployment  of 
macrocells  /  microcells  for  area  coverage  and  publicly 
accessible residential picocells / femtocells on the total energy 
consumption of the network are investigated. The decreasing 
energy efficiency  of  today s  macrocellular  technologies  with 
increasing user demand for high data rates is also discussed. It 
is  shown  that  a  joint  deployment  of macro,  micro- and 
publicly  accessible  residential  picocells  /  femtocells  can 
reduce the total energy consumption by up to 60% in an urban 
area  with  today s  technology  [1].  The  macrocell  are  utilized 
for  high  speed  traffic,  microcell  for  low  speed  traffic  and 
pedestrian use. However picocells / femtocells are for indoor 
traffic  and  publicly  accessible  areas  (hotspots).  Furthermore 
the  impact  of  future  technologies  for  both  macro- and 
femtocells  on  the  energy  efficiency  is  investigated  [2].  It  is 
shown  that  the  benefits  of  a  joint  macro- and  picocell 
deployment will increase further as both technologies mature, 
and will result in a significant reduction of the network energy 
consumption as the user demand for high data rates increases.
Energy  efficiency  in  cellular  networks  is  a  growing  concern 
for  cellular  operators  to  not  only  maintain  profitability,  but 
also to reduce the overall environment effects. This emerging 
trend  of  achieving  energy  efficiency  in  cellular  networks  is 
motivating 
the  standardization  authorities  and  network 
operators to continuously explore future technologies in order 
to bring improvements in the entire network infrastructure [2]. 
In this work, we present a brief survey of methods to improve 
the  power  efficiency  of  cellular  networks,  explore  some 
research issues and challenges and suggest some techniques to 
enable an energy efficient or  green   cellular  network. Since 
base stations consume a maximum portion of the total energy 
used 
in  a  cellular  system,  we  will  first  provide  a 
comprehensive survey on techniques to obtain energy savings 
in base stations. Next, we discuss how heterogeneous network 
deployment based on micro, pico and femtocells can be used 
to  achieve  this  goal.  Since  cognitive  radio  and  cooperative 
relaying are undisputed future technologies in this regard, we 
propose  a  research  vision  to  make  these  technologies  more 
energy  efficient  for  future.  Lastly,  we  explore  some  broader 
perspectives 
realizing  a   green   cellular  network 
technology.
in 
1
AND 
/ 
FEMTOCELL 
In  this  paper  we  have  restricted  ourselves  with  the  up 
gradation  of  existing  2G  /  2.5G  networks  for  achieving  our 
target of green cellular networks.
2. EFFECTS  OF  JOINT  MACROCELL  / 
MICROCELL 
RESIDENTIAL 
PICOCELL 
FOR 
DEPLOYMENT  OF  GREEN  CELLULAR 
NETWORKS
The  requirements  of  green  cellular  network  can  be  fulfilled 
with  the  known  cellular  architectures  (macro,  micro,  pico 
cells)  led to  the  conception  of  the  idea  of  a  hierarchical  cell 
structure  [3],[4].  The  key  issue  for  this  type  of  cell 
architecture  is  to  apply  multiple  cell  layers  to  each  service 
area,  with  the  size  of  each  layered  cell  tailored  to  match  the 
required  traffic  demand  and  environmental  constraints  (Fig. 
1).  In  essence,  microcells  will  provide  the  basic  radio 
coverage  but  they  will  be  overlaid  with  Umbrella  cells  to 
maintain  the  ubiquitous  and  continuous  coverage  required. 
Especially  for  the  DS-CDMA  system,  this  mixed  cell 
technique  gives  answers 
to  situations  where  possible 
performance  degradation  may  occur,  e.g.  fast  moving  users 
requiring handover, or black spots in coverage. 
Fig 2: Overview of macrocellular underlay network with 
residential picocell overlay deployment
3. AN  ADAPTIVE  BASE  STATION 
ANTENNA FOR THE UMBRELLA CELL 
OF A MIXED CELL STRUCTURE
The  potential  advantages  offered  by  employing  an  adaptive 
antenna at an Umbrella BS site with a DSCDMA system, can 
be summarized as follows:
Capacity enhancement
  Mitigation of the near-far effect.
 
  More efficient handover.
 
 
"In fill" coverage for the dead-spots.
Ability to support high data rates.
Fig 1: Hierarchical Cell Structure Concept [9]
Advanced antenna techniques, such as adaptive antennas, are 
an  area  which  seems  to  gather  momentum  recently  [5],  [6], 
[7], [8] as another possible way to increase the efficiency of a 
given system. Adaptive antennas, based on the spatial filtering 
at  the  base  station,  separate  the  spectrally  and  temporally 
overlapping  signals  from  multiple  mobile  units.  This  can  be 
exploited in many ways such as:
- Support a mixed architecture.
- Combat the near-far effect.
- Support higher data rates.
- Combine all the available received energy, (multipath).
Residential picocells are deployed in conjunction with a wide 
area  cellular  network  for  area  coverage 
in  an  urban 
environment  as  illustrated  in  fig.  2.  It  is  assumed  that  the 
residential  picocells  have  substantial  auto-configuration 
capabilities  to  support  simple  plug  and  play  deployment  by 
customers.
SPATIAL  DIVISION 
4. ADAPTIVE 
MULTIPLE ACCESS 
A-SDMA is based on the exploitation of the spatial dimension 
which has so far not been used for parallelism. Using adaptive 
array antennas  at  the base station  sites, multiple  independent 
beams can be formed with which several users can be served 
simultaneously on the same radio channel. This approach is an 
extension  of  the  system  where  adaptive  arrays  are  used  for 
interference  reduction,  without  exploiting  the  potential  of 
spatial parallelism. This  is illustrated in fig 3. Benefits of A-
SDMA  are  proven and  have  been  demonstrated  in [11].  The 
benefits of adaptive antenna are also proven and can be easily 
implemented  [10].  In  essence,  the  scheme  can  adapt  the 
frequency allocations to where the most users are located.
Because  SDMA  employs  spatially  selective  transmission,  an 
SDMA  base  station  radiates  much  less  total  power  than  a 
conventional  base  station.  One  result  is  a  reduction  in 
network-wide  RF pollution.  Another  is  a  reduction  in  power 
amplifier size. First, the power is divided among the elements, 
and  then  the  power  to  each  element  is  reduced  because  the 
energy  is  being  delivered  directionally.  With  a  ten-element 
array, the amplifiers at each element need only transmit one-
hundredth  the  power  that  would  be  transmitted  from  the 
corresponding single antenna system [12].
2
Fig 3: Typical scenario for A-SDMA application
including  micro,  pico  and 
5. HIERARCHICAL STRUCTURE
Cellular  networks  are  becoming  increasingly  heterogeneous 
due  to  the  co-deployment  of  many  disparate  infrastructure 
elements, 
femtocells,  and 
distributed antennas. A flexible, accurate and tractable model 
for a general downlink HCN consisting of K tiers of randomly 
located  BSs,  where  each  tier  may  differ  in  terms  of  average 
transmit  power,  supported  data  rate,  and  BS  density. 
Assuming  1)  a  mobile  connects  to  the  strongest  BS,  2)  the 
target Signal to- Interference-Ratio (SIR) is greater than 0 dB, 
and 3) received power is subject to Rayleigh fading and path 
loss. Expressions for the average rate achievable by different 
mobile users are derived. This model reinforces the usefulness 
of  random  spatial  models  in  the  analysis  and  research  of 
cellular  networks.  This  is  a  baseline  tractable  HCN  model 
with possible future extensions being the inclusion of antenna 
sectoring,  frequency  reuse,  power  control  and  interference 
avoidance/  cancellation  [13].  To  overcome  handoff  problem 
in hierarchical cell structure, efficient use of radio resources is 
very  important.  All  resources  have  to  be  optimally  utilized. 
However,  in  order  to  adapt  to  changes  of  traffic,  it  is 
necessary to consider adaptive radio resource management.
reuse 
to 
increase 
The ability of hierarchical cellular structure (Fig 3) with inter-
layer 
the  capacity  of  a  mobile 
communication  radio  network  by  applying  Total  Frequency 
Hopping  (T-FH)  and  Adaptive  Frequency  Allocation  (AFA) 
as  a  strategy  to  reuse  the  macro- and  micro  cell  resources 
without  frequency  planning  in  indoor  picocells  /  femtocells 
have been discussed [14].
Fig 4: Hierarchical Cellular Structure
5.1 Macro Cell 
A conventional base station with 20W power and range 
is  about  1  km  to  20  km.  Macro  cell  in  hierarchical 
structure takes care of roaming mobiles.
5.2 Micro Cell 
A conventional base station with 1W to 5W power and 
range is about 500 m to 2 km. Micro cells and pico cells 
takes  care  of  slow  traffic  (pedestrian  and  in-building 
subscribers).  Micro  cells  can  be  classified  as  the 
following: 
5.2.1 Hot Spots
These are service areas with a higher tele-traffic density 
or areas that are poorly covered. A hot spot is typically 
isolated and embedded in a cluster of larger cells.
5.2.2 Downtown Clustered Micro cells
These  occur  in  a  dense,  contiguous  area  that  serves
pedestrians and mobiles. They are typically found in an 
 urban maze of  street canyons,  with antennas located 
far below building height.
5.2.3 In-Building. 3-D Cells
These  serve  office  buildings  and  pedestrians  (fig  4). 
This  environment  is  highly  clutter  dominated,  with  an 
extremely high density and relatively slow user motion 
and a strong concern for the power consumption of the 
portable units.
5.3 Pico Cell 
The  picocells  are  small  versions  of  base  stations, 
ranging  in  size  from  a  laptop  computer  to  a  suitcase. 
Besides  plugging  coverage  holes,  picocells  are 
frequently  used  to  add  voice  and  data  capacity, 
something that repeater  and distributed antenna  cannot 
do.
Adding  capacity  in  dense  area,  splitting  cells  are 
expensive, time consuming and occasionally impossible 
in dense urban environment where room for a full size 
base  station  often  is  expensive  or  unviable.  Compact 
size  picocells  makes  them  a  good  fit  for  the  places 
needing enhanced capacity, they can get.
Picocells are designed to serve very small area such as 
part of a building, a street corner, malls, railway station 
etc.  These  are  used  to  extend  coverage  to  indoor  area 
where  outdoor  signals  do  not  reach  well  or  to  add 
network capacity in areas with very dense uses.
5.4 Femto Cell 
A  femtocell  is  a  smaller  base  station,  typically  designed  for 
use  in  home  or  small  business.  In  telecommunications,  a 
femtocell  is  a  small  cellular  base  station,  typically  designed 
for use in a home or small business. It connects to the service 
provider s network via broadband (such as DSL or cable). 
5.4.1 Advantage to the Femtocell User
5.4.1.1 Better coverage and capacity
Due  to  their  short  transmit-receive  distance,  femtocells  can 
greatly lower transmit power, prolong handset battery life, and 
achieve  a  higher  signal-to 
interference-plus-noise  ratio 
3
(SINR).  These  translate  into  improved  reception the  so-
called five-bar coverage and higher capacity. Because of the 
reduced  interference,  more  users  can  be  packed  into a  given 
area in the same region of spectrum, thus increasing the area 
spectral  efficiency  [15],  or  equivalently,  the  total  number  of 
active users per Hz per unit area.
5.4.1.2 Improved macrocell reliability
If  the  traffic  originating  indoors  can  be  absorbed  into  the 
femtocell  networks  over  the  IP  backbone,  the  macrocell  BS 
can  redirect  its  resources  towards  providing  better  reception 
for mobile users.
5.4.1.3 Cost benefits
Femtocell  deployments  will  reduce  the  operating and  capital 
expenditure  costs  for  operators.  A  typical  urban  macrocell 
costs upwards of $1K per  month in site lease, and additional 
costs for electricity and backhaul. The macrocell network will 
be  stressed  by  the  operating  expenses,  especially  when  the 
subscriber  growth  does  not  match  the  increased  demand  for 
data  traffic.  The  deployment  of  femtocells  will  reduce  the 
need for adding macro-BS towers. A recent study [16] shows 
that  the  operating  expenses  scale from  $60K  per  year  per 
macrocell to just $200 per year per femtocell.
5.4.1.4 Reduced subscriber turnover
Poor  in-building  coverage  causes  customer  dissatisfaction, 
encouraging  them  to  either  switch  operators  or  maintain  a 
separate  wired  line  whenever  indoors.  The  enhanced  home 
coverage  provided  by  femtocells  will  reduce  motivation  for 
home users to switch carriers.
The  goal  of  this  paper  provided  an  overview  for  these  end-
user  deployed  infrastructure  enhancements,  and  describe  in 
more  detail  how  the  above  improvements  come  about.  We 
also  describe  the  business  and  technical  challenges  that 
femtocells  present,  and  provide  some  ideas  about  how  to 
address them.
To  summarize,  the  capacity  benefits  of  femtocells  are 
attributed to:
  Reduced  distance  between  the  femtocell  and  the  user, 
which leads to a higher received signal strength.
  Lowered  transmit  power,  and  mitigation  of  interference 
from  neighboring  macrocell  and  femtocell  users  due  to 
outdoor propagation and penetration losses.
  As femtocells serve only around 1-4 users, they can devote 
a  larger  portion  of  their  resources  (transmit  power  & 
bandwidth)  to  each  subscriber.  A  macrocell,  on  the  other 
hand, has a larger coverage area (500m-1 km radius), and a 
larger number of users; providing Quality of Service (QoS) 
for data users is more difficult.
6. REMOTE RF TECHNOLOGY
Global  warming  has  become  an  increasingly  important  item 
on  the  global  political  agenda.  In this  regard,  information  in 
communication  technologies  have  been  identified  to  be  a 
major future contributor to overall green house gas emissions, 
having a share of more than 2% already in 2007 with a strong 
trend  to  increase [17] [18].  In  the  strive  for  lessening  of  the 
environmental impact on the information and communication 
industry, energy consumption and green house gas emissions 
of  communication  networks  has  recently  received  increased 
attention.
technologies  and  applications  associated  with 
The 
the 
extension of connection between a wireless radio base station 
and its antennas can be a  probable solution to overcome this 
problem.  The  extension  of  this  connection  allows  wireless 
operators to provide wireless service to new and remote areas, 
using  radio  equipment  from  an  existing  location.  Optical 
Wireless  Technology  is  proposed  as  a  viable  and  cost 
effective 
in  urban 
environments. The cost benefits of using today s technologies 
to  extend  the  link  between  radio  base  stations  and  their 
antennas is also explained. 
technology 
application 
for 
this 
Distributed cell site architecture will be explored as a possible 
RF  network  design  concept.  The  potential  benefits  of  this 
concept will be described in detail.
The benefits  of cell site deployment using the distribution of 
centralized radio resources are listed below:
  Significant cost savings achieved by aggregating backhaul 
traffic for the hub and remote cells   hub provides shared 
backhaul facilities.
  Costs  associated  with 
leasing  building  space  are 
significantly reduced, since indoor building space will not 
be required for most remote locations.
  Reduced deployment and operational costs associated with 
providing  cell  site  building  facilities  such  as  power, 
electricity, air conditioning, fire protection and security.
  Remote  sites  can  be  deployed  much  more  quickly  than 
traditional cell sites.
  Lower  overall  infrastructure  installation  costs  resulting 
from base station co-location at hub cells.
  Lower  maintenance  and  operating  expenses  due  to  base 
station collocation at hub cells.
  Enhanced deployment flexibility with remote cells.
  Lower overall deployment costs for new networks.
  Re-use of current cell site facilities for existing networks.
  Facilitates cost effective in-building coverage and capacity 
solutions.
This  method  of  cell  site  deployment  is  even  more  powerful 
when  it  is  combined  with  the  sharing  of  facilities  and 
equipment  between  wireless  operators.  Some  or  all  of  the 
remote  RF  technologies  may  be  used  to  facilitate  the 
distribution  of  centralized  radio  resources.  It  is  further 
suggested that Optical Wireless Technology may be ideal for 
this  application,  for  dense  urban  areas  in  particular.  The 
equipment can be mounted on rooftops with the RF antennas, 
and there are no spectrum licensing requirements. It provides 
the capacity required for dense urban environments, and it is 
also easy to install and maintain. Optical Wireless Technology 
could help  operators  deploy cells much  more quickly, which 
would 
their  quality  of  service  and  customer 
satisfaction.
improve 
In many urban cell site locations, more than one operator has 
equipment at the site. Some sites may have multiple wireless 
service  providers  operating  from  the  same  location.  In  some 
of  these  locations,  operators  share  the  antennas,  cable  and 
backhaul transport facilities. As the trend for sharing facilities 
and  wireless  equipment  continues,  optical  technology  will 
provide the capacity required to combine  backhaul  and other 
facilities for multiple operators. Operators can use all of these 
techniques and a variety of remote RF technologies to reduce 
the  costs  of  network  deployment.  Overall,  there  is  a 
compelling business case for the use of remote RF technology 
to build and expand wireless networks.
Remote  RF  solutions  have  evolved  as  wireless  network 
infrastructure  has  evolved.  A  variety of  remote RF  solutions 
exist  today  to  help  operators  provide  improved  capacity  and 
4
better quality of service in comparison to other indoor existing 
available technologies.
High capacity indoor users have been covered with low power 
femto  cell  while  hotspots  and  indoor  users  will  be  covered 
with  low  power  picocell  instead  of  distributed  networks  to 
provide  much  better  QoS  in  comparison  to  existing  wireless 
technologies for indoor subscribers.
Use of adaptive antenna, low power pico cell and femto cell in 
existing  2G  /  2.5G  networks  not  only  meet  the  increasing 
demand but also reduce RF pollution and power consumption 
drastically with out any doubt.
coverage. These solutions can be implemented individually or 
in  tandem  to  achieve  the  desired  results.  Optical  Wireless 
Technology  is  viable  option  for  remote  RF  applications  in 
urban environments. 
Wireless  operators  can  generate  tremendous  cost  savings  by 
utilizing remote RF technology to distribute centralized radio 
resources.  The  operator s  savings  are  increased  significantly 
as  an increasing number  of remote  cells  are  added in lieu  of 
conventional  cells.  The  implementation  of  remote  cells 
provides reductions in both the capital and operating expenses 
associated with new cell  site  deployment. Wireless  operators 
should consider  the implementation  of remote cells as a  part 
of  their  overall  network  deployment,  expansion  of  their 
existing  network,  or  for  the  implementation  of  new  wireless 
access technologies.
7. PROPOSED  GREEN  CELLULAR 
NETWORK
In  the  prevailing  scenario  the  existing  2G/2.5G  network  will 
continue  to  dominate  in  India.  We  have  to  address  the 
problem of spectral  density for catering the growing demand 
as well as RF pollution and energy conservation. In this paper 
a  simple  solution  has  been  suggested  to  meet  the  above 
requirements for up gradation of existing 2G/2.5G network in 
India.
The proposed evolution path for green network is given in fig 
5.
replaced 
femtocells  are 
Conventional / sectored antennas are replaced by intelligent / 
adaptive  antenna  along  with  A-SDMA  approach.  Picocells 
and 
instead  of  conventional 
distributed  networks.  The  use  of  adaptive  antenna  will  not 
only  reduce  the  power  consumption  but also  reduce  RF 
pollution  drastically  in  the  existing  system.  In  addition  to  it 
the  growing  demand  will  also  be  met.  Indoor  users  /  high 
capacity in-building and home users will be covered through 
deployment of low power pico cell / femtocell (fig. 6). 
Fig 6: Proposed Green Cellular Network
enhance 
spectral  density, 
8. CONCLUSION
It  has  been  proved  beyond  doubt  that  incorporation  of 
intelligent /  adaptive antenna  along with  A-SDMA approach 
reduce  power 
alone  can 
consumption  and  RF  pollution  drastically 
in  cellular 
communication  network  [1],  [19],  [20].  In  addition  to  it 
inclusion  of  remote  RF  technology  will  further  enhance 
capacity of the network. As existing systems optical network, 
wireless  network  etc. will  be  used in  RF remote  technology. 
The  power  consumption  as  well  as  RF  pollution  will  reduce 
further. Moreover in this paper, extensive use of picocell and 
femtocell  will  further  reduce  power  consumption  and  RF 
pollution  drastically,  as  some  conventional  BTS  will  be 
replaced  with  low  power  picocell  &  femtocells  which  will 
further reduce power consumption and RF pollution. 
9. REFERENCES
[1] Sumit  Katiyar,  Prof.  R.  K.  Jain,  Prof.  N.  K.  Agrawal, 
 R.F.  Pollution  Reduction  in  Cellular  Communication  
in  International  Journal  of  Scientific  &  Engineering 
Research (IJSER), Vol. 3, Issue 3, March 2012.
5
Fig 5: Outage probability with sectorized antenna
Small  power  pico  and  femto  cells  are  extensively  used  in 
proposed  network  instead  of  distributed  networks  for  in-
building and high capacity indoor users will be provided with 
[2] Prof. R. K. Jain,  Sumit  Katiyar,  Prof. N. K. Agrawal, 
in  High-Capacity 
 Hierarchical  Cellular  Structures 
Cellular  Communication  Systems  
International 
Journal of Advanced Computer Science and Applications 
(IJACSA), Vol. 2, No 9, September 2011.
in 
[3] Hakan  Eriksson  et  al,  "Multiple  Access  Options  for 
Cellular  Based  Personal  Communications",  43rd VTC, 
Secaucus, New Jersey, USA, May 18   20, 1993, pp, 957 
  962
[4] S.  Chia,  "The  Universal  Mobile  Telecommunications 
System",  IEEE  Communications  Magazine,  pp  54-62, 
December 1992.
[5]
J.S.Winters,  "Signal  acquisition  and 
tracking  with 
adaptive arrays in digital mobile radio system IS-54 with 
flat fading", IEEE Transactions on VT, Vol.VT-42, No.4, 
November 1993, pp.377-384.
[6] G.V.Tsoulos,  M.A.Beach,  SkSwales,  "Application  of 
Adaptive  Antenna  Technology  to  Third  Generation 
Mixed Cell Radio Architectures", 44th VTC, June 8-10, 
1994, Stockholm, Sweden, pp. 615-619.
[7] G.V.Tsoulos,  M.A.Beach,  S.C.Swales, 
"Adaptive 
Antennas  for  Third  Generation  Cellular  Systems",  9th
ICAP, 4 - 7 April 1995, Eindhoven, the Netherlands.
[8] Race  Tsunami  Project,  "Requirements  for  Adaptive 
Antennas for UMTS",     R2108/ART/WP2.1/DS/I/ 004/ 
bl, 22 April 1994.
[9] George  V.  Tsoulos,  Mark  A.  Beach,  Simon  C.  Swales, 
 Adaptive  Antennas  for  Third  Generation  DS-CDMA 
Cellular  Systems   IEEE,  Smart  Antennas  (Digest  No: 
1994/182), 9 Dec 1994, pp. 45-49.
[10] Murali  Kiruba   Smart  Antennas  for  Wireless  Mobile 
Communication   ITtoolbox  Wireless- 15592,  22  Oct 
2004.
[11] Tangemann,  M. Rheinschmitt,  R.,   Comparison  of 
upgrade techniques for mobile   communication systems  
IEEE International Conference on 'Serving  Humanity 
Through Communications' ICC '94, SUPERCOMM/ICC
'94, pp. 201-205.
[12] Martin  Cooper,  Marc  Goldburg,   Intelligent  Antennas: 
Spatial  Division  Multiple  Access   Annual  Review  of 
Communications,1996.
[13] Harpreet  S.  Dhillon,  Radha  Krishna  Ganti,  Franc ois 
Baccelli  and  Jeffrey  G.  Andrews,   Average  Rate 
Achievable  in K-Tier  Downlink  Heterogeneous Cellular 
Networks -
wncg.org/publications/dl.php?file=Andrews1308428051.
pdf. 
[14] Prof.  R.  K.  Jain,  Sumit  katiyar and  Dr.  N.  K.  Agrawal, 
 Survey  of  Latest  Wireless  Cellular  Technologies  for 
Enhancement  of  Spectral  Density  at  Reduced  Cost  
IJCSI International  Journal of Computer Science Issues, 
Vol. 8, Issue 3, May 2011.
[15] M. S  Alouini  and  A.J.  Goldsmith,   Area  Spectral 
Efficiency  of  Cellular  Mobile  Radio  Systems,   IEEE 
Transactions  on  Vehicular  Technology,  vol.  48,  no.  4, 
pp. 1047   1066, July 1999.
[16] Analysys,   Picocells  and  Femtocells:  Will  indoor  base-
stations  transform  the  telecoms  industry?,   [Online]. 
Available: http://research.analysys.com.
[17] McKinsey  &  Company,   The  impact  of  ICT  on  global 
emissions   on  behalf  of  the  Global  eSustainability 
Initiative (GeSI), Tech. Rep., November 2007.
[18] Fred  Richter, Albrecht  J. Fehske,  Gerhard  P.  Fettweis, 
 Energy Efficiency Aspects of Base Station Deployment 
Strategies for Cellular Networks  Vehicular Technology 
Conference  Fall 
IEEE  70th, 
September, 2009.    
(VTC  2009-Fall), 
[19] Sumit  Katiyar,  Prof.  R.  K.  Jain,  Prof.  N.  K.  Agrawal, 
 Proposed  Cellular  Network  for  Indian  Conditions  for 
Enhancement  of  Spectral  Density  and  Reduction  of 
Power Consumption &  RF Pollution   in Proceedings of 
the 2nd IEEE International Conference on Computer and 
Communication  Technology 
2011), 
Allahabad, India, September 2011. 
(ICCCT 
 
[20] Sumit  Katiyar,  Prof.  R.  K.  Jain,  Prof.  N.  K.  Agrawal, 
 An  Intelligent  Approach  for  Dense  Urban  Area  in 
existing 2G / 2.5G  in International Journal of Scientific 
&  Engineering  Research  (IJSER),  Vol.  2,  Issue 12, 
December 2011.
6
