Traveling Trends: Social Butter ies or Frequent Fliers?
 
Emilio Ferrara
Onur Varol
Filippo Menczer
Alessandro Flammini
Center for Complex Networks and Systems Research
School of Informatics and Computing, Indiana University, Bloomington, USA
3
1
0
2
 
t
c
O
0
1
 
 
 
]
I
S
.
s
c
[
 
 
1
v
1
7
6
2
.
0
1
3
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
ABSTRACT
Trending topics are the online conversations that grab collec-
tive attention on social media. They are continually chang-
ing and often re ect exogenous events that happen in the
real world. Trends are localized in space and time as they
are driven by activity in speci c geographic areas that act
as sources of tra c and information  ow. Taken indepen-
dently, trends and geography have been discussed in recent
literature on online social media; although, so far, little has
been done to characterize the relation between trends and
geography. Here we investigate more than eleven thousand
topics that trended on Twitter in 63 main US locations dur-
ing a period of 50 days in 2013. This data allows us to
study the origins and pathways of trends, how they com-
pete for popularity at the local level to emerge as winners
at the country level, and what dynamics underlie their pro-
duction and consumption in di erent geographic areas. We
identify two main classes of trending topics: those that sur-
face locally, coinciding with three di erent geographic clus-
ters (East coast, Midwest and Southwest); and those that
emerge globally from several metropolitan areas, coinciding
with the major air tra c hubs of the country. These hubs
act as trendsetters, generating topics that eventually trend
at the country level, and driving the conversation across
the country. This poses an intriguing conjecture, drawing a
parallel between the spread of information and diseases: Do
trends travel faster by airplane than over the Internet?
Categories and Subject Descriptors
[Human-centered computing]: Collaborative and social
computing Social media; [Information systems]: World
Wide Web Social networks; [Networks]: Network types 
Social media networks
 Corresponding author: ferrarae@indiana.edu
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for pro t or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the  rst page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci c permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
COSN 13, October 7 8, 2013, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
Copyright is held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM 978-1-4503-2084-9/13/10 ...$15.00.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2512938.2512956.
Keywords
Social media; Twitter; trends; geography; mobility
1.
INTRODUCTION
Social media and online social networks have been widely
adopted as proxies to study complex social dynamics, such
as the spread of information and opinions [11, 16, 25, 29,
53, 54] and the emergence of patterns of collective attention
[5, 6, 26, 50]. Groundbreaking results emerged with the
analysis of geographic metadata from social media, allowing
for the study of human mobility patterns and social media
demographics [20, 24, 31, 35, 45, 46, 8].
It has been suggested that social media may overcome
the spatio-temporal limitations of traditional communica-
tion: technologically-mediated systems make it possible to
ignore physical and geographic distances [12, 34]. This, how-
ever, does not imply that communication patterns on social
media are not a ected by physical distances and geographic
borders [33, 36]. In this paper, we explicitly study the role
played by geography in driving the main topics of discussion
on Twitter: trending hashtags and phrases.
Trends represent interesting collective communication phe-
nomena: they are user-generated, continually changing and
mostly ungoverned (although orchestrated hijacking attempts
have already been observed [9, 40, 41]). So far, trends
have been studied as a proxy to detect exogenous real-world
events discussed in social media, [1, 3, 17, 43], emerging
topics, or news of interest for the online community [10, 27].
But trends are also strongly localized in space and time:
the temporal and geographic dimensions play a crucial role
to determine the success of a trend in terms of spreading
and longevity. We argue that unveiling the spatio-temporal
dynamics that drive trending conversations on social media
is instrumental to many purposes: from designing successful
advertising campaigns, to understanding virality and popu-
larity that characterize some topics. In this paper we charac-
terize the relation between trends and geography by tracking
and analyzing trending topics on Twitter in 63 main loca-
tions of the United States and at the country level, for a
period of 50 days in 2013.
Contributions and outline
Here we study the distribution, origins, and pathways of
trends; the dynamics underlying trend production and con-
sumption in di erent geographic areas; and the competition
among trends to achieve global popularity. In the remainder
of the paper we make the following contributions:
Table 1: The list of the 63 trend locations in the United States and the relative total number of trends
(thousands) they generated in the period between April, 12th and the end of May 2013.
Albuquerque
Atlanta
Austin
Baltimore
Baton Rouge
Birmingham
Boston
Charlotte
Chicago
6.7
5.1
5.8
5.8
6.5
6.1
5.0
5.2
5.2
Cincinnati
Cleveland
Colorado Springs
Columbus
Dallas-Ft. Worth
Denver
Detroit
El Paso
Fresno
5.8
5.4
6.7
6.0
5.3
6.1
4.8
6.5
6.6
Greensboro
Harrisburg
Honolulu
Houston
Indianapolis
Jackson
Jacksonville
Kansas City
Las Vegas
Long Beach
5.8
Los Angeles
6.3
6.5
Louisville
5.1 Memphis
5.9 Mesa
6.8 Miami
6.0 Milwaukee
5.7 Minneapolis
5.4
Nashville
6.5
5.2
5.9
6.5
6.6
5.5
5.8
5.6
6.0
New Haven
New Orleans
New York
Norfolk
Oklahoma City
Omaha
Orlando
Philadelphia
Phoenix
5.6
6.2
4.4
6.0
5.8
6.4
5.8
5.1
5.9
Pittsburgh
Portland
Providence
Raleigh
Richmond
Sacramento
Salt Lake City
San Antonio
San Diego
5.8
6.4
5.9
5.3
6.2
5.9
6.4
5.8
6.2 Washington
San Francisco
San Jose
Seattle
St. Louis
Tallahassee
Tampa
Tucson
Virginia Beach
5.7
6.6
5.9
5.7
6.3
5.6
6.6
6.8
4.7
  In  2.2 we describe a procedure to build a directed and
weighted temporal dependence network to infer the
trendsetting and trend-following relationships among
locations.
  In  3.1 we provide a statistical characterization of trends,
describing how they are distributed in space and time.
  In  3.2 we highlight a locality e ect in the trend shar-
ing patterns: geographically close cities share similar
trends. This e ect of locality yields the emergence of
three geographic clusters in the US, namely East coast,
Midwest, and Southwest. But we also uncover a sur-
prising fourth cluster, representing metropolitan areas
spread across the country.
  The temporal dependence network is exploited to un-
in  3.3 we re-
veil the pathways that trends follow:
construct and reveal the signi cant backbone of this
network that carries the trends across the country.
  In  3.4 we describe two di erent dynamics that govern
popularity of trends at the country level, one for cities
in each local geographic area and one for metropoli-
tan areas. We conclude highlighting that the major
metropolitan areas shape the country trends signi -
cantly more than all other locations in the country.
  Finally,
in  4 we propose an interpretation for the
trendsetting role of major metropolitan areas, by not-
ing their correspondence with air tra c hubs and con-
jecturing that trends travel through air passengers,
just as infectious diseases.
A more extensive literature review can be found in  5.
2. EXPERIMENTAL SETUP
In this section we discuss the methodology we followed
to generate a dataset of Twitter trends, and the derived
temporal dependence network that allows us to unveil the
dynamics of trend production and consumption.
2.1 Trends dataset
To build our dataset we monitored in real-time all trends
appearing on Twitter for a period of 50 days, starting from
April, 12th until the end of May 2013.
The Twitter homepage provides a trends box that con-
tains the top 10 trending hashtags or phrases at any given
moment, ranked according to their popularity. Oftentimes,
a promoted trend is showed in 1st position   for our anal-
ysis we disregarded promoted trends since their popularity
is arti cially in ated by the advertisement.
Each Twitter user can monitor the trends at the world-
wide, country, or city level. Twitter has identi ed 63 loca-
tions in the United States, displayed in Figure 4, for which it
is possible to follow local trends. The full list of locations is
reported in Table 1. It is worth noting that some areas are
over-represented (for example the East coast and Califor-
nia), while some states (namely, North and South Dakota,
Montana, Wyoming, Idaho, and Alaska) are not represented
at all.1
We deployed a Web crawler to check at regular intervals
of 10 minutes the trends of each of these 63 locations and,
in addition, those at the country level. We ended up collect-
ing 11,402 di erent trends overall: 4,513 hashtags and 6,889
phrases. Table 1 also reports how many trends have been
observed in each location.
2.2 Trend pathway backbone network
To investigate where trends usually start and how they
propagate from city to city, we built a temporal dependence
network of the 63 locations of the United States represented
in our dataset.
This network is directed and weighted: each node cor-
responds to one of the 63 cities, and the weight of an arc
eij from node i to node j is increased every time location
i exhibits a trend before location j. The weight of arc eij
therefore represents the extent to which city i precedes city
j in adopting a trend: the higher the weight, the more often
location i sets the trends that location j will later adopt.
Due to the fact that the adopted dataset contains a large
number of trending hashtags and phrases, the network ob-
tained using the procedure described above is fully-connected.
This makes the extraction of relevant connections hard, as
each location is connected with all the others and only the
weight of the connections vary.
To ease the analysis we applied to this network an edge
 ltering technique known as multiscale backbone extraction
[48]. The goal of this procedure is to retain only those con-
nections that are statistically signi cant, by removing all
edges whose weight does not deviate su ciently from a null
model. The signi cance level of an edge is determined by
a threshold parameter  . Lowering   progressively removes
edges and eventually causes the disruption of the network.
We tuned   to obtain the backbone network with the mini-
mum number of edges that su ces to maintain all 63 nodes
connected (  = 0.3). The resulting multiscale backbone of
the network is used for the analysis of pathways of trend dif-
fusion, and to investigate trendsetting and trend-following
dynamics (see  3.3).
3. RESULTS
The results of our analysis are discussed in this section:
after a statistical description of trends, discussing how they
are distributed in space and time ( 3.1), we explore their ge-
ographic dimension, de ning what areas of the country share
1This has to do with the fact that the activity on Twitter
in those states is very low.
We now focus on the spatio-temporal dimension of trends,
aiming to determine how much time each trend spends in
one or several locations. In particular, we calculate the av-
erage lifetime of a trend (the average amount of time a given
hashtag or phrase is trending somewhere) as a function of
the number of cities in which it appears. Figure 2 (left panel)
re ects the intuition that trends reaching more places live
longer.
Another way to determine the relation between the geo-
graphic spread of trends and their temporal patterns is to
measure their lifetime as a function of entropy, de ned as
P j
i log P j
i , with P j
i =
,
(1)
i(cid:80)
tj
k tj
k
S j =  (cid:88)
i
Figure 1: Histogram of the number of trends ap-
pearing in di erent number of places. Inset: y-axis
reported in a log-scale.
where tj
i is the time topic j has been trending in location
i. The entropy is low if the trending topic is concentrated
in a few places, and maximal if the topic trends for equal
durations of time in all places. Figure 2 (right panel) shows
that for trends with low entropy (i.e., those concentrated in
a single location), the expected lifetime is very short. The
lifetime increases signi cantly ( ve-fold) for the maximum
observed entropy. This analysis reveals a key ingredient for
global trend popularity: the trending time of a topic is not
only determined by its lifetime in a single location, but also
by its geographic spread across many locations.
3.2 Geography of trends
Figure 2: Lifetime of a trend. Left: as function of
the number of cities in which a trend has appeared.
Right: as function of its entropy. In both plots, the
dark blue line is the average across trends while the
standard error is depicted in light blue.
the same type of trends ( 3.2); then we further investigate
the temporal dimension, discussing the pathways trends fol-
low ( 3.3), and  nally we characterize the trendsetting and
trend-following dynamics ( 3.4).
3.1 Spatio-temporal trend analysis
In our  rst experiment we aim to give a statistical char-
acterization of trends:
in particular, we start investigating
in how many di erent cities trends appear. In Figure 1 we
report the number of trends appearing in a given number
of distinct locations. Trends follow a bimodal distribution,
typically appearing either in one or few locations, or in all or
most of them. We can identify three behaviors: (i) a large
fraction of trends are localized and not sustained enough to
spread from their originating place to others; (ii) another
comparably large fraction of trends di use all over the cities
generating a global phenomenon across the country; and
(iii) the small remainder di use from the originating place
to some other places, but fail to achieve global popularity.
The lifetime of trends is broadly distributed: short-lived
topics trending for less than 20 minutes amount for more
than 68% of the total, and overall trends shorter than six
hours cover more than 95% of our sample. Sporadically some
trends happen to live a much longer time, with only 0.3%
surviving for more than a day.
Let us examine the geographic patterns of trends, namely
whether geographically close cities share more similar trends
than cities that are physically far apart. To determine if
this locality e ect exists, we  rst isolate, for each location i,
the set of trends Ti that appeared in that location. Then,
for each pair of locations i and j we compute the pairwise
Jaccard similarity
(cid:84) Tj|
(cid:83) Tj| .
|Ti
|Ti
Sij =
(2)
The Jaccard similarity ranges between 0 and 1: the higher
the value, the more similar the trends exhibited by two dif-
ferent cities. These values of similarity are subsequently
passed to a hierarchical clustering algorithm after being trans-
formed in distances: dij = 1 Sij. This is done to determine
whether it is possible to isolate clusters of locations that ex-
hibit similar trends, and, if so, whether these locations are
geographically close or spread all over the country. The re-
sult is showed in Figure 3 and discussed next.
3.2.1 Locality effects
Figure 3 is constituted by two parts: a heat-map rep-
resenting the pairwise Jaccard similarity among locations,
and a dendrogram generated according to an agglomera-
tive hierarchical clustering algorithm using complete link-
age. Analyzing the dendrogram we can identify three dis-
tinct clusters, whose members (reported in di erent colors:
green, yellow and red) share a high internal similarity in
the trends exhibited during the observation period. This
cluster emerges applying a cut to the dendrogram for a dis-
tance value of 0.5. We can also identify a fourth cluster (in
purple, emerging with a dendrogram cut corresponding to a
distance value of 0.75) that exhibits a lower internal simi-
larity and whose members show a low similarity with those
of other clusters. The four clusters are reported in Table 2,
and displayed in Figure 4.
Figure 3: Shared trend similarity and hierarchical clustering of the 63 locations.
From the  gure we observe that the green, yellow and
red clusters are somewhat geographically localized, while the
purple one is spread more or less all over the country. In de-
tail, the green cluster, with the highest internal similarity,
roughly corresponds to the Southwest of the country. The
yellow cluster follows, representing the Midwest and South.
The red cluster, which is less localized, matches many lo-
cations in the East coast and Midwest. The purple cluster
includes several major metropolitan areas [51]; their e ect
on trendsetting dynamics is discussed in  3.4 and a conjec-
ture about their role is o ered in  4.
Signi cance of geographic clustering
3.2.2
To determine the statistical signi cance of the clustering
obtained by using the previous method we proceeded as fol-
lows: we  rst computed the distribution of similarity values
among all pairs of locations belonging to the same cluster
(intra-cluster similarities); then, we did the same for the
pairs belonging to di erent clusters (inter-cluster similari-
ties). After that, we applied a kernel smoothing technique
known as Kernel Density Estimation [22] to estimate the
probability density functions for our similarity distributions,
plotted in Figure 5 (the distribution of each cluster is rep-
resented by its color corresponding to Table 2).
We applied a t-test to determine if any given pair of distri-
butions of intra- and inter-cluster similarity might originate
Table 2: Clusters of cities according to trend simi-
larity.
Green
Purple
Yellow
Red
Long Beach
Fresno
Mesa
Tucson
Albuquerque
Virginia Beach
San Jose
Colorado Springs
Jackson
Honolulu
El Paso
Omaha
Memphis
Salt Lake City
Harrisburg
New Orleans
Baton Rouge
Portland
Tallahassee
San Diego
Kansas City
Oklahoma City
Birmingham
Louisville
Jacksonville
Washington
New York
Detroit
Boston
San Francisco
Cleveland
Minneapolis
Las Vegas
Houston
Charlotte
Raleigh
Los Angeles
Dallas-Ft. Worth
Chicago
Philadelphia
Miami
Atlanta
St. Louis
San Antonio
Milwaukee
Tampa
Pittsburgh
New Haven
Seattle
Cincinnati
Austin
Orlando
Baltimore
Greensboro
Nashville
Norfolk
Providence
Denver
Richmond
Phoenix
Sacramento
Columbus
Indianapolis
from the same distribution, assessing that all distributions
(and, therefore, the clusters) are signi cant at the 99% con-
 dence level.
We also compared the result of the hierarchical cluster-
ing with that of two network clustering algorithms (namely,
Infomap [42] and the  Louvain method  [4]) applied to the
trend pathway backbone network (described in  2.2). We
obtained consistent results in all cases: the only di erence
Figure 4: geographic representation of the 63 locations and respective clusters.
was that Seattle was placed in the purple cluster by both
network clustering methods.
3.3 Trend pathway analysis
To establish where trends start and what pathways they
follow to di use in the country, we analyze the multiscale
trend pathway backbone network, built as described in  2.2
and represented in Figure 6 by using a divided edge bundling
technique [47]. This visualization strategy has been success-
fully applied to other geographic networks such as the US
airport tra c network (cf.
In this node-link repre-
sentation the edges are bundled taking into account direc-
tions and weights. The thicker the bundle, the higher the
sum of the weights of connections wrapped in the bundle.
In our case, this yields a network visualization that high-
lights the pathways followed by trends as they  ow across
[47]).
Figure 5: Kernel Density Estimation of intra- and
inter-cluster similarity of the four clusters.
the country. In this  gure the direction of edges represents
the information  ow: the tails of the bundles (in blue) show
where trends start, the heads of the bundles (in red) point
to where the trends arrive. From Figure 6 we can draw two
observations:  rst, the presence of a massive backbone that
carries the trend  ow from the East coast to the West coast
and vice-versa. Second, we observe a negligible North-South
 ow, except for that connecting Florida to the East coast.
Moreover, the fact that the East-to-West  ow is well bal-
anced by the that in the opposite direction suggests that we
are not simply observing an artifact of the time-zone e ect:
the West coast contributes to shaping the country trends to
a similar extent that the East coast does.
In the backbone network the cities that often generate
trends are those with higher fractions of outgoing edges
(that is, those that spread their trends to most of the other
cities); henceforth we will call them sources. Vice-versa, we
will call sinks those cities with higher fraction of incoming
edges. More precisely, since the network we deal with is
weighted, we compute the weighted source-sink ratio  (n)
for each node n as
 (n) =
sout(n)
sin(n) + sout(n)
,
(3)
where sin(n) (resp., sout(n)) is the in-strength (resp., out-
strength) of that node. We report in Table 3 the top 5
sources and the top 5 sinks of the backbone network. Four
out of the  ve top sources (all but Cincinnati) also happen
to be major metropolitan areas. On the other hand, all sinks
belong to the Southwest and Midwest parts of the country.
Los Angeles and New York (among our top sources) have
also been reported in the top 5 hashtag producers worldwide
in the recent work by Kamath et al. [23].
Figure 6: Trend pathways in Twitter. Trends spread in the direction from blue to red.
3.4 Trendsetters and trend-followers
The source-sink analysis presented above triggered our in-
terest in the dynamics of trend popularity. In the following
we study trendsetting and trend-following patterns, driven
by the following question: Are trending topics that become
popular at the country level produced uniformly by all cities,
or preferentially by some of them?
To answer this question we selected from our dataset all
those trends that at some point in time became trending at
the country level. This left us with 1,724 hashtags and 2,768
phrases that achieved the highest popularity in the United
States, appearing in the top 10 trending topics at the coun-
try level. We then selected the set of cities that exhibited
each of these trends, and divided them in two categories:
those cities in which the hashtag or phrase was trending
before it became trending at the country level, and those
cities that adopted it after it became trending at the coun-
try level. This allows us to determine what are the cities that
contribute more to shaping the trends at the country level,
and what are the cities that are more in uenced by these
global trends:
in other words, we can identify trendsetters
and trend-followers.
Figure 7 shows the result of this analysis for the hashtags.
We can immediately identify two di erent classes of cities:
top 5 sources (i.e., trendsetters).
Location
Table 3: Left:
Right: top 5 sinks (i.e., trend-followers).
Location
Los Angeles
Cincinnati
Washington
Seattle
New York
 (n)
0.806 Oklahoma City
0.736 Albuquerque
0.718 El Paso
0.711 Omaha
0.669 Kansas City
Rank
1st
2nd
3rd
4th
5th
Rank
63rd
62nd
61st
60th
59th
 (n)
0.101
0.109
0.235
0.305
0.352
the majority of them (i.e., all those in the upper-left part
of the main plot) appear to in uence country-level trends
roughly to the same extent to which they are in uenced by
the global trends; a second class of cities seem to have a
much stronger trendsetting role toward the country.
To assess if these two classes can be signi cantly distin-
guished, we use the Expectation Maximization algorithm to
learn an optimal Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM); to de-
termine the appropriate number of components of the mix-
ture we perform a 5-fold cross-validation using Bayesian and
Akaike information criteria as quality measures, by varying
the number of components from 1 to 10. The outcome of
the cross-validation determines that the optimal number of
components is two, according to both criteria, matching our
expectations.
The result of the GMM is showed in the inset of Fig-
ure 7: each point is assigned to one of the two components
yielding two di erent clusters composed respectively of 11
trendsetting cities (red dots) and 52 trend-following cities
(blue stars). The list of trendsetters includes (in ascending
order of impact) Raleigh, Detroit, Philadelphia, Houston,
New York, Dallas-Ft. Worth, Boston, Denver, Atlanta, Los
Angeles, and Seattle. All of them are major metropolitan
areas.
To highlight the existence of these two di erent dynamics
we applied a regression analysis approach by  tting two dif-
ferent linear regressions to the points belonging to the classes
of trendsetters (coe cient of determination R2 = 0.9455,
p-value p = 3.9   10 7) and trend-followers (R2 = 0.7063,
p < 10 10). This points out the proportionality that exists
between incoming and outgoing trend  ows.
We repeated this analysis by making the model even more
realistic: for example, we introduced the e ect of the time
lag, discounting the reward given to those cities that adopt a
Figure 7: Trendsetting vs. trend-following cities. The x-axis shows the number of times a topic trending in
a particular city later trends at the country level, while the y-axis shows the number of times of the reverse
e ect. The inset shows a Gaussian Mixture Model highlighting the two di erent trendsetting dynamics;
the contours represent the standard deviations of each Gaussian distribution. In the main plot, two linear
regressions are reported with the corresponding coe cient of determination R2. City colors correspond to
the cluster assignment in Table 2.
trend later with respect to the initiators; also, we rewarded
only the initiators of each trend, rather than any city that
exhibits a given trend before the trending point at the coun-
try level. Making the scenario more realistic did not a ect
the outcome: in all cases we obtained comparable results.
4. DISCUSSION
The fourth, purple cluster identi ed in  3.2 deserves fur-
ther discussion. Di erently from the others, this cluster is
not geographically well de ned (cf. Figure 4)   it contains
metropolitan areas spread all over the country. Is the e ect
of city size su cient to explain why these metropolitan ar-
eas are more in uential than others, in the sense that they
produce more national trends? It is not obvious that large
populations would lead to more national trends: while a
larger city produces more tweets and possibly more topic
competing for popularity, the number of trends for each city
at a given time is bounded to ten, irrespective of the city
size. In cities with larger content production, hashtags (or
phrases) must appear in more tweets to be listed as a trend,
whereas a lower number of tweets is su cient in cities with
smaller content production. As a result, the e ect of sheer
volume is discounted by construction in the de nition of
Twitter trends.
Why, then, do the metropolitan areas in the purple cluster
play such a trendsetting role? A possible interpretation is
o ered by noticing the presence in this cluster of some of the
major airport hubs of the United States, such as Atlanta,
Chicago, and Los Angeles. The list of top US airport hubs
[52] is shown in Table 4, where we aggregated the tra c by
metropolitan area. Surprisingly, 16 out of the 17 locations
that constitute the cluster appear in the top 20 air tra c
hubs   all of them but Cleveland. On the other hand,
Table 4: Top 20 cities ranked according to the total
volume of  ight tra c.
City
Total traffic
Cluster
New York (JFK, EWR, LGA)
Atlanta (ATL)
Chicago (ORD, MDW)
Miami (MIA, FLL, PBI)
purple
purple
purple
purple
Dallas-Ft. Worth (DFW, DAL)
purple
Washington (BWI, IAD, DCA)
purple
Los Angeles (LAX)
Denver (DEN)
purple
red
Charlotte/Raleigh (CLT, RDU)
purple
Houston (IAH, HOU)
San Francisco (SFO)
Las Vegas (LAS)
Phoenix (PHX)
Orlando (MCO)
Seattle (SEA)
Minneapolis (MSP)
Detroit (DTW)
Philadelphia (PHL)
Boston (BOS)
purple
purple
purple
red
red
red
purple
purple
purple
purple
Rank
6th , 14th , 20th
1st
2nd, 25th
12th , 21st, 54th
4th , 45th
22nd, 23rd , 26th
3rd
5th
8th , 37th
11th , 32nd
7th
9th
10th
13th
15th
16th
17th
18th
19th
24th
54,374,758 
45,798,809
41,603,539 
33,228,913 
31,925,398 
31,431,854 
31,326,268
25,799,832
24,521,523 
24,082,666 
21,284,224
19,941,173
19,556,189
17,159,425
16,121,123
15,943,751
15,599,877
14,587,631
14,293,675
9,579,836
Salt Lake City (SLC)
yellow
(  ) Sum of the traffic volume of different airports in the same area.
some cities in the cluster that do not belong in the top 30
metropolitan areas by population (Charlotte, Raleigh, Las
Vegas), do appear among the major air tra c hubs.
The presence of major air tra c hubs among the special
class of cities that act as trendsetters suggests an intriguing
conjecture, drawing a parallel with the spread of diseases:
Does information travel faster by airplane than over the In-
ternet? In other words, do conversations and trends spread
following social interaction dynamics, like social butter ies
that pass from person to person at the local level, or do
they di use using traveling people as vectors, similarly to
epidemics that take advantage of human mobility [13, 2]?
Further work is needed to explore this conjecture. One
possibility would be to measure the correlation between trend
overlap among pairs of cities and the corresponding air traf-
 c.
5. RELATED WORK
Trends or aspects related to geography in socio-technical
systems have been studied, directly or indirectly, in many
recent studies. The present work is the  rst, to the best of
our knowledge, that investigates the dynamics tightly bind-
ing trends and geography in online social media.
Geographic locations and physical distances have been
found to be correlated to friendship behaviors in online so-
cial networks [28], to determine patterns in human mobility
networks [7, 20], and to a ect collaboration schemes in sci-
ence networks [37].
Recent studies took advantage of platforms such as Yelp
and Foursquare, which provide customized services to their
users based on their physical location (e.g., recommenda-
tions of events or places), to study geographic user activity
patterns [35, 44, 45, 46].
Others have used platforms such as Twitter and Facebook,
that enrich user pro les with geographic information and
accompany user generated content with location-based data,
to map users demographics [24, 31].
Onnela et al.
[36] noted that, although the probabil-
ity of observing a tie between two individuals in a social
network (in that case, a mobile phone call network) de-
creases as a power law with physical distance, the geographic
spread of social groups quickly increases with the size of
the group; even groups of modest dimensions (  30 mem-
bers) span across hundreds of kilometers, suggesting that, in
technologically-mediated social systems, there exist distinc-
tive social dynamics that govern the communication among
individuals.
The  ndings presented in this paper nicely dovetail with
Onnela s work, in that we observe the existence of a class
of cities, geographically spread across the country, that acts
as trendsetters for all other locations. On the other hand,
we highlight that also a locality e ect exists: geographically
concentrated areas share similar contents and trends.
The local versus global ( glocal ) nature of communica-
tion has been observed before in other types of online con-
versation [21].
In our analysis of the Occupy Wall Street
movement on Twitter [14, 15], we noted that geographically
localized discussions aim at mobilizing resources (e.g., mar-
shaling  nancial, material and human capital) while global
discourse sets the goals of the movement and develops the
narrative frames that reinforce collective purpose.
The in uence of the locality e ect has been also recently
pointed out for innovation adoption on Twitter: Toole et al.
[49] noted that homophily and physical closeness facilitate
the adoption of new technological artifacts, suggesting that
the e ect of geographic location is critical to describe social
dynamics in networked systems.
Geographic factors have also been recently found crucial
in the adoption of languages and dialects [33], and in the
expression of sentiment [32, 38, 39] in online social media.
Mocanu et al.
[33] showed how social media data can be
used to characterize language geography at di erent levels
of granularity, to highlight patterns such as linguistic homo-
geneity and linguistic mixture in multilingual regions.
Similarly, the study by Mitchell et al. [32] suggests that
the adoption of online social media content can be instru-
mental to describe emotional, demographic and geographic
characteristics of users of these socio-technical systems; in
particular, they investigated Twitter users active in the US
in terms of happiness and individual satisfaction.
Another recent research line related to our work is that of
the detection of emerging trends, topics, memes, and events
in online social networks and social media [1, 3, 10, 17, 19,
27, 30, 43]. Naaman et al.
[34] characterized trends ac-
cording to di erent dimensions, such as content, interac-
tion, time-based and social features. These features were
later used to classify trends, allowing for the identi cation
of exogenous vs. endogenous trends and memes vs. retweet
trends. In their analysis, the authors did not consider the
geographic dimension, that is instead central in this work
suggesting that it provides crucial information to character-
ize trends on online social media.
Finally, social media data can be used to make educated
guesses on the outcome of real-word events, such as elec-
tions or competitions [18]. Ciulla et al. [12] combined trends
and geographic information of Twitter data to demonstrate
that online social media can be exploited to predict social
events in the real-world. They collected trending hashtag
and phrases related to contestants of the popular TV show
American Idol, mapping the fan base of each candidate to
di erent geographic regions inside and outside the US, to
identify spatial patterns in attention allocation and prefer-
ences expressed on the online platform. These signals were
then combined and used to predict voting behaviors of fans,
achieving good accuracy.
6. CONCLUSIONS
In this work we investigated the spatial and geographic
dynamics that govern trending topics in Twitter. We moni-
tored trends from 63 di erent locations in the United States
and, in addition, the trends at the country level, for a period
of 50 days.
We sought to understand how trends are distributed in
space and time and how they spread from place to place.
We investigated shared trends among cities,  nding that
there exists a locality e ect whose presence allows for the
identi cation of three broad geographic areas where trends
di use locally more than globally. We also identi ed a fourth
cluster of metropolitan areas that counterbalances this local-
ity e ect. These cities, spread all over the country, act as
sources of trends for other locations. They contribute much
more than the others to shaping the global trends at the
country level. We  nally observed that these metropolitan
areas coincide with the major air tra c hubs of the coun-
try, suggesting an intriguing conjecture based on a parallel
between the spread of information and diseases: Do trends
travel faster by airplane than over the Internet?
Our  ndings have broad potential applications, that in-
clude tailoring online content based on users geographic in-
formation, or designing better algorithms for geographic-
aware trend prediction.
As for the future, our analysis opens new research ques-
tions that will need further attention. An example is the role
of tra c hubs in trend di usion. More in general, additional
work is needed to understand how to identify locations that
can be in uential for the spread of a given topic and how
to e ectively convey the information  ow to determine the
success of a given commercial campaign.
Acknowledgments
This work is supported by NSF (grant CCF-1101743), DARPA
(grant W911NF-12-1-0037), and the McDonnell Foundation.
The funders had no role in study design, data collection and
analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.
7. REFERENCES
[1] C. Aggarwal and K. Subbian. Event detection in social
streams. In Proceedings of SIAM International
Conference on Data Mining, 2012.
[2] D. Balcan, V. Colizza, B. Gon calves, H. Hu, J. J.
Ramasco, and A. Vespignani. Multiscale mobility
networks and the spatial spreading of infectious
diseases. Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences of the United States of America,
106(51):21484 21489, 2009.
[3] H. Becker, M. Naaman, and L. Gravano. Beyond
trending topics: Real-world event identi cation on
Twitter. In Proceedings of the 5th International AAAI
Conference on Weblogs and Social Media, 2011.
[4] V. D. Blondel, J.-L. Guillaume, R. Lambiotte, and
E. Lefebvre. Fast unfolding of communities in large
networks. Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory
and Experiment, 2008(10):P10008, 2008.
[5] J. Bollen, H. Mao, and X. Zeng. Twitter mood
predicts the stock market. Journal of Computational
Science, 2(1):1 8, 2011.
[6] J. Bollen, A. Pepe, and H. Mao. Modeling public
mood and emotion: Twitter sentiment and
socio-economic phenomena. In Proceedings of the 5th
International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social
Media, pages 450 453, 2011.
[7] D. Brockmann, L. Hufnagel, and T. Geisel. The
scaling laws of human travel. Nature,
439(7075):462 465, 2006.
[8] A. Brodersen, S. Scellato, and M. Wattenhofer.
Youtube around the world: geographic popularity of
videos. In Proceedings of the 21st international
conference on World Wide Web, pages 241 250. ACM,
2012.
[9] C. Budak, D. Agrawal, and A. El Abbadi. Structural
trend analysis for online social networks. Proceedings
of the VLDB Endowment, 4(10):646 656, 2011.
[10] M. Cataldi, L. Di Caro, and C. Schifanella. Emerging
topic detection on Twitter based on temporal and
social terms evaluation. In Proceedings of the 10th
International Workshop on Multimedia Data Mining,
page 4. ACM, 2010.
[11] M. Cha, H. Haddadi, F. Benevenuto, and K. P.
Gummadi. Measuring user in uence in Twitter: The
million follower fallacy. In Proceedings of the 4th
International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social
Media, 2010.
[12] F. Ciulla, D. Mocanu, A. Baronchelli, B. Gon calves,
N. Perra, and A. Vespignani. Beating the news using
social media: the case study of American Idol. EPJ
Data Science, 1(1):1 11, 2012.
[13] V. Colizza, A. Barrat, M. Barth elemy, and
A. Vespignani. The role of the airline transportation
network in the prediction and predictability of global
epidemics. Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences of the United States of America,
103(7):2015 2020, 2006.
[14] M. D. Conover, C. Davis, E. Ferrara, K. McKelvey,
F. Menczer, and A. Flammini. The geospatial
characteristics of a social movement communication
network. PloS ONE, 8(3):e55957, 2013.
[15] M. D. Conover, E. Ferrara, F. Menczer, and
A. Flammini. The digital evolution of Occupy Wall
Street. PloS ONE, 8(5):e64679, 2013.
[16] M. D. Conover, J. Ratkiewicz, M. Francisco,
B. Gon calves, A. Flammini, and F. Menczer. Political
polarization on Twitter. In Proceedings of the 5th
International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social
Media, 2011.
[17] A. Crooks, A. Croitoru, A. Stefanidis, and
J. Radzikowski. #Earthquake: Twitter as a
distributed sensor system. Transactions in GIS,
17:124 147, 2013.
[18] J. DiGrazia, K. McKelvey, J. Bollen, and F. Rojas.
More tweets, more votes: Social media as a
quantitative indicator of political behavior. Available
at SSRN: http://dx.doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2235423,
2013. Presented at 108th annual meeting of the
American Sociological Association.
[19] E. Ferrara, M. JafariAsbagh, O. Varol, V. Qazvinian,
F. Menczer, and A. Flammini. Clustering memes in
social media. In Proceedings of the 2013 IEEE/ACM
International Conference on Advances in Social
Networks Analysis and Mining, 2013.
[20] M. C. Gonzalez, C. A. Hidalgo, and A.-L. Barabasi.
Understanding individual human mobility patterns.
Nature, 453(7196):779 782, 2008.
[21] K. Hampton and B. Wellman. Neighboring in netville:
How the internet supports community and social
capital in a wired suburb. City & Community,
2(4):277 311, 2003.
[22] T. Hastie, R. Tibshirani, and J. J. H. Friedman. The
elements of statistical learning. Springer New York,
2001.
[23] K. Y. Kamath, J. Caverlee, K. Lee, and Z. Cheng.
Spatio-temporal dynamics of online memes: A study
of geo-tagged tweets. In Proceedings of the 22nd
International Conference on World Wide Web, pages
667 677, 2013.
[24] J. Kulshrestha, F. Kooti, A. Nikravesh, and K. P.
Gummadi. Geographic dissection of the Twitter
network. In Proceedings of the 6th International AAAI
Conference on Weblogs and Social Media, 2012.
[25] H. Kwak, C. Lee, H. Park, and S. Moon. What is
Twitter, a social network or a news media? In
Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on
World Wide Web, pages 591 600. ACM, 2010.
[26] J. Lehmann, B. Gon calves, J. Ramasco, and
C. Cattuto. Dynamical classes of collective attention
in Twitter. In Proceedings of the 21st International
Conference on World Wide Web, pages 251 260, 2012.
[27] J. Leskovec, L. Backstrom, and J. Kleinberg.
Meme-tracking and the dynamics of the news cycle. In
Proceedings of the 15th ACM SIGKDD International
Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining,
pages 497 506. ACM, 2009.
[28] D. Liben-Nowell, J. Novak, R. Kumar, P. Raghavan,
and A. Tomkins. Geographic routing in social
networks. Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences of the United States of America,
102(33):11623 11628, 2005.
[29] A. Marcus, M. Bernstein, O. Badar, D. Karger,
S. Madden, and R. Miller. Twitinfo: aggregating and
visualizing microblogs for event exploration. In
Proceedings of the 2011 Annual Conference on Human
Factors in Computing Systems, pages 227 236. ACM,
2011.
[30] M. Mathioudakis and N. Koudas. Twittermonitor:
trend detection over the Twitter stream. In
Proceedings of the 2010 International Conference on
Management of Data, pages 1155 1158. ACM, 2010.
[31] A. Mislove, S. Lehmann, Y.-Y. Ahn, J.-P. Onnela, and
J. N. Rosenquist. Understanding the demographics of
Twitter users. In Proceedings of the 5th International
AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media, 2011.
[32] L. Mitchell, K. D. Harris, M. R. Frank, P. S. Dodds,
and C. M. Danforth. The geography of happiness:
Connecting Twitter sentiment and expression,
demographics, and objective characteristics of place.
PloS ONE, 8(5):e64417, 2013.
[33] D. Mocanu, A. Baronchelli, N. Perra, B. Gon calves,
Q. Zhang, and A. Vespignani. The Twitter of Babel:
Mapping world languages through microblogging
platforms. PloS ONE, 8(4):e61981, Jan. 2013.
[34] M. Naaman, H. Becker, and L. Gravano. Hip and
trendy: Characterizing emerging trends on Twitter.
Journal of the American Society for Information
Science and Technology, 62(5):902 918, 2011.
[35] A. Noulas, S. Scellato, C. Mascolo, and M. Pontil. An
empirical study of geographic user activity patterns in
foursquare. Proceedings of the 5th International AAAI
Conference on Weblogs and Social Media), 2011.
[36] J.-P. Onnela, S. Arbesman, M. C. Gonz alez, A.-L.
Barab asi, and N. A. Christakis. Geographic
constraints on social network groups. PLoS ONE,
6(4):e16939, 2011.
[37] R. K. Pan, K. Kaski, and S. Fortunato. World citation
and collaboration networks: uncovering the role of
geography in science. Scienti c Reports, 2, 2012.
[38] D. Quercia. Don t worry, be happy: The geography of
happiness on facebook. In Proceedings of ACM Web
Science 2013, 2013.
[39] D. Quercia, L. Capra, and J. Crowcroft. The social
world of Twitter: Topics, geography, and emotions. In
Proceedings of the 6th International AAAI Conference
on Weblogs and Social Media, 2012.
[40] J. Ratkiewicz, M. Conover, M. Meiss, B. Gon calves,
A. Flammini, and F. Menczer. Detecting and tracking
political abuse in social media. In Proceedings of the
5th International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and
Social Media, 2011.
[41] J. Ratkiewicz, M. Conover, M. Meiss, B. Gon calves,
S. Patil, A. Flammini, and F. Menczer. Truthy:
mapping the spread of astroturf in microblog streams.
In Proceedings of the 20th International Conference
Companion on World Wide Web, pages 249 252.
ACM, 2011.
[42] M. Rosvall and C. T. Bergstrom. Maps of random
walks on complex networks reveal community
structure. Proceedings of the National Academy of
Sciences of the United States of America,
105(4):1118 1123, 2008.
[43] H. Sayyadi, M. Hurst, and A. Maykov. Event
detection and tracking in social streams. In
Proceedings of the 3rd International AAAI Conference
on Weblogs and Social Media, 2009.
[44] S. Scellato, C. Mascolo, M. Musolesi, and
J. Crowcroft. Track globally, deliver locally: improving
content delivery networks by tracking geographic
social cascades. In Proceedings of the 20th
International Conference on World Wide Web, pages
457 466. ACM, 2011.
[45] S. Scellato, C. Mascolo, M. Musolesi, and V. Latora.
Distance matters: geo-social metrics for online social
networks. Proceedings of the 3rd Workshop on Online
Social Networks, 10, 2010.
[46] S. Scellato, A. Noulas, R. Lambiotte, and C. Mascolo.
Socio-spatial properties of online location-based social
networks. Proceedings of the 5th International AAAI
Conference on Weblogs and Social Media), pages
329 336, 2011.
[47] D. Selassie, B. Heller, and J. Heer. Divided edge
bundling for directional network data. IEEE Trans.
Visualization & Comp. Graphics, 17:2354 2363, 2011.
[48] M.  A. Serrano, M. Bogu n a, and A. Vespignani.
Extracting the multiscale backbone of complex
weighted networks. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences of the United States of America,
106(16):6483 6488, 2009.
[49] J. L. Toole, M. Cha, and M. C. Gonz alez. Modeling
the adoption of innovations in the presence of
geographic and media in uences. PloS ONE,
7(1):e29528, 2012.
[50] L. Weng, A. Flammini, A. Vespignani, and
F. Menczer. Competition among memes in a world
with limited attention. Scienti c Reports, 2, 2012.
[51] Wikipedia. Cities and metropolitan areas of the
United States.
http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cities_and_
metropolitan_areas_of_the_United_States, 2012.
[52] Wikipedia. List of the busiest airports in the United
States. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_
the_busiest_airports_in_the_United_States, 2012.
[53] S. Wu, J. Hofman, W. Mason, and D. Watts. Who
says what to whom on Twitter. In Proceedings of the
20th International Conference on World Wide Web,
pages 705 714. ACM, 2011.
[54] L. Xie, A. Natsev, J. R. Kender, M. Hill, and J. R.
Smith. Visual memes in social media: tracking
real-world news in Youtube videos. In Proceedings of
the 19th ACM International Conference on
Multimedia, pages 53 62. ACM, 2011.
