4
1
0
2
 
b
e
F
0
1
 
 
 
]
Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
1
v
7
2
8
2
.
2
0
4
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Harnessing the Complexity of Education
with Information Technology
Carlos Gershenson1,2
1 Departamento de Ciencias de la Computaci on
Instituto de Investigaciones en Matem aticas Aplicadas y en Sistemas
Universidad Nacional Aut onoma de M exico
A.P. 20-126, 01000 M exico D.F. M exico
Tel. +52 55 56 22 36 19 Fax +52 55 56 22 36 20
cgg@unam.mx http://turing.iimas.unam.mx/~cgg
2 Centro de Ciencias de la Complejidad
Universidad Nacional Aut onoma de M exico
February 13, 2014
Education at all levels is facing several challenges in most countries [1, 2, 3, 4], such
as low quality, high costs, lack of educators, and unsatis ed student demand. Traditional
approaches are becoming unable to deliver the required education. Several causes for this
ine ciency can be identi ed. I argue that beyond speci c causes, the lack of e ective edu-
cation is related to complexity. However, information technology is helping us overcome this
complexity.
Complexity can be measured with information theory and can be seen as the balance
between stability and variability [5, 6, 7]: phenomena without change or with constant
change cannot exhibit complex behavior. It has been noted that in order to actively control
a complex system, the controller has to be at least as complex as the controlled [8, 9]. For
example, a successful healthcare provider has to match the complexity of the patients she
attends. Treatment is highly speci c for di erent patients, so a general practitioner must have
a high complexity to attend patients with diverse conditions. Concerning most preventive
services, these are similar for most patients and thus can be delivered e ciently by providers
with a lower complexity [10]. A similar approach can be used to study education and its
complexity: a successful educational system has to match the complexity of its students.
Traditional, teacher-based education is limited by the complexity of the teacher. Even
the best teachers have  nite abilities, in the sense that they can only deliver content in a
limited number of ways to a diverse group of students. As the group grows in size and
diversity, its complexity will increase, demanding a greater teacher complexity or limiting
the complexity of the class. Di erent solutions which have been applied to overcome this
inherent limitation are illustrated in Fig. 1 and can be classi ed by:
1
Quantity. Reduce the student/teacher ratio by having smaller classes or more teachers.
This increases the cost of education.
Quality. Reduce the diversity of students in each class, which become specialized. Thus,
students with similar abilities are able to absorb similar content at similar speeds. This
requires a large institutional e ort and is restricted to densely populated areas.
Scope. Reduce the complexity of content, i.e. standardize. This reduces the knowledge
which diverse students can absorb. Moreover, faster learners become bored and slower
learners become frustrated [11].
Figure 1: Traditional solutions to the complexity limits of educators (purple) depending on
the combined complexity of their students (orange): decrease the student/teacher propor-
tion with smaller classes, reduce diversity of groups, and decrease the scope of the content
delivered.
None of these approaches is satisfactory for the challenges education is facing. Increasing
motivation or budgets is positive, but only palliative, as none of these increase the required
complexity of the educational system, which is the main limitation for improving education.
For example, India estimates that it will require one thousand new universities by 2020 [12].
This is unfeasible with a traditional educational system.
Nevertheless, information technology is allowing us to go beyond the complexity of the
teacher and beyond the complexity of the school. Traditional approaches have been reducing
the complexity of the students. Technology is allowing us to increase the complexity of
the teaching system, potentially harnessing the complexity of hundreds of institutions and
thousands of teachers to deliver education to millions of students.
The strict di erence between teacher delivering education and student receiving education
is changing towards a more distributed framework, where teachers and students form a co-
learning community. Technology is serving as a mediator, coordinating e orts and demands
of agents in an increasingly global educational system. This shift can be compared with
the phenomenon of Wikipedia [13].
Instead of having a dedicated company coordinating
high complexity authors to publish an encyclopedia, information technology has allowed
the development of a distributed system where the aggregated complexity of thousands of
authors of diverse complexities has overcome the most comprehensive private encyclopedias.
2
For example, the  Skype Grannies  project allowed retired people mainly from the UK to
mediate the education of children in rural India [14]. In speci c cases, technology can facil-
itate learning even without adult guidance, as older children become facilitators of younger
ones exploiting available content [15].
The increasing availability of free online content is allowing more independent learning
paths. Wikipedia, online libraries, and sites such as Khan Academy [16] provide material
for students and teachers which e ectively can increase the complexity of the education
delivered.
As for higher education, massive online open courses (MOOCs) have become very pop-
ular in recent months [17], e ectively delivering educational content to millions of students
from all over the world. This content is not personalized, but students select their courses
according to their interests, so there is a natural match between the o ered material and the
student requirements.
These novel teaching tools are not to replace the current educational system, based on
teachers and schools. These tools are transforming the educational system. They empower
teachers with a greater complexity to deliver a better education.
Di erent teaching resources coordinated by teachers can have a greater complexity than
millions of students, thus opening the possibility of delivering education in a much more
e ective and e cient way. There is an analogy with insect colonies: individual insects have
a relatively low complexity. However, coordinating through their environment [18], insect
colonies are able to complete tasks which are much more complex than any individual. Tech-
nology is having a similar role for coordinating our individual e orts [19] and increasing the
complexity of the educational system. Technology not only allows to have instant com-
munication and personalized content delivered individually, but it is turing the complexity
limitation of education on its back, as illustrated in Fig. 2:
Quantity. Thousands of teachers can interact with millions of students. Students become
also teachers in learning communities. Each individual in the system can learn and
potentially generate novel content.
Quality. Diverse students can obtain di erent content, suited to their abilities and require-
ments.
Scope. Content is personalized. With a broad diversity of content to choose from, this can
be selected to maximize student learning and satisfaction.
Even when information technology o ers promising improvements for our educational
systems, several economic, political, social, and cultural challenges lie ahead. One of them
is language, although communities are providing translation of educational content and En-
glish is becoming a lingua franca. Still, the complexity increase that technology is allowing
o ers many opportunities. For example, education is correlated with several well-being indi-
cators, such as life expectancy, less children per woman, higher incomes and less crime [20].
Correlation is not causation, but few would disagree that improving the education of the
world is a necessary step in attending global problems. The bene ts of a global distributed
educational system will also be global.
3
Figure 2: Technology allows a complexity increase of the educational system, rising the
quality, quantity, and scope of the education delivered.
The persistence of knowledge in writing marked the transition between prehistory and
history. The mass production of texts with the printed press was one of the main factors
leading to the scienti c revolution. As technology increases our capacity to store, transmit,
and access knowledge, how will this transform our globalized culture?
Acknowledgments
I should like to thank Daphne Koller for useful comments. This work was partially supported
by SNI membership 47907 of CONACyT, Mexico.
References
[1] Marcia C. Linn. Establishing a research base for science education: Challenges, trends,
and recommendations. Journal of Research in Science Teaching, 24(3):191 216, 1987.
[2] Ken Robinson, Lewis Minkin, Eric Bolton, Dawn French, Lindsey Fryer, Susan Green-
 eld, Valerie Hannon, Lenny Henry, Dawn Holgate, Tamsyn Imison, Clive Jones, Ju-
dith Kelly, Harold Kroto, Claus Moser, Simon Rattle, Lord Stone of Blackheath, Helen
Storey, and Carol Traynor. All Our Futures: Creativity, Culture and Education. Na-
tional Advisory Committee on Creative and Cultural Education, 1998.
[3] Pamela J. Hines, Je rey Mervis, Melissa Mccartney, and Brad Wible. Plenty of chal-
lenges for all. Science, 340(6130):290 291, 2013.
[4] Michael Kremer, Conner Brannen, and Rachel Glennerster. The challenge of education
and learning in the developing world. Science, 340(6130):297 300, 2013.
4
[5] Christpher Langton. Computation at the edge of chaos: Phase transitions and emergent
computation. Physica D, 42:12 37, 1990.
[6] Mikhail Prokopenko, Fabio Boschetti, and Alex Ryan. An information-theoretic primer
on complexity, self-organisation and emergence. Complexity, 15(1):11   28, 2009.
[7] Carlos Gershenson and Nelson Fern andez. Complexity and information: Measuring
emergence, self-organization, and homeostasis at multiple scales. Complexity, 18(2):29 
44, 2012.
[8] W. Ross Ashby. An Introduction to Cybernetics. Chapman & Hall, London, 1956.
[9] Y. Bar-Yam. Multiscale variety in complex systems. Complexity, 9(4):37 45, 2004.
[10] Yaneer Bar-Yam. Improving the e ectiveness of health care and public health: A multi-
scale complex systems analysis. American Journal of Public Health, 96(3):459 466,
2006.
[11] Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi. Flow: The Psychology of Optimal Experience. Harper and
Row, New York, 1990.
[12] Max Davidson. 1,000 new universities for india? The Telegraph, May 10 2010.
[13] Wikipedia. http://www.wikipedia.org.
[14] Jill Clark and Ian Hall. The skype grannies project  nal report. Technical report,
Newcastle University Centre for Learning and Teaching, 2011.
[15] Sugata Mitra, Ritu Dangwal, Shi on Chatterjee, Swati Jha, Ravinder S Bisht, and
Preeti Kapur. Acquisition of computing literacy on shared public computers: Children
and the  hole in the wall . Australasian Journal of Educational Technology, 21(3):407,
2005.
[16] Khan Academy. http://www.khanacademy.org.
[17] Laura Pappano. The year of the MOOC. The New York Times, November 2 2012.
[18] Guy Theraulaz and Eric Bonabeau. A brief history of stimergy. Arti cial Life, 5(2):97 
116, Spring 1999.
[19] Abraham Bernstein, Mark Klein, and Thomas W. Malone. Programming the global
brain. Commun. ACM, 55(5):41 43, May 2012.
[20] Gapminder. http://www.gapminder.org.
5
