5
1
0
2
 
l
u
J
 
0
3
 
 
]
I
S
.
s
c
[
 
 
3
v
8
7
5
0
.
4
0
4
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Mental Disorder Recovery Correlated with
Centralities and Interactions on an Online Social
Network
Xinpei Ma
Hiroki Sayama
Center for Collective Dynamics of Complex Systems
Department of Systems Science and Industrial Engineering
Binghamton University, State University of New York
Binghamton, NY 13902-6000, USA
xma5@binghamton.edu
July 31, 2015
Abstract
Recent research has established both a theoretical basis and strong em-
pirical evidence that e ective social behavior plays a bene cial role in the
maintenance of physical and psychological well-being of people. To test
whether social behavior and well-being are also associated in online com-
munities, we studied the correlations between the recovery of patients with
mental disorders and their behaviors in online social media. As the source
of the data related to the social behavior and progress of mental recov-
ery, we used PatientsLikeMe (PLM), the world's  rst open-participation
research platform for the development of patient-centered health outcome
measures. We  rst constructed an online social network structure based on
patient-to-patient ties among 200 patients obtained from PLM. We then
characterized patients' online social activities by measuring the numbers
of posts and views and helpful marks each patient obtained. The patients'
recovery data were obtained from their self-reported status information
that was also available on PLM. We found that some node properties
(in-degree, eigenvector centrality and PageRank) and the two online so-
cial activity measures were signi cantly correlated with patients' recovery.
Furthermore, we re-collected the patients' recovery data two months after
the  rst data collection. We found signi cant correlations between the
patients' social behaviors and the second recovery data, which were col-
lected two months apart. Our results indicated that social interactions
in online communities such as PLM were signi cantly associated with the
current and future recoveries of patients with mental disorders.
Keywords: social media, mental disorder, social network, patient-to-patient
network, non-drug treatments, PatientsLikeMe
1
Introduction
Mental health problems (disorders) are medical anomalies that disrupt a per-
son's thinking, feeling, mood, and ability to relate to others, and impair his/her
daily functioning [39]. According to the National Alliance on Mental Illness, one
in four adults, approximately 57.7 million Americans, experience some sort of
mental health disorder every year. Mental disorders might lead to other physical
or psychological illnesses and severely interfere with a person's ability to work,
study, and entertain [23].
Some traditional treatments for mental disorders have been proved insuf-
 cient in dealing with the complexities of mental diseases. Somatic and psy-
chotherapeutic treatments are traditional treatment options for mental disorders
[24]. Somatic treatments, such as medication and electroconvulsive treatment
(ECT), successfully control physical symptoms, but are always associated with
side e ects like drowsiness, dizziness, muscle spasm and so forth [26]. A sudden
stop or discontinuation of medicine use is likely to cause relapse. For individuals
with moderate or severe mental disorders, both somatic and psychotherapeu-
tic treatments are long-term. The rising cost of mental health services and
medicines has put pressure on both patients and mental health providers [27].
Nowadays, high relapse rates, side e ects, and high costs are three major draw-
backs of these treatments. Non-drug treatments, such as interpersonal therapy,
peer support groups, and community services, have emerged as cognitive cures
for mental illnesses [14, 34]. These treatments help patients understand their
diseases and manage feelings, thoughts, and actions to improve their mental
health conditions [11, 2, 33]. Recent reviews of mental health studies pointed
out that trust, engagement, communication, and support may strengthen men-
tal functions, and may also bu er negative e ects of mental illnesses [10, 1].
Since the bene cial role of mutual help and self-help behaviors in the recovery
process has received signi cant attention of both physicians and patients, it
is believed that developing e ective approaches to investigate these underlying
relations has direct implications for the improvement of recovery outcomes [8].
Recently, social science research has shown that patients' social networking
with professionals or other patients could facilitate the development of mutual
trust and self-help behaviors [7]. In some cases, however, face-to-face social in-
teraction may not o er adequate support for patients with mental disorders [13].
Limited access to services and increased social stresses for such patients may
become obstacles to their social activities, which could easily make them feel
isolated [35]. Over the last decade, however, the proliferation of social media
for health promotion has been o ering patients opportunities of peer-learning,
information sharing and communications [41, 30]. Establishing useful and en-
joyable social interactions on online social media may soon become a feasible
alternative approach for their social life, with low costs, high e ciency and rich
diversity. Patients may be able to develop skills to overcome di culties in com-
munication and recovery, better engage in their disease management processes
and brighten their lives through social interactions on those online social media
platforms [43].
2
The concept of Health 2.0 has emerged in response to the widespread adop-
tion of web-based platforms for healthcare purposes. These platforms provide
patients and healthcare practitioners with electronic channels to store, share
and communicate health-related information [38]. As those Health 2.0 plat-
forms become an irreplaceable component of today's healthcare systems, more
and more patients with mental health problems are inclined to participate in
various forms of online communications to gather information and build connec-
tions with other patients [15]. The Health 2.0 movement also nurtures dozens
of startups with creative concepts, which are reforming the healthcare systems
globally [12, 18, 29].
Online-based social networking complements face-to-face communication and
helps patients improve their self-esteem and social competence [25, 29, 28]. It
encourages patients to be more active in their social environment [9]. For in-
stance, patients may be able to discuss, via online media, their private problems
without fear of prejudice or discrimination [20]. Furthermore, online social me-
dia may play a complementary role to traditional mental health services and
help patients understand their conditions more and take better control over
their diseases and behaviors [17]. For example, while many treatment decisions
are still made based on physicians' empirical judgments that might not have
solid supporting evidence, information sharing via healthcare social media may
allow patients to perceive their diseases from other patients' point of view, do
their own research online, and make their own informed decisions on how to
manage their diseases [19, 16, 42, 6].
In this paper, we study potential linkages between online social behaviors
of patients with mental health disorders and their recovery processes. Patients'
social network structure and social activities are the two aspects of online social
behaviors considered, whose impact on the recovery of mental disorders were in-
vestigated. The recovery data were collected twice, at the time of data collection
of online social behavior, and then two months later, to examine possible asso-
ciations between patients' online social behaviors and their current and future
recovery from mental disorders.
Methods
Source of Data
We used PatientsLikeMe (PLM; http://www.patientslikeme.com/), one of the
 rst online communities to encourage patients to share their stories and report
their medical histories after receiving therapies [42]. PLM has grown to have
more than 300,000 members and has gradually expanded to diversi ed commu-
nities involving di erent kinds of disease such as Parkinson's disease, Multiple
Sclerosis (M.S.), HIV, and mood disorder, among other diseases. The authors
are not a liated with PLM and have no  nancial or other interest in PLM.
We sampled, from the Mental Health and Behavior Forum in PLM, 200
patients who (i) have/had mental disorder(s), (ii) have full information about
3
social activities and recovery outcomes from the mental disorder(s), (iii) have
registered for more than six months, (iv) have social connections and posted
relevant contents or comments to the forum, and (v) do not appear to be a spam,
phishing or fake account. We scanned a list of patients who participated in the
forum, ranked in the order of their popularity, to collect sample participants.
We terminated the sampling when the size of the collected samples that met
the above criteria reached 200. The following information was recorded for each
patient in our data: (a) online social connections with other existing patients,
(b) two online social activities in the forum, and (c) self-assessments of recovery
outcomes.
Measures
We calculated six network properties (in-degree, out-degree, betweenness cen-
trality, closeness centrality, eigenvector centrality, and PageRank) by using
Gephi [4, 5]. These network properties are widely used in social network analysis
to characterize local and global features of network structures [3].
The in- and out- degrees are the numbers of links that go into and out
of the node, respectively.
In this study, the in-degree represents the number
of followers a patient has, which re ects the popularity of the patient in the
community. Similarly, the out-degree represents the number of other patients
a patient follows, which re ects the willingness and intention of the patient to
connect to others [36]. Betweenness centrality refers to the probability for a
node to be on shortest paths between two other nodes.
It is an indicator of
the level of control of information  ow and in uence [31]. Closeness centrality
is the inverse of average distance of all shortest paths from a node to all other
nodes in the whole network [31]. It represents how long and far one node will
take to reach other nodes. Both eigenvector centrality and PageRank measure
how important a node is in the network, taking non-local topological structure
into account. The concept underlying those centrality measures assumes that
connections from high-importance nodes provide the node more importance than
connections from low-importance nodes. PageRank is a variation of eigenvector
centrality in which transition probability matrices are used instead of adjacency
matrices [32].
For data collection about patients' social activities, we recorded (i) how
many helpful marks patients received and (ii) how many posts and views they
made per month on the Mental Health and Behavior Forum after they registered
to PLM. These numbers are the only available numbers online that relate to
patients' general social activities.
The data about patients' recovery processes were obtained from patients'
self-reported health records in PLM. In this website, patients were encouraged
to evaluate their physical and psychological feelings and describe their symptoms
once a day. We recorded the following  ve recovery outcomes: mood function,
stress, distress, life essentials and symptoms, which are closely related to mental
disorders. In a patient's historical record, these recovery outcomes are visualized
as continuous curves or bar graphs (Figures 1, 2 and 3). From these charts, we
4
quanti ed the rate of change as follows.
The curve of mood function shows a patient's ability to regulate his/her
mood. Each point on the curve represents how well the patient could control
his/her anxiety and mood swings. Similarly, the stress and distress curves show
the extent of change in a patient's stressful and distressful feelings, respectively
(Figure 1). Dividing a curve into shorter segments and comparing average values
of the segments have been commonly used to measure the rate of change for
time series data [22]. We partitioned each of these curves into two parts of
equal length in time, and calculated the average level for each part. The rate of
change was then calculated by dividing the di erence of two averages (average
of the latter part minus average of the former part) by the whole range of the
curve (maximum value minus zero) (Equation 1). As a result, the values of
those three recovery outcome variables were normalized to the range between
-1 and 1 (Figure 4).
Rate of change =
average value of  rst half   average value of second half
whole range of curve
(1)
In PLM, patients' life essentials were measured based on patients' self-
xassessments of life necessities, including sleep, energy, appetite, and sex drive
(Figure 2). Similarly to the previous three variables, we separated the records
of patients' life essentials in two parts of equal length in time. The average level
of each part was calculated by converting categorical levels (Much More, More,
Normal, Less, Much Less) to numerical values, and then averaged over all the
four life essential variables to create a curve. The computation of the rate of
change was done on this curve in the same way as described above, again with
the results ranging from -1 to 1.
PLM also records general and speci c symptoms, which re ect a patient's
general mental health conditions as well as particular disease-speci c condi-
tions. In this study, we collected some general symptoms (such as fatigue and
depressed mood) and some speci c symptoms that were closely related to men-
tal disorder conditions (Figure 3). They were converted to numerical values and
then aggregated to form a curve, as for the life essentials described above, and
then the rate of change was calculated using the same procedure as above. The
results were again normalized between -1 and 1.
Finally, we roughly estimated the overall recovery outcome of a patient by
summing the  ve recovery variables measured above (Mood Function, Stress,
Distress, Life Essentials, and Symptoms). In this study, the  ve recovery vari-
ables are fundamental measurements for patients with mental disorders. Cur-
rently, there is no reasonable way to adjust their relative weights, thus we used
the simplest possible approach, i.e., a simple sum with equal weights.
Analysis
We  rst constructed a social network structure among the sampled 200 patients
based on their social ties to examine whether or not social networking is asso-
5
ciated with their recovery outcomes. The patient-to-patient ties (edges) were
established based on following relationships in PLM. Since the website suggests
a list of other patients with similar conditions or symptoms to each online user,
patients tend to follow like-minded patients. In addition, they are also prone to
follow popular and helpful ones. In PLM, followers will automatically receive
updates from the followed patients, just like in other typical social media. In our
study, the direction of a social tie was set from the follower to the followed, rep-
resenting the direction of attention (i.e., opposite to the direction of information
 ow).
We visualized the patient-to-patient social network structure and calculated
important node properties. In the following paragraphs, we conducted a series
of statistic analyses to examine the relationship between patients' online social
behaviors and their recovery outcomes.
We calculated Pearson's correlation coe cients between each of the six node
properties measured in social network analysis and each of the recovery outcomes
(the  ve recovery outcome variables as well as the overall sum) to  nd possi-
ble associations between network properties and recovery outcomes. The same
correlation analysis was also conducted between two online social activities and
the recovery outcomes. We did these analyses to identify relevant independent
variables that would be incorporated in the following statistical modeling task.
Based on the results obtained above, we developed a statistical model of the
recovery outcome using multivariable linear regression (we call this part Study
I hereafter). The overall recovery outcome was used as the dependent variable
and regressed on three explanatory variables of a patient: in-degree, the number
of helpful marks, and the number of posts and views. The reasons of this model
setting are threefold. First, the in-degree directly captures the popularity level
of a patient and it was found to be signi cantly correlated with the recovery
outcome as well as with other network properties. Second, the numbers of
helpful marks and posts and views are two distinct aspects of patients' online
social activities, which were also found to be signi cantly correlated to the
recovery outcome. Third, combining measures of social ties and social activities
was expected to better represent patients' online social behaviors. Up to this
point, all the data were collected at a single point in time, with no substantial
time delay. We conducted the variation in ation factor (VIF) test to control
the issue of multiconlinearity in regression.
Furthermore, we re-collected the recovery outcome data for the same 200
patients two months after the initial data collection, and examined associations
between online social behaviors and future recovery from mental disorders (we
call this part Study II hereafter). The newly collected dependent variable was
in the same scale as that of Study I. The same method was applied to measure
the rate of change in the recovery outcomes, while the explanatory variables
about the patients' online social behavior (social ties and activities) were not
updated, i.e., they remained at the same values measured two months earlier
(i.e., the predicting variables were recorded prior to the measurement of re-
covery outcomes). Multivariate linear regression was conducted to analyze the
relationship between online social behaviors and the overall recovery outcome
6
that were gathered two months apart.
The research methods were reviewed and approved by IRB (Protocol Num-
ber: 2234-13). The research was conducted with permission of PLM. According
to the research protocol reviewed and approved by Binghamton University IRB
and to the agreement of data usage with PLM, the researchers are not allowed
to share the data with third parties outside the research team. Please contact
the corresponding author for more details.
Results
We  rst visualized the patients' social network structure, which consisted of 200
individuals (nodes) and 981 connections (social ties) (Figure 5). Hu's multilevel
graph drawing algorithm was used to lay out the network structure [21, 40]. As
a result, a cluster of higher degree nodes gathered in the center of the network,
whereas the lower degree nodes were spread across the peripheral area of the
graph.
The correlation coe cients between six network properties and recovery out-
comes are shown in Table 1. The correlations between the in-degree and the
three recovery outcomes, including distress reduction, life essentials, and symp-
toms, were 0.219**, 0.222**, 0.200**, respectively. The correlation between the
in-degree and the overall recovery was 0.222**. The results demonstrated that
patients who had more incoming social connections (i.e., more followers) experi-
enced greater improvements in feelings of distress, life essentials, and symptoms.
PageRank and eigenvector centralities showed similar correlation patterns. As
shown in Table 2, the in-degree, eigenvector centrality and PageRank were very
strongly intercorrelated. Even though these network measurements capture
topologically distinct properties of a network, they are often measuring similar
nature of the network and thus show high correlations with each other, especially
when the analyzed network has many reciprocated relationships [37]. Therefore
we chose the in-degree as the social behavior variable to represent all of those
three in statistical model building.
In the meantime, for out-degree, closeness centrality, and betweenness cen-
trality, their correlations with the recovery outcomes were not statistically sig-
ni cant. The results suggested that following a large number of patients and
being close to or in-between other patients in the network were not associated
with a signi cant improvement in recovery outcomes.
Table 3 shows the correlation coe cients between the two online social ac-
tivities and recovery outcomes. The numbers of helpful marks patients obtained
were strongly correlated with improvements in mood functions, feelings of dis-
tress, life essentials, and symptoms as represented in Table 2. Similarly, the
number of posts and views patients made was also signi cantly correlated with
improvements in the same set of recovery outcomes. Most importantly, both
of the two online social activities were signi cantly correlated with the overall
recovery outcome. The numbers of helpful marks and posts and views were also
correlated with each other as well (correlation coe cient is 0.590, p < 0.01)
7
(see Table 1 in Supplemental Materials). In the meantime, the stress recovery
outcome was not signi cantly correlated with the online social activities. One
possible explanation for this observation might be that stress is a re ection of
the objective or external conditions felt by patients rather than an implication
of subjective control. In short, our results revealed statistically signi cant corre-
lations between both types of online social activities and all recovery outcomes
except stress.
Based on the results of correlation analyses described above, we selected the
in-degree, the number of helpful marks, and the number of posts and views as
three explanatory variables for the statistical modeling. The overall recovery
outcome was used as the sole dependent variable. We conducted two studies
for the statistical modeling: Study I used the recovery data collected at the
same time as the collection of online social behavior data, while Study II used
the recovery data collected two months later. Study I was to model the overall
recovery outcome using the three online social behavior variables that were all
collected at a single time point. The result is shown in Table 4. The partial
F statistic was signi cant (p < 0.01), and the overall model explained 15.5%
of variance in the recovery outcomes (R2 = 0.155).
In this model, only the
beta coe cient of the number of helpful marks was signi cant at the 0.05 level.
The results showed a statistically signi cant association between the number of
 helpful marks  and recovery outcomes. The variation in ation factor (VIF) test
con rmed that there was no multicollinearity among the independent variables
(the mean VIF was 1.58, which is far from 10).
In Study II, we conducted the same statistical modeling but with the new
data of recovery outcomes that were collected for the same 200 patients two
months later (while the original social behavior data were still used as is). The
result is shown in Table 5. The new model explained 17.3% of variance in the
recovery outcomes (R2 = 0.173). The beta coe cients for both helpful marks
and posts and views were signi cant at the 0.05 level. Overall, the results of
Study II revealed that some online social behaviors were signi cantly correlated
with patients' recovery outcomes collected two months later. It was suggested
that the numbers of helpful marks and views and posts were associated with
the future recovery of patients with mental disorders.
In this study, we used SPSS to perform statistical analyses.
Discussions and Conclusions
In this study, we investigated possible relationships between the behaviors of
patients with mental health disorders in online social media and their recovery
outcomes over time. Social network analysis revealed that patients' in-degree,
eigenvector centrality and PageRank had signi cant correlations with their re-
covery outcomes, especially distress reduction, life essentials, and symptoms.
The results implied that those high in-degree patients experienced greater re-
duction of stress, better satisfaction of life essentials and greater alleviation of
symptoms, than those who had low in-degrees. Patients' online activities, which
8
were characterized by how many helpful marks they obtained and how many
posts and views they made, were also found to be signi cantly correlated with
their recovery outcomes. These  ndings provide initial evidence that online so-
cial behaviors of patients may be positively correlated with their recovery from
mental disorders.
In order to investigate the relationship between online social activities and
recovery outcomes, we constructed two statistical models using the recovery
outcome data collected at two time points that were two months apart. Study
I used the recovery data collected at the same time as the social behavior data.
The result showed that the number of helpful marks was correlated with the
patients' recovery outcomes. Study II used another set of recovery data collected
two months later. The result showed that the numbers of both helpful marks
and views and posts were signi cantly correlated with the patients' recovery
outcomes. Study I and Study II suggested that patients' social interactions
in online social media were strongly correlated with their current and future
recovery from mental disorders.
We note that there are several important limitations in this study. First,
we collected the data through scanning the Mental Health and Behavior Forum,
starting with the top ranked patients, and terminated the sampling when the
sample size reached the capacity of our data collection/processing capability.
This must have resulted in underrepresentation of patients who did not engage
much in social activities. Second, although we attempted to control some of
demographic variables (e.g., we con rmed that the ages of sampled patients
were nearly evenly distributed, with the mean age being 40.6 years old), we did
not have enough information to control other variables such as gender, disease
type, residential locations, social/ economic status, education level, etc. Third,
only the connections within these 200 patients were considered to construct
social network structure, and link weights were ignored in this process. To
fully capture and represent the social environment for each patient, other links
to/from the outside of this sample group as well as the variation of link weights
should be included in the social network analysis. In order to overcome these
limitations, a more systematic, fully data-driven research should be conducted.
Finally, both distributions of patients' recovery outcomes in Study I and Study
II approximated normal distributions with mean 0.436 and 0.454, respectively
(see Figure 1 and Figure 2 in Supplemental Materials). The results indicated
that, among the 200 participants, the majority of patients reported that they
had improvements in their recovery outcomes after using PLM. In this study,
we did not seek to quantify the potential bias of online self-reported data, which
might limit the interpretability of the obtained results. Addressing this problem
and improving the accuracy of the analysis requires further e ort.
To sum up, in this paper, we investigated the association between typi-
cal online social behaviors and recovery outcomes of mental disorders. Even
though this study has produced some evidence of possible links between online
social interactions and mental health improvement, the important issue regard-
ing precise mechanisms and causal pathways, through which social activities
a ect mental health outcomes and/or vice versa, still remains unclear. In order
9
to obtain a conclusive answer to the question about how online social behavior
and mental health improvement are causally linked, a much larger-scale longitu-
dinal study (ideally with randomized control experiments) would be necessary.
In the meantime, we believe that our  nding that online social behaviors are
strongly linked to patients' current and future recovery still has merit by itself,
even without full understanding of its causality.
References
[1] K. Ali, L. Farrer, A. Gulliver, and K. M. Gri ths. Online peer-to-peer sup-
port for young people with mental health problems: A systematic review.
JMIR Mental Health, 2(2):e19, 2015.
[2] J. Andersson, G.and Bergstr om, F. Holl andare, P. Carlbring, V. Kaldo, and
L. Ekselius. Internet-based self-help for depression: randomised controlled
trial. The British Journal of Psychiatry, 187(5):456 461, 2005.
[3] M. Bampo, M. T. Ewing, Stewart D. Mather, D. R., and M. Wallace.
The e ects of the social structure of digital networks on viral marketing
performance. Information Systems Research, 19(3):273 290, 2008.
[4] M. Bastian, S. Heymann, and M. Jacomy. Gephi: an open source software
for exploring and manipulating networks. In ICWSM, 2009.
[5] S. P. Borgatti, A. Mehra, D. J. Brass, and G. Labianca. Network analysis
in the social sciences. Science, 323(5916):892 895, 2009.
[6] J. Chen and S Zhu. Online information searches and help seeking for men-
tal health problems in urban china. Administration and Policy in Mental
Health and Mental Health Services Research, 1-11, 2015.
[7] W. S. Chow and L. S. Chan. Social network, social trust and shared goals
in organizational knowledge sharing. Information & Management, 20:317 
330, 2008.
[8] Sheldon Cohen, Benjamin H. Gottlieb, and Lynn G. Underwood. Social
relationships and health. Social support measurement and intervention: A
guide for health and social scientists, 2000:3 25, 2000.
[9] J. Cothrel and R. L. Williams. On-line communities: helping them form
and grow. Journal of Knowledge Management, 3(1):54 60, 1999.
[10] L. Davis and J. Brekke. Social support and functional outcome in severe
mental illness: The mediating role of proactive coping. Psychiatry research,
215(1):39 45, 2014.
[11] R. J. DeRubeis, T. Z. Tang, and A. T. Beck. Cognitive therapy. Handbook
of cognitive-behavioral therapies, 2:349 392, 2001.
10
[12] I. Doherty. Web 2.0: a movement within the health community. Health
Care & Informatics Review Online, JUNE(2008), 2008.
[13] S. P. Farrell and C. R. McKinnon. Technology and rural mental health.
Archives of Psychiatric Nursing, 17(1):20 26, 2003.
[14] J. Fieldhouse. The impact of an allotment group on mental health clients 
health, wellbeing and social networking. The British Journal of Occupa-
tional Therapy, 66(7):286 296, 2003.
[15] S. Fox and S. Jones. The social life of health information. Washington,
DC: Pew Internet & American Life Project, 2009-12, 2009.
[16] J. Frost, S. Okun, T. Vaughan, J. Heywood, and P. Wicks. Patient-reported
outcomes as a source of evidence in o -label prescribing: analysis of data
from PatientsLikeMe. Journal of Medical Internet research, 13(1), 2011.
[17] J. H. Frost and M. P. Massagli. Social uses of personal health information
within PatientsLikeMe, an online patient community: what can happen
when patients have access to one anothers data. Journal of Medical Internet
Research, 10(3), 2008.
[18] C. Hawn. Take two aspirin and tweet me in the morning: how Twitter,
Facebook, and other social media are reshaping health care. Health A airs,
28(2):361 368, 2009.
[19] M. HERT, D. Cohen, J. Bobes, M. Cetkovich-Bakmas, S. Leucht, D. M.
Ndetei, J. W. Newcomer, R. Uwakwe, I. Asai, H. M oller, S. Gautam, J. De-
traux, and C. U. Correll. Physical illness in patients with severe mental
disorders. ii. barriers to care, monitoring and treatment guidelines, plus
recommendations at the system and individual level. World Psychiatry,
10(2):138 151, 2011.
[20] R. C. Hsiung. The best of both worlds: An online self-help group hosted by
a mental health professional. CyberPsychology & Behavior, 3(6):935 950,
2000.
[21] Y. Hu. Algorithms for visualizing large networks. Combinatorial Scienti c
Computing, 5(3):180 186, 2011.
[22] I. Ihm and B. Naylor. Piecewise linear approximations of digitized space
curves with applications. In Scienti c Visualization of Physical Phenom-
ena, pp.545-568, 1991.
[23] R. C. Kessler, W. T. Chiu, O. Demler, and E. E. Walters. Prevalence,
severity, and comorbidity of 12-month dsm-iv disorders in the national
comorbidity survey replication. Archives of General Psychiatry, 62(6):617 
627, 2005.
11
[24] A. Ko mann and M. G.. Walters. Introduction to Psychological Theories
and Psychotherapy. Oxford University Press, 2014.
[25] P. E. Kummervold, D. Gammon, S. Bergvik, J. A. K. Johnsen, T. Hasvold,
and J. H. Rosenvinge. Social support in a wired world: use of online mental
health forums in norway. Nordic Journal of Psychiatry, 56(1):59 65, 2002.
[26] T. C Leinbaugh. Electroconvulsive therapy: A primer for mental health
counselors. Journal of Mental Health Counseling, 23(1):36, 2001.
[27] D. L. Leslie and R. Rosenheck. Shifting to outpatient care? mental health
care use and cost under private insurance. American Journal of Psychiatry,
2014.
[28] R. R. Morris, S. M. Schueller, and R. W. Picard. E cacy of a web-based,
crowdsourced peer-to-peer cognitive reappraisal platform for depression:
Randomized controlled trial. Journal of medical Internet research, 17(3),
2015.
[29] S. Myneni, N. K. Cobb, and T. Cohen. Finding meaning in social media:
Content-based social network analysis of quitnet to identify new opportu-
nities for health promotion. Studies in health technology and informatics,
192:807 811, 2013.
[30] B. L. Neiger, R. Thackeray, S. A. Van Wagenen, C. L. Hanson, J. H.
West, M. D. Barnes, and M. C. Fagen. Use of social media in health
promotion purposes, key performance indicators, and evaluation metrics.
Health promotion practice, 13(2):159 164, 2012.
[31] M. E. Newman. A measure of betweenness centrality based on random
walks. Social Networks, 27(1):39 54, 2005.
[32] L. Page, S. Brin, R. Motwani, and T. Winograd. The pagerank citation
ranking: bringing order to the web. 1999.
[33] B. L. Perry and B. A Pescosolido. Social network activation: the role of
health discussion partners in recovery from mental illness. Social Science
& Medicine, 125, 2014.
[34] S. M. Rice, J. Goodall, S. E. Hetrick, A. G. Parker, T. Gilbertson, G. P.
Amminger, C. G. Davey, P. D. McGorry, J. Gleeson, and M. Alvarez-
Jimenez. Online and social networking interventions for the treatment
of depression in young people: a systematic review. Journal of medical
Internet research, 16(9), 2014.
[35] J. Sadavoy, R. Meier, and A. Y. M. Ong. Barriers to access to mental
health services for ethnic seniors: the toronto study. Canadian Journal of
Psychiatry, 49(3):192 199, 2004.
12
[36] T. A. Snijders. The statistical evaluation of social network dynamics. So-
ciological Methodology, 31(1):361 395, 2001.
[37] T. W. Valente, K. Coronges, C. Lakon, and E. Costenbader. How correlated
are network centrality measures? Connections (Toronto, Ont.), 28(1),
2008.
[38] T. H. Van De Belt, L. J. Engelen, S. A. Berben, and L. Schoonhoven.
De nition of health 2.0 and medicine 2.0: a systematic review. Journal of
medical Internet research, 12(2), 2010.
[39] J. C. Wake eld. The concept of mental disorder: on the boundary between
biological facts and social values. American Psychologist, 47(3):373, 1992.
[40] C. Walshaw. A multilevel algorithm for force-directed graph drawing. In
Graph Drawing. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2001.
[41] M. Wells, K. J. Mitchell, D. Finkelhor, and K. A. Becker-Blease. Online
mental health treatment: Concerns and considerations. CyberPsychology
& Behavior, 10(3):453 459, 2007.
[42] Paul Wicks, Michael Massagli, Jeana Frost, Catherine Brownstein, Sally
Okun, Timothy Vaughan, Richard Bradley, and James Heywood. Sharing
health data for better outcomes on PatientsLikeMe. Journal of Medical
Internet Research, 12, no.2, 2010.
[43] L. Yan and Y. Tan. An empirical study of online supports among patients.
Available at SSRN 1697849, 2010.
13
