Online Popularity and Topical Interests
through the Lens of Instagram
Emilio Ferrara
School of Informatics and Computing
Indiana University Bloomington, USA
ferrarae@indiana.edu
Roberto Interdonato, Andrea Tagarelli
DIMES
University of Calabria, Italy
{rinterdonato,tagarelli}@dimes.unical.it
4
1
0
2
 
n
u
J
 
0
3
 
 
]
I
S
.
s
c
[
 
 
1
v
1
5
7
7
.
6
0
4
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
ABSTRACT
Online socio-technical systems can be studied as proxy of
the real world to investigate human behavior and social in-
teractions at scale. Here we focus on Instagram, a media-
sharing online platform whose popularity has been rising up
to gathering hundred millions users. Instagram exhibits a
mixture of features including social structure, social tag-
ging and media sharing. The network of social interac-
tions among users models various dynamics including fol-
lower/followee relations and users  communication by means
of posts/comments. Users can upload and tag media such as
photos and pictures, and they can  like  and comment each
piece of information on the platform. In this work we inves-
tigate three major aspects on our Instagram dataset: (i) the
structural characteristics of its network of heterogeneous in-
teractions, to unveil the emergence of self organization and
topically-induced community structure; (ii) the dynamics
of content production and consumption, to understand how
global trends and popular users emerge; (iii) the behavior
of users labeling media with tags, to determine how they de-
vote their attention and to explore the variety of their topical
interests. Our analysis provides clues to understand human
behavior dynamics on socio-technical systems, speci cally
users and content popularity, the mechanisms of users  in-
teractions in online environments and how collective trends
emerge from individuals  topical interests.
1.
INTRODUCTION
The study of society through the lens of social media al-
lows us to uncover questions about human behavior at scale
[27]. Recent results unveiled complex dynamics in human
behavior [44, 11], interactions [2, 15] and in uence [3, 9].
Still, many open questions remain: for example, how do so-
cial interactions a ect individual and collective behavior?
Or, how does connectivity a ect individual and collective
topical interests? Yet, how do trends and popular content
emerge from individuals  interactions?
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for pro t or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full cita-
tion on the  rst page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than
ACM must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or re-
publish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior speci c permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
HT 14, September 1 4, 2014, Santiago, Chile.
Copyright 2014 ACM 978-1-4503-2954-5/14/09 ...$15.00.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2631775.2631808.
In this paper we address these questions by studying an
emerging socio-technical system, namely Instagram. The
popularity of this platform has been growing during recent
years: as of the beginning of 2014 Instagram gathers over
one hundred million users. Instagram users generate an un-
paralleled amount of media content. Hence, it should not
be surprising that Instagram has recently attracted the at-
tention of the research community, fostering results in dif-
ferent areas including cultural analytics [23, 22] and urban
social behavior [41]. Instagram represents an unprecedented
environment of study, in that it mixes features of various
social media and online social networks (including the abil-
ity of creating user-generated content in the form of visual
media), the option of social tagging, and the possibility of
establishing social relations (e.g., followee/follower relation-
ships), and social interactions (e.g., commenting or liking
media of other users.)
A natural comparison arises between Instagram and other
photo sharing systems, particularly Flickr. The two systems
appear rather di erent in terms of features and target of
users. Flickr o ers more professional-oriented features (e.g.,
high-quality photos, thematic groups and communities, ad-
vanced media organization features.) Instagram, being de-
signed for mobile users, resembles an amateur photo-blog,
as it incorporates features to quickly take photos and ap-
ply visual e ects, and it o ers a minimal interface. In other
words, Flickr can be seen as a more complete photo sharing
platform with social network features, while Instagram re-
sembles a Twitter-like online social network based on photo
sharing.
Following the lead of studies based on similar platforms
such as Flickr [37, 16, 33, 12], in this paper we address
 ve di erent research questions, discussed in the following,
spanning di erent areas of network-, semantic- and topical-
based data analysis using signals from user activities and
interactions.
1.1 Contribution and outline
We provide a framework to analyze the Instagram ecosys-
tem, incorporating in our model the unique mixture of social
interactions, social tagging and media sharing features pro-
vided by the platform. By using this framework, we conduct
a rigorous analysis focusing on the following main aspects:
(i) the structural characteristics of the Instagram network,
(ii) the dynamics of content production and consumption,
and (iii) the users  interests modeled via the social tagging
mechanisms available to label media with topical tags. We
elaborate on each and all these aspects to answer the follow-
ing research questions:
Q1 Network and community structure: What are the salient
structural features in the network built on the users 
interactions?
Q2 Content production and consumption: How do users pro-
duce and consume content? That is, how do users get
engaged on the platform and how do they interact with
content produced by others?
Q3 Social tagging: How diverse is the set of tags exploited
by each user? In other words, what is the user tagging
behavior?
Q4 Topical clusters of interest: How can users be grouped
based on the tags they use to annotate media?
Q5 Popularity and topicality: How does the topical inter-
ests of users a ect their popularity? And, how large is
the variety of topics covered by each user or by each
media?
1.2 Scope of this work
To the best of our knowledge, this work is the  rst to study
the Instagram network of users  interactions, social tagging
activities, and topical interests. Therefore, our major goal is
to  ll a lack of knowledge concerning a number of research
issues in Instagram. Within this view, we aimed at provid-
ing a  rst understanding of the above listed aspects of the
Instagram network, being aware that all such aspects are
interrelated and hence they should be preferably addressed
together. It should also be noted that our experimental  nd-
ings depend on the particular sampling mechanism used to
build our dataset; as we shall discuss in the next section, this
introduces a bias that does not allow us to provide an anal-
ysis of the full Instagram ecosystem, but only of users (and
associated media) that are engaged in a public Instagram
initiative.
2. METHODOLOGY
In this section we describe the challenges that we faced in
gathering data from the Instagram network, and the tech-
nical choices that we adopted to build our dataset. Anal-
ogously to other studies, we had to cope with the impos-
sibility of obtaining data directly from the network admin-
istrators; therefore, we collected an Instagram sample by
querying the Instagram API.1 Various features are made
publicly available, including: (i) the users API, which al-
lows sampling from the Instagram user space by querying
for speci c user account details; (ii) the relationships API,
which retrieves information about speci c users, their fol-
lowers and followees; (iii) the media API, which queries for
speci c or popular media; (iv,v) the comments and the likes
APIs, respectively, to extract comments and likes from spe-
ci c media; and (vi) the tags API, which extracts the key-
words associated with speci c media, as attributed by the
social tagging process of Instagram users.
2.1 Crawling strategy
Our primary objective in crawling the Instagram network
was to ensure adequate levels of consistency in user rela-
tionships as well as topical variety in media properties, over
a timespan possibly larger than the actual crawling period.
1See http://instagram.com/developer/
Table 1: Statistics on the Instagram media dataset.
No. Media
No. Distinct users
No. Tags
No. Distinct tags
No. Likes
No. Comments
1,686,349
2,081
8,919,630
269,359
1,242,923,022
41,341,783
We expected to detect a user interaction graph having topo-
logical properties (e.g., clustering coe cient, average path
length) as close as possible to those typically exhibited by
other (directed) social media networks [49, 35]; at the same
time, we aimed at collecting media whose thematic subjects
could span over a predetermined, relatively large classi ca-
tion, while capturing time information about media and user
relationships that would allow for trend evolution analysis.
Our initial crawling attempt consisted in retrieving me-
dia geolocalized w.r.t. a list of touristic/popular locations,
which were selected based on their presumed potential to
attract users with very di erent (photographic) tastes, con-
cerning, e.g., art and culture, entertainment and night life,
wild life (sea/mountain), etc. Then, the user relations un-
derlying the authors of the retrieved media were taken into
account to build a user network. Our hypothesis here was
that two users who take pictures within a limited area are
more likely to be connected via a follower/followee relation
(they may know each other in real life.) Unfortunately, de-
spite the spatial proximity between the authors of the col-
lected media, a poor number of followships were identi ed,
resulting in a network overly disconnected (e.g., clustering
coe cient of 2.0E-6). Note that, by trying di erent sets of
touristic locations, we obtained similar results in terms of
connectivity.
We changed our crawling strategy based on retrieving
users that belong to a relatively large  community  in In-
stagram. Here, our usage of term community corresponds
to that of thematic channel, which is typical in many other
social media networks (e.g., YouTube); Instagram does not
o er an explicit group/community feature, therefore we ex-
ploited the existence of public initiatives o cially organized
by Instagram. We focused our crawling on the Instagram
weekend hashtag project (WHP) promoted by the Instagram s
o cial blog.2 The characteristics of the WHP initiative and
their implications on our data crawling are described next.
2.2 Dataset construction
Every Friday, the Instagram team runs a photographic
contest, through the Instagram s o cial blog. Each contest
is assigned a speci c topic, which is expressed by a unique
(hash)tag pre xed with #whp. According to the project
rules, submitted photos need to be marked with no more
than one contest-speci c tag.
We selected 72 popular contests and randomly picked up
about 2, 100 users that participated in at least one of those
contests. All media uploaded by these users (including me-
dia that were not tagged with #whp-hashtags) were gath-
ered and their information retrieved and stored into the me-
dia dataset. For each media, we retrieved its unique ID, the
ID of the user who posted it, the timestamp of media cre-
2http://blog.instagram.com/tagged/
weekend-hashtag-project
Table 2: Relational Instagram network statistics.
No. Nodes
No. Links
Avg. In-degree
Avg. Path length
Clustering coe cient
Diameter
Assortativity index
No. Communities
Network modularity
44,766
677,686
15.14
3.16
4.1E-2
11
-0.097
151
0.578
ation, the set of tags assigned to the media, the number of
likes and comments it received.
We constructed the Relational Instagram Network (RIN)
as a directed weighted graph. Edges were drawn to model
asymmetric relationships of the form follower-followee, and
edge weights were calculated proportionally to the number of
likes and comments generated by a user (follower) towards
media created by her/his followee. The users selected to
build the media dataset were used as seed nodes for the con-
struction of the RIN. Note that we conceived the RIN so to
model (asymmetric) relationships that hold strictly among
the participants in the contests. The reason for this choice
is that including the whole topological neighborhood of the
candidate nodes (e.g., the individual egonets also including
non-participants) would have resulted again in highly dis-
connected networks (with clustering coe cient of the order
of 1.0E-6). Therefore, we started a breadth- rst search pro-
cess from the set of seed nodes,  ltering out any user who
did not participate in at least a #whp contest.
Our data were crawled over about one-month period (from
Jan 20 to Feb 17, 2014). The obtained media dataset con-
tains full information about over 2 thousand users and al-
most 1.7 million media, with about 9 million tags, 1.2 bil-
lion likes, and 41 million comments (see Table 1.) Details
on our RIN are reported in Table 2. Here it can be noted
that the network of user relations shows a negative, close-
to-zero assortativity, which would indicate no tendency of
users with similar degree to connect each other. Moreover,
the characteristic path length and clustering coe cient are
both low, while the modularity is rather high, which would
indicate that the RIN has small modules, with moderately
dense connections between the nodes within modules and
sparse connections between nodes in di erent modules.3
Limitations.
As previously discussed, our dataset is intentionally built
around the set of users and media that belong to a competition-
driven,
large, community in Instagram. Unlike previous
work on the Flickr network (a major competitor of Insta-
gram) [33], we were not able to perform a number of anal-
yses such as, e.g., preferential creation/reception and prox-
imity bias in link creation, which rely on fellowship creation
timestamps. This information is missing in our dataset, as
the Instagram APIs do not make it available. Flickr APIs
do not make it available either, but those authors inferred
such temporal information by crawling the Flickr network
daily, and monitoring the creation of new links [33]. Another
3Our data are available at http://uweb.dimes.unical.it/
tagarelli/data/.
Figure 1: Distribution of node degree and commu-
nity size of the Relational Instagram Network.
limitation concerns the analysis of latent interactions (e.g.,
pro le browsing), which has been shown to be a prominent
activity in OSNs [7, 40, 25]: unfortunately, this informa-
tion is not publicly available for Instagram, while obtaining
signi cant clickstream data (like that used other studies [7,
40]) is challenging.
3. ANALYSIS AND RESULTS
We begin with explaining the  ve research questions that
we will address to unveil the characteristics of Instagram.
3.0.1 Q1: Network and community structure
Our  rst question aims at understanding what are the
structural features of the Relational Instagram Network and
the characteristic of its community structure. We want to
determine the dynamics of social relations and interactions
on the system and how they shape (if they do) the struc-
ture of the network.
In addition, we want to determine
whether or not the community structure re ects the self-
organization principle [31] by which individuals in social net-
works tend to aggregate in communities oriented to topical
discussions, and if this, in turn, yields the emergence of a
topically-induced community structure.
3.0.2 Q2: Content production and consumption
We want also to understand how the cycle of production
and consumption of information (e.g., media) is character-
ized on Instagram. We  rst aim at understanding what is
the driving mechanism of content production; then, we aim
to unveil whether content consumption, measured in some
way (e.g., via social interactions), follows similar patterns or
if any striking di erence emerges.
3.0.3 Q3: Social tagging dynamics
In the third research question our goal is to study the dy-
namics of social tagging on Instagram. We want to study
both the patterns of tag adoption at the user level, and at
the global level, to characterize how popular tags emerge
from the adoption of independent users. We also want to
describe the variety of tagging usage by the users, to deter-
mine whether users focus their attention on few rather than
many contexts.
Figure 2: Visualization of the community structure
of the Relational Instagram Network.
3.0.4 Q4: Topical clusters of interests
A fourth research questions aims at determining whether
it is possible to cluster users exploiting their tagging behav-
ior, and, in turn, if topical clusters emerge by means of such
procedure.
3.0.5 Q5: Popularity and topicality
Our  nal research questions aims at unveiling the dynam-
ics of user popularity and how this relates to topical in-
terests. We hypothesize that popular users might exhibit
di erent patterns of attention and therefore di erent topi-
cal interests. We want to determine whether we can char-
acterize user popularity as function of the variety of their
interests, and, in turn, learn how topicality relates to social
interactions.
3.1 Structural features of the Instagram Net-
work
We discuss the analysis of the Relational Instagram Net-
work (RIN) we carried out to answer our  rst research ques-
tion (Q1). Our goal here is to study its topological fea-
tures and determine whether they re ect any particular so-
cial process. In particular, we aim at unveiling whether this
particular environment, at the boundary between a social
network and a sharing media platform, exhibits any charac-
teristic feature: for example, we will drive our attention on
the e ect of topical interests of users and how these re ect
on the network structure. Figure 1 shows the distribution of
node degree (in blue) and community size (in green) for the
RIN. The community detection task has been carried out
using two algorithms: the Louvain method [8], and OSLOM
[26]. Results obtained with both methods are consistent (the
plot shows the results from the former algorithm.) Both the
node degree and the community size distributions are broad
and exhibit a fat-tail. A broad degree distribution suggests
Figure 3: Distribution of user content production.
that the Relational Instagram Network growth may follow a
preferential-attachment mechanism [5]: new social relations
and social interactions are disproportionately more likely to
occur between individuals who previously grew their social
network and invested in interacting with others, rather than
between users less prone to connect [42]. The formation of
communities of heterogeneous size suggests the emergence
of self organization [31], a principle explaining that individ-
uals tend to aggregate in units (the communities) optimized
for e ciency of communication (e.g., around speci c topics
of conversation.) A self-organized network structure enjoys
crucial properties, including that of enhancing the topical-
ity of interests, or their scope, to smaller sets of individuals
rather than to the entire system. By addressing research
questions Q2 and Q3 in the following sections, we will deter-
mine whether these communities emerge from user relations
and interactions around certain topics of interest; in other
words, we will investigate whether the network exhibits a
topically-induced community structure.
To visualize the community structure of the RIN we pro-
duced a graphical representation in Figure 2, by means of
a circular hierarchical algorithm.4 Here nodes (i.e., users)
belonging to the same community have the same colors, and
the hue of the edges transitions from the color of the commu-
nity of the source node to that of the target one. The RIN
community structure clearly separates close clusters of in-
dividuals (e.g., bottom-right ones) from clusters of isolated
individuals (e.g., top-right ones.) Note that the RIN has
(multi)edges weighted by means of social relations and inter-
actions (i.e., follower/followee, likes and comments), being
these weights accounted in the community detection and vi-
sualization tasks. Di erently from other social networks [19,
21], Instagram does not exhibit a tight core-periphery struc-
ture, whereas communities of large size exist in peripheral
areas of the network and they are interconnected with other
communities of comparable size. Other basic statistics of
the Relational Instagram Network are reported in Table 2.
3.2 Content production and consumption
We continue our analysis of the Instagram ecosystem by
investigating how users produce and consume content (Q2.)
4Cvis by Andrea Lancichinetti: https://sites.google.
com/site/andrealancichinetti/cvis.
Figure 4: Distribution of social interactions.
Figure 5: Tag adoption and global popularity.
Our goal is to determine whether any particular pattern
emerges to describe how individuals  get engaged on the
platform and how they interact with content produced by
others. To this aim, we study content production from the
user perspective. Figure 3 shows the probability density
function (pdf(x)) of the amount x of media posted by each
Instagram user in our dataset. This plot suggests peculiar
content production dynamics on Instagram: users who al-
ready uploaded a large number of media are more likely
to do so, causing the presence of a fat tail showing users
with a disproportionate amount of media posted on the plat-
form.
Individuals exhibit higher tendency to posting new
content if they already did that in the past. The lack of
a scale-invariant content production dynamics di erentiates
Instagram from other platforms [33] (even if some caution
is required given how the sample was constructed.) If our
observation holds in general, this has an interesting impact
from the perspective of system design, in that it suggests a
neat separation between active and inactive users: those who
are already engaged in using the platform are more likely to
keep staying active users. Strategies to engage inactive users
could be designed and implemented based on these  ndings
to lower the heterogeneity (i.e., the imbalance) in users in-
volved in content production on the platform.
We now investigate content consumption on Instagram.
Here with content consumption we intend that a given user
on the platform has performed some speci c action toward a
media produced by another user (e.g., liking or commenting
it.) This draws an interesting parallel between content pro-
duction and social interactions, and provides a slightly di er-
ent perspective from usual studies on platform like social me-
dia such as Twitter, where content consumption is intended
as users rebroadcast others  content (e.g., via retweets) aim-
ing at information di usion rather than interactions. Fig-
ure 4 shows the distribution of two consumption dynamics,
namely  like  and comment, of Instagram users. The plot
includes the best  t of a power law to the likes distribution,5
with an exponent   = 1.391 (xmin = 3,   = 0.001), whereas
no signi cant power law  t has been found for the com-
5The statistical signi cance of this  tting (and all the others
in the paper) has been assessed by means of powerlaw, a
library by Alstott et al. [1], and it s based on a Kolmogorov-
Smirnov test.
ment distribution that clearly shows two di erent regimes,
x (cid:47) 250 and x (cid:39) 250. The  likes  distribution shows a cut-
o  in the tail due to the  nite system size, and suggests that
the behavior of likes and comments on Instagram might fol-
low two di erent dynamics. Popularity of media measured
by the number of likes grows by preferential attachment sim-
ilarly to how, for example, scienti c papers acquire citations
[24]: resources with large number of likes (resp., citations)
are more likely to acquire even more. Di erently, the ecosys-
tem is less prone to trigger large conversations (based on
comments); this is consistent with the theory of user com-
munication e ciency: the di erent costs (e.g., in terms of
time required to perform the action) between  liking  some
content and writing a comment a ect the nature of interac-
tions among individuals on the platform.
3.3 Social tagging dynamics
To answer our question about the dynamics of social tag-
ging on Instagram (Q3) we investigated three aspects: (i)
the tag popularity at the global level and the distribution
of tags per media; (ii) the distribution of total tags used by
the users and their vocabulary size; and, (iii) the diversity
in tag usage by each individual.
Our  rst goal is to understand how tags emerge in the
system at the global level from the tagging patterns of in-
dividual media. To this end, we derived the distribution
of tag popularity, as represented by the probability density
function of observing a given total number of tag occur-
rences across all media. Then, we obtained the distribution
of the number of tags assigned to each media. The results
are shown in Figure 5. The plot reports the best  tting of a
power law to the distribution of tag popularity with an expo-
nent equal to   = 1.865 (xmin = 2,   = 0.002), whereas the
tags-per-media distribution best  ts an exponential-decay
function. Two main observations stand out. First, the tag
usage mechanism seems to follow an information economy
principle of least e ort, that is that the majority of media are
labeled with just a few tags, and larger sets of tags assigned
to the same media are increasingly more unlikely to be ob-
served. Second, although the mechanism describing the as-
signment of tags is not quite by preferential attachment, the
outcome of the process, that is the overall tag popularity,
follows a power law behavior. Similar  ndings have been ob-
Figure 6: Tag usage and tagset size distributions.
Figure 7: User-Tag entropy distribution.
served in other popular systems, like Twitter, where popular
(hash)tags emerge from individuals  adoption [45]. Limited
attention of users and competition among (hash)tags have
been hypothesized as explanation of the emergence of such
broad distributions.
Moreover, we seek to understand what is the emerging be-
havior at the user level. We want to determine what patterns
of tag adoption users follow, in terms of how many total tags
they use, and how many of these tags are distinct. In other
words, we establish their vocabulary size (i.e., the number
of  words  they are aware of) and we compare it against
the total number of tags they produce. Figure 6 shows the
distribution of, respectively, total and distinct tags used by
each user. Both distributions are fat-tailed and show simi-
lar slopes. Vocabulary size re ects the information economy
principle: the distribution of distinct tags per user spans
above one order of magnitude less if compared with that
of the total tags usage. This suggests that the actual user
vocabulary size is limited, with a large majority of users
adopting only few tags. This can be explained by consider-
ing that users cannot keep track of all tags emerging on the
platform.
Finally, to the aim of studying how diverse is the set of
tags used by each individual we proceeded as follows. First,
we described each given user u in our dataset by means of
a vector Tu where each entry represents the frequency f (t)
of adoption of tag t (i.e., the total number of times user u
adopted tag t to label one of the media she/he uploaded to
Instagram), for all tags used by u. We de ne the entropy
value H( ), to describe each user s entropy in the adoption
of tags, in the classic Shannon way
p(t)   log p(t), with p(t) =
f (t)(cid:80)
t Tu
f (t)
.
H(u) =  (cid:88)
t Tu
Afterwards, we determined the probability density func-
tion of the distribution of users  tag adoption entropy, as
shown in Figure 7. Note that the entropy ranges between 0
and the logarithm of the total number of tags of each user.
The lower the entropy, the more focused a user s tagging
pattern is (that is, she/he tends to adopt less tags in a more
concentrated ways), the more diverse is her/his tagging be-
havior. Figure 7 shows that the entropy is roughly normally
distributed with a peak between 5 and 6, and a skewness
towards lower values of entropy. This suggests that, while a
fraction of about 50% of the users tend to exhibit an average
tagging variety (corresponding to entropy values 4 (cid:47) x (cid:47) 7),
the remainder are either focused (x (cid:47) 4) or extremely het-
erogeneous (x (cid:39) 7) in their tagging adoption. The analysis
of tag adoption entropy reveals crucial features from the
perspective of modeling user attention: tagging entropy is
a proxy to measure how spread or focused users  attention
is towards few or several contexts. A more re ned analy-
sis, that will take into account not only tags but the topics
that emerge from their co-occurrences is presented later to
address Q5.
3.4 Topical clusters of interest
To answer Q4, we conducted a number of experiments
aimed at evaluating how users in the media dataset can be
grouped together. Users were represented as term-frequency
vectors in the space of media tags. We performed the clus-
tering of these users based on Bisecting k-Means [43], which
is well-suited to produce high-quality (hard) clustering so-
lutions in high-dimensional, large datasets [50]. We used
the CLUTO clustering toolkit6 which provides a globally-
optimized version of Bisecting k-Means. Feature selection
was carried out to retain only the features (i.e., tags) that
accounted for 80% of the overall similarity of clusters. We
experimented by varying the number k of clusters from 2
to 50, with unitary increment of k at each run. Our evalua-
tion was both quantitative, based on standard within-cluster
and across-cluster similarity criteria, and qualitative, based
on the cluster characterization in terms of descriptive and
discriminating features. The best-quality clustering solution
corresponded to k = 5.
Figure 8 shows a color-intensity plot of the relations be-
tween the di erent clusters of users and features (i.e., tags),
corresponding to a 5-way clustering solution. Only a subset
of the features is displayed, which corresponds to the union
of the most descriptive and discriminating features of each
cluster. Moreover, features are re-ordered according to a
hierarchical clustering solution, which is visualized on the
left-hand side of the  gure. A brighter red cell correspond-
ing to a pair feature-cluster indicates higher power of that
6CLUTO: www.cs.umn.edu/~karypis/cluto
Figure 8: 5-way clustering of the users in the media
dataset.
feature to be, for that cluster, descriptive (i.e., the fraction
of within-cluster similarity that this feature can explain) and
discriminating (i.e., the fraction of dissimilarity between the
cluster and the rest of the objects this feature can explain.)
The width of each cluster-column is proportional to the log-
arithm of the corresponding cluster s size.
It can be noted that the  ve clusters are quite well-balanced.
The  rst two clusters (i.e., the two left-most columns) are
strongly characterized by hashtags denoting the use of pop-
ular applications, namely VSCO Cam and Latergram. The
former is commonly used to modify pictures by adding  l-
ters, while the latter is used to schedule the upload of a pic-
ture at di erent (later) time than that of its shot. The #lat-
ergram cluster is also characterized by another popular hash-
tag, #tbt, which is an acronym of Throwback Thursday (a
 throwback  theme can pertain to some event that happened
in the past), and at higher levels in the induced feature-
cluster hierarchy, by geographical hashtags (e.g., #nyc, #cal-
ifornia.) While the  fth cluster is labeled by subject-based
tags that are evocative of feelings (#love) or nature (#sky,
#nature), the third and fourth clusters are instead charac-
terized by either attention-seeking tags or microcommunity-
focused tags: #photooftheday, #igmaster are representative
of the former category, as users are seeking approval from
their peers, whereas #amselcom, and #justgoshoot fall into
the latter category along with #iphonesia (originally used by
East-Asia users who share photos taken with their iPhones)
and #instagramhub (which aims at helping users under-
stand best practices and sharing tips.) Yet, #jj, which is run
by prominent Instagram user Josh Johnson, denotes a com-
munity which asks their users to abide by the rule  for every
one photo posted, comment on two others and like three
more . Note that, in general, members of such microcom-
munities are often asked to share photos on a speci c theme,
and motivated to create more e ective images. These chal-
lenges posed by the community continuously prompt their
members to play active roles in Instagram.
3.5 User popularity and topicality
Figure 9: User and media topical entropy.
Our  nal research question (Q5) aims at exploring the
topical interests space of users and how this a ects their
popularity. To learn the topics of interest exhibited by the
users we employed a topic model which adopts the tags as-
signed by users to their media as the topical characterization
feature. We  ltered out tags occurring only once in our cor-
pus, that account for roughly 20% of the total.
After experimenting with various topic models available
in the gensim python library,7 (including LDA and HDP),
we adopted Latent Semantic Indexing (LSI) that provided
the most interpretable model for a suitable number of top-
ics set to 10. Note that, di erently from topic modeling
applications where the impact of the choice of the number
of topics might a ect the results, in our case we obtained
consistent results by using larger number of topics as well
(we tested with 5, 10, 20 and 30 topics obtaining consistent
results.) We set up our topic model inferring the posterior
probability distribution over the topics for each media in our
dataset. To determine the topical interests of each user u,
we simply averaged the probabilities of each topic being ex-
hibited by the media produced by u. As concerns the variety
of topics covered by each user (as well as that exhibited by a
given media), we adopted the Shannon entropy. Similarly to
the formula used in Section 3.3 for users and tags, we calcu-
lated the probability of observing the topics (rather than the
tags.) Afterwards, we estimated the probability distribution
of user (respectively, media) topical entropy, as illustrated
in Figure 9. Here we observe that the topical entropy (both
for users and media) is very concentrated and spans values
between 2.5 and 3.5 as opposed to the broader entropy in-
terval of user tags, which ranges between 0 and 9 (see Figure
7.) This suggests that, although users are equally likely to
adopt either a narrow or broad vocabulary of tags, their top-
ical interests tend to be in general more concentrated. At
the end of this section we will discuss if there are deviations
from this pattern, and how they relate to users  popularity.
In other words, we will seek to understand whether popu-
larity can be described by variety of topical interests. Note
that user topical entropy and media topical entropy are sim-
ilarly distributed, as it should be, suggesting the goodness
of our approach to build users topical interest pro les.
7Gensim: http://radimrehurek.com/gensim/
Figure 10: User popularity and social actions.
In order to investigate the popularity of users, we mea-
sured the total number of likes and comments received by
a user s media. We also account for the total number of
times a user likes or comments someone else media, namely
the number of social actions that this user performs. Such
measures are clearly correlated since one is complementary
to the other. In Figure 10 we show the distribution of user
popularity and user social actions. From the two distribu-
tions some interesting facts emerge. First, they are both
broadly distributed. The slope of the user popularity dis-
tribution is small. This implies the presence of many users
with approximately the same (small) popularity. Around
x (cid:39) 1000, the slope of the user popularity distribution dras-
tically changes, becoming steeper as of identifying a cut-o 
due to the  nite size of the sample. Values larger than this
point coincide with the few extremely popular users who re-
ceive a lot many likes and comments to their media. The
social actions distribution is still broad but with a steeper
slope. This implies that there exist relatively less users (with
respect to the popularity distribution) who produce many
likes or comments to others  media.
Our  nal experiment aims to understand whether user
popularity can be explained by means of variety of users 
topical interests. Our goal is to determine whether di erent
classes of popular users emerge, according to their topical in-
terests. To this aim, we correlate user popularity with their
topical entropy values discussed above. Figure 11 shows a
boxplot that separates users in  ve logarithmic bins. For
each bin, the corresponding box extends from the lower to
upper quartile values of the data, whereas the whiskers ex-
tend from the box to show the range of the popularity values
for that bin. A red line corresponds to the median value for
each bin. Popularity once again is measured as the sum of
likes and comments received from the media produced by
each user. Results do not vary when considering the count
instead of the sum of social actions, or when varying the
number of topics in the topic model. The values of topical
entropy span between 2.7 and 3.3 bits, in a spectrum of 0.6
bit overall.
From Figure 11 two interesting  ndings emerge. First,
user popularity is somewhat a ected by topical entropy. As
popularity grows, the topical entropy increases accordingly.
For example, the median topical entropy for very popular
Figure 11: Boxplot on popularity and topical en-
tropy.
users (768 < x   7039) is around 0.1 bits larger than that
of unpopular users (x   9). By comparing these two distri-
butions we observe a statistically very signi cant di erence:
a two-sided t-test of the two independent samples yields a
t-statistic of 3.674 corresponding to a p-value of 0.0005. The
second observation is that various outliers are present among
the popular users; this causes the presence of popular users
with topical entropy much lower or much higher than aver-
age.
Our  ndings suggest that unpopular users tend to be more
focused in their interests with respect to more popular users.
However, there exist popular users who are either extremely
specialized (very low values of topical entropy) or have ex-
tremely broad topical interests. These results complement
the intriguing hypothesis, recently advanced by other stud-
ies [46, 47], that popularity might be a ected by structural
features and information di usion patterns in addition to
content production and topical interests.
4. DISCUSSION
In this section we summarize the results obtained address-
ing the  ve research questions we posed at the beginning of
the paper, providing a  nal memorandum to the reader with
the main  ndings of this work.
A1 Network and community structure: The network struc-
ture of the Relational Instagram Network exhibits two
relevant characteristics: a scale-free distribution of node
degree and a broad distribution of community size.
This suggests that the network growth might happen
by preferential attachment, whereas the emergence of
the community structure might be driven by self orga-
nization of users around topics of interest.
A2 Content production and consumption: Regarding con-
tent production, the life-cycle of information genera-
tion on the platform might be explained in Simon s
terms with a heightened likelihood that already en-
gaged users produce more content. Content consump-
tion, on the other hand, might be driven by the infor-
mation economy principle of least e ort: users tend to
adopt the  like  behavior strikingly more than produc-
ing comments, in line with the intuition that a greater
e ort (in terms of time and communication economy)
must be done to drive the social interaction towards
conversation.
A3 Social tagging: Tag usage too is in line with the prin-
ciple of least e ort: the majority of media are labeled
with just a few tags, yielding a power law distribution
of tagging activity. A similar e ect was recently ob-
served in other platforms, like Twitter [45] due to lim-
ited attention in combination with competition among
tags.
A4 Topical clusters of interest: Clusters of Instagram users
can be detected by means of the tags they adopt to
label the contents they produce (and how contents are
produced), to indicate their intention to seek approval
from other users, or to denote the microcommunity the
users belong to.
A5 Popularity and topicality: User popularity is mildly af-
Increasing
fected by the breath of topical interests.
values of topical entropy are positively correlated to
higher user popularity; however, popular users exhibit
more extreme topical entropy values, which means that
some popular users are highly specialized, whereas other
have very broad interests. This translates in the prin-
ciple that users with general interests have the same
chance to become popular than the specialized ones.
5. RELATED WORK
In recent literature, social media and online communities
have been used as proxy to study human communication
and behavior at scale in di erent scenarios, including social
protests or mobilizations, social in uence and political inter-
ests and much more [9, 13, 14]. Other research highlighted
how trends emerge and di use in socio-technical systems,
and how individuals  interacting in such environments de-
vote their attention [30, 10].
In this work, we addressed popularity and trends emerg-
ing in Instagram. Trends are used to represent popular top-
ics of interest as they are considered indicators of collective
attention [28], and have been studied to detect exogenous
real-world events [39, 6, 20]. Our work explores network
features and di usion patterns of social media content. In-
formation di usion and the network structure in social me-
dia have been extensively studied [29, 21, 48, 18]. A lot of
attention has been devoted to explore the community struc-
ture of such socio-technical systems [19] and to study the
formation and evolution of social groups therein [4]. The
interplay between the dimensions of social interactions and
those of topical interests of users have been also investigated
showing a mutual reshaping based on mutual feedback mech-
anisms [38]. Moreover, our study touches on a mixture of
ingredients commonly exhibited by socio-technical systems
that digitally mediate communications among individuals:
content, topics of discussion, language and tags. Content in
social media well re ects socio-economic indicators of users,
in that languages highlight patterns of linguistic homogene-
ity [36], individual and collective satisfaction, demographic
characteristics [34]. Social network data also exhibit cues of
users  evolution, as discussed in this work. Existing litera-
ture witnesses that online content re ects the intuition that
users are susceptible to changing their behavior along with
experience, and common patterns of evolution emerge over
time [17, 32].
Narrowing our focus on research investigating social media
features similar to those of Instagram, an extensive analysis
of the Flickr social network is reported in [33, 12]. Par-
ticular attention here is devoted to the understanding of
the temporal evolution of network topology, picture pop-
ularity, and relating processes of information propagation.
However, unlike in our work, no content information (e.g.,
tags, comments) is taken into account. A study concern-
ing user interactions in the 22 largest regional networks on
Facebook is conducted in [49]. Results show that interac-
tion activity on Facebook is signi cantly skewed towards a
small portion of each user s social links, and consequently
the interaction graph reveals di erent characteristics than
the corresponding social graph. Note that we also lever-
age the importance of user interactions, as our RIN takes
into account like and comment actions. In [7], clickstream
data obtained by an aggregator of social networks (Orkut,
Myspace, Hi5 and LinkedIn) are exploited to analyze var-
ious aspects of online lifetime of users, such as frequency
and length of online sessions, activity sequences and types,
dynamics of social interactions. The analysis of workloads
has showed that the user browsing is the dominant behav-
ior (accounting for 92% of all requests.) A similar study is
performed in [40], where clickstream data from Facebook,
LinkedIn, Hi5, and StudiVZ are used to characterize actual
user interactions within the sites, in terms of session length,
feature popularity and active/inactive time.
In our work,
we do not consider clickstream data as such information is
not made available through the Instagram APIs. User latent
interactions in Renren are investigated in [25]. Results show
that latent interactions (e.g., browsing of users pro les) are
more numerous, non-reciprocal and they often connect non-
friend strangers if compared to visible ones. In contrast to
previously discussed works, the authors in [25] did not use
clickstream data, but they exploited public data about visits
to the crawled user pro les.
6. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper we presented a broad analysis of the In-
stagram ecosystem, exploiting its heterogeneous structure,
part social network, part tagging environment, and part me-
dia sharing platform. We exploited users signals in the form
of relationships and interactions to investigate a number of
research questions spanning network-, semantic- and topical-
based analysis on users, media and how these two dimensions
are interrelated.
We  rst focused on the network and community structure,
observing that the topical interests exhibited by the users
might a ect their inter-connectivity and interactions, shap-
ing the network structure around topical communities that
can possibly be explained by users  self organization. We
then studied the patterns of content production and con-
sumption on the platform, putting into evidence a strong
heterogeneity in the mechanism of production of new in-
formation, and the emergence of an information economy
principle in the case of content consumption. Our analysis
shifted toward the study of social tagging behavior, and we
highlighted that users exhibit vocabularies of limited size re-
 ecting their limited attention capabilities, but, nonetheless,
popular trends emerge. This can be explained by limited at-
tention of individuals and competition among  memes  (i.e.,
popular tags.) The study concludes by investigating topics
and topicality in the network, and relating it to user popu-
larity. We showed that clusters of users can be found around
the tags. Furthering this analysis by learning a topic model
on such tags, we showed that the variety of topical interests
mildly a ects user popularity: users with narrow interests
tend to be less popular, whereas broader interests tend to
yield higher popularity. However, popular users are special
in a way because they exhibit more extreme behavior: they
can produce either very topically speci c content, or media
of very broad interest.
Further work is needed to assess what role the structure
of the network has in the determination of the popularity
of content and users in online ecosystems based on social
connectivity and content sharing, in the direction of recent
work on Twitter [46, 47].
7. REFERENCES
[1] J. Alstott, E. Bullmore, and D. Plenz. powerlaw: a
python package for analysis of heavy-tailed
distributions. PloS one, 9(1):e85777, 2014.
[2] S. Aral, L. Muchnik, and A. Sundararajan.
Distinguishing in uence-based contagion from
homophily-driven di usion in dynamic networks. In
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,
106(51):21544 21549, 2009.
[3] S. Aral and D. Walker. Identifying in uential and
susceptible members of social networks. Science,
337(6092):337 341, 2012.
[4] L. Backstrom, D. Huttenlocher, J. Kleinberg, and
X. Lan. Group formation in large social networks:
membership, growth, and evolution. In Proceedings of
the 12th ACM SIGKDD international conference on
Knowledge discovery and data mining, pages 44 54,
2006.
[5] A.-L. Barab asi and R. Albert. Emergence of scaling in
random networks. Science, 286(5439):509 512, 1999.
[6] H. Becker, M. Naaman, and L. Gravano. Beyond
trending topics: Real-world event identi cation on
Twitter. In Proceedings of the 5th International AAAI
Conference on Weblogs and Social Media, 2011.
[7] F. Benevenuto, T. Rodrigues, M. Cha, and V. A. F.
Almeida. Characterizing user behavior in online social
networks. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM
Conference on Internet Measurement, pages 49 62,
2009.
[8] V. D. Blondel, J.-L. Guillaume, R. Lambiotte, and
E. Lefebvre. Fast unfolding of communities in large
networks. Journal of Statistical Mechanics: Theory
and Experiment, 2008(10):P10008, 2008.
[12] M. Cha, A. Mislove, and K. P. Gummadi. A
Measurement-driven Analysis of Information
Propagation in the Flickr Social Network. In
Proceedings of the 18th International Conference on
World Wide Web, WWW  09, pages 721 730, 2009.
[13] M. D. Conover, C. Davis, E. Ferrara, K. McKelvey,
F. Menczer, and A. Flammini. The geospatial
characteristics of a social movement communication
network. PloS one, 8:e55957, 2013.
[14] M. D. Conover, E. Ferrara, F. Menczer, and
A. Flammini. The digital evolution of occupy wall
street. PloS one, 8(5):e64679, 2013.
[15] D. J. Crandall, L. Backstrom, D. Cosley, S. Suri,
D. Huttenlocher, and J. Kleinberg. Inferring social ties
from geographic coincidences. In Proceedings of the
National Academy of Sciences, 107(52):22436 22441,
2010.
[16] D. J. Crandall, L. Backstrom, D. Huttenlocher, and
J. Kleinberg. Mapping the world s photos. In
Proceedings of the 18th international conference on
World wide web, pages 761 770. ACM, 2009.
[17] C. Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, R. West, D. Jurafsky,
J. Leskovec, and C. Potts. No country for old
members: user lifecycle and linguistic change in online
communities. In Proceedings of the 22nd international
conference on World Wide Web, pages 307 318, 2013.
[18] P. De Meo, E. Ferrara, F. Abel, L. Aroyo, and G.-J.
Houben. Analyzing user behavior across social sharing
environments. ACM Transactions on Intelligent
Systems and Technology, 5(1), 2013.
[19] E. Ferrara. A large-scale community structure analysis
in Facebook. EPJ Data Science, 1:1 30, 2012.
[20] E. Ferrara, O. Varol, F. Menczer, and A. Flammini.
Traveling trends: social butter ies or frequent  iers?
In Proceedings of the  rst ACM conference on Online
social networks, pages 213 222, 2013.
[21] P. A. Grabowicz, J. J. Ramasco, E. Moro, J. M. Pujol,
and V. M. Eguiluz. Social features of online networks:
The strength of intermediary ties in online social
media. PloS one, 7(1):e29358, 2012.
[22] N. Hochman and L. Manovich. Zooming into an
instagram city: Reading the local through social
media. First Monday, 18(7), 2013.
[23] N. Hochman and R. Schwartz. Visualizing instagram:
Tracing cultural visual rhythms. In Proceedings of the
Workshop on Social Media Visualization (SocMedVis)
in conjunction with The Sixth International AAAI
Conference on Weblogs and Social Media, 2012.
[24] H. Jeong, Z. N eda, and A.-L. Barab asi. Measuring
preferential attachment in evolving networks. EPL
(Europhysics Letters), 61(4):567, 2003.
[9] R. M. Bond, C. J. Fariss, J. J. Jones, A. D. Kramer,
[25] J. Jiang, C. Wilson, X. Wang, P. Huang, W. Sha,
C. Marlow, J. E. Settle, and J. H. Fowler. A
61-million-person experiment in social in uence and
political mobilization. Nature, 489(7415):295 298,
2012.
Y. Dai, and B. Y. Zhao. Understanding latent
interactions in online social networks. In Proceedings
of the ACM SIGCOMM Conference on Internet
Measurement, pages 369 382, 2010.
[10] C. Budak, D. Agrawal, and A. El Abbadi. Structural
[26] A. Lancichinetti, F. Radicchi, J. J. Ramasco, and
trend analysis for online social networks. In
Proceedings of the VLDB Endowment, 4(10):646 656,
2011.
[11] D. Centola. The spread of behavior in an online social
network experiment. Science, 329:1194 1197, 2010.
S. Fortunato. Finding statistically signi cant
communities in networks. PloS one, 6(4):e18961, 2011.
[27] D. Lazer, A. S. Pentland, L. Adamic, S. Aral, A. L.
Barabasi, D. Brewer, N. Christakis, N. Contractor,
J. Fowler, M. Gutmann, et al. Life in the network: the
coming age of computational social science. Science,
323(5915):721, 2009.
Proceedings of the 7th International AAAI Conference
on Weblogs and Social Media, 2013.
[28] J. Lehmann, B. Gon calves, J. J. Ramasco, and
[39] H. Sayyadi, M. Hurst, and A. Maykov. Event
C. Cattuto. Dynamical classes of collective attention
in Twitter. In Proceedings of the 21th International
Conference on World Wide Web, pages 251 260, 2012.
[29] K. Lerman and R. Ghosh. Information contagion: An
empirical study of the spread of news on Digg and
Twitter social networks. In Proceedings of the 4th
International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social
Media, pages 90 97, 2010.
[30] J. Leskovec, L. Backstrom, and J. Kleinberg.
Meme-tracking and the dynamics of the news cycle. In
Proceedings of the 15th ACM SIGKDD International
Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining,
pages 497 506. ACM, 2009.
[31] N. Luhmann, J. Bednarz, D. Baecker, and E. M.
Knodt. Social systems, volume 1. Stanford University
Press Stanford, 1995.
[32] J. J. McAuley and J. Leskovec. From amateurs to
connoisseurs: modeling the evolution of user expertise
through online reviews. In Proceedings of the 22nd
international conference on World Wide Web, pages
897 908. ACM, 2013.
detection and tracking in social streams. In
Proceedings of the 3rd International AAAI Conference
on Weblogs and Social Media, 2009.
[40] F. Schneider, A. Feldmann, B. Krishnamurthy, and
W. Willinger. Understanding online social network
usage from a network perspective. In Proceedings of
the ACM SIGCOMM Conference on Internet
Measurement, pages 35 48, 2009.
[41] T. H. Silva, P. O. Vaz de Melo, J. M. Almeida,
J. Salles, and A. A. Loureiro. A comparison of
foursquare and instagram to the study of city
dynamics and urban social behavior. In Proceedings of
the 2nd SIGKDD International Workshop on Urban
Computing, page 4, 2013.
[42] H. A. Simon. On a class of skew distribution
functions. Biometrika, 42(3/4):425 440, 1955.
[43] M. Steinbach, G. Karypis, and V. Kumar. A
comparison of document clustering techniques. In
Proceedings of the KDD workshop on text mining,
pages 525 526. Boston, 2000.
[44] A. Vespignani. Predicting the behavior of
[33] A. Mislove, H. S. Koppula, K. P. Gummadi,
techno-social systems. Science, 325(5939):425, 2009.
P. Druschel, and B. Bhattacharjee. Growth of the
Flickr Social Network. In Proceedings of the First
Workshop on Online Social Networks, WOSN  08,
pages 25 30, 2008.
[34] A. Mislove, S. Lehmann, Y.-Y. Ahn, J.-P. Onnela, and
J. N. Rosenquist. Understanding the demographics of
Twitter users. In Proceedings of the 5th International
AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media, 2011.
[35] A. Mislove, M. Marcon, P. K. Gummadi, P. Druschel,
and B. Bhattacharjee. Measurement and analysis of
online social networks. In Proceedings of the ACM
SIGCOMM Conference on Internet Measurement,
pages 29 42, 2007.
[36] D. Quercia, L. Capra, and J. Crowcroft. The social
world of Twitter: Topics, geography, and emotions. In
Proceedings of the 6th International AAAI Conference
on Weblogs and Social Media, pages 298 305, 2012.
[37] T. Rattenbury, N. Good, and M. Naaman. Towards
automatic extraction of event and place semantics
from  ickr tags. In Proceedings of the 30th annual
international ACM SIGIR conference on Research and
development in information retrieval, pages 103 110.
ACM, 2007.
[38] D. M. Romero, C. Tan, and J. Kleinberg. On the
interplay between social and topical structure. In
[45] L. Weng, A. Flammini, A. Vespignani, and
F. Menczer. Competition among memes in a world
with limited attention. Scienti c Reports, 2, 2012.
[46] L. Weng, F. Menczer, and Y.-Y. Ahn. Virality
prediction and community structure in social
networks. Scienti c Reports, 3:2522, 2013.
[47] L. Weng, F. Menczer, and Y.-Y. Ahn. Predicting
successful memes using network and community
structure. In Proceedings of the 8th International
Conference on Weblogs and Social Media (ICWSM
2014), 2014.
[48] L. Weng, J. Ratkiewicz, N. Perra, B. Gon calves,
C. Castillo, F. Bonchi, R. Schifanella, F. Menczer, and
A. Flammini. The role of information di usion in the
evolution of social networks. In Proceedings of the 19th
ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowledge Discovery
and Data Mining (KDD 2013), pages 356 364, 2013.
[49] C. Wilson, B. Boe, A. Sala, K. P. N. Puttaswamy, and
B. Y. Zhao. User interactions in social networks and
their implications. In EuroSys, pages 205 218, 2009.
[50] Y. Zhao and G. Karypis. Empirical and theoretical
comparisons of selected criterion functions for
document clustering. Machine Learning,
55(3):311 331, 2004.
