7
1
0
2
 
n
u
J
 
0
3
 
 
]
Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
2
v
2
2
4
4
.
0
1
4
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Should We Train Scienti c Generalists?
Gopal P. Sarma, PhD1
1School of Medicine, Emory University, Atlanta, GA, USA
Abstract
I examine the topic of training scienti c generalists. To focus the discussion, I propose the creation
of a new graduate program, analogous in structure to existing MD/PhD programs, aimed at training a
critical mass of scienti c researchers with substantial intellectual breadth. In addition to completing the
normal requirements for a PhD, students would undergo an intense, several year training period designed
to expose them to the core vocabulary of multiple subjects at the graduate level. After providing some
historical and philosophical context for this proposal, I outline how such a program could be implemented
with little institutional overhead by existing research universities. Finally, I discuss alternative possibil-
ities for training generalists by taking advantage of contemporary developments in online learning and
open science.
1
Introduction
In the age of highly specialized science, the generalist is a long forgotten job description. We have come to
assume that the role played by those intellectual titans of earlier eras, such as Da Vinci, Aristotle, or Gauss,
to name just a few, is an impossibility given the massive explosion of scienti c knowledge in recent decades
and centuries.
There is a factual reality to this sentiment that is uncontroversial. Certainly, as a percentage of existing
knowledge, one could not conceivably attain the breadth of understanding that one might have in previous
centuries. However, it is worth considering if a more modest goal could be achieved which would serve
an important stabilizing role for modern science and engineering. That goal would be to train a critical
mass of scienti c generalists, researchers, who in addition to the specialized training of an ordinary graduate
program, would also have broad exposure to multiple subjects at the graduate level.
While the need for specialization might have been something of an inevitability, it is also worth consid-
ering that there may be negative rami cations to this kind of strati cation of knowledge. With so much to
know, how can we be con dent that we are allocating our intellectual capital e ciently? How can we be
con dent in our collective understanding of global trends in science?
There is no doubt that in the coming years, data analytics of the scienti c corpus will play a signi cant
role in contributing to the creation of precisely such a global view of the scienti c enterprise. The digitization
of journals, the availability of open API s for accessing scienti c meta-data, and the integration of reference
management with social networking are all poised to transform our understanding of the scienti c process at
a high-level. However, it seems naive to imagine that data mining techniques alone will allow us to conceive
of and test the most important hypotheses about the global structure and dynamics of science without some
amount of guiding intuition. To complement and maximally take advantage of the availability of massive
data sets about science, as well as the computational tools to analyze those data sets, we need a critical
mass of scienti c generalists whose training has been designed to encourage hypothesis generation about the
1
scienti c process itself.
Furthermore, another major trend in contemporary science is the move towards ambitious scienti c agen-
das of substantially larger scope and project size [Nielsen, 2012]. Whereas the pioneering theories of earlier
eras were often crafted by solitary thinkers working in isolation, today s breakthroughs frequently come about
from large international collaborations involving hundreds or thousands of people and research budgets in
the billion dollar range. In this context, the question of how to ideally train an individual scientist might be
re-conceptualized as the question of how to train a scienti c team member. Scienti c generalists could be
pivotal members of such large collaborations and play critical organizational and leadership roles.
There are certainly scienti c generalists today, although they are perhaps not thought of in this way. I
would broadly (and informally) categorize them into thee types:
  The organic academic generalist
This is someone who has led a traditional academic career on the tenure track, and whose research
has naturally led to developing signi cant breadth in multiple topics. Certainly many  elds have
researchers in this category.
  The academic-industrial wanderer
This is someone who has left academia, or possibly had extended post-doctoral or research scientist
appointments in subjects di erent from their PhD, and ultimately came back to academia, or led
signi cant e orts at major industrial research laboratories. For example, the growth of computational
biology and theoretical neuroscience has been driven by many theoretical physicists who have gone
on to do post-doctoral training in the biological sciences, or for example, physicists from the world of
quantitative  nance, who have returned to academia armed with a new set of skills quite di erent from
their PhD training.
  The autodidact
The widespread availability of advanced scienti c materials via the Internet has resulted in an organic
trend towards the creation of generalists simply by lowering the barrier to accessing knowledge from a
wide variety of  elds, scienti c or otherwise. Certainly, there are many brilliant scientists in industry
and elsewhere who do not have PhD s and it is not uncommon these days to encounter truly  rst class
thinkers on a variety of topics who are largely self-taught.
The question that motivates this article is the following: should there be another category of generalist
who has been trained from outset to play a di erent role in the modern scienti c enterprise than researchers
who set out to be specialists [Bode et al., 1949]?
2 Training Scienti c Generalists
As a means to stimulate discussion, but as an idea unto its own as well, I propose the following: the creation
of a new graduate program, roughly analogous in structure to an MD/PhD, where in addition to the normal
research requirements for completing a PhD, students complete 5 or more qualifying examinations in sub-
jects of their choosing. For adequately prepared students, I believe that after completion of the requirements
for their home department in their  rst or second year, students would be able pass 4 additional qualifying
examinations over the course of 2-3 years, after which they would resume their PhD research and complete
their degree.
The choice of the qualifying examination as the focal point for this program is that it encapsulates the
basic vocabulary of a  eld, the core knowledge required to conduct in depth research. The aim of this
program is emphatically not to train researchers who have in depth, specialized knowledge of 5 di erent
subjects  that would be an unreasonable, if not outright impossible goal. Rather, the aim is to train stu-
dents who understand the culture, the basic tools, and broad perspectives of multiple subjects, so that they
2
can contribute to strengthening the very foundations of the scienti c establishment.
Certainly, universities who undertake the process of creating such a program might choose to begin with a
fewer number of qualifying examinations. I chose this number because it would allow for individual students
to engage with multiple, quite di erent subjects over the course of their graduate education, and because
6-8 month blocks per subject would create a program roughly on par with the length of an MD/PhD. Part
of the value in creating such a program would be the message and the vision it would send to younger
students who are aspiring to life-long careers as scientists. Just as undergraduates who aspire to careers
as physician-scientists must adequately prepare themselves with appropriate exposure to both research and
clinical work, aspiring scienti c generalists would need to prepare themselves with advanced coursework of
su cient breadth to tackle the challenging initial years of this graduate program.
For an ambitious program such as this one to maximally bene t both the student and the scienti c
establishment at large, there would need to be a strong culture to support those students who choose to
undergo such a rigorous and extended training. In particular, in order for the knowledge gained by these
students to develop into something much more rich and robust than a massive list of facts and problem
solving techniques from 5 di erent subjects, they would need to be part of a mentoring program in which the
process of learning each of these di erent subjects was accompanied by historical and philosophical discus-
sion. During each qualifying examination block, students would ideally also attend regular seminars in the
department, and perhaps nominally be a liated with a research group and attend group meetings. There
would need to be a culture among the students and faculty mentors that supported re ection about problem
solving strategies, about the structural di erences between the vocabulary and subject matter across di er-
ent  elds. Ultimately, these observations and insights, whether in raw or more developed form would need
to be communicated more broadly.
One possibility might be to accompany the qualifying examination process with a historical essay explor-
ing some topic of interest to the student in consultation with a faculty mentor. For instance, a student whose
PhD was in theoretical condensed matter physics and who passed examinations in physics, mathematics,
chemistry, biology, and computer science might write an in depth essay on the emergence of quantitative
methods in the study of natural selection. A mathematics PhD student specializing in stochastic analysis and
who passed qualifying examinations in mathematics, physics, statistics, computer science, and economics,
might write about the contributions that mathematical  nance pioneer Fisher Black made to macroeco-
nomics.
While this program may seem daunting, I would like to emphasize that individuals who pursue MD/PhD
degrees and ultimately become board certi ed in a medical specialty need to pass a similar array of hurdles 
in addition to PhD requirements for their research training they have to pass multiple levels of board exam-
inations to become licensed physicians.
It is also important to keep in mind that the training program described here is a graduate level train-
ing program, and consequently, should be thought of as being the  rst step in a career-long trajectory. A
person who completed this program is no more a mature scienti c generalist than a person who completes
an ordinary PhD program is a mature specialist.
In order for the subsequent phases of growth and de-
velopment to take place, there would need to be a supporting infrastructure overseeing the post-doctoral
period of the students  training. Furthermore, it is certainly possible, and would be expected even, that a
subset of students who successfully complete this training would simply choose to pursue tenure track jobs in
their area of specialty. Again, the MD/PhD is something of a guide  certainly many dual-degree graduates
become purely clinical practitioners or pure researchers and do not actively build careers bridging the two.
Students who pursue the more traditional routes will not be at a disadvantage and one would hope that the
unique and rigorous educational experience they went through would inform the remainder of their scienti c
careers both as researchers and as teachers. But for those that wish to mature into the novel role of scienti c
3
generalist that I am proposing, there would need to be special post-doctoral programs providing generous
several year funding that would give them the freedom to develop their vision. For the initial batch of
students, there would inevitably be some amount of trial and error while both students and faculty develop
an understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of the program.
While one can only speculate about the contributions graduates of this program would ultimately come
to make, I close by suggesting a few possibilities. We might imagine tenured professorships for generalists
who have smaller research groups than they would otherwise have, but who are active members of several
di erent groups led by other faculty. In addition to playing a critical organizational role, these faculty mem-
bers would bring their considerable technical expertise and scienti c breadth to each group in the capacity
of something along the lines of a scienti c consultant.
Venture capital might be another place where scienti c generalists could have a signi cant impact, play-
ing the role of bridge builders between academia and industry, and perhaps actively managing their own
portfolios and overseeing scienti c startup incubators.
One of the most important roles generalists could play would be to aid in the development of younger
scienti c institutions, particularly in the developing world. The speci c aim of this program is to train
scientists who have signi cant exposure to the cultural elements of advanced science in multiple disciplines,
whose training allowed them to be both scientists as well as participatory anthropologists of the scienti c
process. For both younger universities in the developed world, as well as new institutions in the developing
world, scienti c generalists could be critical leaders and agenda setters, and perhaps, will be in a position
to identify important research trajectories, or important cultural elements for executing those trajectories,
that existing institutions have overlooked.
It would be incomplete and short-sighted to discuss novel educational initiatives without considering im-
portant contemporary developments in online education and open science. Furthermore, given that another
major contemporary theme in graduate education is the over production of PhD s relative to the availability
of faculty positions, it would be understandable if a lengthy and extremely demanding variant of the PhD
program is di cult to mobilize. One possibility to balance these di erent factors would be to create an
open system for crediting a student for having passed a qualifying examination. Just as universities (and
private companies) now o er certi cates for coursework completed in a non-degree granting context, an open
certi cation for anyone who is able to pass a qualifying examination would be a valuable credential that an
individual could earn to demonstrate competency at the beginning graduate level. For this certi cation to
be available across all disciplines would be one step towards many di erent forms of educational innovation
in the research world, including the training of scienti c generalists.
Before closing, let me re-examine the choice of the qualifying examination as the focal point for this
particular proposal and consider alternatives. Although the qualifying examination is an important rite of
passage in graduate education, many will correctly point out that it is hardly something that contributes to
depth of research maturity. This is certainly a valid point, and in response, I would argue that the purpose
of the program is not to train individuals who have achieved the maturity of the best specialists in multiple
subjects, but rather individuals who can appreciate and communicate the knowledge of specialists, and who
therefore would make strong collaborators, bridge builders, program managers, and journal editors etc. The
purpose of organizing a program for training generalists around the qualifying examination is in a large
part analogous to why we have such examinations in the  rst place- they do contribute to some amount of
intellectual and technical maturity and are an important experience to have early in one s education. Fur-
thermore, it is a simply stated idea that would require little institutional overhead, and would circumvent
the inevitably controversial process of otherwise designing a curriculum.
Also, it is worth mentioning that even within the same subject, there are many di erent types of qualify-
4
ing examinations. In the context of this article, Caltech s Computation and Neural Systems program (CNS)
provides a possible template [California Institute of Technology, 2014]. The model they employ is to give
students a list of 100 questions used as preparatory material in the year leading up to an oral qualifying
examination with 5 faculty members.
In a sense, the program is aimed at training  generalists  within
the computational and neurobiological sciences. It seems natural to ask if this model could be extended to
incorporate other subjects as well. That is, what if a list of 500 questions were to be assembled spanning
multiple subjects and a set of oral qualifying examinations were conducted by faculty spanning a number
of di erent departments? Or a few thousand questions from which a student selected some subset to prepare?
It is not di cult to imagine alternatives, however. One possibility would be a several year post-doctoral
program where fellows rotated through several di erent laboratories and research groups in succession. Or,
in the spirit of the newly emerging trend of  hacker schools  and data-science boot camps, we could imagine
creating analogously structured mini-courses designed by experts in the  eld targeted at advanced graduates
whose training was in another  eld entirely. Indeed, many academic research areas have highly topic speci c
summer schools and winter schools and one could imagine a several year post-doctoral program built around
a handful of di erent sessions spread across multiple subjects. Perhaps there should be a component both at
the beginning of the PhD, like the hybrid qualifying examination system I outline above, as well as a post-
doctoral component. Ultimately, it is di cult to imagine that some trial and error would not be required
in the design of such a program. In addition, one thing is certain- successfully executing a program like
this would require an organization to support students  growth for many years, and given the fundamentally
experimental nature of such an e ort, several years longer than we are accustomed to supporting graduate
students. Perhaps then, the ideal path forward would be to set into motion multiple e orts aimed at the
common goal of training scienti c generalists, so that over time, we can learn from our successes and mistakes.
To do so, of course, would require long-term institutional e orts to scienti cally investigate the e cacy and
impact of di erent training programs.
Acknowledgements
I would like to thank Aaswath Raman, Doug Bemis, Venkatesh Narayanamurti, and Rob Spekkens for
insightful discussions.
Postscript
This article was written several years before The Winnower was founded and was posted to several pre-print
servers. Because it is an editorial, as opposed to a research article, and so as to maintain consistency with
other versions that have been online for some time now, I have chosen to freeze the initially posted version
to The Winnower and incorporate reviewer feedback into a subsequent series of articles on similar topics.
I hope members of the community will understand this decision, and I suspect that we are all just now
beginning to appreciate the subtleties of post-publication peer review.
References
H. Bode, F. Mosteller,
J. Tukey,
and C. Winsor.
eralist.
http://www.sciencemag.org/content/109/2840/553.short.
109(2840):553 558,
Science,
1949.
doi:
The
10.1126/science.109.2840.553.
education of a scienti c gen-
URL
California Institute of Technology.  Computation and Neural Systems Program: 100 Questions , 2014.
http://www.cns.caltech.edu/academics/100questions.html [Accessed: 2014-10-10].
M. Nielsen. Reinventing Discovery: The New Era of Networked Science. Princeton University Press, 2012.
5
