UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
1
Non-Verbal Communication Analysis in
Victim-Offender Mediations
V  ctor Ponce-L opez, Sergio Escalera, Marc P erez, Oriol Jan es, and Xavier Bar o
Abstract In this paper we present a non-invasive ambient
intelligence framework for the semi-automatic analysis of non-
verbal communication applied to the restorative justice  eld. In
particular, we propose the use of computer vision and social signal
processing technologies in real scenarios of Victim-Offender Me-
diations, applying feature extraction techniques to multi-modal
audio-RGB-depth data. We compute a set of behavioral indicators
that de ne communicative cues from the  elds of psychology and
observational methodology. We test our methodology on data
captured in real world Victim-Offender Mediation sessions in
Catalonia in collaboration with the regional government. We
de ne the ground truth based on expert opinions when annotating
the observed social responses. Using different state-of-the-art
binary classi cation approaches, our system achieves recognition
accuracies of 86% when predicting satisfaction, and 79% when
predicting both agreement and receptivity. Applying a regression
strategy, we obtain a mean deviation for the predictions between
0.5 and 0.7 in the range [1-5] for the computed social signals.
Keywords Victim-Offender Mediation, Multi-modal Human Be-
havior Analysis, Face and Gesture Recognition, Social Signal
Processing, Computer Vision, Statistical Learning.
I.
INTRODUCTION
R ESTORATIVE justice is an international social move-
ment for the reform of criminal justice. This approach
to justice focuses on the needs of the victims, who take an
active role in the process, while offenders are encouraged to
take responsibility for their actions to repair the harm they
have done [1]. It differs, therefore, with respect to the classic
justice framework, where justice seeks to satisfy abstract legal
principles or to directly punish offenders. One of the common
procedures offered to victims is the possibility of exchanging
their impressions with a mediator, in a program known as the
Victim-Offender Mediation (henceforth VOM) program. Given
the sensitive nature of the cases, the process consists initially
of a set of individual encounters, where each party involved
(i.e., victim or offender) attends an interview or meeting with
a mediator to analyze the problem in depth. The decision is
5
1
0
2
 
n
a
J
 
9
1
 
 
]
C
H
.
s
c
[
 
 
2
v
2
2
1
2
.
2
1
4
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
V. Ponce-L opez is with the IN3 at the Open University of Catalonia, the
Dept. MAiA at the University of Barcelona, and the Computer Vision Center
at the Autonomous University of Barcelona.
S. Escalera is with the Dept. MAiA at the University of Barcelona, and the
Computer Vision Center at the Autonomous University of Barcelona.
M. P erez is a B.S. student in Computer Science and Mathematics at the
Faculty of Mathematics. He has collaborated in this work with the Dept.
MAiA at the University of Barcelona.
O. Jan es obtained his B.S. in Computer Science at the Faculty of Mathemat-
ics. He has collaborated in this work with the Dept. MAiA at the University
of Barcelona.
X. Bar o is with the EIMT at the Open University of Catalonia, and the
Computer Vision Center at the Autonomous University of Barcelona.
then taken as to whether the victim and the offender might
engage in a joint encounter. Figure 1 (a) shows an example of
a real VOM scenario.
In the VOM process, the goal is to reach a restitution agree-
ment by seeking to balance the interests of each of the parties,
conditioned of course by the events that have occurred and
the legal proceedings. This agreement can be reached in one
of two ways. First, there are pre-conditioning factors to a case,
given its particular facts, which make mediation feasible or not.
Second, high levels of agreement and expressed satisfaction
between the parties and the mediator are indicators of whether
the VOM process is likely to end in success or failure [2].
The emergence of these indicators depends on a large set of
factors that are not only concerned with the professionalism
of the mediator, but are also related to other factors including
the applicability of mediation, the participants  traits, human
relationships, and  rst impressions, among others. Further-
more, if we examine each of the participants (victim, offender,
and mediator), certain characteristics, including their cultural
background, education, and social status, are likely to have a
high impact on the success or otherwise of the process [3],
[4]. For example, feelings of inferiority may emerge during
the conversations if the mediator employs higher language
skills than those employed by one or other of the parties
involved. In such cases, the mediation process is perhaps more
susceptible to failure than it is to success. Thus, it is important
to emphasize the particular behavioral traits of those involved
in a VOM from a psychological perspective.
Participant roles are clearly de ned in these conversational
processes, as they are in similar scenarios, such as job in-
terviews. The mediator explains the process and listens to
the other parties, maintaining his or her impartiality at all
times, whereas the victim and offender are more concerned
with protecting their own interests and may appear quite
wrapped up in the problem they face. In this sense, no standard
guidelines exist for establishing the best course of actions
or identifying the psychological mechanisms for achieving
the desired mediation goals. Moreover, the mediators have
often received a different
type of training focused neither
in psychology nor in observational methodology, two  elds
concerned with understanding how biological, psycho-social,
and environmental factors can impact participants  moods.
However, if these techniques were studied and established as
self-knowledge tools for both communication and intervention,
mediators could obtain valuable feedback from the mediations
and guide the process towards success.
In this context, multi-modal intelligent systems can be used
to achieve these objectives. This information can be analyzed
for different modules in order to extract features from each
UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
2
Fig. 1.
Examples of the multi-modal feature extraction. Images (a) and (b) are the RGB and depth images, respectively. Image (c) shows the upper body
obtained from the Random Forest user segmentation. In image (d), both face detection and head pose estimation are shown. Hand segmentation is shown in
image (e). Across the regions segmented by color, the optical  ow is shown in the regions in which there is greatest movement, identi ed as being the hands.
Finally, image (f) illustrates the speaker diarization process with the two participants involved in the VOM session. The participants belong either to a party P
or to the mediators M. Clusters belonging to each participant are obtained from the input signal, estimating the speech time of each segment, as well as the
speech pauses/interruptions.
source separately. They can then be combined so as to de ne
and recognize communicative indicators.
A. Related work
The Restorative Justice approach focuses on the personal
needs of victims. As discussed above, achieving success in
the VOM sessions depends largely on how the participants
communicate with each other. A large number of techniques
can be found in the literature for application in VOM. A
good example of this is provided by Umbreit s handbook [2].
This resource offers an empirically grounded, state-of-the-art
analysis of the application and impact of VOM. It provides
practical guidance and resources for VOM in the case of
property crimes, minor assaults, and, more recently, crimes
of severe violence, where family members of murder victims
request a meeting with the offender. Since most of these cases
addressed are of a highly sensitive nature, participants are
likely to manifest emotional states, when interacting with the
others, that can be physically observed through their non-
verbal communication [5].
Recently, a number of studies have proposed ways in which
personality traits can be inferred from multimedia data [6]
and which can be applied directly to the approach taken by
Restorative Justice. The prediction of these responses takes a
particular interest in meetings involving a limited number of
participants. For instance, in [7] the goal was both to detect
the social signals produced in small group interactions and to
emphasize their importance markers. In addition, the works of
[8], [9] combined several methodologies to analyze non-verbal
behavior automatically by extracting communicative cues from
both simulated and real scenarios. Thus, most of these social
signal processing frameworks involve the detection of a set
of visual
indicators from the analysis of the participants 
body and face. Additionally, information obtained from speech
is commonly used [10], [11], [12], as is other information
obtained from ambient and wearable sensors [13].
Many of the aforementioned studies demonstrate that indica-
tors of agreement during communication are highly dependent
on social signals. As such,
is possible to perform an
exhaustive analysis to detect the role played by each participant
in terms of in uence, dominance, or submission. For instance,
in [14], both the interest of observers and the dominant partic-
ipants are predicted solely on the basis of behavioral motion
information when looking at face-to-face (also called vis-a-vis
or dyadic) interactions. Furthermore, there are many interdis-
ciplinary, state-of-the-art studies examining related  elds from
the point of view of social computing, some of which are
it
UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
3
summarized in [3], [4].
In most of these frameworks, it can be observed that both
ambient intelligence and egocentric computing methods are
de ned. Ambient intelligence refers to electronic environments
that are sensitive and responsive to the presence of people,
whereas egocentric computing refers to the use of wearable
devices. Often, existing techniques of data acquisition make
use of interface devices [15], or special items such as gloves
[16] to increase recognition accuracy. However, while these
techniques give impressive results in simulated environments,
their use becomes largely infeasible in real-case scenarios
due to their invasiveness and the uncontrollable nature of the
application context. Because of the need to avoid wearing
intrusive egocentric devices, some other ambient sensors that
provide multi-modal data might be considered. In [8], a custom
developed system is applied in a real-case scenario for job
interviews. The data acquisition procedure is performed using
different types of camera, by setting them up in different
positions and with different ranges for capturing visual and
depth information. Similarly, scenes with non-invasive systems
have been proposed in other studies, such as [17], which pro-
vides trajectory analyses from body movements and gestures.
Furthermore, audio information has been analyzed in [18], with
the objective of modeling descriptors for speech recognition.
This can be useful information for measuring the levels of
activity from speech cues, including detection of speech/non-
speech, interruptions, pauses, or segments obtained from a
speaker diarization process.
The participants involved in these conversational settings
usually appear either sitting or with some parts of their body
occluded. Therefore, from a computer vision point of view, it
might be best just to focus only on the upper body regions.
Then, visual feature extraction techniques can focus on the
most signi cant sources of information coming from the region
of interest, which might be the face or hands, for example.
These regions provide discriminative behavioral information,
or adaptors, which are movements, such as head scratching,
indicative of attitude, anxiety level and self-con dence [19];
or beat gestures, which are small baton-like movements of the
hands used to emphasize important parts of speech with respect
to the larger discourse [20]. However, as explained in [8], [21],
body posture is also found to be an important indicator of a
person s emotional state. Additionally, another potential source
of information is provided by facial expressions [10], [11],
[22], [23].
In order to analyze these visual features automatically most
approaches are based on classic computer vision techniques
applied to RGB data. However, extracting discriminative in-
formation from standard image sequences is sometimes un-
reliable. In this sense, recent studies have included compact
multi-modal devices which allow 3D partial information to
be obtained from the scene. In [24], the authors proposed a
system for real-time human pose recognition including depth
information for each image pixel. In this case, information
is obtained by means of a KinectTM device, which estimates
a depth map based on the inverse of time response of an
infrared sensor sampling within the scene. This new source
of information, which provides visual 2.5D features, has been
recently exploited for creating new human pose descriptors by
combining different state-of-the-art RGB-depth features [25],
as well as they are used in a large amount of Human Computer
Interaction (HCI) applications [26].
Once body features are computed, behavioral indicators can
be analyzed by studying their trajectories using pattern recog-
nition approaches. Some of these methods in this context are
based on dynamic programming techniques such as Dynamic
Time Warping (DTW) [27] or involve statistical approaches,
such as Hidden Markov Models (HMM) and Conditional
Random Fields (CRF) [28], [29], [30].
Once data from the environment have been acquired and
processed to de ne a set of behavioral features, they serve as
the basis for modelling a set of communication indicators. For
instance, in [31], the authors outline a system for real-time
tracking of the human body with the objective of interpreting
human behavior. However,
in the context of conversations
we are particularly interested in behavioral traits belonging
to social signals captured in the communication and in the
interactions between the participants in the VOM sessions. In
this sense, levels of agitation (or energy), activity, stress, and
engagement are analyzed not only from their body movements,
but also from their speech, facial expressions, or gaze direc-
tions, in order to predict behavioral responses.
In this paper, we propose a non-invasive ambient intelligence
framework for the analysis of conversations applied to real-
case scenarios of VOM processes. Due to the ethical con-
straints imposed by the legal system, to date no datasets of
VOM sessions have been made publicly available. Here, for
the  rst time, a novel VOM data set has been collected. In
terms of feature extraction, we extract a set of multi-modal
audio-RGB-depth features and behavioral indicators, which are
then used to measure the degree of receptivity, agreement, and
satisfaction using state-of-the-art machine learning approaches
and the ground truth de ned by the mediators in the VOM
sessions. As a result, we  nd that our technology achieves a
high correlation between the most relevant features obtained
by the behavioral indicators and the information provided by
the experts.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2
presents the material acquired and used in this study. In section
3, the various system modules are described. Section 4 outlines
the proposal setup and the experimental results. Finally, section
5 concludes the paper.
II. DATA COLLECTION
This section describes the data acquisition process, as well
as how the annotations of social variables have been de ned.
First, an environmental study was undertaken in the various
rooms in which recording was to take place, and in which the
non-invasive devices were to be set up.
Once the environmental study had been completed, deci-
sions regarding the ethical constraints that had to be satis ed
were taken in order to protect the recorded data. This procedure
involved the drawing up of three fundamental ethical docu-
ments: the researchers  signed undertaking, informed consent,
and the case-codi cation.
UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
4
Fig. 2.
Acquisition architecture. E1, E2, F 1, F 2, D1, D2 are the
participants codi ed by their respective positions (E: left, F: front, D: right);
the angles of view for the different cameras are the same, and hence
 1 =  2 =  3.
As the sessions typically involve two or three participants,
the homogeneous distribution of the cameras enabled us to
capture at most two people-per-camera. Speci cally, the de-
vices used were three KinectTM sensors and two laptops (which
varied depending on the number of participants). Thus, a
maximum of six people could be recorded1. Figure 2 shows
the ambient intelligence setup with all the elements involved
and their distribution.
Recordings were made in various towns and cities of Cat-
alonia. Figure 3 shows the distribution of these recording sites
together with the number of sessions recorded in each. Most
recordings were made in the capital city of Barcelona with a
total of 15 sessions, followed by Vilanova i la Geltr u with a
total of four. Two sessions were recorded in each of Manresa,
Tarragona, and the youth penitentiary center in Granollers.
Finally, one session was recorded in Terrassa.
Thus, 26 VOM sessions, of 35 minutes-per-session, were
recorded (average duration ranging from 20 minutes to 2 hours
depending on the session), in which a mediator engaged in
a conversational process with different parties. Of the total
number of sessions, 15% were joint encounters, with both
parties (victim and offender) being present in the VOM. The
remaining sessions were individual encounters involving one
or other of the parties and the mediator. As indicated in the
VOM program itself, the participants include both adult men
and women, and they ful ll different participant roles: victim,
offender, or mediator. Some of the sessions also involved
accompanying persons, either a professional from the speci c
center, or experts in some particular  eld relevant to the case
under discussion.
Fig. 3. Map with recorded regions marked with dots.
Each recorded session2 provided audio-RGB-depth informa-
tion. These modalities were registered using the camera param-
eters, and synchronized between the various devices through
the system clock. The set of images for each session were
recorded at a resolution of 640 480 and at an average of 12
frames per second (fps), both for RGB and depth information.
Each audio channel, belonging to one of the four microphones
spread out linearly along a multi-array microphone, processed
16-bit audio at a sampling rate of 16 kHz. The distance
between participants and the KinectTM device was between 1
and 2 meters depending on the speci c characteristics of the
recording facility.
As the data protection regulations only allow one mediator
to annotate each session, the annotators were those mediators
that had greatest familiarity with the case being dealt with in
each session. Only in a few isolated cases there were two me-
diators in the session. Thus, in some cases the questionnaires
completed by the mediators, recording their impressions and
feelings regarding the party/ies and the overall sessions, were
subsequently con rmed by a second mediator from the team
so as to guarantee the consistency of the de ned ground truth
values. The system responses were determined by considering
both the state-of-the-art methods for the study of behavioral
traits in people involved in similar scenarios, as presented in
section I-A [2], [3], [4], [6], [7], [8], [9], [10], [11], [12], [13],
[14], and in the subsequent discussion held with the mediators,
taking into account the aims of their work with the Department
of Justice. Finally, we de ned the system s ground truth as:
  Receptivity: degree of engagement shown by each party
  Agreement: degree of agreement reached between the
  Satisfaction: degree of agreement reached between the
parties (quanti ed globally for each session).
during the session.
1The maximum number of people in the recorded sessions was  ve.
2See an example of the different modalities and visual extracted visual
features in the supplementary video material sample.
UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
5
parties in relation to the mediator s expectations (quan-
ti ed globally for each session).
These terms do not only depend solely on the individual s
personality, but they are also dependent on the interaction with
other participants, and hence they are a consequence of putting
the behavioral traits into practice. The quantitative nature of
these social responses was validated by a randomly selected
mediator who had not been involved in that case so as to
obtain a more objective evaluation. This approach was likewise
applied to two features describing the evolution in the level of
nervousness manifest by each party at the beginning and at the
end of the process, respectively. Therefore, for each session
and for each party, mediators ranked the observed quantity of
these behavioral indicators from 1 to 5, where 1 is the lowest
value and 5 the highest. Table I shows a numerical summary
of the data acquired.
TABLE I.
SUMMARY OF DATA ACQUIRED.
Individual encounters
Joint encounters
Total sessions
Penitentiary centers
Of ce centers
Total justice centers
Mediators
Parties
Total no participants
Total no frames
Average no minutes/session
22
4
26
1
4
5
7
30
37
1,436,400
35
III. PROPOSED METHOD
The method proposed for the non-verbal communicative
analysis is described in this section. The framework consists
of three main sequential modules illustrated in Figure 4. The
 rst module includes the multi-modal feature extraction from
Fig. 4. Modules of the proposed system.
Fig. 5. Multi-modal feature extraction module.
audio-RGB-depth data, which is described in Figure 5. As
shown in the scheme, the steps for obtaining multi-modal
features from different sources of information are the speaker
diarization, user segmentation, and region detection. Once the
multi-modal features have been extracted, they are used to
de ne the behavioral indicators in the second module, which
are used as inputs for the learning and classi cation steps in
the system s third module.
For all the system s modules, let V = {v1, v2, ..., vr} be a
set of r recorded VOM sessions and C = {c1, c2, ..., cs} be
a set of s VOM cases. Since a case is divided into one or
more VOM sessions, one session v   V may belong either
to the same case as another session, or to a different case.
Thus, a subset {v1, v2}   V belonging to the  rst case c1 is
then denoted as {v1
2}, where the super-indices indicate the
number of the case.
The rest of this section describing multi-modal feature
extraction is structured as shown in Figure 5, where each
main block is described in a different section and where it is
dependent on both the information modality and the previous
block. Thus, following the remaining modules of Figure 4, we
describe the behavioral indicators and  nally the learning and
classi cation of receptivity, agreement, and satisfaction labels.
1, v1
A. Audio Analysis
This section describes the feature extraction applied to the
audio data source. As audio cues are the primary source
of information, they can provide useful evidence for speech
production. Although in noisier environments these cues do
not easily distinguish between the user that is speaking from
the other participants (as a result of overlapping speech), in
VOM scenarios this is not such a problem given the small
number of participants.
1) Speaker Diarization: In order to obtain the audio fea-
tures, we use a diarization scheme based on the approach
presented in [32]. These features correspond to state-of-the-art
UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
6
methods for audio descriptions, which have been successfully
applied in several audio analysis applications [33], [34], [35].
The process is described below:
Description: The input audio is analyzed using a sliding-
window of 25 ms, with an overlap of 10 ms between consecu-
tive windows, and each window is processed using a short-time
Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT), mapping all frequencies to
the Mel scale. A more precise approximation of this scaling
for frequencies used in Mel Frequency Cepstral Coef cients
(MFCC) implementations, is represented as:
 fmel = kconst   logn
1 +
,
(1)
(cid:32)
(cid:33)
 flin
Fb
where Fb and kconst are constant values for frequency and
scale, respectively. The Koenig scale  flin is exactly linear
below 1000 Hz and logarithmic above 1000 Hz. In brief, given
N-point DFT of the discrete input signal  x(n),
N 1(cid:88)
n=0
(cid:18)  j2 nk
(cid:19)
N
 X(k) =
 x(n) exp
, k = 0, 1, ..., N  1, (2)
a  lter bank with several equal height triangular  lters is con-
structed. Each of these  lters has boundary points expressed in
terms of position, which depends on the sampling frequency
and the number of points N in the DFT. Finally, the Discrete
Cosine Transform (DCT) is used to obtain the  rst 13 MFCC
coef cients. These coef cients are complemented with the  rst
and second time-derivatives of the Cepstral coef cients.
Speaker segmentation: Once the audio data are properly
described by means of the aforementioned features, the next
step involves identifying the segments of the audio source
which correspond to each speaker. A  rst coarse segmentation
is generated according to a Generalized Likelihood Ratio,
computed over two consecutive windows of 2.5 s. Each
block is represented using a Gaussian distribution, with a full
covariance matrix, over the extracted features. This process
produces an over-segmentation of the audio data into small
homogeneous blocks. Then, a hierarchical clustering is applied
to the segments. We use an agglomerative strategy, where
initially each segment is considered as a cluster, and at each
iteration the two most similar clusters are merged, until the
stopping criterion of the Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC)
is met. As in the previous step, each cluster is modeled by
means of a Gaussian distribution with a full covariance matrix
and the centroid distance is used as the link similarity. Finally,
a Viterbi decoding is performed in order to adjust the segment
boundaries. Clusters are modeled by means of a one-state
HMM using GMM as our observation model with diagonal
covariance matrices. Figure 1 (f) represents an example of this
procedure, showing the clusters where the speech signal falls
at each instant. Since most of the participants appear in just a
single mediation session, we do not learn any speaker models
from the cluster GMMs. Therefore, models extracted from one
session are not used in the diarization process of other sessions.
B. User Detection
T(cid:88)
t=1
(cid:19)
Both RGB and depth data are used for the postural and
behavioral analyses of the parties (for examples of these
images see Figure 1 (a) and (b), respectively). In this sense, the
 rst step involves performing a limb-segmentation of the body
based on the Random Forest method of [24]. This process is
performed by computing random offsets of depth features as:
(cid:18)
(cid:19)
(cid:18)
f (I,  p) = dI
 p +
 
dI (  p)
  dI
 p +
 
dI (  p)
,
(3)
1
 p in image I, and param-
where dI (  p) is the depth at pixel
eters   = ( ,  ) describe offsets   and  . Since offsets are
normalized by
dI (  p), features are 3D translation invariant.
Each split node consists of a feature f  and a threshold  .
To classify pixel
 p in image I, one starts at the root and
repeatedly evaluates Eq. 3, branching left or right according to
the comparison to threshold  . At the leaf node reached in tree
t of the Random Forest, a learned distribution Pt(l|I,  p) over
body part labels l is stored. The distributions are averaged
together for all
to obtain the  nal
classi cation:
the trees in the forest
P (l|I,  p) =
1
T
Pt(l|I,  p).
(4)
Then, we choose body part labels with high probability values
so as to detect those pixels belonging to the person. Figure 1 (c)
shows a user detection example of applying this segmentation.
Once regions of interest have been located, it is of particular
interest to obtain real-world distance values for certain com-
puted features so that they are comparable between different
subjects. To do this, we employed a similar procedure to that
explained in [36], which converts the 2D pixels into 3D real-
world coordinates using the KinectTM depth values. However,
since these raw sensor values returned by the depth sensor are
not directly proportional to the depth, in [36], they scale with
the inverse of the depth. Therefore, each pixel (  x,  y) of the
depth camera can be projected to metric 3D space as:
x = (  x    x)
, y = (  y    y)
, z = d(  x,  y),
d(  x,  y)
d(  x,  y)
(5)
 x
 y
where (x, y, z) will be the real world coordinates, and  x,  y,
 x,  y, the intrinsics of the depth camera. These values will be
computed over the detected interest regions in order to de ne
the communicative indicators described in next sections.
C. Region Detection
This section describes the different feature extraction mod-
ules applied to the visual data source once the user has been
segmented. Speci cally, we perform an analysis of the face,
hands, and upper body, as well as visual movements in these
regions during conversations. Moreover, the estimation of head
and body postures provides information about where each
person in the VOM sessions directs their gaze, and the status
of the people in terms of agitation, respectively. Given that it
is not feasible to annotate manually all the regions in several
thousands of frames to measure the recognition rates of the
UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
7
detection methods used in this section, we propose a heuristic
procedure which maintains the continuity of region detections,
removing false positives and recovering false negative regions,
considerably reducing the manual interaction rate.
1) Face Analysis: We are primarily concerned with obtain-
ing the head pose angle of each of the participants in the
session. To do this, we base our approach on that of [37] which
uses a set of face models. The face model is based on a mixture
of trees with a shared pool of parts B, where every facial
landmark is modelled as a part and global mixtures are used to
capture topological changes due to viewpoint. Global mixtures
can also be used to capture gross deformation changes for a
single viewpoint, such as changes in expression. Each tree is
written as Tm = (Bm, Em) as a linearly-parameterized, tree-
structured pictorial structure [38], where m indicates a mixture
and Bm   B. Let I be an image, and  i = (xi, yi) the pixel
location of part i. Con guration of parts L = { i : i   B} are
then scored as:
S(I, L, m) = Appm(I, L) + Shapem(L) +  m,
Appm(I, L) =
   (I,  i),
wm
i
Shapem(L) =
 m
ij dx2 +  m
ij dx + m
ij dy2 +  m
ij dy. (8)
(cid:88)
i Bm
(cid:88)
ij Em
(6)
(7)
Eq. 7 sums the appearance evidence for placing a template
for part i, tuned for mixture m, at location  i. The feature
wm
i
vector  (I,  i) (e.g., HoG descriptor) is extracted from pixel
location  i in image I. Eq. 8 scores the mixture-speci c spatial
arrangement of parts L, where dx = xi   xj and dy = yi   yj
are the displacement of the ith part relative to the jth part.
Each term in the sum can be interpreted as a spring that
introduces spatial constraints between a pair of parts, where the
parameters ( ,  , ,  ) specify the rest location and rigidity of
each spring. Finally, the last term  m is a scalar bias or  prior 
associated with viewpoint mixture m. Eq. 6 requires a separate
template wm
for each mixture/viewpoint m of part i. However,
i
parts may look consistent across some changes in viewpoint.
In the extreme cases, a  fully shared  model would use a single
template for a particular part across all viewpoints, wm
i = wi.
A continuum between these two extremes is explored, written
as wf (m)
, where f (m) is a function that maps a mixture index
(from 1 to M) to a smaller template index (from 1 to M(cid:48)).
Various values of M(cid:48) are explored: no sharing (M(cid:48) = M ),
sharing across neighboring views, and sharing across all views
(M(cid:48) = 1).
The detection of the head pose angle is performed by
averaging HOG feature as a polar histogram over 18 gradient
orientation channels, as computed from the entire PASCAL
2010 data set [39]. In Figure 1 (d) we can visualize the set of
computed features plotted on the detected face.
While face detection takes place for each tested image,
a semi-automatic heuristic procedure is proposed in order
to improve the continuity of positive detections of regions
of interest in the person between consecutive frames, and
i
Fig. 6.
Flowchart of the heuristic procedure applied to each frame. The
total number of people that appear in the current video v is denoted by  v.
Constraints of the main condition at the center of the  owchart are denoted
by   ,   ,   , and their respective thresholds   ,   ,   . The counting
variables are F N  , F P  , h , representing the accumulated number of false
negatives, false positives, and hits for the current person  . They are used to
compute the con dence   from the accumulated detection errors    and the
hits h , and to decide whether the current detected region has to be stored or
discarded through the threshold   .
to correct possible erroneous detections due to the inher-
ent dif culties of the problem at hand. Figure 6 shows the
 owchart of the procedure applied to each frame. In short,
it consists of a temporal  ltering methodology of detected
regions (faces) between one-by-one consecutive frames. It is
based on three main constraints that enable us to choose the
detected regions in the current frame by comparison to the
previous one: offset pixels produced by the mass centers, offset
angle produced by head poses, and the size difference factor
UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
8
Fig. 7. Examples of how the semi-automatic heuristic procedure works on two pairs of frames of a session. The correction of false positives and false negatives
is shown, improving the continuity of the detection of positive regions of interest between consecutive frames. Image (a) shows a false positive detection for
the face region, whereas image (b) shows its correction with the proper  tting. Image (c) shows false positive detections for the hand regions, choosing those
blobs obtained by means of skin segmentation having highest optical  ow with respect to the previous frame. Image (d) shows the correction of these regions
by comparing them with the positive hand detections from the previous frame.
produced among the region areas. Thus, three thresholds   ,
  , and    are respectively used to discriminate the occurred
cases on each constraint, whose values may vary depending
on the session conditions. Moreover, there are three counting
variables that accumulate, for each person, the number of
correct detections (hits) h , false positives F P   and false
negatives F N  . Then, a con dence   is computed from h  and
the sum of false detections    to decide whether the current
detected region has to be stored or discarded by means of the
threshold   . These counting variables are highly dependent
on constraint thresholds, as they make the system more or
less restrictive when choosing detected regions. Therefore, a
trade-off between constraint thresholds and control thresholds
should be reached when assigning their values in order to
assure the continuity of positive region of interest detections
for that person (even though the method could not detect
any region in the image), and to decide whether a manual
annotation is required to re-initialize the detection process in
the (approximately) desired frequency rate. Images (a) and (b)
of Figure 7 show an example of how the heuristic procedure
corrects a false positive detection on the face region for a
given frame. In the end, so that all image sequences were
annotated with the head pose analysis, we found that the use
of the proposed heuristic reduced manual interactions by a
ratio of up to  ve.
2) Hand Analysis: Given that the skeletal model computed
from the person segmentation image [24] does not offer an
accurate  t of the hand joints in our particular scenario, we
designed a semi-automatic procedure for hand detection.
First, hands are manually annotated in the starting frames of
each session to perform posterior color segmentation for the
rest of the frames. In this way, a GMM is learned with the
marked set of most signi cant pixels, de ning the skin color
model of the person. Then, subsequent frames are tested within
the GMM built using a threshold  , discriminating those pixels
belonging to the skin color from those belonging to the back-
ground. The resulting blobs are  ltered using mathematical
morphology closing operation with a 3   3 square structured
element to discard noise and to obtain smoother regions. Once
the set of blobs has been obtained, we need to choose those two
candidates that belong to the hand regions. This is performed
by computing the optical  ow between consecutive frames,
which allows to discard noise in those cases in which we obtain
more than two blobs by retaining those with higher movement.
Figure 1 (e) illustrates this procedure.
On the other hand, we use the same heuristic procedure
as that applied to the face analysis step for choosing the
two best hand candidates. Images (c) and (d) of Figure 7
show an example of how the heuristic procedure corrects
false positive detections on the regions of the hands. The
incorrect regions detected in the  rst instance are the blobs
presenting the highest optical  ow, and then the heuristic
procedure corrects these regions by comparing them with
the hand regions obtained from the previous frame. As in
face detection, manual annotation may be required in those
cases where the heuristic procedure needs to be re-initialized.
For this task, an interface has been designed for the manual
annotation of the hand regions for the set of frames in which
this occurs. When the user makes any annotation, the GMM
color model is newly re-constructed at this frame using the
marked pixel positions, and the whole process is repeated. In
this case, using the proposed heuristic we also found similar
reduction regarding manual interaction effort as in the case of
face region detection.
Once we have obtained the blobs belonging to the hand
regions, the extremes with higher optical  ow magnitude are
used to obtain 2D hand positions. Finally, these positions are
transformed to 3D real world coordinates using the conversion
of Eq. 5.
3) Upper Body Analysis: As presented above, the probabil-
ity of each pixel of an image belonging to a labeled body
part is computed in Eq. 4 using depth features of Eq. 3.
This information is used for the subsequent calculation of
optical  ow on RGB images where the upper body region
appears. Therefore, each pixel
 p of the image I detected by
Random Forest with high probability of being part l of the
person is used to calculate the optical  ow. Finally, an average
   of optical  ow is computed for the upper body region.
An example of user detection where upper body region is
highlighted is shown in Figure 1 (c). Average optical  ow   
is later used to de ne behavioral indicators.
UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
9
D. Behavioral Indicators
Once the multi-modal features have been extracted, we can
use them to build a set of behavioral indicators that reveal
communicative cues about each party involved in the VOM
process. This information is of great interest in detecting the
response of subjects to certain feelings or emotional states
during the conversation [5]. In particular, since the behavioral
cues of the mediators are not of interest for our purposes here,
we focus mainly on those of the parties.
Thus, in this section, we describe the set of behavioral
indicators constructed from the output of the different blocks
shown in Figure 5, which de ne the  nal feature vector for
each party within the VOM process.
1) Target Gaze Codi cation: The head pose and the face
is obtained by applying the methodology explained in sec-
tion III-C1. Therefore, in a given session, we compute the
correlations between the head pose angles belonging to each
participant and the positions taken by the rest of the partic-
ipants in that session. This procedure is performed in order
to identify the visual focus of attention among the different
participants in the conversation [9], [40], [41]. For this purpose,
different ranges are assigned to each participant
in terms
of angle limits. Given that the participants belonging to the
same party are seated in adjacent positions (see acquisition
architecture in Figure 2), each range represents a possible
participant vision  eld of his/her gaze towards the target party.
Thus, given a frame of the session and a participant, if his/her
head pose angle falls within a particular range, then the party
found within that range is identi ed as the target gaze of
this participant for that frame, which means the participant
is looking at this party. Since sessions have different setups,
they may consist of one or two parties (and the mediator),
each with a different number of participants. Therefore, the
ranges require manual assignment depending on each session
setup. Then, the target gazes are automatically identi ed for
all the frames of the session. Table II describes all the target
gaze combinations that can be found in any possible session
setup. Note that we codify the target gazes with values 1 or
0 depending on whether a person is looking at someone or
not, respectively. The table focuses on the target gazes among
the parties rather than isolated participants. For the mediator
and party columns, the  rst and third subcolumn correspond to
gazes towards the parties and the second to gazes towards the
mediator. Since we focus the attention on the behavior of the
parties, if there is a session with more than one mediator, the
gazes among the mediators are discarded, and hence they re
codi ed as 0. Thus, the value 1 may be assigned to the different
parties in the session, described as:
  P: Looking at a party, whether it is the offender (Off) or
the victim (Vic). If there is more than one party (case
of a joint encounter), P changes on the mediator column
by  Off  or  Vic  depending on the party.
  M: This party is looking at the mediator.
  MP: This party is looking at the same party.
  MO: This party is looking at the other party.
As an example to clarify the table II, consider the third row
case (2 parties with only 1 person in the party P) where you
TABLE II.
ALL POSSIBLE COMBINATIONS FOR THE CODIFICATION OF
TARGET GAZES. EACH PARTY
1 party P with only 1 person
1 party P with several people
2 parties with only 1 person in the party P
2 parties with several people in the party P
M: Mediators
P | 0 | 0
P | 0 | 0
Off | 0 | Vic
Off | 0 | Vic
P: Party
0 | M | 0
MP | M | 0
0 | M | MO
MP | M | MO
are a mediator, and you have another colleage who is also
a mediator. Thus, mediators might be looking either at the
offender (Off) party or at the Victim (Vic) party, since the gazes
among the mediators are not considered (middle subcolumn of
the mediators are always 0). On the other hand, the party P
that has only 1 person might be looking either at the mediators
(M) or at the other party (MO).
Figure 8 (a) shows an example of crossed gazes between
the mediator and a party in a real VOM session. Finally, we
use these binary values to compute the time percentages of
target gazes for each party. Therefore, for any given party,
there exists a total of 4 indicators for representing all possible
combinations of target gazes.
2) Agitation Estimation: As explained in section III-C2, 3D
positions belonging to the hand regions are computed from the
extreme positions of higher optical  ow. From these positions,
we are able to quantify the movement for each region between
consecutive frames. For this purpose, let F = { 1,  2,  3, ...,   }
be a set of consecutive frames. This set of frames belongs to a
video session v   V , being   = r the maximum length of the
set. Then, for each region we compute the average agitation
over all the frames     F as:
 (cid:88)
 =1
Ah =
1
 
  
h,
(9)
p +   
h =   
q are the displacements among 3D
where   
positions of hands h (left p and right q) between frames  
and     1, computed using Euclidean distance. Therefore, Ah
contains the accumulated average of displacements produced
by both hands between frames F .
On the other hand, in section III-C3 we explained how the
average optical  ow    is obtained for the upper body region.
Therefore, if we denote as     the average optical  ow of the
upper body for a given frame     F , then:
 (cid:88)
 =1
Ab =
1
 
   ,
(10)
where Ab contains the accumulated average of optical  ow
produced by the upper body between frames F .
In short, for each party and session, agitation averages are
computed over processed frames, with a total of 8 agitation
indicators, both alone and combined with the other indicators
previously calculated. The idea of combining these indicators
with other behavioral features is inspired by [42], [14]. In this
case, we consider a combination between the features describ-
ing the agitation from the upper body and those describing the
hands while looking at the participants (see list of Table III).
UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
10
Fig. 8. Visual instances of some situations where behavioral indicators are detected in VOM sessions. Image (a) shows the detection of crossed gazes between
the mediator and the other participant. Images (b) and (c) show a depth image and its segmentation for the person (white point cloud) and the table (red point
cloud), respectively, which is used to detect a situation in which the target subject appears with his or her hands under the table.
3) Posture Identi cation: From the 3D body position, we
detect the body posture as one behavioral indicator, which
may describe the engagement (or involvement) of the party
within the VOM session. Our description of body posture is
classi ed into three main positions (tilted backward, normal,
tilted forward), where the posture selected is the one that has
the most occurrences over the processed frames.
In addition, 3D hand positions are used to detect where the
hands are along the processed frames, in terms of average and
time percentages. In particular, we discriminate three cases
(i.e., 3 indicators): hands together, hands touch the face, and
hands under the table. This is done in a similar way as for the
agitation estimation, using Euclidean distance computed over
3D positions.
  Hands together: We compute for each frame the distance
between left and right hand positions belonging to the
target subject, and we consider the frames where the dis-
tance values are below that of the threshold   . Finally,
we compute the time percentage for those frames where
the target subject appears with their hands together.
  Hands touch the face: We compute for each frame the
distance between each hand position and the position
belonging to the face center of mass obtained in sec-
tion III-C1. Then, we consider the frames where the
distance values are below that of the threshold   .
Finally, we compute the average distance for those
frames where the target subject appears with their hands
touching their face.
  Hands under the table: For each frame, we  rst perform a
segmentation of the tables using [43] to obtain planar ob-
jects within images. Then, we compare the 3D positions
of both hands with the position of the tables in order to
discriminate the two possibilities where the hands may
appear under or above the table. Finally, we compute the
time percentage for those frames where the target subject
appears with their hands under the table. Figure 8 (b)
and (c) illustrate an example of this procedure, showing
respectively the input depth image and its segmentation.
4) Speech Turns/Interruptions Detection: The speaker di-
arization process of section III-A1 detects time segments
belonging to each participant in the VOM process. In order
to extract the degree of interaction, we not only use the length
of time during which each participant speaks, but we also
count the number of turns in each session. This enables to
differentiate between a session where each party expresses its
position from a session in which a conversation is maintained
between the VOM participants. Apart from the quanti cation
of turn taking, a relevant indication in the social communica-
tion analysis is the detection of interruptions, which are related
to the dominance and respect between two persons [44]. Using
the time between turns, we compute the percentage of turns
in which a participant interrupts another one. For instance, in
the  rst three turns of Figure 1 (f) a participant (red) interrupts
the mediator (green), while the mediator waits until the other
participant ends his turn before starting to speaking again.
E. Classi cation
The total number of behavioral indicators is 36, which de ne
the feature vector for each sample in our data set. Here, we
de ne a sample as each party participating in a VOM session
v   V . Thus, if a session v involves two parties and the
mediator, we introduce one sample of 36 features for each
of the two parties. On the other hand, if a session involves
just one party and the mediator, we introduce only one sample
corresponding to the party involved. Table III summarizes the
behavioral indicators and gives a brief description.
As explained in section II, the observations of the classi-
 cation task are the accuracies achieved by the system when
predicting receptivity, agreement, and satisfaction. Then, the
correlation can be observed between the observations predicted
by the system and the impressions recorded by the mediators.
These opinions are quanti ed values of receptivity, agreement,
and satisfaction presented in relation to the parties involved in
the VOM session, and represent the ground truth of our system.
The ground truth values are assigned to each sample of the data
set. Since agreement and satisfaction are globally assigned for
each session, those sessions containing two parties will share
the same ground truth labels of agreement and satisfaction
for both generated samples, meanwhile the receptivity ground
truth value is assigned to each sample (party) independently.
UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
11
SUMMARY OF BEHAVIORAL INDICATORS DEFINING EACH
TABLE III.
FEATURE VECTOR. THE LAST TWO FEATURES f35 AND f36 ARE OBTAINED
FROM SURVEY ANSWERS PROVIDED BY MEDIATORS.
Feature
f1
f2
f3
f4
f5
f6
f7
f8
f9
f10
f11
f12
f13
f14
f15
f16
f17
f18
f19
f20
f21
f22
f23
f24
f25
f26
f27
f28
f29
f30
f31
f32
f33
f34
f35
f36
Brief description
Party s role within the VOM session (victim or offender)
This party looks at the other
The other party looks at this party
This party looks at the mediator
The mediator looks at this party
Body posture inclination of this party
Gender of the mediator
Gender of this party
Gender of the other party
Age of the mediator
Age of this party
Age of the other party
Session type (individual/joint encounter)
Upper body agitation of this party
Upper body agitation of this party while looking at the other party
Upper body agitation of this party while looking at the mediator
Hands agitation of this party
Hands agitation of this party while looking at the other party
Hands agitation of this party while looking at the mediator
Hands agitation of the mediator while looking at this party
Hands agitation of the other party while looking at this party
This party has the hands together
Hands of this party touches his/her face
This party has the hands under the table
Mediator speaking time
Speaking time of this party
Speaking time of the other party
Mediator speaking turns
Speaking turns of this party
Speaking turns of the other party
Mediator interrupts this party
This party interrupts the mediator
This party interrupts the other party
The other party interrupts this party
Nervousness of this party at the beginning
Nervousness of this party at the end
Learning is then performed on these samples and their
features as a binary classi cation problem, grouping into two
classes the quanti cations performed by the mediators. To
do this, we employ four classical techniques from the ma-
chine learning  eld: AdaBoost [45], Support Vector Machines
(SVM) using a Radial Basis Function (RBF) [46], Linear
Discriminant Analysis (LDA), and three kinds of Arti cial
Neural Networks (ANN), in particular Probabilistic Neural
Networks (PNN) [47], and Cascade-Forward (CF) and Feed-
Forward neural networks (FF) [48]. In addition to the binary
classi cation analysis we also conduct a regression study using
epsilon-SVR (Support Vector Regression) [46] in order to
predict continuous quanti cations of the three labels.
IV. EXPERIMENTS
This section describes the experiments performed when
using the behavioral indicators summarized in Table III. First,
we describe the setting and validation measurements, before
outlining the experiments performed.
A. Setting and validation measurements
The parameters used in the heuristic procedure were exper-
imentally set to ranges      [50, 120],      [30, 60], and
The
measurements
     [0.1, 0.3], depending on the session, and the standard
value    = 0.5 for all sessions.
features
{f2, f3, f4, f5, f22, f24, f25, f26, f27} are time percentages,
whereas the features {f14, f15, f16, f17, f18, f19, f20, f21, f23}
contain averaged values of optical  ow or distances, both
taking into account the processed frames of a session. Features
{f28, f29, f30, f31, f32, f33, f34} are turn taking percentages,
where a turn means that the speaker changes.
the
for
Finally, the remaining features are codi ed into discrete
values, either quanti ed to ranges [1, 2] or [1, 3] integer values
for features {f1, f6, f7, f8, f9, f10, f11, f12, f13}, or to range
[1, 5] integer values for the nervousness features {f35, f36}.
Each party of a video session v is a sample for the classi cation
task, and the total number of used samples is 28.
In addition, an alternative was implemented where some
features are divided into two -one belonging to the  rst half,
the other to the second half of the session-. This procedure
was initially performed to identify behavioral changes in
subjects during the different halves of the session. However,
no signi cant differences were found and, hence, we  nally
used the set of features without any temporal segmentation.
Learning is performed using leave-one-out validation, keep-
ing one sample out of the testing each time. Since the total
number of samples is small and the ground truth values are
quanti ed within ranges [1, 5] (as for the nervousness features),
we simpli ed the problem by grouping the different response
degrees into binary groups, but we also performed a posterior
regression analysis. In the case of a binary setup, the value 3
can be considered as being either high or low. For this reason,
we ran the experiments twice to test each grouping case, as
we show in the result Tables tables IV to VII:
  First grouping case: Degrees of quanti cation {1, 2, 3}
  Second grouping case: Degrees of quanti cation {1, 2}
versus {4, 5}.
versus {3, 4, 5}.
In our experiments, we awarded the standard value of 50
to the number of decision stumps in the AdaBoost technique.
For the SVM-RBF and epsilon-SVR, we experimentally set the
cost, gamma, and epsilon parameters by means of the leave-
one-out validation for each social response and minimizing
regression deviation on the training set. Finally, we applied the
same tuning procedure for the three standard neural network
parameters: a Probabilistic Neural Network (PNN) with a
spread value of 0.1 for the radial basis functions, and Cascade-
Forward (CF) and Feed-Forward (FF) neural networks, both
with a single hidden layer with 10 neurons values and
Levenberg-Marquardt back-propagation training function. The
results obtained are shown in terms of accuracy percentages.
B. Results and discussion
Due to the sensitive nature of the VOM process, never before
(to the best of our knowledge) have mediators recorded their
sessions so that they might subsequently analyze the cases.
In this respect, therefore, the  rst results to emerge from this
study are the session videos themselves, which are valuable
UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
12
TABLE IV.
ACCURACY CONSIDERING THE FIRST GROUPING CASE
AND ALL FEATURES.
TABLE VI.
ACCURACY CONSIDERING THE FIRST GROUPING CASE
AND WITHHOLDING THE NERVOUSNESS FEATURES.
Label
Satisfaction
Agreement
Receptivity
AdaBoost
57%
50%
64%
LDA
32%
54%
50%
PNN
57%
64%
71%
CF
57%
64%
71%
FF
86%
75%
68%
SVM
57%
64%
75%
Label
Satisfaction
Agreement
Receptivity
AdaBoost
57%
50%
68%
LDA
57%
43%
46%
PNN
57%
64%
71%
CF
68%
57%
75%
FF
64%
71%
68%
SVM
57%
64%
75%
TABLE V.
ACCURACY CONSIDERING THE SECOND GROUPING CASE
AND ALL FEATURES.
TABLE VII.
ACCURACY CONSIDERING THE SECOND GROUPING CASE
AND WITHHOLDING NERVOUSNESS FEATURES.
Label
Satisfaction
Agreement
Receptivity
AdaBoost
82%
71%
75%
LDA
43%
43%
36%
PNN
21%
29%
39%
CF
82%
71%
68%
FF
75%
75%
75%
SVM
82%
75%
61%
Label
Satisfaction
Agreement
Receptivity
LDA
AdaBoost
61%
82%
71%
57%
79% 46%
PNN
21%
29%
39%
CF
71%
71%
64%
FF
86%
79%
71%
SVM
82%
75%
61%
materials via which the mediators can share their experiences
and obtain feedback to improve their mediation skills.
As described in section III-C1, user manual interactions
are a key requirement in our proposed semi-automatic system
for improving the continuity of detections of positive regions
of interest between consecutive frames. For our sessions, the
average frequency rate of manual annotations required is 1
for each 2000 frames based on the above parameters. This
means that when using these parameters the feature extraction
procedures for both hands and faces offer high performance.
The predictions addressed in our classi cation task focus
on three indicators: the degree of receptivity of the parties,
the level of agreement reached, and the degree of mediator
satisfaction. Tables IV and V show the results obtained when
employing the different techniques and using the complete
set of behavioral indicators in Table III. The most accurate
results for the three responses are shown in bold, showing
both which classi er and which grouping case give the best
performance for each feature description. Note that as the
features of nervousness are subjective indicators that are not
automatically computed, we repeated the experiments without
these two features {f35, f36}. These results are shown in
Tables VI and VII, where the prediction is also analyzed
under the grouping hypotheses. Once again, the results show
a correlation between the features extracted and the categories
selected. The percentage degree of accuracy in the predictions
is then compared for the different techniques: AdaBoost, SVM,
LDA, PNN, CF, and FF. It can be noted that, except for
PNN and LDA (which are not good techniques for use with
our dataset), all the classi ers are able to make predictions
about
there is a
correlation between the captured data and the information that
we want to predict. The most predictable social response is
that of satisfaction, presenting an accuracy of 86% with the
FF, followed by 82% with AdaBoost, SVM, and CF. The best
result when predicting agreement was an accuracy of 79%
with FF and, similarly, when predicting receptivity, the best
accuracy was 79% with AdaBoost. These results are quite
signi cant since most of the sessions presenting high values
for this combination of responses resulted in satisfactory VOM
outcomes. However, since the number of samples is, in general,
small, all responses vary in their performance depending on the
grouping hypothesis, despite the low level of presence of the
3-value among the quantitative responses. This means that the
uncertainty of the mediator when assigning a value of 3 to the
the random decision. This indicates that
answers tends to add noise to the overall data with respect to
the evaluation.
The result tables show that CF and FF (and even LDA)
vary signi cantly in their predictions depending on whether
the nervousness features {f35, f36} are considered or not. This
indicates that the subjective evaluation of the mediator adds an
important weight to the system for half of our classi ers. More-
over, the variability in performance presented by the remaining
classi ers in relation to these two cases leads us to analyze the
relevance of these features in each case. Thus, we performed
a comparison to identify the most relevant features for each
social response. In this way, we also analyzed the in uence
of the nervousness features {f35, f36} when choosing the
most relevant of the other features. We performed a weighted
feature selection using [49] and [50] for AdaBoost and SVM,
respectively. For each response (receptivity, agreement, and
satisfaction), we selected those features only for the cases
giving the highest degree of accuracy. See the different plots
in Figure 9. In general, we observe that agitation features and
the mediator s speaking turns are chosen as the most relevant
features when predicting satisfaction. By contrast, the feature
chosen as being most relevant for predicting agreement is
the age of the mediator. In the case of receptivity, the fact
of withholding the nervousness features results in the most
signi cant changes in the feature selection with respect to the
other responses. However, both hand agitation, gaze, and the
combination of the two are chosen as being the most relevant
features when predicting receptivity. On average, the most
relevant features for all the responses are those involving the
combination of gaze and the agitation of the body regions.
This means that
these are the most discriminating behav-
ioral indicators in the prediction of the degree of receptivity,
agreement, and satisfaction in a conversation such as that
maintained in a VOM process. This feature selection procedure
has direct implications for the observational methodology of
non-verbal communication, since it allows experts in the  eld
of psychology and restorative justice to focus, in any given
conversation, on the most discriminating behavioral indicators
automatically selected through arti cial intelligence.
Finally, we relate the overall training data to the different
ground truth annotations using the epsilon-SVR regression
strategy. In this case, when using the leave-one-out strategy,
we obtain a prediction for each sample within the same range
as the quanti ed annotations [1, 5]. In this setting, we also ran
the experiment twice:  rst, we considered all features, and then
UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
13
features using audio-RGB-depth data. Then, a heuristic proce-
dure was presented within the multi-modal feature extraction
to improve the continuity in the detection of positive regions of
interest between consecutive frames. Finally, we have de ned
an automatic computation of behavioral indicators used as
 nal features for learning and classi cation tasks. We have
demonstrated the applicability of the system for use in the
restorative justice  eld as a tool for mediators, obtaining
recognition accuracies of 86% when predicting satisfaction and
79% when predicting both agreement and receptivity, and a
high correlation in the regression analysis.
In future work, we plan to improve the dataset and re-
sponses, and to incorporate new features. In the case of the
data, we hope to capture more samples so as to be able
to perform more accurate predictions, providing continuous
ground truth information by means of intra-mediator estima-
tions. In the case of the predictions, new data should allow
the continuous prediction of each degree of the behavioral
indicators. Moreover, they will enable us to perform frame-
based predictions, analyzing the evolution of each indicator
throughout the VOM process, and to detect the exact instant
(or  click  to use the term employed by the mediators) when a
party accepts the possibility of reaching an agreement. Finally,
we also hope to incorporate emotional state features, obtained
from facial expressions [23] and audio data [51].
REFERENCES
[1] E. Weitekamp,  Reparative justice,  European Journal on Criminal
Policy and Research, vol. 1, no. 1, pp. 70 93, 1993.
[2] M. S. Umbreit, The Handbook of Victim Offender Mediation: An
John Wiley & Sons, 2002.
[3] A. S. Pentland,  Socially aware computation and communication, 
Essential Guide to Practice and Research.
Computer, vol. 38, no. 3, pp. 33 40, 2005.
Fig. 9. Weighted feature selection when using AdaBoost and SVM for
the grouping response cases presenting the highest accuracy when predicting
receptivity, agreement, and satisfaction. Each line represents the relative
feature weights assigned by the classi ers within the range [0, 1], either
employing all features or without the nervousness features f35 and f36.
left out the nervousness features. Both cases gave the same
average distances when predicting satisfaction, agreement, and
receptivity, with values of 0.59, 0.64, and 0.68, respectively.
This mean deviation with respect to the ground truth labels
was found to be signi cant and of great interest to the team
of mediators.
V. CONCLUSION
We have proposed a multi-modal framework for the semi-
automatic analysis of non-verbal communication in VOM
sessions. We have demonstrated the usability of computer
vision, signal processing, and machine learning strategies in
conversational processes. Speci cally, we computed a set of
[4] A. S. Pentland, Honest Signals: How They Shape Our World. Mas-
sachusetts: The MIT Press, 2008.
[5] M. Knapp and J. Hall, Nonverbal Communication in Human Interaction.
Harcourt Brace College Publishers, 1997.
[6] G. Mohammadi, S. Park, K. Sagae, A. Vinciarelli, and L.-P. Morency,
 Who is persuasive?: The role of perceived personality and communi-
cation modality in social multimedia,  in ICMI, 2013, pp. 19 26.
[7] D. Sanchez-Cortes, O. Aran, M. Schmid Mast, and D. Gatica-Perez,
 A nonverbal behavior approach to identify emergent leaders in small
groups,  IEEE Trans. on Multimedia, vol. 14, no. 3, pp. 816 832, 2012.
[8] A. Marcos-Ramiro, D. Pizarro-Perez, M. Marron-Romera, L. Nguyen,
and D. Gatica-Perez,  Body comunicative cue extraction for conversa-
tional analysis,  FG, 2013.
[9] O. Aran and D. Gatica-Perez,  One of a kind: Inferring personality
impressions in meetings,  in ICMI, 2013, pp. 11 18.
[10] A. Vinciarelli, H. Salamin, and M. Pantic,  Social signal processing:
Understanding social actions through nonverbal behaviour analysis,  in
CVPR, vol. 3, 2009, pp. 42 49.
[11] A. Vinciarelli, M. Pantic, and H. Bourlard,  Social signal processing:
Survey of an emerging domain,  Image and Vision Computing, vol. 27,
no. 12, pp. 1743 1759, 2009.
[12] D. B. Jayagopi and D. Gatica-Perez,  Mining group nonverbal con-
versational patterns using probabilistic topic models,  IEEE Trans. on
Multimedia, vol. 12, no. 8, pp. 790 802, 2010.
[13] D. Sanchez-Cortes, O. Aran, D. Jayagopi, M. Schmid Mast, and
D. Gatica-Perez,  Emergent leaders through looking and speaking: from
audio-visual data to multimodal recognition,  Journal on Multimodal
User Interfaces, vol. 7, no. 1-2, pp. 39 53, 2013.
UNDER CONSIDERATION AT PATTERN RECOGNITION LETTERS
14
[38] Y. Yang and D. Ramanan,  Articulated pose estimation with  exible
mixtures-of-parts,  in CVPR, 2011.
[39] M. Everingham, L. Gool, C. K. Williams, J. Winn, and A. Zisserman,
 The pascal visual object classes (voc) challenge,  IJCV, vol. 88, no. 2,
pp. 303 338, 2010.
[40] M. Marin-Jimenez, A. Zisserman, M. Eichner, and V. Ferrari,
 Detecting people looking at each other in videos,  International
Journal of Computer Vision, vol. 106, no. 3, pp. 282 296, 2014.
[Online]. Available: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11263-013-0655-7
[41] S. Ba and J.-M. Odobez,  Recognizing visual focus of attention from
head pose in natural meetings,  Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Part
B: Cybernetics, IEEE Transactions on, vol. 39, no. 1, pp. 16 33, Feb
2009.
J. Dovidio and S. Ellyson,  Decoding visual dominance: Attributions
of power based on relative percentages of looking while speaking and
looking while listening,  in SPQ, 1982, pp. 106 113.
[42]
[43] R. B. Rusu and S. Cousins,  3D is here: Point Cloud Library (PCL), 
in IEEE ICRA, 2011.
[44] S. Escalera, X. Bar o, J. Vitri`a, P. Radeva, and B. Raducanu,  Social net-
work extraction and analysis based on multimodal dyadic interaction, 
Sensors, vol. 12, no. 2, pp. 1702 1719, 2012.
[45] Y. Freund and R. E. Schapire,  Experiments with a new boosting
algorithm,  in ICML, 1996, pp. 148 156.
[46] C.-C. Chang and C.-J. Lin,  LIBSVM: A library for support vector
machines,  ACM Trans. IST, vol. 2, pp. 27:1 27:27, 2011.
[47] D. F. Specht,  Probabilistic neural networks for classi cation, mapping,
or associative memory,  in IEEE IJCNN, 1988, pp. 525 532 vol.1.
[48] M. Gopikrishnan and T. Santhanam,  Effect of different neural networks
on the accuracy in iris patterns recognition,  in IJRIC, 2011, pp. 22 28
vol.7.
[49] S. Escalera, O. Pujol, and P. Radeva,  Error-correcting ouput codes
library,  JMLR, vol. 11, pp. 661 664, 2010.
[50] Y. wei Chen,  Combining svms with various feature selection strate-
gies,  in Taiwan University. Springer-Verlag, 2005.
[51] M. E. Ayadi, M. S. Kamel, and F. Karray,  Survey on speech emotion
recognition: Features, classi cation schemes, and databases,  Pattern
Recognition, vol. 44, no. 3, pp. 572 587, 2011.
[14] S. Escalera, O. Pujol, P. Radeva, J. Vitri`a, and M. T. Anguera,
 Automatic detection of dominance and expected interest,  EURASIP
Advances in Signal Processing, Research Article, 2010.
[15] T. Takahashi and F. Kishino,  Hand gesture coding based on experi-
ments using a hand gesture interface device,  SIGCHI Bull., vol. 23,
no. 2, pp. 67 74, 1991.
[16] G. Fang, W. Gao, and D. Zhao,  Large-vocabulary continuous sign
language recognition based on transition-movement models,  SMC-A,
vol. 37, no. 1, pp. 1 9, 2007.
[17] V. Ponce, M. Gorga, X. Bar o, and S. Escalera,  Human behavior
analysis from video data using bag-of-gestures,  in IJCAI, vol. 3, 2011,
pp. 2836 2837.
J.-I. Biel and D. Gatica-Perez,  Vlogsense: Conversational behavior and
social attention in youtube,  ACM Trans. Multimedia Comput. Commun.
Appl., vol. 7S, no. 1, pp. 33:1 33:21, 2011.
[18]
[19] D. McNeill, Hand and Mind: What Gestures Reveal about Thought.
Chicago: University of Chicago Press, 1992.
[20] D. McNeill, Gesture and Thought. Chicago: University of Chicago
Press, 2005.
[21] A. Mehrabian, Nonverbal communication. Aldine-Atherton, 1972.
[22] A. Hern andez-Vela, M. Reyes, V. Ponce, and S. Escalera,  Grabcut-
based human segmentation in video sequences,  Sensors, vol. 12, no. 11,
pp. 15 376 15 393, 2012.
[24]
[23] O. Rudovic, M. Pantic, and I. Patras,  Coupled gaussian processes for
pose-invariant facial expression recognition,  IEEE TPAMI, vol. 35,
no. 6, pp. 1357 1369, 2013.
J. Shotton, A. W. Fitzgibbon, M. Cook, T. Sharp, M. Finocchio,
R. Moore, A. Kipman, and A. Blake,  Real-time human pose recogni-
tion in parts from single depth images,  CVPR, pp. 1297 1304, 2011.
[25] A. Hernandez-Vela, M. Bautista, X. Perez-Sala, V. Ponce, X. Baro,
O. Pujol, C. Angulo, and S. Escalera,  BoVDW: Bag-of-visual-and-
depth-words for gesture recognition,  ICPR, pp. 449 452, 2012.
[26] O. Lopes, M. Reyes, S. Escalera, and J. Gonzalez,  Spherical blurred
shape model for 3-d object and pose recognition: Quantitative analysis
and hci applications in smart environments,  SMC-B: Cybernetics, IEEE
Trans. on, vol. PP, no. 99, 2014.
[27] M. A. Bautista, A. Hernandez-Vela, V. Ponce, X. Perez-Sala, X. Baro,
O. Pujol, C. Angulo, and S. Escalera,  Probability-based dynamic time
warping for gesture recognition on rgb-d data,  ICPR, 2012.
[28] H.-D. Yang, S. Sclaroff, and S.-W. Lee,  Sign language spotting with
a threshold model based on conditional random  elds,  IEEE TPAMI,
vol. 31, no. 7, pp. 1264 1277, 2009.
[29] A. Stefan, V. Athitsos, J. Alon, and S. Sclaroff,  Translation and scale-
invariant gesture recognition in complex scenes,  in PETRA, 2008, pp.
7:1 7:8.
[30] T. Starner and A. Pentland,  Real-time american sign language recog-
nition from video using hidden markov models,  Perceptual Comput.
Sect., MIT, Cambridge, MA, USA, 1996.
[31] C. Wren, A. Azarbayejani, T. Darrell, and A. Pentland,  P nder: real-
time tracking of the human body,  IEEE TPAMI, vol. 19, no. 7, pp.
780 785, 1997.
[32] P. Del eglise, Y. Est`eve, S. Meignier, and T. Merlin,  The lium speech
transcription system: a cmu sphinx iii-based system for french broadcast
news,  in in Interspeech, 2005.
J. Ajmera,  Robust audio segmentation,  Ecole Polytechnique Federale
de Lausanne (EPFL), Lausanne, Switzerland, 2004.
[33]
[34] X. Anguera and J. Pardo,  Robust speaker diarization for meetings: Icsi
rt06s evaluation system,  in ICSLP, 2006.
[35] L. Rabiner and B.-H. Juang, Fundamentals of speech recognition.
Upper Saddle River, NJ, USA: Prentice-Hall, Inc., 1993.
[36] M. Fisher,  Interpreting sensor values.  [Online]. Available: http:
//graphics.stanford.edu/ md sher/Kinect.html
[37] X. Zhu and D. Ramanan,  Face detection, pose estimation and landmark
localization in the wild,  CVPR, 2012.
