 

 

Gamification, virality and retention in educational online platform.  

Measurable indicators and market entry strategy 

Ilya V. Osipov 1*, Alex A. Volinsky 2*, Vadim V. Grishin 1  

 

1 i2istudy.com, Krišjāņa Barona Iela, 130 k-10, Rīga, Lv-1012, Latvija 

 

 

2 Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of South Florida, 4202 E. Fowler Ave., 

 
ENB118, Tampa FL 33620, USA

 

* Corresponding authors. Email: volinsky@usf.edu; Phone: (813) 974-5658; Fax: (813) 974-

3539 (Alex A. Volinsky); Email: ilya@i2istudy.com (Ilya V. Osipov) 

Abstract 

The  paper  describes  gamification,  virality  and  retention  in  the  freemium  educational  online 

platform with 40,000 users as an example. Relationships between virality and retention parameters as 

measurable metrics are calculated and discussed using real examples. Virality and monetization can be 

both  competing  and  complementary  mechanisms  for  the  system  growth. The  K-growth  factor,  which 

combines  both  virality  and  retention,  is  proposed  as  the  metrics  of  the  overall  freemium  system 

performance  in  terms  of  the  user  base  growth. This  approach  can  be  tested  using  a  small  number  of 

users to  assess the system potential performance.  If the  K-growth  factor  is less than one, the product 

needs further development. If the K-growth factor it is greater than one, the system retains existing and 

attracts new users, thus a large scale market launch can be successful. 

 

Keywords: Gamification and virality; retention; freemium; K-factor; metrics; open educational re-

source. 

 

Introduction 

 

There are numerous products utilizing the freemium model, such as mobile applications, SaaS 

solutions, software, web applications and others (Seufert, 2014). However, the freemium model is not 

 

1 

 

as simple as it may seem. The authors analyzed the statistics of the users’ behavior in the educational 

collaborative platform available to everybody as shareware and through the freemium model (Osipov, 

Volinsky & Prasikova, 2014). The platform is a web site for learning foreign languages with users from 

all over the World. The main idea of the system is based on the fact that regardless of all the grammar 

learned  in  college,  students  are  lacking  live  interactions  with  the  native  speakers  to  increase  their 

spoken language skills (Osipov, Prasikova & Volinsky, 2014). Finding a native speaker is not an easy 

task,  which  typically  also  requires  paying  for  the  tutor  lessons.  The  authors  noticed,  based  on  the 

students studying Spanish, that professional teacher is not required to learn basic communication skills. 

What’s  needed  is  a  partner,  who’s  ready  to  help  using  already  prepared  materials,  a  Spanish  native 

speaker.  Spanish  native  speakers  are  eager  to  learn  English  in  exchange  for  teaching  Spanish.  The 

authors used the idea of time banking (Marks, 2012; Válek & Jašíková, 2013) to track how much time 

each user is learning a foreign language and teaching native language. 

 

The authors combined readily available audio-video conferencing technology between the users 

with  the  pre-defined  lessons,  divided  into  step-by-step  cards,  understandable  by  the  non-professional 

teachers, along with the learning/teaching time tracking and an online system of finding and connecting 

users. This is how the online learning/teaching educational resource, called i2istudy was born (Osipov, 

2013). Using this system, which operated from April through August 2014 in the beta mode, and col-

lected over 40,000 users, the authors have conducted several measurements and studies. 

 

Freemium, which is a combination of the words Free and Premium, business model assumes the 

maximum  product  market  distribution,  along  with  the  capture  and  retention  of  the  largest  possible 

number of users. Part of the users, which for various products varies from 3% to 10%, take advantage 

of the premium features, allowing the creators not only to pay for the entire system upkeep, including 

free parts, but also to make a profit (Mäntymäki & Salo, 2011). 

Let’s consider the basic functions of the freemium products aimed at the mass market: 

1.  The main (base) function for which the users come (in our case it is learning foreign languages). 

2.  User retention, including return users. 

3.  User monetization. 

4.  User attraction and virality stimulation (existing users attracting new users). 

 

 

Figure 1 shows a typical cycle of the freemium application. Arrows indicate main user and information 

flows, including the 4 main cycles: 

 

2 

 

 

 

1.  The in-app cycle – the main application cycle, the core cycle, the basic function for which the 

user  decided  to  use  the  application  (in  our  case  it’s  learning  foreign  language  with  native 

speaker). 

2.  The monetization cycle  (denoted by the small dollar sign $ in  Figure 1). This is an additional 

cycle, which attracts the most venturous people involved in the process, which represents addi-

tional features. This cycle is smaller, since it is not available to all participating users (especially 

in the freemium business model). 

3.  The retention cycle is when users leave and subsequently return into the system. To successfully 

return and retain the users in the system, special means are utilized, from e-mail notifications, 

social  networks  and  other  communication  channels  reminders  of  the  events,  which  occurred 

during the user absence from the system, to gamification. 

4.  The viral cycle when existing users invite new users from the external environment (e-mail, so-

cial  networks,  blogs,  forums,  personal  websites,  applications,  and  other  communication  chan-

nels), including the new users accommodation. 

Besides, the diagram in  Figure 1 also shows different user flows into  the web application, in-

cluding  organic  “word  of  mouth”  users,  bookmarks,  search  engines,  motivated  and  purchased  users, 

along  with  the  invited  users  (Ellis  &  Brown,  2014).  The  downward  arrow  shows  users  lost  directly 

from the web front page, as well as from any other of the mentioned cycles. It should be noted that the 

app cycles: the core, viral, retention and monetization cycles are antagonistic, as they are competing for 

the user attention, which is always lacking. The system developers must understand which cycles have 

priority. 

 

1. 

When creating freemium products, there are two main business approaches: 

Purchasing and other paid users (traffic) attraction. Part of the traffic can be monetized by sell-

ing additional premium services and attracting new users by spending the money earned. The key fac-

tor in this approach is money, thus a successful monetization model is required to involve a significant 

percentage  of  users  in  the  pay  mechanics  to  maintain  the  balance.  The  positive  balance  between  the 

revenues from the existing customers minus the cost of attracting new users. Moreover, the cost of at-

tracting new users can be substantial, and there is a risk not to recover this high cost from monetization. 

Pluses of this approach include fast money earning, and that the K virality factor (K-factor, Reichheld, 

2003) can be less than one (discussed below). 

2. 

Involving  existing  users  into  the  product  promotion  through  virality.  It  is  necessary  to  ensure 

that the virality coefficient (the K-factor) is significant, which for a number of products is difficult and 

 

3 

 

even  unattainable.  The  volume  of  users  with  this  approach  is  growing  exponentially  until  it  reaches 

saturation (Cohen, 2014). The product can contain features from both approaches, emphasis on moneti-

zation and emphasis on expanding the user base. However, given the limited user's attention, one of the 

approaches must be dominant. 

 

Viral user base expansion 

 

Let’s  consider  the  second  approach,  which  we  call  freemium  with  an  emphasis  on  virality. 

David  Skok,  successful  venture  capitalist,  wrote  about  the  freemium  virality-emphasized  products 

(Skok, 2009): 

 “..in a typical business the single biggest expense is sales and marketing, and recognize that offering a 

free  product/service  is  an  extremely  smart  way  to  acquire  customers  at  a  low  cost  that  can  then  be 

monetized  in  a  different  way.”    “Another  powerful  effect  of  using  the  free  strategy  is  that  it  usually 

results in a far larger customer base using the free products, who become proponents for your company. 

This expanded footprint or market share can have a huge effect on the price that acquirers or investors 

are willing to pay for your company, as they recognize that even though these customers have yet to be 

monetized,  they  represent  a  great  potential  for  future  monetization.  Twitter  and  Facebook  are  two 

perfect examples of this.” “Another way of looking at the importance of footprint or marketshare is to 

recognize the importance of market leadership. In the tech industry, market leadership is usually self-

reinforcing  unless  the  company  does  stupid  things  to  annoy  its  customers.  Even  if  you  have  gained 

market leadership by giving away a product/service for free, the financial markets and acquirers realize 

that market leadership is worth a significant premium over niche players that may have more revenue.” 

However, the strategy of viral user attraction can not be utilized forever. Seufert, the author of 

the book Freemium Economics (Seufert, 2014) presents a graph, similar to the one shown in Figure 2. 

All  efforts  invested  in  the  virality  mechanics  will  not  bear  fruit  when  the  market  niche  is  already 

saturated, and all potential users either already use the product, or know about it, but prefer not to use 

it.  Obviously,  this  is  the  best  time  to  refocus  the  product  and  change  the  user's  attention  to 

monetization, which we discussed as the strategy number 1. 

 

Virality realization methods (invitations) 

The viral marketing requires several components: the sender, the message and the medium for 

dissemination, including recipients, along with the context in which the message is received. There are 

 

4 

 

two ways for the user to invite new users: 

1. 

Open invitations - is the viral mechanism, where the user places invitations in social networks, 

blogs, personal web pages, etc., addressing an undefined set of individuals. 

2. 

Direct  personal  invitations  initiated  by  the  existing  users  to  the  potential  new  users  using 

different means of communication by e-mail, personal communication, social networks, SMS, etc. 

Typically  it  is  hard  to  account  for  all  open  invitations.  The  authors  used  simplified  statistics  by 

calculating how many people were invited by this method, and how many people were able to use this 

method  to  initiate  invitations.  The  system  calculates  how  many  open  invitations  were  made  by  each 

user  (via  built-in  system  instruments),  and  how  many  new  users  joined  as  a  result  (including  open 

invitations initiated by the user and not generated by the system). Table 1 lists the number of published 

invitation links (open invitations) and how many users posted these links on the weekly basis.  

Statistics reflects only built-in invitation publication mechanism. Table 2 lists the number of the 

newly  joined  users  invited  trough  the  open  links,  including  all  types  of  invitation.  Personal  direct 

invitations  allow  calculating  all  parameters  and  quantifying  all  steps  of  the  viral  cycle.  The  system 

accounts for how many users make personal invitations, how many invitations are generated per each 

user,  how  many  invitations  reach  the  addressee,  how  many  recipients  come  to  the  service,  and  how 

many register and get involved in the learning/teaching process. Table 3 lists the number of individual 

invitations and the number of users that sent such invitations, while Table 4 lists the number of users 

who joined as a result of direct personal invitations. 

 

The viral cycle and the K-factor 

Let’s  define  the  metrics  parameters.  The  user  means  registered  and  authorized  user  of  the 

service.  

dU stands for daily users; 

dNU are daily new users; 

dAU are daily active users (users who spent more than 5 minutes in the system); 

U is the total number of all users; 

IU is the number of invited users; 

Di is the total number of invitations per day; 

 

5 

 

AiPSU is the average number of invitations per spreading user (AiPDSU is the same per day); 

AiPU is the average number of invitations per user; 

DIU is the number of daily invited users;  

IPi is the ratio of people who accepted an invitation to the number of invitations sent (conversion 

percentage); 

Conceptually  the  К-factor  is the average number of additional users introduced to the product 

by each user (Seufert, 2014, Chapter 7, p. 170). For practical purposes we calculate the K-factor as the 

ratio between the users  attracted through viral  methods in a certain time  period, to all active users in 

this time period (Skok 2009b). Theoretically, we should have used the previous time period, setting it 

equal to the duration of the viral cycle. However, the length of the viral cycle is difficult to establish, 

since  the  reaction  to  the  invitation  timeline  is  very  short  in  our  system,  as  in  a  typical  case,  sending 

invitations and accepting them gets completed in one day. For calculating the K-factor, only new users 

(dNU), or all users in a certain time period  (dU) can be used, along with the active users in a certain 

time period (dAU). The authors used active users (not considering uninterested users, who spent very 

little time in the system) as the base, as it gives the most accurate results in our estimates. For practical 

purposes some sources used only new users (dNU) as a base, comparing all users attracted virality with 

all types of new users. The authors believe this is not quite correct, since all active users contribute to 

virality and not only new users, thus: 

Local

K

=

factor

dIU

dAU

   

 

 

 

 

(1) 

The term K-factor comes from epidemiology, “in which a virus having a K-factor of 1 is in a “steady” 

state of neither growth nor decline, while a K-factor greater than 1 indicates exponential growth and a 

K-factor less than 1 indicates exponential decline.” (Lee, 2008). The K-factor, which is also called viral 

coefficient in the literature, can be calculated as the number of invitations sent by each user multiplied 

by  the  conversion  percentage  of  the  new  users  (Fong,  2014).  For  example,  if  the  average  number  of 

invitations per user is 5, and 20% of the invitees register in the system, i.e. become new users, then the 

K-factor = 5*0.2=1. Time-independent K-factor averaged over the whole time of the system operation 

the  authors  call  the  global  K-factor,  which  is  calculated  in  the  following  way.  The  conversion 

percentage, IPi is the number of invited people, IU, divided by the number of invitations, i: 

IPi

=

IU

i

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2) 

 

6 

 

AiPU is the average number of invitations per user, calculated as the average number of invitations per 

user, i, divided by the total number of users, U: 

PUAi

=

i

U

 

 

 

 

 

 

(3) 

Then  the  global  K-factor  is  calculated  as  the  product  of  the  average  number  of  invitations  per  user, 

AiPU (equation 3) and the conversion percentage, IPi (equation 2): 

Global

K

factor

=

PUA

i

⋅

IP
i

 

 

 

 

 

(4) 

The  K-factor  dynamics  reflects  the  users’  mood  swings,  and  how  they  react  to  the  introduction, 

activation or deactivation of one or another viral mechanics, involving them in the activities of inviting 

new  users,  and  whether  these  mechanics  are  well  accepted.  Thus  for  practical  purposes  the  authors 

utilized  the local  K-factor, calculated daily. The  authors  call it the daily  K-factor,  dK-factor, which is 

based on the active audience, dAU. This daily K-factor is considered the most important parameter of 

the viral cycle, which was used in the construction of viral mechanisms of the project: 

Daily

K

,

dK

=

dAU

⋅

IP
i

  

factor

 

 

 

(5) 

Figure 3 shows the i2istudy foreign language educational platform K-factor dynamics.  

It is important to understand that if the K-factor is less than unity (e.g. 50%), in the absence of 

retention (when the loyalty of existing users is zero), the system growth attenuates. In the best scenario, 

such virality mechanism partially compensates the users’ loss as a result of the normal loyalty retention 

cycle  decrease.  This  K-factor  increases  the  effectiveness  of  paid  user  attraction.  For  example, 

purchased 100 paying users get involved in the viral mechanics and invite additional 50 users, which 

reduced the average price of each user and saved the budget. If the K-factor is greater than 1 (say it is 

200%), it leads to the geometric progression growth of the user base. For example, purchased 100 users 

attract 200 new people, and if the K-factor remains the same, the new users will attract 400 new people, 

and so on. Virality works as long as the entire mass of potential users will not reach saturation in their 

social matrix and a given market. 

 

Virality, retention and monetization relationship 

In  his  book  Freemium  Economics,  Eric  Benjamin  Seufert  (Seufert,  2014)  in  the  Virality  and 

Retention section, on page 175 said: “Virality  and retention exist on opposite sides of  the acquisition 

 

7 

 

threshold:  virality  describes  how  users  are  introduced  to  a  product,  and  retention  describes  how  long 

users  remain  with  a  product.  But  in  essence,  both  sets  of  metrics  measure  the  same  general  sense  of 

delight  users  feel  for  a  product,  manifested  in  different  ways.  To  that  end,  virality  and  retention 

generally exhibit a positively correlated relationship: products that users are inclined to return to over a 

long period of time are also likely to be products that users invite others to join.” 

In  our  opinion,  virality  and  retention  are  characteristics  amenable  to  manipulation  by  the 

creators  of  the  product.  Even  a  weak  product  can  successfully  maintain  good  retention  and  virality 

performance,  if  appropriate  mechanics  and  effects  (impact,  gamification)  are  well  integrated  into  the 

product  and  successfully  motivate  users  to  these  actions.  This  situation  resembles  a  grocery  store, 

where  buyers  are  manipulated  by  the  layout,  marketing,  branding,  packaging  and  a  discount  system, 

and buy groceries that are not the best and healthy as a result (Glanz, Bader & Iyer, 2012). 

Certainly all three parameters: virality, retention and monetization are related. Users with high 

product  loyalty  get  increasingly  involved  in  the  mechanics  of  virality  and  monetization  (Fields  & 

Cotton, 2012; Eyal  & Hoover (2014). Despite  competition  for  the user’s  attention, these mechanisms 

may spur one another, and all sorts of techniques, such as gamification, which is usually considered in 

the literature as part of retention, can serve monetization and virality. Oddly enough, monetization, can 

also  spur  virality  and  retention.  For  example,  premium  paid  services  can  be  alternatively  earned  by 

participation  in  the  viral  and  gamification  programs.  The  dollar  price  of  these  premium  options 

demonstrates  their  value  to  the  users.  For  example,  when  the  user  knows  the  cost  of  acquiring  new 

premium options for real money, it may be easier to motivate the user to earn these premium options by 

performing certain tasks and actions, such as inviting friends. 

It  is  important  that  the  experience  of  using  the  main  basic  functions  of  the  product  cause 

admiration,  then  the  virality  and  retention  mechanics  come  into  play.  If  they  are  unbalanced,  for 

example, with perfect virality and poor retention, the growth of the user base, caused by the successful 

virality, will compensate for the loss of the same base due to disloyal users. The opposite situation of 

poor  virality  with  excellent  retention  leads  to  the  product  and  its  user  base  stagnation,  and  eventual 

defeat by the competitors. 

Coefficient  of  the  product  audience  growth,  K-growth,  can  be  expressed  as  a  sum  of  the 

coefficients of the viral K-factor and the retention factor, K-retention: 

K

growth

=

K

factor

+

K

retention

 

 

 

 

 

(6) 

Equation 6 is the main formula of the freemium product growth, based on the viral spreading. It is clear 

 

8 

 

that this formula does not take into account alternative methods of attracting users, such as paid users 

and organic users, who came through search engines, word of mouth, or due to the brand popularity. K-

retention is always less than one over a long period of time, since no products can retain its audience 

100% at all times. 

Local

K

retention

=

dU

−

dNU

dU

1−

   

 

 

 

(7), 

where dU is the daily audience for a given day; dU-1 is the previous day audience and dNU are the new 

users  for  this  time  period.  It’s  convenient  to  use  only  active  audience  for  calculations,  by  taking  into 

account  only  the  new  users  that  have  become  active,  but  not  all  registered  users.  Similar  situation  is 

with the new invited users, among which only active users are accounted for: 

Local

K

retention

A

=

dAU

−

dNU

dAU

1−

 

 

 

 

(8) 

For example, if the  viral K-factor is 20  %, and  K-retention factor is 90% (i.e. 9 out of 10 people are 

coming  the next day),  the  growth coefficient will  be 0.2 + 0.9 = 1.1  and  the  system will  grow on its 

own by 10% of its daily (or other accounting period) audience. Coefficient of the system self growth 

can be represented as: 

K growth

=

dAU

1

−

dNU

+

dIU

dAU

0

 

 

 

 

(9) 

This is the ratio of the audience from the next period of time without accounting for the new users, but 

accounting  for  the  users  invited  by  the  viral  techniques,  divided  by  audience  from  the  previous  time 

period.  If  dNU  and  dIU  are  equal, then  all new  users  get involved through  viral  methods  exclusively 

(there is no paid and organic traffic), then in this case: 

K growth

=

dAU

dAU

1−

 

 

 

 

 

(10) 

Table 5 shows the data and the corresponding parameters calculations for the i2istudy product.  

As a side note, it is necessary to take into account that the very properties of the product may be 

a barrier to its viral spread. For example, users absolutely don’t want to advertise to their friends that 

they  participate  in  dating  services  (Blackhart,  Fitzpatrick  &  Williamson,  2014),  which  negates  any 

virality  efforts.  On  the  contrary,  the  users  promote  their  morning  runs  and  other  physical  exercises, 

even without strong viral mechanics and ingenious motivations (Kamal, Fels & Fergusson, 2014; Loss, 

 

9 

 

Lindacher,  Curbach,  2014). An  obstacle  to  the  viral  spread  may  be  excessive  annoyance  of  the  viral 

mechanics, which can be negatively perceived by  the existing users, and even considered as spam by 

the  invitation  recipients  (Grimes,  Hough  &  Signorella,  2007).  In  addition,  it’s  a  common  mistake  to 

promote  business-to-business  (b2b)  services  using  virality  methods,  which  usually  gives  poor  results 

(Davidson, 2014), with the exception of individual cases (Grindeanu, 2014). 

If the K-growth factor is less than one, then the product can not grow and looses users with all 

the consequences for the product and its team. However, if the team can achieve the K-growth factor 

greater than one, the product grows exponentially. It is the ultimate goal for the product team to achieve 

non-paid  user  base  growth.  This  is  necessary  to  achieve  the  project's  capitalization  exceeding  the 

investment in the purchase of the user base. Note that the positive K-growth factor can compensate for 

other  shortcomings,  such  as  the  quality  of  the  product  itself.  For  the  overall  project  development 

strategy,  investment  in  virality  and  retention  is  a  viable  alternative  to  investments  in  advertising  and 

public  relations. This  is  often  a  cost-effective  solution,  since  compared  with  the  cost  of  development 

(programmers  salaries,  etc.),  marketing  and  associated  staff  costs  can  be  quite  high.  The  feemium 

product development diagram in terms of the K-growth factor is shown in Figure 4. 

 

Conclusions 

When building a freemium product, it is wise to take it to the market and to work out the viral 

and  retention  mechanics  on  small  volumes  of  paid  audience,  since  these  mechanics  can  be  easily 

evaluated  statistically  and  analyzed.  Having  a  positive  K-growth  factor,  venture  capital  funds  can  be 

attracted, and the project can be brought to a large market (Figure 4). As for our specific product, which 

was used to conduct these studies, it is clear that the value of the K-growth factor varies around 40% 

(last line in Table 5),  which is not a satisfactory. As  a result, the product  is currently  being reworked 

and improved. 

 

Acknowledgements 

The  authors  would  like  to  thank  the  i2istudy.com  team  for  their  dedicated  efforts:  Anna 

Prasikova,  Ilya  Poletaev,  Andrei  Poltanov,  Elena  Bogdanova,  Vildan  Garifulin,  Mihail  Denisov  and 

Franziska Rinke. 

 

 

10 

 

References 

 

Blackhart, G.C., Fitzpatrick, J., Williamson, J. (2014). Dispositional factors predicting use of online 

dating sites and behaviors related to online dating. Computers in 

Human Behavior, 33, 113-118. 

 

Cohen, E.L. (2014). What makes good games go viral? The role of technology use, efficacy, 

emotion and enjoyment in players’ decision to share a prosocial digital game. Computers in 

Human Behavior, 33, 321-329. 

 

Davidson, N. (2014). Why B2B video marketers should not be trying to create viral videos. Last ac-

cessed on September 22, 2014, World wide web: http://mwpdigitalmedia.com/blog/b2b-marketers-

trying-create-viral-videos/ 

 

Ellis, S., Brown, M. & The GrowthHackers.com Team (2014). Startup growth engines: Case studies of 

how today's most successful startups unlock extraordinary growth. First Printing. 

 

Eyal, N., Hoover, R. (2014). Hooked: How to build habit-forming products. ISBN: 978-1494277536 

 

Fields, F., Cotton, B. (2012). Social Game Design 2012. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. Waltham MA 

02451 USA.  

 

Fong, R. (2014). The K-factor: The secret factor behind your company’s growth. Bliss Drive. Results 

Based Marketing, Last accessed on September 22, 2014, World wide web: 

http://www.blissdrive.com/blog/the-k-factor-the-secret-factor-behind-your-companys-growth/ 

 

Glanz, K., Bader, M.D.M., Iyer, S. (2012). Retail grocery store marketing strategies and obesity: An 

integrative review. American Journal of Preventive Medicine, 42(5), 503-512. 

 

Grimes, G.A., Hough, M.G., Signorella, M.L. (2007). Email end users and spam: relations of gender 

and age group to attitudes and actions. Computers in 

Human Behavior, 23(1), 318-332. 

 

11 

 

 

Grindeanu, A. (2014). Tips for Managing B2B Viral Marketing Campaigns. Last accessed on Septem-

ber 22, 2014, World wide web: http://europe.nnc-services.com/blog/b2b-marketing/tips-for-managing-

b2b-viral-marketing-campaigns/ 

 

Kamal, N., Fels, S., Fergusson, M. (2014). Online social networks for health behaviour change: De-

signing to increase socialization. Computers in Human Behavior, DOI: 10.1016/j.chb.2014.03.068 

 

Lee, Y. (2008). The Four Viral App Objectives (a.k.a., “Social network application virality 101”). 

Frame Think. Frameworks for Thinking People, Last accessed on September 22, 2014, World wide 

web: http://framethink.wordpress.com/2008/01/15/the-four-viral-app-objectives-aka-social-network-

application-virality-101/ 

 

Loss, J., Lindacher, V., Curbach, J. (2014). Online social networking sites-a novel setting for health 

promotion? Health & Place, 26, 161-170. 

 

Mäntymäki, M., Salo, J. (2011). Teenagers in social virtual worlds: Continuous use and purchasing be-

havior in Habbo Hotel. Computers in Human Behavior, 27(6), 2088-2097. 

 

Marks, M. (2012). Time banking service exchange systems: A review of the research and policy 

and practice implications in support of youth in transition. Children and Youth Services Review, 

34(7), 1230 

 

Osipov, I.V. (2013). US patent pending “Improved system and method for providing educational 

services”, Application number 61922108, EFS ID: 17785274, filed on December 31, 2013. 

 

Osipov, I.V., Volinsky, A.A., Prasikova, A.Y. (2014). Real time collaborative platform for learning and 

teaching foreign languages (NCAL-2014-00143). Submitted to Computer Assisted Language Learning. 

 

Osipov, I.V., Volinsky, A.A., Prasikova, A.Y. (2014). Participant behavior and content of the online 

foreign languages learning and teaching platform (NCAL-2014-0189). Submitted to Computer Assisted 

 

12 

 

Language Learning. 

 

Reichheld, F.F.  (2003) The one number you need to grow. Harvard Business Review, Last accessed on 

September 22, 2014, World wide web: http://hbr.org/2003/12/the-one-number-you-need-to-grow/ar/1 

 

Seufert, E.B. (2014). Freemium Economics: Leveraging Analytics and User Segmentation to Drive 

Revenue (The Savvy Manager's Guides). Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. Waltham MA 02451 USA. 

 

Skok, D. (2009). The Power of Free. For Entrepreneurs. Last accessed on September 22, 2014, World 

wide web: http://www.forentrepreneurs.com/business-models/power-of-free/ 

 

Skok, D. (2009). Lessons Learned – Viral Marketing. For Entrepreneurs. Last accessed on September 

22, 2014, World wide web: http://www.forentrepreneurs.com/lessons-learnt-viral-marketing/ 

 

Válek,  L.,  Jašíková,  V.  (2013).  Time  bank  and  sustainability:  The  permaculture  approach.  Procedia 

Social and Behavioral Sciences, 92, 986. 

 

 

 

Table Captions 

Table 1. The number of published invitation links (open invitations) and how many users post these 
links on the weekly basis. 
 
Table 2. The number of the newly joined users invited trough the open links, including all types of invi-
tations. 
 
Table 3. The number of individual invitations and the number of users that sent these invitations. 
 
Table 4. The number of users who joined as a result of direct personal invitations. 
 
Table 5. Data and parameters calculations for the i2istudy product. 
 

 

13 

 

 
Figure Captions 
 
Figure 1. Typical cycles of the freemium application. 
 
Figure 2. Saturation point in the total number of users with time. Adapted from Seufert, 2014. 
 
Figure 3. Weekly K-factor dynamics for the i2istudy project. 
 
Figure 4. Feemium product development diagram in terms of the K-growth factor. 
 
 
 
 

 

 
 
 
Table 1. The number of published invitation links (open invitations) and how many users post these 
links on the weekly basis. 
 

 

 

 

14 

 

Table 2. The number of the newly joined users invited trough the open links, including all types of invi-
tations. 

 
 

 

15 

 

 
Table 3. The number of individual invitations and the number of users that sent these invitations. 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

16 

 

Table 4. The number of users who joined as a result of direct personal invitations. 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 

 

17 

 

Table 5. Data and parameters calculations for the i2istudy product. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

18 

 

 
Figure 1. Typical cycles of the freemium application. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

19 

 

 
 
 

Total 
User 
Base 

Saturation point 

Time 

 
 
Figure 2. Saturation point in the total number of users with time. Adapted from Seufert, 2014. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

20 

 

 
 

7

5

3

%

 
,
r
o
t
c
a
f
-

K

1
18

20

22

24

26

28

30

Week

Figure 3. Weekly K-factor dynamics for the i2istudy project. 
 
 

 

 

21 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Figure 4. Feemium product development diagram in terms of the K-growth factor. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

22 

