Towards a Practical Architecture for the Next Generation
Internet of Things
Prasant Misra , Yogesh Simmhan , Jay Warrior 
(contributors in alphabetical order)
 Robert Bosch Centre for Cyber Physical Systems, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India
 Supercomputer Education and Research Centre, Indian Institute of Science, Bangalore, India
{prasant.misra, jay.warrior}@rbccps.org  simmhan@serc.iisc.in 
6
1
0
2
 
r
p
A
8
 
 
 
]
Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
2
v
7
9
7
0
0
.
2
0
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
ABSTRACT
The Internet of Things, or the IoT is a vision for a ubiquitous
society wherein people and  Things  are connected in an im-
mersively networked computing environment, with the con-
nected  Things  providing utility to people/enterprises and
their digital shadows, through intelligent social and commer-
cial services. Translating this idea to a conceivable reality is
a work in progress for more than a decade. Current IoT ar-
chitectures are predicated on optimistic assumptions on the
evolution and deployment of IoT technologies. We believe
many of these assumptions will not be met, consequently
impeding the practical and sustainable deployment of IoT.
In this article, we explore use-cases across di erent appli-
cations domains that can potentially bene t from an IoT
infrastructure, and analyze them in the context of an alter-
native world-view that is more grounded in reality. Despite
this more conservative approach, we argue that adopting
certain design paradigms when architecting an IoT ecosys-
tem can achieve much of the promised bene ts in a practical
and sustainable manner.
1.
INTRODUCTION
The past couple of years have seen a heightened inter-
est in the Internet of Things (IoT), transcending industry,
academia and government [1]. The optimism of IoT being a
transformational rather than an evolutionary technological
advancement is driving innovation in both traditional and
non-traditional application domains [2]. At the same time,
as with promising concepts that are still emerging, the term
IoT is being co-opted by various enterprises and industries to
push their own vision, sometimes molded to  t their existing
products and technologies. IoT is referred to as the Inter-
net of Everything (IoE) by Cisco [3], the Industrial Internet
by GE [4], the Smarter Planet by IBM [5] and Internet of
Things and Humans (IoTH) by O Reilly [6]. Notwithstand-
ing these alternate terminologies, the underlying vision  
to build a ubiquitous society where everyone ( people ) and
everything ( systems, machines, equipment and devices ) is
immersively connected   is over 15 years in the making [7].
As with new ideas that hold immense potential, the en-
thusiasm exaggerates and outruns the underlying technol-
ogy on the ground well before it matures into a sustainable
ecosystem. Estimates on the spread and economic impact
of IoT over the next few years are in the neighborhood of 50
billion or more connected  Things  with a market exceed-
ing $350 billion [8]. The enterprise, societal and individual
bene ts touted are also signi cant, with smarter cities and
infrastructure, intelligent appliances, and healthier lifestyles
in the o ng [9]. While some of these potential bene ts
from IoT are real and achievable, the road to accomplish
these is fraught. Proposed IoT architectures typically end
up repackaging existing ideas to bene t from the hype, or
assume clean-slate and costly designs [10] that may prove
infeasible. These IoT architecture make assumptions such
as:
  Contain hundreds of devices as part of a tightly cou-
pled infrastructure
  Deploy devices that cost $5-500, and are customized
for a speci c IoT application
  Use well-structured communication networks (IPv6)
with always-on connectivity
  Perform Cloud-centric data collection and analysis, with
centralized control
  Have a single vendor who owns the platform, Cloud
services, data and eco-system for an application
Examples of these vertically integrated IoT silos include
smart power meters, supervisory control and data acqui-
sition (SCADA) systems, personal monitoring devices like
FitBit, etc.,.
An e ective architecture for IoT (particularly, for emerg-
ing nations with limited technology penetration at the na-
tional scale) should be based on tangible technology ad-
vances in the present, practical application scenarios of so-
cial and entrepreneurial value, and ubiquitous capabilities
that make the realization of IoT a ordable and sustainable.
A rethink of the above assumptions suggests that a more
plausible scenario would include:
  Thousands of loosely connected devices in immediate
vicinity, and millions more further out
  Devices that cost from $0.01-$3 combined with existing
in-person generic devices like smart phones
  A mix of ad hoc P2P, 2G/3G/4G and WiFi based on
existing and emerging communication networks, and
with intermittent connectivity
  Data collection and personalized analytics that seam-
lessly span edge devices and the Cloud, with control
over data sharing and ownership while encouraging
Open Data
(a) Edward Hall s proxemic zones mapped to  Things 
(b) Coupling vs. Connectivity of  Things 
Figure 1: People and  Things  in the IoT Canvas.
  Open ecosystem without vendor lock-in using standard
Internet and Web protocols, allowing devices and data
to be shared across IoT applications
Humans, data, communication and devices play key roles
in the IoT ecosystem. Humans are an integral part of IoT,
which di erentiates it from traditional industrial automa-
tion or machine-to-machine (M2M) infrastructure. Humans
are not only directly bene ted by IoT applications, but are
active participants, serving directly or indirectly as sensors
and actuators. IoT is indeed helping us progress to a point
wherein each physical  Thing  is a digital shadow of the
person using its services, just as the social network era ush-
ered in a person s data footprint on the Cloud. Connected
 Things  provide utility to people, and their digital shad-
ows provide value to the enterprise. Unsurprisingly, vari-
ous enterprises and companies are working towards linking
 Things  as diverse as smartphones, cars, smart appliances,
etc., with each other, and also with sensors/actuators and the In-
ternet.
As we consider the broad range of platforms such as RFID
tags, beacons, sensor nodes, smart watches, activity track-
ers, smart phones, in-vehicle sensing systems, and smart me-
ters; it helps to classify them along key dimensions. One way
is using Edward Hall s theory of proxemics [11] to classify
these according to the  Things  spatial closeness to humans,
as intimate, personal, social and public (Fig. 1).  Things 
that are closer to humans often provide more insight, are
ubiquitous and less tied to speci c infrastructure. At the
same time, we can also classify these  Things  based on how
coupled they are to speci c applications or infrastructure
deployments, and how connected they are (e.g., global vs.
limited, local and intermittent network connectivity).
On the extremes of the coupling/connectivity quadrant
are: (i) beacons that are very loosely coupled but have local
connectivity, and (ii) smart meters that have global con-
nectivity to their application, but are tightly coupled. The
smart phone stands out as it is both loosely coupled with
global connectivity, and also is within the personal proxim-
ity range of people [12, 13]. It can not only function as the
edge device, but also as the gateway to make the necessary
interconnection between an edge device and the Internet.
In the rest of this article, we discuss several usecases for
IoT and analyze them in the above context (  2), o er ten
design commandments for a practical IoT architecture (  3),
suggest a high level IoT reference design that captures these
concepts (  4).
2. APPLICATION DOMAINS
In this section, we will brie y discuss existing IoT appli-
cations, which provide a basis for illustrating various chal-
lenges in the current IoT architecture.
2.1 Smart Healthcare
The healthcare sector is a fast growing IoT market with
It is expected
a host of new tools and technologies [14].
to improve the quality and e ciency of various healthcare
services, but at reduced costs. The early applications of
IoT in healthcare were based on tracking systems for: hand-
washing, extracting the location footprints of patients and
doctors, monitoring medical assets, and the management of
medical wastes [15]. The tracked information is coupled with
contextual information to raise alerts and triggers, facilitate
interventions, and assist in identi cation and veri cation.
Existing tracking systems, for healthcare applications, are
designed to be minimally invasive [16]. They were architec-
tured in a manner such that: 1) a lightweight passive tag
is carried by the object-of-interest; 2) readers/interrogators,
typically,  xed to some location in the de ned tracking perime-
ter respond to tag information; and 3) a central server subse-
quently analyzes the tagged information to deriving useful
analytic. Such architectures are examples of special pur-
pose (tracking) systems with vertically integrated operation
scope; and hence, introduce certain constraints. A close look
leads to the following indications of a possible alternative ar-
chitecture.
First, existing solutions use special purpose tracking hard-
ware and tags. While RFID tags may be commoditised,
they are still a special device that is out of place in daily
life. Given the prominence of smart gadgets (such as smart-
watches) and portable devices (such as smartphones) that
are inevitably carried by people and are part of their natural
ecosystem, there exists the potential to replace these custom
hardware by  symbiotic  usage of existing devices.
Second, existing IoT architectures default to a centralized
model of state space tracing wherein all data collected by
the tag reader on an object-of-interest is streamed, and ag-
gregated at a single location for processing and analysis. In
such a case, the scalability of the solution would become a
bottleneck as the number of tracked devices increases. On
the contrary, using devices such as smart phones and gad-
gets as the tracker could potentially resolve this problem;
wherein, each such tracker could cater to a group of track-
ing entities, perform various computations locally on the de-
vices, and those trackers (potentially much smaller in count)
could only feed in the required information to the central
server.
Third, the human factor seems to have been omitted in
the solution design space; and therefore, they do not tend
to take advantage of the available information/features that
humans and their motion captures. In this regard, certain
degree of  symbiotic  knowledge could be used wherein we
could potentially use people as mules, and use their personal
phones/gadgets as the tracker to map out the location bea-
cons instrumented in the space-of-interest; and track their
location individually.
2.2 Smart Energy and Power Grids
Smart power grids are a canonical cyber physical system.
Monitoring capability at the utility scale, ranging from pha-
sor measurement units (PMU) at the transmission network
to smart power meters at the consumer-end in the distri-
bution network [17], are connected through bi-directional
networking with the power utility. Utilities leverage the
energy consumption data, collected through monitoring, to
perform decisions on demand-response optimization; and, by
using the communication capability, broadcast noti cations
to consumers (such as request for load shedding/shifting and
updates on real-time pricing for the service area).
In au-
tomated demand response systems, these noti cations may
directly reach the local building control system that enacts
energy curtailment routines to meet the utility s request.
Such smart power grids exemplify the concept of vertically
integrated and wide-area distributed IoT; but, the potential
for smart energy management goes well beyond the exist-
ing mechanisms. Looking at this architecture di erently, we
again see indications of a possible alternative architecture.
The  rst aspect is to make the energy demand and cur-
tailment process more customer focused rather than util-
ity focused. Understanding the impact of user activities on
energy use is important. For example, the evening energy
consumption can get impacted by a signi cant delay in the
evening tra c on a commuter road. Likewise, similar en-
ergy correlations are expected if consumers are planning to
go out for an evening movie. Further, when a peak load is
detected, utilities need to intelligently target customers for
curtailment rather than broadcast to all in the service area,
based on the user s past response. The incentives given to
customers may also vary, appealing to their budgets in one
case or environmental consciousness in another. Large scale
data analytics over historical energy usage to predict de-
mand, mining social network feeds for understanding prefer-
ences, and behavioral modeling to determine responses will
bene t in these cases. This requires treating the IoT as the
IoTH, placing user signals and information streams on par
with physical sensing of infrastructure.
The second aspect is leveraging local rather than central-
ized control. Here, the consumer s software agent acts on
their behalf to analyze (rich) personalized information about
the user (comfort preferences, activity, schedule, etc.,), build-
ing and local weather conditions, along with utility requests
to determine the current energy con guration. Devices like
Nest [18] are early steps in this direction. Also, this al-
lows the local agent to negotiate with the utility to make
trade-o s, thus enabling demand-response optimization as a
regular matter rather than as a special scenario.
The third aspect is one of data ownership. One extreme
is data siloing, where the utility has only smart meter and
smart grid data, and the customer has smart meter and
residential/personal data. Here, agents for the utility and
customer operate on limited data. At the other extreme, a
utility may collect in-depth data on smart appliances and
demographic indicators on the user that while helping with
better model prove invasive to privacy.
Instead, starting
with data silos where data owners hold their data but adding
a data exchange and brokering layer that allows select data
to be exchanged with the other party, in return for incen-
tives, would retain control while allowing for optimizations.
For example, a utility may o er a discount on a customer s
bill if they are willing to share plug load information. This
is also a more nuanced goal than a simple opt-in or opt-out
mechanism, with longevity and incentives factored in the
end use of the data.
2.3 Smart Agriculture
The agriculture sector is the predominant consumer of wa-
ter worldwide with the bulk of the water demands directed
towards irrigation. Irrigators in many countries are facing
a number of challenges such as a growing shortage of avail-
able water, increasing energy costs for pumping, and tighter
environmental regulations. The combination of these fac-
tors, along with the ine cient usage of irrigation water, is
starting to impact on agricultural productivity, sustainabil-
ity and food security of many countries, both developed and
developing [19].
Recognizing the need for improving the e ciency of water
usage, many irrigation systems have been proposed. Irriga-
tors are increasingly encouraged to adopt micro-irrigation
techniques with pressurized irrigation systems over tradi-
tional and less e cient methods of  ooding and surface irri-
gation. Pressurized irrigation systems consist of a network
of pipes to carry water under pressure from the source (e.g.,
the pumping station) to the destination (i.e., the irrigation
area). They o er the advantages of minimal water utiliza-
tion (by pressurized  ows) for irrigating large areas, prevent
water losses (by seepage, evaporation, etc.,), and can be au-
tomated. However, on the  ip side, system procurement
and operation is costly with higher energy costs. Maintain-
ing such a pressurized water system with limited electrical
supplies (as in developing nations), or soaring energy costs
(as in many developing/developed economies) poses a seri-
ous challenge.
Smart agriculture is aimed towards addressing the chal-
lenges of synergy among contemporary technologies and in-
telligent systems to enhance the resource use e ciency with
minimal negative trade-o s, or to advance the development
strategies. Many ICT solutions have been developed to ad-
dress these problems [20]. For instance, remote sensing of
the soil moisture through network of sensors and integrating
time irrigation scheduling to match the crop demand have
been demonstrated; but except for larger commercial agri-
cultural operations, large scale adoption has not occurred.
The reasons behind the low penetration of ICT technologies
in agriculture reveal interesting facts; and perhaps, suggest
the need for an alternate architecture.
First, custom designing of enabler technologies and knowl-
edge building amongst the stakeholders is lacking due to
poor participation of the stakeholder farmers. Part of the
reason for the lack of due diligence being that the land-users
and farmers are interested to be part of the eco-system and
understand how the ICT system interprets the farming con-
ditions and what suggestions (in the form of actuation com-
mands) does it issue to alter the conditions; but, existing
solutions keep the farmer out of the loop.
Second, the cost of building and maintaining customized
infrastructure (such as wireless sensor networks) is too high
for any farmer to a ord the services (even after amelioration
on a large scale). Besides, it is an extremely cumbersome
(and practically infeasible) task to instruments farms with
customized WSNs over an entire region, province or state.
Hence, there is a need to use/develop alternate solutions
that can potentially piggy-back on existing infrastructure to
reach the envisioned scale.
2.4 Smart Retail
Retail stores have been early users of large scale data ware-
houses to analyze customer purchasing behavior, to help
with inventory control, discounting and product placement
in physical stores. Loyalty cards and billing have been key
sources of such information.
There is emerging recognition of the role of IoT in smart
retail. In an era where customers can search on their smart
phones for the cheapest price for an item and their atten-
tion being distracted by multiple screens, smart retail needs
to span the physical and digital worlds, and span the shop
 oor and the residence [21]. Retail business, in that sense,
has been customer centric; and IoTH o ers the chance to
further personalize this practice and evolve with technology.
Retail pricing is becoming more dynamic and personal-
ized, based on factors such as inventory, current lowest phys-
ical and web pricing, and whether this is a planned or im-
pulse purchase. The former requires realtime analytics on
online trends while the latter requires customer modeling.
On the shopping  oor, sensors (such as iBeacons) that de-
tect customer proximity to goods, smart shelves that sense
products being taken (or put back), and smart carts that
detect items placed in the cart, need to be leveraged. Tasks
such as automated billing and inventory restocking are ob-
vious.
In addition, real time recommendations on addi-
tional purchases based on current cart contents, proximity
alerts from shelves based on shopping list available on smart
phone, and discounts or health feedback o ered to encour-
age purchases are possible.
Amazon has transformed e-commerce, making virtual shop-
ping from the home (or from anyplace) a common transac-
tion mode. Smart appliances keeping track of household
usage and automatically reordering items going low is not
far-fetched. Smart TVs will make it as easy as a click to
order products whose advertisements are displayed. Going
further, analytics could allow vendors to preemptively ship
products to customers before they order it ( anticipatory
shipping  [22]).
Such real time, easy, preemptive and targeted purchasing
does bring up signi cant concerns on data privacy. However,
more than other application domains, the focus on people is
making retail a testing ground for new IoT ideas.
2.5 Environmental Monitoring
Understanding the natural environment is also an active
application space for IoT, and related ICT technologies.
This domain of mapping large scale environmental phenomenon
is broad, and includes monitoring of air and water quality,
micro-climate in urban regions and rain-forests, biodiversity,
cattle, wildlife habitat, etc., [23].
Several monitoring solutions have been developed over the
years; where the primary idea has been to perform sens-
ing and large scale data collection of the  parameters-of-
interest , and subsequently aggregating these data points in
a central place to perform analytical studies and run live in-
formation feeds to a web portal. The core technologies used
for sensing and data collection have been either: (i) remote
sensing with geonavigation satellites; or (ii) deployment of
custom designed wireless sensor networks; or (iii) using mo-
bile sensor nodes mounted on moving vehicles (such as buses,
trams [24], bicycles [25]). All of these approaches result in
varying levels of temporal/spatial granularity and coverage;
and o er di erent levels of system complexity, manageabil-
ity, scalability, and cost.
Mobile crowdsourcing [26], using existing infrastructure
and ubiquitously used platforms along with  humans  as the
data mule [27, 28], for monitoring in urbanized settings has
emerged as an alternate architecture for meeting the price
and performance points where they can be used on a large
scale [29]. Thus, it replaces the physical infrastructure of
previous solutions with  symbiotic  (or existing, interdepen-
dent) infrastructure of the locale and its inhabitants to dra-
matically lower the cost and simplicity of deployment of the
monitoring solution. However, a pivotal challenge in this
architecture is to incentivize the citizen to participate in the
data gathering in exchange for relevant services [30]. Similar
to smart retail, the focus on people is driving the ecosystem
of new IoT ideas for environmental monitoring in (sub)urban
settings.
3. NEXGEN IOT: DESIGN PARADIGMS
Humans, data, communication and devices play key roles
in the IoT ecosystem. Based on the use cases explored in
the previous section, we can synthesize several characteris-
tics that are desired in a practical architecture for the next
generation of IoT.
3.1 Human-centric rather than Thing-centric
Current IoT architectures are device or network oriented
due to their operational signi cance in an IoT system. How-
ever, two key aspects that are often ignored are the humans
who are part of this ecosystem and the context within which
interaction between people and  Things  take place.
The human-centric model of IoT, also referred to as In-
ternet of Things and Humans (IoTH), resets the focus from
what is enabled by networked devices and sensors to specif-
ically what bene ts can be gained for humans who are part
of, a ected by and in uence the network. There will be
a tremendous focus on neighborhood and locality by the
way people perceive, interpret and use their personal space.
Here, the richness of information will be more profound at
close proximity to  people , but will deplete and become less
interesting and useful as the proximity zone expands. For
such systems, all related technologies and services have to be
people centric such as networking, communication, decision
making, quality-of-service, etc., for creating a IoT experi-
ence that deeply engages with people.
Such an approach has several consequences. For exam-
ple, the sensing and actuation of physical infrastructure can
naturally extend to people themselves, with human beings
acting as data sources (e.g., tweets, health monitoring), and
likewise responding to controls (e.g., noti cations to volun-
tarily turn down the air conditioner to save energy). This
o ers the possibility of o ering uniform control/service and
data plane abstractions to both humans (virtual sensors /ac-
tuators) and  Things . In addition, the interface to the phys-
ical world needs to be simple and easily understandable for
managing the scale, multitude and heterogeneity of devices.
3.2 Span Virtual and Physical Worlds
Much of the IoT conversation is about the physical in-
frastructure and its optimization. Bringing in humans and
social elements (with their virtual online avatars such as so-
cial networks and virtual agents) helps span the digital and
physical world, and also integrate across humans and infras-
tructure. Capturing proximity and interactions between hu-
mans and  Things  (H2H, H2M, M2M), both in the physical
and virtual worlds, is necessary for actionable intelligence.
3.3
 Big-Little  Data
Analytics performed on information from diverse sources
within the IoT architecture helps with data-driven decision
making. There are two classes of such data: (1) transient
sensor and personal data collected continuously from hu-
mans/physical devices, i.e.,  Little  data; and (2) persistent
knowledge-bases and archives that span domains and avail-
able in central repositories/Clouds, i.e.,  Big  data. Mean-
ingful analytics requires both Big and Little data to be com-
bined, and often in real-time.
The analytic services themselves could either be deployed
on-demand on devices or Clouds, or be restricted to cen-
tral data centers. Consequently, neither a fully federated
nor a completely centralized data storage model will scale
or sustain. An asymmetric storage and service model that
adapts to the social and service context is necessary. The
would be many entities in this mix: (a) data generators
with realtime, cached or archived data (e.g., from sensors)
stored at the source site (e.g., mobile phone); (b) data own-
ers who can release all/some of this data outside the source
site, with/without anonymization,
in return for payment
or incentives; (c) knowledge-bases, that have (large-sized)
open or proprietary corpus of information that are stored at
archive sites (e.g., public Clouds); (d) integration services
that consume data from generators and knowledge-based to
o er homogenized information on which analytics can be
performed. The services themselves may be able to run on
a single site (e.g., mobile phone, private Cloud) or across
multiple sites (e.g., P2P network), and the integrated data
itself can be centralized or distributed. Integration services
will also help discover data and be willing pay for consum-
ing it. Another entity would be: (e) analytic services that
consume the integrated data and generated operational in-
telligence. The analytics themselves may run centrally (e.g.,
on a phone/public Cloud) or distributed (across a P2P net-
work), and the result they generate is shared with the an-
alytics consumer. Analytics services will be willing to pay
for the integrated data they consume, and may charge con-
sumers of the analytics. The  nal set of entities would be:
(f) data brokers that help with data discovery and payment
of data owners for consumed data, and negotiation of data
movement; (g) service brokers that help with the discovery
of analytics or integration services and their payment, and
negotiation of service deployment/movement; (h) analytics
consumers who are willing to pay for the analytics service.
At the same time, data privacy and ownership start becom-
ing concerns as the data moves further away from its source
(owner).
3.4 Analytics from the Edge to the Cloud
Related to Big-Little data is performing distributed ana-
lytics and decision making. The current model of pushing all
data to a central Cloud for analytics will not scale, is ine -
cient, and raises privacy concerns. Given the enhanced capa-
bilities of edge devices like smart phones coupled with inter-
mittent network connections, decisions on whether a subset
of the Big data and decision-analytic should be pushed to
the phone, or the Little data and analytic aggregated in the
Cloud have to be automated. These are informed by the
device capability, privacy needs, energy and network costs,
and application QoS.
3.5 Bring the  Network to the Sensor 
As tens of thousands of cheap (few cents) IoT devices pro-
liferate, they will be even more constrained in energy and
communication capabilities. Rather than rely on massive
deployment of custom sensor networks and new standards,
there is value in piggybacking on existing, widely adopted
standards and reusing symbiotic infrastructure to achieve
the system scale and densities at a ordable costs. For e.g.,
using smart phones as P2P data mules for last mile connec-
tivity to sensors, combined with highly functional gateways
and Clouds for coordination (rather the centralized storage
and control), suggests an asymmetric architecture.
Given the large diversity of  Things , it will be unlikely
that they all will share a single type of communication in-
frastructure. It is here that the existing Internet Protocol
(IP) will provide the necessary interoperability for glueing
existing networks that run on di erent types of communica-
tion links. IPv4 has been the ubiquitous stack for the Inter-
net, and therefore, provides a ruggedly tested framework for
versatility, scalability and con guration management. IPv4
will undoubtedly remain in operation for years to come; but
given the large scale proliferation of  Things , its capability
to handle the address space could get challenged. Therefore,
an early adoption of the next version of IP (i.e., IPv6) may
be a plausible direction. Due to the highly asymmetric ar-
chitecture, it may be an overkill to provision for IP in the
cheap sensing platforms; but would be a good move to limit
it to the highly functional gateways.
3.6 How  Low  can you go ?
Technology penetration has not been uniform across coun-
tries, regions, or, for that matter, industries. This disparity
is a re ection of the di erences in infrastructure, cost of
access, telecom networks and services, and policies among
di erent economies. Hence, the cost and technology behind
the sensing, device, networking and analytic solutions for the
IoT should be a ordable and scale to billions of users. This
requires reuse of commodity hardware and sensors, and ex-
isting infrastructure in novel ways rather than custom solu-
tions with cutting-edge capabilities, or canned solutions de-
veloped for advanced economies. The cost-to-bene t trade-
o s become critical.
3.7 Whose data is it anyway ?
The intersection of devices, communication, data and hu-
mans within IoT o ers interesting incentive and business
models. A key success of the WWW is the ability for businesses
to monetize users  data (e.g., Google Ads using user s web
data pays for free search and email services). With IoT, de-
vices are going to be even more closer to humans and blend
into our environment. Ensuring there is transparency in
data ownership, sharing, and usage is important. Further,
there is scope for data brokering that encourages open data
sharing by users with business in return for clear rewards,
be they monetary, peer recognition, or for the greater good.
3.8 When  good enough  is enough ?
IoT is naturally a diverse ecosystem with unreliability and
uncertainties as: (1) cheap sensors mean questionable data
quality, (2) humans are  ckle to model, (3) physical systems
are complex, (4) distributed  Things  and intermittent com-
munication are a given, and (5) data privacy puts bounds
on its availability. As a result, analytic and decision making
have to be probabilistic; and the system and application has
to be conscious of what is  good enough  and not fail in the
absence of perfect behavior.
3.9 Context determines the Action
Given the uncertainties of the system and humans being
central entities, much of the decision making within the IoT
infrastructure and applications has to be contextual. Con-
text binds people and  Things  to a common scope, and
hence, will ease mining of relevant information. There has
to be semantic knowledge that captures system and social
behaviour, some speci ed while others are learned using
models.
Intelligent agents will often act on the behalf of
humans. They may be aware of personal preferences (e.g.,
Apple s Siri, Microsoft s Cortana, and Google Now), and
these will interact with digital agents of service providers,
utilities and vendors. Semantic context will have to com-
plement web standards for structural syntax to allow such
M2M interaction to be e ective.
3.10 Business Canvas
If the IoT is to yield successful business models, we  rst
need to recognize that IoT is not a new product or market.
What IoT brings is an additional set of technologies, lower
power, more computation and storage, cheaper devices, bet-
ter wireless connectivity, much more granular control and
observation capabilities. What it enables is scaling in both
directions   up and down, and the ability to look at ourselves
and the world in an unprecedented degree of detail.
IoT business models fall into two broad categories: (1)
horizontals, concerned with enabling components and tech-
nology; and (2) verticals, which integrate these technologies
to supply an end user with a value proposition.
The  rst set of horizontal business models is the develop-
ment of speci c sensors and actuators that enable the gen-
eration of new, or more cost e ective observations. The sec-
ond model is the deployment horizontal, a business model
that addresses the needs of building out to scale of the data
gathering, data storage and data curation and data broker-
ing needs of IoT based systems. The third horizontal busi-
ness model addresses the needs for a portfolio of analytical
techniques to convert the data gathered into actionable in-
formation. While the  rst two have been the focus of IoT s
precursor technologies, IoT s scale is driving active develop-
ment across the board.
Verticals will pull solutions and services across these hor-
izontals to deliver  nal end customer value. The emphasis
here will be on the necessary domain and system integration
expertise and the ability to build the necessary collabora-
tions across customers and suppliers.
4. NEXGEN IOT: ARCHITECTURE
IoT has a large application space and is driven by a wide
variety of use cases. A modular, scalable architecture that
supports adding or removing capabilities depending on the
functional requirements will, therefore, be useful.
In this
section, we present one possible architecture that re ects
the design principles outlined in the previous section. Fig. 2
illustrates the 4-layer architecture stack that we envision.
4.1 Physical/Virtual Space
The lowest layer is a collection of sensing elements, or data
generators and consumers that provide context information.
This information is sensed not only from the physical space
of hardware-level sensors, but also from soft sensors that ex-
ist in the virtual space.
Physical modules/platforms contain the interface to the
physical world. There exists a large number of sensor prod-
ucts, from multiple manufacturers, to measure various physi-
cal parameters such as temperature, pressure, humidity, illu-
mination, acoustics, motion, location, touch, etc.,. These de-
vices range in heterogeneity and complexity, from an embed-
ded 8-bit SoC unit with a single sensor/actuator to 32/64 bit
computing platform with many transducers; and interface
with di erent proprietary communication technologies (di-
rect Ethernet, WiFi, BLE, NFC, Zigbee, 6LowPAN, UART
or serial lines, SPI or I2C wired buses) over a wide variety
of protocols.
The virtual sensing space is also highly diverse. It consists
of sensing entities that can be human (e.g., crowdsourced
data, collaborative projects, blogs, content communities, so-
cial networking sites, virtual game worlds, virtual social
worlds, electronic calendars, a travel-booking systems), their
virtual agents (e.g., Siri, Cortana), or digital applications
and services that aggregate and o er higher order sensing
(e.g., averages from multiple physical sensors).
4.2 Sensor/Network as a Service
The SNaaS layer consists of control and data planes. The
data plane will o er channel models (e.g., event driven, sam-
ple and hold, etc.,) as a universal abstraction for input/output
to the physical and virtual space of the sensing layer. The
control plane will be responsible for managing the sensor/
network and providing a standardized life-cycle for the dis-
covery, con guration and use of the channel models. The
combination enables the creation of the plug-n-play infras-
tructure (across platforms from multiple vendors) necessary
for interoperability and successful deployment of large-scale
systems.
The enabling feature for plug-n-play would be a trans-
ducer electronic data sheet (TEDS) that will be used to
describe the physical elements such as transducer identi-
 cation, calibration, correction data, measurement range,
and manufacturer related information, etc.,. This informa-
tion will either be broadcasted by the new sensing entity
to the infrastructure elements, or actively pulled by the in-
frastructure itself from a TEDS repository on receipt of the
sensor identi er. Providing a mechanism to describe the
transducers will allow the application (user, service, agent)
to record its properties and semantic description (seman-
tic metadata). The control plane will expose ways to turn
on/o  sensors or speci c attributes, change their sampling
interval/transmission interval, the type of quality controls
done (e.g., linear interpolation), etc.,.
Following the con guration of the  Thing , the data plane
will publish the observations of each sensor as individual
data streams to the upper layer. The communication be-
tween the SNaas and upper layers will follow a stateless and
self-describing interface using REST based protocols.
The combination of semantic capability and data push/pull
(with a publish/subscribe model) will allow  Things  to be
assembled into a semantically linked data  ow graphs. The
SNaaS layer will, therefore, act as a registry for semantic
discovery and linkage of  Things , and for virtualizing the
real world.
4.3
 Big-Little  Data Management
SNaaS o ers a conduit for streaming  little  data from
distributed physical and virtual sensors. This data has to
be cataloged, curated and if necessary, persisted and aggre-
gated, in order to perform subsequent analytics. The data
management layer helps discover and maintain a Registry
of data sources and their characteristics such as periodicity,
liveliness, and quality, and make them available for subse-
quent analysis. These may be from physical sensors that
are deployed as part of static infrastructure, mobile devices
that may emit data transiently, or virtual sensors that share
posts based on social conditions. The registry itself may
be federated using a P2P model, i.e. the data management
layer is itself distributed and not necessarily a centralized
one hosted exclusively in the Cloud. Similarly, access to data
may be as streams of events pushed using a publish-subscribe
model, pulled on-demand, or accumulated at the device for
local operations pushed to it, using existing web and open
standards like REST, COAP, Atom and JMS. These may be
controlled using data privacy and distributed access control
policies that are enforced by this layer.
Data management should also help integrate with aggre-
gate and slow-changing data  Big  that is available from
canonical sources or have accumulated from sensor streams.
Often, the Big data is hosted at central locations, globally
or at local caches, to avoid costly data movement and repli-
cation, and may have less restrictive privacy requirements.
These may include institutionaland crowd-sourced data.
Integrating this  Big  data with the  Little  data requires
common vocabulary that help bridge the semantics. DBPe-
dia and SWEET o er reusable semantic ontologies for gen-
eral purpose and speci c domains to automate matchmaking
of data requirements, while simple glossaries or taxonomies
might be adequate in other cases. Similarly, data quality
checks and validation can help understand the usability of
data for speci c needs.
Figure 2: A High level reference architecture for the IoT.
A data brokering service that helps interface data con-
sumers with data producers is enabled using these building
blocks of data ownership, incentives to collect data, data de-
scription, data quality and access control. The broker can
help incentivize data collection and reuse through attribu-
tion, barter, or even monetary rewards.
4.4 Analytics and Decision Making
Analytics for IoT applications often fall into categories of
data and pattern mining, predictive analytics and forecast-
ing, event and pattern detection, and optimizations. While
there may be domain/application speci c analytic, it is use-
ful to have key analytics algorithms available that can be re-
con gured to suit common needs. Time series and regression
tree forecasting are useful for predicting future conditions,
such as power demand, based on past behavior of univariate
or multivariate features. Pattern mining and clustering can
help group environmental conditions and users who exhibit
similar behavior so that collective action can take place, or
extrapolation from one entity in the cluster to rest can hap-
pen, such as recommendations. Mining can also help iden-
tify causality between a pattern of features and an event of
interest. Such patterns and predictions can help feed into
realtime complex event pattern matching that detect situa-
tions of interest and help respond to, or preferable, preempt
them. These also feed into optimization algorithms that can
control physical or virtual  Things  to ensure reliability and
e ciency of the system.
[16] A. Pantelopoulos and N.G. Bourbakis. A survey on
wearable sensor-based systems for health monitoring and
prognosis. IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and
Cybernetics, Part C: Applications and Reviews, 40(1):1 12,
Jan 2010.
[17] Aqeel H. Kazmi, Michael J. O grady, Declan T. Delaney,
Antonio G. Ruzzelli, and Gregory M. P. O hare. A review
of wireless-sensor-network-enabled building energy
management systems. ACM Trans. Sen. Netw.,
10(4):66:1 66:43, June 2014.
[18] What does google s purchase of nest mean for the internet
of things? http://goo.gl/UGEdh9.
[19] T. Jackson. An appraisal of the on-farm water and energy
nexus in irrigated agriculture. PhD thesis, Charles Sturt
University, 2009.
[20] P. Corke, T. Wark, R. Jurdak, Wen Hu, P. Valencia, and
D. Moore. Environmental wireless sensor networks.
Proceedings of the IEEE, 98(11):1903 1917, Nov 2010.
[21] The internet of things in retail  a  A S disruptor or
distraction? http://goo.gl/ROcFcK.
[22] Amazon will sell you things before you know you want to
buy them. http://goo.gl/0Ne750.
[23] P. Corke, T. Wark, R. Jurdak, D. Moore, and P. Valencia.
Environmental wireless sensor networks. Proceedings of the
IEEE, 98(11):1903 1917, 2010.
[24] OpenSense Zurich: A System for Monitoring Air Pollution.
http://www.opensense.ethz.ch/.
[25] S. B. Eisenman, E. Miluzzo, N. D. Lane, R. A. Peterson,
G.-S. Ahn, and A. T. Campbell. BikeNet: A Mobile Sensing
System for Cyclist Experience Mapping. ACM Transaction
on Sensor Network, 6(1):6:1 6:39, January 2010.
[26] R.K. Ganti, F. Ye, and H. Lei. Mobile crowdsensing:
current state and future challenges. IEEE Communications
Magazine, 49(11):32 39, November 2011.
[27] Andrew T. Campbell, Shane B. Eisenman, Nicholas D.
Lane, Emiliano Miluzzo, and Ronald A. Peterson.
People-centric urban sensing. In Proceedings of the 2nd
Annual International Workshop on Wireless Internet,
WICON  06, New York, NY, USA, 2006. ACM.
[28] M. Stevens, M. Vitos, J. Altenbuchner, G. Conquest,
J. Lewis, and M. Haklay. Taking participatory citizen
science to extremes. IEEE Pervasive Computing,
13(2):20 29, Apr 2014.
[29] B. Hull, V. Bychkovsky, Y. Zhang, K. Chen, M. Goraczko,
A. Miu, E. Shih, H. Balakrishnan, and S. Madden. CarTel:
A Distributed Mobile Sensor Computing System. In
Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on
Embedded Networked Sensor Systems, SenSys  06, pages
125 138, New York, NY, USA, 2006. ACM.
[30] J. P. Rula, V. Navda, F. E. Bustamante, R. Bhagwan, and
S. Guha. No  One-size Fits All : Towards a Principled
Approach for Incentives in Mobile Crowdsourcing. In
Proceedings of the 15th Workshop on Mobile Computing
Systems and Applications, HotMobile  14, pages 3:1 3:5,
New York, NY, USA, 2014. ACM.
Such analytics algorithms and platforms, as before, have
to operate in a distributed environment rather than assume
centralized availability of data or the ability to  t in memory.
Based on the privacy and communication constraints, and
availability of distributed data and devices, these analytics
will have to run across edge devices and the Cloud. Latency
is another key metric since analytics and optimizations over
streaming data may drive realtime decision making. Such a
constrained environment in the presence of potentially unre-
liable data and computation capability means that analytics
and decisions will have to be probabilistic. The cost of per-
forming the decision, including data, network, compute and
intellectual property, need to be factored in and traded o 
against the value from the decision.
5. DISCUSSION
The high level IoT vision of building an ubiquitous society
of people and  Things , apart from the set of enabling tech-
nologies, requires an elastic, scalable architecture. With the
continued increase in the proliferation of  Things , there ex-
ists a large population of physical entities that are currently
observable, but do not easily connect in a meaningful way
to people or to each other at the envisioned scale. In this
article, we attempted to disaggregate these core problems;
and o ered a trajectory with a set of design paradigms and
a possible architecture for a new IoT ecosystem.
6. REFERENCES
[1] Internet of Everything: A $4.6 Trillion Public-Sector
Opportunity. http://goo.gl/7Zj178.
[2] Top 50  internet of things  applications.
http://goo.gl/T6YmMQ.
[3] The Internet of Everything.
http://internetofeverything.cisco.com.
[4] Introducing the Industrial Internet. http://goo.gl/TRS8JX.
[5] What is a Smarter Planet ? http://goo.gl/ntuaWS.
[6] IoTH: The Internet of Things and Humans.
http://goo.gl/noqtIq.
[7] History of the internet of things. http://goo.gl/RPh2ok.
[8] The Internet of Things: How the Next Evolution of the
Internet Is Changing Everything. http://goo.gl/sBISi4.
[9] The Societal Impact of the Internet of Things.
http://goo.gl/wUaUsp.
[10] The Internet of Things: A Study in Hype, Reality,
Disruption, and Growth. http://goo.gl/bp9xLU.
[11] N. Marquardt and S. Greenberg. Informing the design of
proxemic interactions. IEEE Pervasive Computing,
11(2):14 23, April 2012.
[12] W.Z. Khan, Yang Xiang, M.Y. Aalsalem, and Q. Arshad.
Mobile phone sensing systems: A survey. IEEE
Communications Surveys Tutorials, 15(1):402 427, First
2013.
[13] A. K. Dey, K. Wac, D. Ferreira, K. Tassini, J.-H. Hong, and
J. Ramos. Getting closer: An empirical investigation of the
proximity of user to their smart phones. In Proceedings of
the 13th International Conference on Ubiquitous
Computing, UbiComp  11, pages 163 172, New York, NY,
USA, 2011. ACM.
[14] Healthcare is among sectors with a clear path to internet of
things. http://goo.gl/SYwUP6.
[15] Sylvain Bureau, Markus Bick, Selwyn Piramuthu, Yannick
Meiller, Wei Zhou, and Samuel Fosso Wamba. Radio
frequency identi cation: A case for health care. In
Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on
Information Integration and Web-based Applications
&#38; Services, iiWAS  10, pages 875 878, New York, NY,
USA, 2010. ACM.
