6
1
0
2
 
r
p
A
5
2
 
 
 
]
M
M
.
s
c
[
 
 
2
v
7
1
8
1
0
.
3
0
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
YFCC100M: The New Data in Multimedia Research
Bart Thomee
Yahoo Labs
San Francisco, CA, USA
bthomee@yahoo-inc.com
Benjamin Elizalde 
CMU
Mountain View, CA, USA
bmartin1@andrew.cmu.edu
David A. Shamma
Yahoo Labs
San Francisco, CA, USA
aymans@acm.org
Karl Ni 
In-Q-Tel
Menlo Park, CA, USA
kni@iqt.org
Gerald Friedland
ICSI
Berkeley, CA, USA
fractor@icsi.berkeley.edu
Douglas Poland
LLNL
Livermore, CA, USA
poland1@llnl.gov
Damian Borth 
DFKI
Kaiserslautern, Germany
damian.borth@dfki.de
Li-Jia Li 
Snapchat
Venice, CA, USA
lijiali.vision@gmail.com
The photograph and our understanding of photography is
ever changing and has transitioned from a world of unpro-
cessed rolls of C-41 sitting in a fridge 50 years ago to sharing
photos on the 1.5  screen of a point and shoot camera 10
years back. And today the photograph is again something
di erent. The way we take photos is fundamentally di er-
ent. We can view, share, and interact with photos on the
device they were taken on. We can edit, tag, or   lter  pho-
tos directly on the camera at the same time the photo is
being taken. Photos can be automatically pushed to various
online sharing services, and the distinction between photos
and videos has lessened. Beyond this, and more importantly,
there are now lots of them. To Facebook alone more than 250
billion photos have been uploaded and on average it receives
over 350 million new photos every day [6], while YouTube re-
ports that 300 hours of video are uploaded every minute [22].
A back of the envelope estimation reports 10% of all photos
in the world were taken in the last 12 months, and that was
calculated already more than three years ago [8].
Today, a large number of the digital media objects that
are shared have been uploaded to services like Flickr or In-
stagram, which along with their metadata and their social
ecosystem form a vibrant environment for  nding solutions
to many research questions at scale. Photos and videos pro-
vide a wealth of information about the universe, covering
entertainment, travel, personal records, and various other
aspects of life in general as it was when they were taken.
Considered collectively, they represent knowledge that goes
 This work was done while Benjamin Elizalde was at ICSI.
  This work was done while Karl Ni was at LLNL.
  This work was done while Damian Borth was at ICSI.
  This work was done while Li-Jia Li was at Yahoo Labs.
Publication rights licensed to ACM. ACM acknowledges that this contribution was au-
thored or co-authored by an employee, contractor or af liate of the United States gov-
ernment. As such, the United States Government retains a nonexclusive, royalty-free
right to publish or reproduce this article, or to allow others to do so, for Government
purposes only.
Communications of the ACM 0001-0782/2016/2 $15.00
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2812802
Copyright is held by the owner/author(s).
beyond what is captured in any individual snapshot and
provide information on trends, evidence of phenomena or
events, social context, and societal dynamics. Consequently,
collections of media are useful for qualitative and quantita-
tive empirical research in many domains. However, scienti c
endeavors in  elds like social computing and computer vi-
sion have generally relied on independently collected mul-
timedia datasets, which complicates research growth and
synergy. There is the need for a more substantial dataset
for researchers, engineers, and scientists around the globe.
To meet the call for scale, openness, and diversity in aca-
demic datasets, we take the opportunity in this article to
present a new multimedia dataset containing 100 million
media objects and explain the rationale behind its creation.
We discuss the implications it has for science, research, en-
gineering and development, and demonstrate its usefulness
towards tackling a broad range of problems in various do-
mains. With the release of our dataset comes the opportu-
nity to advance research, giving rise to new challenges and
solving existing ones.
1. SHARING DATASETS
Datasets are critical for research and exploration [16] as,
rather obviously, data is required for performing experiments,
validating hypotheses, analyzing designs, and building ap-
plications. Over the years a plurality of multimedia datasets
have been put together for research and development. In Ta-
ble 1 we present a summary of the most popular datasets
at present. Most of them, however, actually cannot truly be
called multimedia datasets due to only containing a single
type of media, rather than a mixture of modalities, such as
photos, videos, and audio. Datasets range from the one-o 
instances that have been exclusively created for supporting
the work presented in a single paper or demo ( short-term
datasets ) to those that have been created with multiple re-
lated or separate endeavors in mind ( long-term datasets ).
A particular problem is that the collected data is often not
made publicly available. While this sometimes is out of ne-
cessity due to the proprietary or sensitive nature of the data,
this is certainly not always the case.
The question of sharing data for replication and growth
has arisen several times in the past 30 years alone [2, 7, 18]
Table 1: Popular multimedia datasets used over the years by the research community. When various versions of a particular
collection were available, we generally only included the most recent one. PASCAL, TRECVID, MediaEval and ImageCLEF
are/were yearly recurring benchmarks that consist of one or more challenges of which each has its own dataset; in the table
we report the total number of media objects aggregated over all datasets part of the most recent edition of each benchmark.
and has been brought into discussion in ACM s SIGCHI [20].
This  sharing discussion  reveals many of the underlying
complexities with sharing, both with regards to the data
(e.g. what exactly is considered data) and to the sharing
point of view (e.g. incentives and disincentives for doing so).
For example, one might be reluctant to share data freely,
as it has a value from the often substantial amount of time,
e ort, and money that was invested in collecting it.
Another barrier to sharing arises when data is harvested
for research under a general umbrella of  academic fair use 
without regards towards its licensing terms. Beyond the le-
gal corporate issues, this clearly may violate the copyright
of the owner of the data that, in many User-Generated Con-
tent (UGC) sites like Flickr, remains with the creator. The
Creative Commons (CC), a nonpro t organization that was
founded in 2001, seeks to build a rich public domain of  some
rights reserved  media, sometimes referred to as the copyleft
movement. Their licenses allow media owners to communi-
cate how they would like their media to be rights reserved.
For example, an owner can indicate that a photo may be
used only for non-commercial purposes or whether someone
is allowed to remix it or turn it into a collage. Depending
on how the licensing options are chosen, CC licenses can
be applied that are more restrictive (e.g. CC Attribution-
NonCommercial-NoDerivs or CC-BY-NC-ND license) or less re-
strictive (e.g. CC Attribution-ShareAlike or CC-BY-SA) in
nature. A public dataset with clearly marked licenses that
do not overly impose restrictions on how the data is used,
such as those o ered by CC, would therefore be suitable for
use by both academia and industry.
We underscore the importance of sharing perhaps even
its principal argument is that it ensures data equality for
research. While the availability of data alone may not nec-
essarily be su cient for the exact reproduction of scien-
ti c results (since the original experimental conditions also
would need to be replicated as closely as possible, which
may not always be possible), research should start with pub-
licly sharable and legally usable data that is  exible and
rich enough to promote new advancements, rather than with
data that only serves as a one time collection for a speci c
task and that cannot be shared. Shared datasets can play a
singular role in achieving research growth and in facilitat-
ing synergy within the research community that is otherwise
di cult to attain.
2. THE YFCC100M DATASET
We created the Yahoo Flickr Creative Commons 100 Mil-
lion Dataset1 (YFCC100M) as part of the Yahoo Webscope
program. This dataset is the largest public multimedia col-
lection that has ever been released, comprising a total of
100 million media objects, of which approximately 99.2 mil-
lion are photos and 0.8 million are videos, all of which have
been uploaded to Flickr between 2004 and 2014 and pub-
lished under a CC commercial or non-commercial license.
The dataset is currently distributed via Amazon AWS as a
12.5GB compressed archive containing only metadata. How-
ever, as is the case with many datasets, the YFCC100M is
constantly evolving, and over time we will release various
expansion packs containing data not yet present in the col-
lection. For instance, several visual and aural features ex-
tracted from the data have already been made available2.
The actual photos and videos are further currently being
uploaded to the cloud to ensure the dataset will remain ac-
cessible and intact for years to come; like the metadata, the
photo and video data can then be mounted as a read-only
network drive. Our dataset overcomes many of the issues af-
fecting existing datasets, for instance in terms of modalities,
metadata, licensing, and principally volume we will discuss
the strengths and limitations of our collection in more detail
below.
2.1 Metadata
Each media object included in the dataset is represented by
its metadata in the form its Flickr identi er, the user that
created it, the camera that took it, the time at which it
was taken and when it was uploaded, the location where it
was taken (if available), and the CC license it was published
under. In addition, the title, description and tags are also
available, as well as direct links to its page and its content
on Flickr. Social features, comments, favorites, and follow-
ers/following data are not included in the dataset as, by
their nature, these change on a day to day basis. They can,
however, be easily obtained by querying the Flickr API3,
and over time we will make snapshots of such social features
available for download. We are further working towards re-
leasing the Exif metadata of the photos and videos as an
expansion pack.
Tags. There are 68,552,616 photos and 418,507 videos in
the dataset that have been annotated with user tags (or key-
words). The tags make for a rich and diverse set of entities
related to people (baby, family), animals (cat, dog), loca-
tions (park, beach), travel (nature, city), to name just the
top few. A total of 3,343,487 photos and 7,281 videos carry
machine tags (labels that have been automatically added by
1The dataset is available at https://bit.ly/yfcc100md.
2The features are available at https://bit.ly/yfcc100mf.
3https://www.flickr.com/services/api/
Figure 1: Number of captured and uploaded media objects
per month in the YFCC100M dataset during the period
2000-2014. We can see the number of uploads closely fol-
lowing the number of captures, with more recently uploads
even exceeding captures as older media also is uploaded.
Figure 2: Global coverage of a sample of one million photos
from the YFCC100M dataset. One Million Creative Com-
mons Geo-tagged Photos by David Shamma c b d https:
//flic.kr/p/o1Ao2o.
a camera, computer, application, or some other automated
system).
Timespan. Although our dataset contains media uploaded
between the inception of Flickr in 2004 and the creation
of the dataset in 2014, the actual time span during which
they were captured is much longer. Some scans of books and
newspapers have even been backdated to the early 19th cen-
tury when they were originally published. However, we note
that camera clocks are not always set to the correct date
and time, and some photos and videos even erroneously re-
port they were captured in the distant past or in the future.
Figure 1 plots the moments of capture and upload of photos
and videos during the period 2000-2014, which accounts for
99.6% of the media objects in the dataset.
Locations. There are 48,366,323 photos and 103,506 videos
in the dataset that have been annotated with a geographic
coordinate, either manually by the user or automatically via
GPS. The cities in which more than 10,000 unique users
captured media are London, Paris, Tokyo, New York, San
Francisco, and Hong Kong. Overall, the dataset spans 249
di erent territories (countries, islands, etc.) in the world,
and also includes photos and videos taken in international
waters and airspace, see Figure 2.
Table 2: Top 25 cameras and photo counts
in the
YFCC100M dataset. We have merged the entries for the
Canon models that have di erent names in the European
(e.g. EOS 650D), American (e.g. EOS Rebel T4i) and Asian
(e.g. EOS Kiss X6i) markets.
Make Model
Canon EOS 400D
Canon EOS 350D
Nikon D90
Canon EOS 5D Mark II
Nikon D80
Canon EOS 7D
Canon EOS 450D
Nikon D40
Canon EOS 40D
Canon EOS 550D
Nikon D7000
Nikon D300
Nikon D50
Canon EOS 500D
Nikon D700
Apple
Nikon D200
Canon EOS 20D
Canon EOS 50D
Canon EOS 30D
Canon EOS 60D
iPhone 4S
Apple
Apple
iPhone
Nikon D70
Canon EOS 5D
iPhone 4
Photos
2,539,571
2,140,722
1,998,637
1,896,219
1,719,045
1,526,158
1,509,334
1,358,791
1,334,891
1,175,229
1,068,591
1,053,745
1,032,019
1,031,044
942,806
922,675
919,688
843,133
831,570
820,838
772,700
761,231
743,735
742,591
699,381
Cameras. Table 2 shows that the top 25 cameras used
in the dataset are overwhelmingly digital single lens re ex
(DSLR) models with the exception of the Apple iPhone.
Considering that the most popular cameras in the Flickr
community at the moment primarily consist of various iPhone
models4, this bias in our data is likely due to CC licenses
attracting a certain subcommunity of photographers that
di ers from the overall Flickr user base.
Licenses. The licenses themselves vary by CC type with
approximately 31.8% of the dataset marked appropriate for
commercial use and 17.3% having been assigned the most
liberal license that only requires the photographer that took
the photo to be attributed, see Table 3.
2.2 Content
The dataset includes a diverse collection of complex real
world scenes, ranging from 200,000 street life-blogged pho-
tos by photographer Andy Nystrom, Figure 3(a), to snap-
shots of day to day life, holidays and events, Figure 3(b).
To understand more about the visual content represented in
the dataset, we used a deep learning approach to  nd the
presence of a variety of concepts, such as people, animals,
objects, food, events, architecture, and scenery. Speci cally,
we applied an o -the-shelf deep convolutional neural net-
work [13] with 7 hidden layers, 5 convolutional layers and
2 fully connected ones. The penultimate layer of the convo-
lutional neural network output was employed as the image
4https://www.flickr.com/cameras/
Table 3: A breakdown of the 100 million photos and videos
by their kind of c Creative Commons license, as b By At-
tribution, d No Derivatives, a Share Alike, and n Non-
Commercial.
License
Photos
Videos
c b
17,210,144
c b a
9,408,154
c b d
4,910,766
c b n
12,674,885
c b n a 28,776,835
c b n d 26,225,780
137,503
72,116
37,542
102,288
235,319
208,668
Total
99,206,564
793,436
feature representation to train the visual concept classi ers.
We used Ca e [11] to train 1,570 classi ers, each being a
binary SVM, using 15 million photos taken from the entire
Flickr corpus; positive examples were crowd labeled or hand-
picked based on targeted search/group results, while nega-
tive examples were drawn from a general pool. We tuned the
classi ers such that they achieved at least 90% precision on
a held-out test set. In Table 4 we show the top 25 detected
concepts in both photos and videos (using the  rst frame).
We see a diverse collection of visual concepts being detected,
from outdoor to indoor images, sports to art, nature to ar-
chitecture. As we realize the detected visual concepts may
be valuable to the community, we recently released them as
one of our expansion packs.
Flickr makes little distinction between a photo and a video;
however, videos do play a role both on Flickr and in this
dataset. While photos encode their content primarily through
visual means, videos also convey this through audio and mo-
tion. Only 5% of the videos in our dataset do not have an au-
dio track. From a manual examination of over 120 randomly
selected geotagged videos having audio, we found that most
of their audio tracks were very diverse. Namely, 60% of the
videos were home-video style with little ambient noise; 47%
of the videos had heavy ambient noise such as people chat-
ting in the background, sound of tra c, and wind blowing
into microphone; 25% of the sampled videos contained mu-
sic, either played in the background of the recorded scene, or
inserted at the editing phase; 60% of the videos did not con-
tain any form of human speech at all, and even for the ones
that contained human speech; 64% were from multiple sub-
jects and crowds in the background speaking to one another,
often at the same time. The vocabulary of approximately
280,000 distinct user tags used for the video annotations
indeed shows that those describing audio content (music,
concert, festival) and motion content (timelapse, dance,
animation) are more frequently applied to videos than to
photos. When we compare the videos in the dataset to those
taken from YouTube in the time period 2007 2012, we note
that YouTube videos are on average longer (Flickr: 39 sec.,
YouTube: 214 sec.). This is likely due to the initial handling
of videos on Flickr where their length until recently was re-
stricted to a maximum of 90 seconds; recent videos uploaded
to Flickr indeed tend to be longer.
2.3 Representativeness
To create the dataset, we did not perform any speci c  l-
tering besides excluding photos and videos that had been
(a) IMG 9793: Streetcar (Toronto Transit) by
Andy Nystrom c b n d https://flic.kr/p/
jciMdz.
(b) Celebrating our 6th wedding anniversary in
Villa Mary by Rita & Tomek c b n a https:
//flic.kr/p/fCXEJi.
Figure 3: Two photos of real world scenes from photographers in the YFCC100M dataset.
marked as  screenshot  or  other  by the Flickr user. We did,
however, include as many videos as possible, because videos
form a small percentage of media uploaded to Flickr and a
random selection would have led to relatively few videos to
be selected. We further included as many photos as possible
that were associated with a geographic coordinate to en-
courage spatiotemporal research. Together these photos and
videos form approximately half of the dataset, and the re-
mainder is composed of CC photos randomly selected from
the entire pool of photos on Flickr.
To investigate whether our dataset contains a representa-
tive sample of real world photography, we collected an ad-
ditional random sample of 100 million public Flickr photos
and videos, irrespective of their license, that were uploaded
during the same time period as those in our dataset. We
then compared the relative frequency with which content
and metadata were present in our dataset and in the ran-
dom sample. We found that the average di erence in rela-
tive frequencies between two corresponding visual concepts,
cameras, timestamps (year and month) and locations (coun-
tries) was only 0.02%, with an overall standard deviation of
0.1%. The maximum di erence we observed was 3.5%, due
to more videos in the YFCC100M having been captured in
the United States than in the random sample (46.2% vs.
42.7%). While we found little individual di erences between
the relative frequency of use of any two corresponding cam-
eras in our dataset and in the random sample, at most 0.5%,
we did observe the earlier mentioned tendency towards more
professional DSLR cameras in the YFCC100M rather than
regular point-and-shoot cameras. This notwithstanding, our
dataset appears to overall exhibit similar characteristics to
photos and videos present in the entire Flickr corpus.
2.4 Features and Annotations
Computing features for 100 million media items is a time-
consuming and computationally expensive task. Not every-
one has access to a distributed computing cluster, and just
performing light processing of all the photos and videos on a
single desktop machine may already take several days. From
our experience with organizing benchmarks on image an-
notation and location estimation we noticed that accompa-
nying the datasets with precomputed features reduced the
burden on the participating teams, allowing them to focus
on solving the task at hand rather than on processing the
data. As mentioned earlier, we are currently computing a
wide variety of visual, aural, textual and motion features for
the dataset, and already have released several of them. The
visual features span the gamut of global (e.g. Gist), local
(e.g. SIFT) and texture (e.g. Gabor) descriptors, the aural
features include power spectrum (e.g. MFCC) and frequency
(e.g. Kaldi) descriptors, the textual features refer to closed
captions extracted from the videos, and the motion features
include dense trajectories and shot boundaries. These fea-
tures, being computed descriptors of the photos and videos,
will be licensed without any restrictions under the CC0 (c z)
license. Real world data does not have well-formed annota-
tions, which presents the sensemaking of the dataset itself
as an area of investigation. Annotations, such as bounding
boxes, segmentations of objects and faces, and image cap-
tions are not yet available for the YFCC100M at present,
although generating and releasing them is on our roadmap.
2.5 Ecosystem
Our dataset has already given rise to an ecosystem of di-
verse challenges and benchmarks, similar to how ImageNet,
PASCAL and TRECVID have been used by the commu-
nity. For example, the MediaEval Placing Task [3], an annual
benchmark in which participants develop algorithms for es-
timating the geographic location where a photo or video was
taken, is currently based on our dataset. To support research
in multimedia event detection the YLI-MED corpus [1] was
recently introduced, which consists of 50,000 handpicked
videos from the YFCC100M that belong to events similar
to those de ned in the TRECVID MED challenge. Approx-
imately 2,000 videos were categorized as depicting one of
ten target events, and 48,000 as belonging to none of these
events. Each video was further annotated with additional
attributes like language spoken and whether the video has a
musical score. The annotations also include degree of anno-
tator agreement and average annotator con dence scores for
the event categorization of each video. The authors stated
that the main motivation for the creation of the YLI-MED
corpus was to provide an open set without the license re-
strictions imposed on the original TRECVID MED dataset,
Table 4: The top 25 of 1,570 visually detected concepts in
the YFCC100M dataset. Photos and videos are counted as
many times as they contain visual concepts.
Concept
Photos
Videos
outdoor
indoor
people
nature
architecture
landscape
monochrome
sport
building
vehicle
plant
blackandwhite
animal
groupshot
sky
water
text
road
blue
tree
hill
shore
car
head
art
44,290,738
14,013,888
11,326,711
9,905,587
6,062,789
5,121,604
4,477,368
4,354,325
4,174,579
3,869,095
3,591,128
2,585,474
2,317,462
2,271,390
2,232,121
2,089,110
2,074,831
1,796,742
1,658,929
1,641,696
1,448,925
1,439,950
1,441,876
1,386,667
1,391,386
266,441
127,387
56,664
47,703
11,289
28,222
18,243
25,129
7,693
13,737
11,815
10,351
9,236
4,392
11,488
15,426
5,623
12,808
10,273
6,808
6,075
8,602
4,067
8,984
2,248
while it for instance also could serve as additional annotated
data to improve the performance of current event detectors.
Other venues in which our dataset currently features are
the ACM Multimedia 2015 Grand Challenge on Event De-
tection and Summarization, as well as the ACM Multimedia
2015 MMCommons Workshop; the latter kicks o  the devel-
opment of a research community around annotating all 100
million photos and videos. Certainly, the utility of the data-
set will grow as more features and annotations are produced
and shared, whether by ourselves or by others.
2.6 Strengths and Limitations
We speci cally note the following strengths ( ) and limita-
tions ((cid:9)) of the YFCC100M dataset:
  Design. Our dataset di ers in its design from most mul-
timedia collections. The collection of photos, videos, and
metadata in our dataset has been curated to be compre-
hensive and representative of real world photography, ex-
pansive and expandable in coverage, free and legal to use,
and as such intends to consolidate and supplant many of
the existing datasets currently in use. We emphasize that
our dataset does not challenge collections that are di erent
and unique (e.g. PASCAL, TRECVID, ImageNet, COCO),
but we instead aspire to make it the preferred choice for
researchers, developers and engineers with small and large
multimedia needs that can be easily satis ed by our dataset,
rather than having them needlessly collect their own data.
  Equality. The dataset ensures data equality for research,
which facilitates reproducing, verifying and extending scien-
ti c experiments and results.
  Volume. The dataset, spanning 100 million media ob-
jects, is the largest public multimedia collection to have ever
been released.
  Modalities. In contrast with most existing collections,
our dataset includes both photos and videos, making it a
truly multimodal multimedia collection.
  Metadata. Each media item is represented by a sub-
stantial amount of metadata. The dataset includes metadata
that is often absent in existing datasets, such as machine
tags, geotags, timestamps, and cameras. While social meta-
data is not included due to their ever-changing nature, it
can be easily obtained by querying the Flickr API.
  Licensing. The vast majority of available datasets in-
clude media whose licenses do not allow them to be used
without explicit permission from the rights holder. While
fair use exceptions may be invoked depending on the nature
of use, these will generally not be applicable to research and
development performed by industry and/or for commercial
gain. For example, a university spin-o  o ering a mobile
product recognition application that displays matching Im-
ageNet images for each detected product will not only violate
the ImageNet license agreement, but also very likely copy-
right law. Our dataset overcomes this issue providing rules
on how the dataset should be used to comply with licensing,
attribution and copyright.
(cid:9) Annotations. Our collection at present re ects the data
as it is in the wild ; there are lots of photos and videos, but
they are currently associated with limited metadata and an-
notations. We note that our dataset may not and/or can-
not o er every single kind of content, metadata and anno-
tations present in existing collections (e.g. object segmenta-
tions as in COCO, broadcast videos as in TRECVID), al-
though we believe that our e orts and those that spring from
the ecosystem currently being constructed around the data-
set will o er more depth and richness to the existing content,
as well as new material, making it more complete and useful
over time. While a lack of annotations clearly forms a limi-
tation of our dataset, we also see this as a challenge. At the
scale of 100 million media objects there are enough meta-
data labels for training and prediction of some attributes,
e.g. geographic coordinates, and there exist opportunities
to create new methods for labeling and annotation through
explicit crowdsourced work or through more modern tech-
niques using social community behaviors. In addition, given
the plurality of existing Flickr datasets and the size of our
dataset, some overlaps are to be expected, such that existing
annotations directly transfer over to our dataset. Of particu-
lar note is COCO of which a third is present (about 100,000
images) in the YFCC100M. Over time we will also release
the intersections with known datasets as expansion packs.
We envision that the intersection with existing datasets al-
lows researchers to expand upon what is known and actively
researched.
2.7 Guidelines and Recommendations
Although we listed volume as a strength of our dataset, at
the same time it can also pose a weakness when having
insu cient computational power, memory and/or storage
available. The compressed metadata of all 100 million me-
dia objects requires 12.5GB of hard disk space and, at the
default pixel resolution used on Flickr, the photos take up
approximately 13.5TB and the videos 3.0TB. While the en-
tire dataset metadata and/or content can be processed
in a matter of minutes to hours on a distributed computing
cluster, it may take a few hours to days to do on a single
machine. Naturally, the YFCC100M can still be used for ex-
periments by only focusing on a subset of the data. Also,
di erent  elds of research, engineering and science have dif-
ferent data requirements and evaluation needs, and all 100
million media objects in the dataset are not likely to be
needed for each and every study. We do note that in the
computer science literature it is uncommon for a paper to
describe in enough detail how the dataset they used in their
evaluations was created, e ectively preventing others from
faithfully replicating or comparing against the achieved re-
sults. One clear challenge for the future is ensuring that
subsets of the dataset used in experiments can be accurately
reproduced. To this end, we suggest researchers to forego ar-
bitrary selections from our dataset when forming a subset
for use in their evaluations, but rather to use a principled
approach that can be succinctly described. Such selection
logic should examine one or both of the following two as-
pects of the dataset, namely that (i) the photos and videos
in the dataset are already randomized, and (ii) the data-
set consists of 10 consecutively numbered  les. As such, a
selection logic could be as simple as
 We used the videos in the  rst four metadata
 les for training, those in the following three  les
for development, and those in the last three for
testing. 
or more complicated as
 From all photos taken in the United States, we
selected the  rst 5 million and performed 10-fold
cross-validation. 
Alternatively, the created subset can be made available for
download described as a set of object identi ers that in-
dex into the dataset. As an example, the organizers of the
MediaEval Placing Task made, in addition to the training
and test sets, the visual and aural features they extracted
from the content available for download. We envision the
research community to also follow this way of using and
sharing the dataset.
2.8 Future Directions
Our dataset provides opportunities for large-scale unsuper-
vised learning, semi-supervised learning and learning with
noisy data. Beyond this, the YFCC100M o ers the oppor-
tunity to advance research, give rise to new challenges and
solve existing ones. For instance, we note the following chal-
lenges in which our dataset may play a leading role:
AI and Vision. Large datasets have played a critical role
in advancing computer vision research. ImageNet [5] itself
led the way into the development of advanced machine learn-
ing techniques like deep learning [13]. The computer vision
as a  eld now seeks to do visual recognition by learning and
benchmarking from large-scale data. The YFCC100M data-
set provides new opportunities for this e ort by developing
new approaches that harness more than just the pixels. For
instance, new semantic connections can be made by inferring
them through relating groups of visually co-occurring tags
in images depicting similar scenes, where such e orts hith-
erto have been hampered by the lack of a su ciently large
dataset. Our expansion pack containing the detected visual
concepts in the photos and videos can assist with address-
ing this challenge. However, visual recognition goes beyond
image classi cation and involves obtaining a deeper under-
standing of images. Object localization, object interaction,
face recognition, image annotation, are all important corner-
stone challenges that will lead the way to retelling the story
of an image: what is happening in the image and why was
this image taken. Flickr, having a rich diverse collection of
image types, provides the groundwork for total scene under-
standing [14] in computer vision and arti cial intelligence,
a crucial task that can be expanded upon with our dataset,
and even more so once additional annotations are released
by ourselves and by others.
Spatiotemporal Computing. Beyond pixels, we empha-
size time and location information as key components for re-
search that aims at understanding and summarizing events.
Starting with location, the geotagged photos and videos,
about half of the dataset, provide a comprehensive snap-
shot of photographic activity over space and time. In the
past, geotagged media has been used to address a variety
of research endeavors, such as location estimation [9], event
detection [15],  nding canonical views of places [4], and vi-
sual reconstruction of the world [17]. Even understanding
styles and habits have been used to reverse lookup authors
online [10]. Geotagged media in the YFCC100M dataset can
help push the boundaries in these research areas even fur-
ther.
More data brings new discoveries and insights, yet it si-
multaneously also makes searching, organizing and present-
ing the data and  ndings more di cult. The cameraphone
has enabled people to capture more photos and videos than
they can e ectively organize. One challenge for the future is
therefore devising algorithms that are able to automatically
and dynamically create albums for use on personal comput-
ers, cloud storage or mobile devices, where desired media
and moments of importance can be easily surfaced based
on simple queries. Harnessing the spatiotemporal context at
capture time and at query time will take a central role in
successfully addressing this challenge.
The previous challenge speaks towards social computing
e orts aimed at understanding events in unstructured data
through the rei cation of the photo with space and time.
While GPS-enabled devices are capable of embedding the
precise time, location and orientation of capture in the meta-
data of a photo, in many instances this information is un-
available or out of date: seconds, hours or sometimes even
months. In addition, people frequently forget to adjust the
camera clock to the correct timezone when traveling. These
kinds of issues pose problems for the accuracy of any kind of
spatiotemporal data analysis, and new challenges in compu-
tational photography therefore include devising algorithms
that can either  x or are resilient against the erroneous.
Digital Culture and Preservation. What we know to be
UGC has grown from simple video uploads and bulletin
board systems; life online has come to re ect culture. These
large online collections tell a larger story about the world
around us, from consumer reviews [21] that speak to how
people engage with the spaces around them to 500 years
of scanned book photos and illustrations [12] that describe
how concepts and objects have been visually depicted over
time. Beyond archived collections, the photostreams of in-
dividuals represents many facets of recorded visual informa-
tion, from remembering moments and storytelling to social
communication and self-identity [19]. This presents a grand
challenge of sensemaking and understanding digital archives
from non-homogeneous sources. Photographers and curators
alike have contributed to the larger collection of Creative
Commons images, yet little is known on how such archives
will be navigated and retrieved, or how new information can
be discovered therein. Our dataset o ers avenues of com-
puter science research in multimedia, information retrieval,
and data visualization in addition to the larger questions of
digital libraries and preservation.
3. CONCLUSIONS
Data is one of the core components of research and develop-
ment. In the  eld of multimedia, datasets are usually created
with a single purpose in mind, and as such lack reusability.
Additionally, datasets generally are not or may not be freely
shared with others, and as such lack reproducibility, trans-
parency and accountability. To overcome this conundrum,
we have released one of the largest datasets ever created,
consisting of 100 million media objects published under a
Creative Commons license. Our dataset has been curated to
be comprehensive and representative of real world photog-
raphy, expansive and expandable in coverage, free and legal
to use, and intends to consolidate and supplant many ex-
isting collections. Our dataset encourages the improvement
and validation of research methods, reduces the e ort of ac-
quiring data, and stimulates innovation and potential new
data uses. We have further provided rules on how the data-
set should be used to comply with licensing, attribution and
copyright, and o ered guidelines on how to maximize com-
patibility and promote reproducibility of experiments with
existing and future work.
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank Jordan Gimbel and Kim Capps-
Tanaka at Yahoo, Pierre Garrigues, Simon Osindero, and
the rest of the Flickr Vision & Search team, Carmen Carrano
and Roger Pearce at LLNL, as well as Julia Bernd, Jaeyoung
Choi, Luke Gottlieb and Adam Janin at ICSI. We are fur-
ther thankful to ICSI for making their data publicly avail-
able in collaboration with Amazon. Portions of this work
were performed under the auspices of the U.S. Department
of Energy by LLNL under Contract DE-AC52-07NA27344,
and supported by the National Science Foundation by ICSI
under Award Number 1251276.
References
[1] Bernd, J., Borth, D., Elizalde, B., Friedland, G.,
Gallagher, H., Gottlieb, L. R., Janin, A., Karabash-
lieva, S., Takahashi, J., and Won, J. The YLI-MED
corpus: Characteristics, procedures, and plans.
CoRR
abs/1503.04250 (2015).
[2] Borgman, C. L. The conundrum of sharing research data.
Journal of the American Society for Information Science
and Technology 63, 6 (2012), 1059 1078.
[3] Choi, J., Thomee, B., Friedland, G., Cao, L., Ni, K.,
Borth, D., Elizalde, B., Gottlieb, L., Carrano, C.,
Pearce, R., and Poland, D. The placing task: A large-
scale geo-estimation challenge for social-media videos and
images. In Proceedings of the ACM International Workshop
on Geotagging and Its Applications in Multimedia (2014).
[4] Crandall, D. J., Backstrom, L., Huttenlocher, D., and
Kleinberg, J. Mapping the world s photos. In Proceedings
of the IW3C2 International Conference on World Wide Web
(2009), pp. 761 770.
[5] Deng, J., Dong, W., Socher, R., Li, L., Li, K., and Fei-
Fei, L. ImageNet: A large-scale hierarchical image database.
In Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision
and Pattern Recognition (2009), pp. 248 255.
[6] Facebook, Ericsson, and Qualcomm. A focus on e ciency.
Tech. rep., Facebook Inc., 2013.
[7] Fienberg, S. E., Martin, M. E., Straf, M. L., et al.
Sharing research data. National Academy Press, 1985.
[8] Good, J.
How many photos have ever been taken?
https://web.archive.org/web/20150203215607/http:
//blog.1000memories.com/94-number-of-photos-ever-
taken-digital-and-analog-in-shoebox, September 2011.
Accessed July, 2015.
[9] Hays, J., and Efros, A. A. IM2GPS: estimating geographic
information from a single image. In Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(2008).
[10] Hecht, B., Hong, L., Suh, B., and Chi, E. H. Tweets from
Justin Bieber s heart: the dynamics of the location  eld in
user pro les. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on
Human Factors in Computing Systems (2011), pp. 237 246.
[11] Jia, Y., Shelhamer, E., Donahue, J., Karayev, S., Long,
J., Girshick, R. B., Guadarrama, S., and Darrell, T.
Ca e: convolutional architecture for fast feature embedding.
In ACM Multimedia (2014), pp. 675 678.
[12] Kremerskothen, K. Welcome the internet archive
to the commons.
https://blog.flickr.net/2014/08/29/
welcome-the-internet-archive-to-the-commons/, August
2014. Accessed July, 2015.
[13] Krizhevsky, A., Sutskever, I., and Hinton, G. E.
Im-
ageNet classi cation with deep convolutional neural net-
works. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems (2012), pp. 1097 1105.
[14] Li, L., Socher, R., and Fei-Fei, L. Towards total scene
understanding: classi cation, annotation and segmentation
in an automatic framework.
In Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition
(2009), pp. 2036 2043.
[15] Rattenbury, T., Good, N., and Naaman, M. Towards au-
tomatic extraction of event and place semantics from Flickr
tags.
In Proceedings of the ACM International Confer-
ence on Research and Development in Information Retrieval
(2007), pp. 103 110.
[16] Renear, A. H., Sacchi, S., and Wickett, K. M. De ni-
tions of dataset in the scienti c and technical literature. In
Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the American Society
for Information Science and Technology (2010), pp. 1 4.
[17] Snavely, N., Seitz, S., and Szeliski, R. Photo tourism:
exploring photo collections in 3D. ACM Transactions on
Graphics 25, 3 (2006), 835 846.
[18] Swan, A., and Brown, S. To share or not to share: publi-
cation and quality assurance of research data outputs. Tech.
rep., Research Information Network, 2008.
[19] Van Dijck, J. Digital photography: communication, iden-
tity, memory. Visual Communication 7, 1 (2008), 57 76.
[20] Wilson, M. L., Chi, E. H., Reeves, S., and Coyle, D.
RepliCHI: The Workshop II.
In Proceedings of the Inter-
national Conference on Human Factors in Computing Sys-
tems, Extended Abstracts (2014), pp. 33 36.
[21] Yelp dataset
challenge.
http://yelp.com/dataset_
challenge/. Accessed July, 2015.
[22] Youtube press statistics.
http://youtube.com/yt/press/
statistics.html. Accessed July, 2015.
