6
1
0
2
 
n
a
J
 
5
2
 
 
]
Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
2
v
2
2
5
5
0
.
3
0
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Mapping bilateral information interests using the activity of Wikipedia editors
Fariba Karimi,1,   Ludvig Bohlin,2 Anna Samoilenko,1 Martin Rosvall,2 and Andrea Lancichinetti2
1Leibniz Institute for the Social Sciences, Cologne, Germany
2Integrated Science Lab, Department of Physics, Ume a University, SE-901 87 Ume a, Sweden
ABSTRACT We live in a global village where electronic communication has
eliminated the geographical barriers of information exchange. The road is now
open to worldwide convergence of information interests, shared values, and
understanding. Nevertheless, interests still vary between countries around the
world. This raises important questions about what today s world map of in-
formation interests actually looks like and what factors cause the barriers of
information exchange between countries. To quantitatively construct a world
map of information interests, we devise a scalable statistical model that iden-
ti es countries with similar information interests and measures the countries 
bilateral similarities. From the similarities we connect countries in a global
network and  nd that countries can be mapped into 18 clusters with similar
information interests. Through regression we  nd that language and religion
best explain the strength of the bilateral ties and formation of clusters. Our
 ndings provide a quantitative basis for further studies to better understand
the complex interplay between shared interests and con ict on a global scale.
The methodology can also be extended to track changes over time and capture
important trends in global information exchange.
Introduction
 We live in a global world  has become a clich  (Kose and Oz-
turk, 2014). Historically, the exchange of goods, money, and in-
formation was naturally limited to nearby locations, since global-
ization was effectively blocked by spatial, territorial, and cultural
barriers (Cairncross, 2001). Today, new technology is overcom-
ing these barriers and exchange can take place in an increasingly
international arena (Friedman, 2000). Nevertheless, geographi-
cal proximity still seems to be important for the trade of goods
(Fagiolo et al., 2010; Kaluza et al., 2010; Overman et al., 2003;
Serrano et al., 2007) as well as for mobile phone communication
(Lambiotte et al., 2008) and scienti c collaboration (Pan et al.,
2012). However, since the Internet allows information to travel
more easily and rapidly than goods, it remains unclear what are
the effective barriers of global information exchange. As infor-
mation exchange requires shared interests, we therefore need to
better understand global connections in interest, and the factors
that form these connections.
Although globalization of information has been discussed ex-
tensively in the research literature (Friedman, 2000; ?; ?), cur-
rently there is no method to quantitatively map bilateral informa-
tion interests from large-scale data. Without such a method, it
becomes dif cult to justify qualitative statements about, for ex-
ample, the complex interplay between shared values and con ict
on a global scale. We use data mining and statistical analysis to
device a measure of bilateral information interests, and use this
measure to construct a world map of information interests.
To study interests on a global scale, we use the free online ency-
clopedia Wikipedia, which has evolved into one of the largest col-
laborative repositories of information in the history of mankind
(Mesgari et al., 2014). The free online encyclopedia consists
of almost 300 language editions, with English being the largest
 Electronic address: fariba.karimi@gesis.org
one1. This multi-lingual encyclopedia captures a wide spectrum
of information in millions of articles. These articles undergo a
peer-reviewed editing process without a central editing authority.
Instead, articles are written, reviewed, and edited by the public.
Each article edit is recorded, along with a time-stamp, and, if
the editor is unregistered, the computer s IP address. The IP ad-
dress makes it possible to connect each edit to a speci c location.
Therefore we can use Wikipedia editors as sensors for mapping
information interest to speci c countries.
In this paper, we use co-editing of the same Wikipedia article
as a proxy for shared information interests. To  nd global con-
nections, we look at how often editors from different countries
co-edit the same articles. To infer connections of shared inter-
est between countries, we develop a statistical model and repre-
sent signi cant correlations between countries as links in a global
network. Structural analysis of the network suggests that inter-
ests are polarized by factors related to geographical proximity,
language, religion and historical background. We quantify the
effects of these factors using regression analysis and  nd that in-
formation exchange indeed is constrained by the impact of social
and economic factors connected to shared interests.
Methodology
Relating information interests to geographical location
As one of the largest and most linguistically diverse repositories
of human knowledge, Wikipedia has become the world s main
platform for archiving factual information (Mesgari et al., 2014).
One important feature of Wikipedia is that every edit made to an
article is recorded. Thanks to this detailed data, Wikipedia pro-
vides a unique platform for studying different aspects of informa-
tion processes, for example, semantic relatedness of topics (Auer
and Lehmann, 2007; Radinsky et al., 2011), collaboration (Kee-
gan et al., 2012; Kimmons, 2011; T r k et al., 2013), social roles
of editors (Welser et al., 2011), and the geographical locations of
Wikipedia editors (Lieberman and Lin, 2009).
In this work, we used data from Wikipedia dumps2 to select
2
a random sample from the English Wikipedia edition, which is
the largest and most widespread language edition. In total, the
English edition has around 10 million articles, including redirects
and duplicates. Since retrieving the editing histories of all arti-
cles is computationally demanding, we randomly sampled more
than six million articles from this set. For each English article,
we retrieved the complete editing history of the same article in all
language editions that the English Wikipedia page links to. Fi-
nally we merged all language editions together to create a global
editing history for each article. For each edit, the editing history
includes the text of the edit, its time-stamp, and, for unregistered
editors, the IP address of the editor s computer. From the IP ad-
dress associated with the edit, we retrieved the geolocation of the
corresponding editor using an IP database 3. For the purpose of
spatial analysis, we limited the analysis to edits from unregistered
editors, because data on the location for most of the registered
Wikipedia editors are unavailable. The resulting dataset contains
more than six million (6,285,753) Wikipedia articles and about
140 million edits in total. We use these edits to create interest
pro les for countries.
Inferring shared interests from edit co-occurrence
We identify the interest pro le of a country by aggregating the ed-
its of all Wikipedia editors whose IPs are recorded in the country.
If an article is co-edited by editors located in different countries,
we say that the countries share a common interest in the infor-
mation of the article.
In other words, we connect countries if
their editors co-edit the same articles. Indirectly, we let individu-
als who edit Wikipedia represent the population of their country.
While Wikipedia editors in a country certainly do not represent a
statistically unbiased sample, there is a higher tendency that they
edit contents that are related to the country in which they live
(Hecht and Gergle, 2010b). Therefore, we approximate the inter-
est pro le of a country with collective editing behavior of editors
in that country.
Inferring the location of all editors on the country level is non-
trivial. Although we have data on all edits, we do not know the
location of registered editors because their IPs are not recorded.
One proposed approach to tackle this problem makes use of circa-
dian rhythms of editing activity to infer the location of the editors
(Yasseri et al., 2012). This method approximates the longitude of
a location but provides little information about its latitude. There-
fore, we must limit the analysis to the activity of unregistered ed-
itors with recorded IP addresses. This will arguably affect the re-
sults. Not only do registered editors contribute to 70% of all 140
million edits, they also have somewhat different behavior. For
example, many of the most active registered users take on admin-
istrative functions, develop career paths, or specialize in covering
selected topics (Arazy et al., 2015). On the other hand, some
unregistered editors are involved in vandalism, but often their ac-
tivity nevertheless indicates their interest.4 While we can only
speculate about how including registered editors would affect the
results, unregistered editors can nevertheless provide useful infor-
mation about shared interests between countries.
From the co-editing data, we create a network that represents
countries as nodes and shared interests as links. The naive ap-
proach is to use the raw counts of co-edits between countries as
weighted links. The problem with this approach is that it is bi-
ased toward the number of editors in each country. Some coun-
tries may be strongly connected, not because of evident shared
interests but merely as a result of a large community of active
Figure 1 Illustration of the interest model. The left panel shows the
time-ordered edit sequence of four Wikipedia articles, with edits com-
ing from di erent countries represented as colored pins. Note that pins
represent country edits, and therefore they can be repeated. The result-
ing empirical network, calculated by multiplying raw co-edits counts, is
at the bottom. In the right panel, we illustrate the null model with the
same four articles, and the resulting network at the bottom. In the null
model, the average editing activity of the countries is preserved, but the
order of the edits is reshu ed within and across articles. As a result of
the  ltering, some links are removed in the interest model.
Wikipedia editors. To address this problem, we propose a statisti-
cal validation method that  lters out connections that could exist
only due to size effects or noise. The  ltering method assumes
a multinomial distribution and determines the expected number
of co-occurring edits from the empirical data.
In other words,
we infer signi cant links in a bipartite system in which countries
are in one set and articles are in the other set. There are other
existing methods to evaluate the signi cant correlation between
entities in bipartite systems. For example, Zweig and Kaufmann
(2011) proposed a systematic approach to one-mode projections
of bipartite graphs for different motifs. In another work, Tum-
minello et al. (2011) used the hypergeometric distribution and
measured the p-value for each subset of the bipartite network.
Moreover, Lancichinetti et al. (2015) proposed a community de-
tection method to classify topics to articles more ef ciently, and
Serrano et al. (2009) used a disparity  ltering method to infer sig-
ni cant weights in networks. Finally, Ronen et al. (2014) adopted
a statistical approach to determine signi cant links between lan-
guages in various written documents. However, the model that
we use has the advantages that it makes it easy to account for size
variation inside an article and to compute the z-scores for analyz-
ing the country-based editor activity.
Interest model
In this section we outline the formalisation of the model. We link
countries based on their co-occurring edits over all Wikipedia ar-
ticles. For a speci c article a, we calculate the link weight be-
tween all pairs of countries that edited the article, as follows: if
editors in country i have edited an article ka
i times, and editors in
country j have edited the same article ka
j times, then the countries 
empirical link weight, wa
i j, is calculated as:
wa
i j = ka
i ka
j .
(1)
Since the total number of articles is over six million, most country
pairs have co-edited at least one article. Therefore, the aggrega-
tion of all articles results in numerous links between countries,
and the countries with relatively large editing activities become
highly central. Accordingly, we cannot know if the link exists by
chance, or because countries actually tend to edit the same arti-
cles more frequently than expected. To determine which links are
statistically signi cant, we compare the empirically observed link
weights with the weight given by a null model. In the null model,
we assume that each edit comes from a country randomly picked
proportionally to its total number of edits. More speci cally, the
random assignments are performed by drawing the countries from
a multinomial distribution. That is, for each edit, country i is se-
 a ka
M ,
lected proportional to its cumulative editing activity, pi =
i
where M is the total number of edits for all articles. Note that each
edit is sampled independently from all other edits, and that the
cumulative edit activity of a country in the null model on average
will be the same as the observed one. This null model preserves
the average level of activity of the countries, but randomizes the
temporal order and the articles that countries edit. Figure 1 shows
an example of this reshuf ing scheme with four articles.
From the null model, we can analytically compute the expected
i j, that two countries i and j edit the same article a
probability,  a
(detailed derivation in the Methods):
 a
i j = na(na   1)pi p j,
(2)
where na is the total number of edits in article a.
To compare the empirical and expected link values, we com-
pute standardized values, so called z-scores. For countries i and j
and article a, the z-score za
i j is de ned as
i j    a
wa
  a
i j
za
i j =
i j
,
(3)
where the standard deviation   a
tion.
i j, is computed in the Method sec-
The z-scores are useful for comparisons of weights, since they
account for the large variations that exist in the articles  edit his-
tories. We then sum over all articles to  nd the cumulative z-score
for countries i and j
zi j =  
a
wa
i j    a
  a
i j
i j
.
(4)
Using the Bonferroni correction, we consider a link to be sig-
ni cant if the probability of observing the total z-score is less than
0.05/N, where N is the number of countries. Since the total z-
score is a sum over many independent variables, we can approx-
3
imate the expected total z-score distribution with a normal distri-
bution. The normal distribution has average value 0 and standard
deviation  L, where L is the number of Wikipedia articles. Thus,
the threshold for the signi cant link weight is t = 3.52 L, where
3.52 is derived from the condition that P(z > 3.52) = 0.05/N,
where N = 234 countries and P is the standard Gaussian distribu-
tion (with zero average and unit variance). If the total z-score is
larger than the threshold, we create a link between countries i and
j with weight (cid:102)wi j according to
(cid:40)
zi j  t
0
(cid:102)wi j =
if zi j > t
if zi j   t.
(5)
In summary, the interest model maintains the average level of
activity of the countries and randomizes the articles that they edit.
By comparing results from the interests model and empirical val-
ues, we can identify signi cant links between countries.
Clustering countries with similar interests
To investigate the effective barriers of global information ex-
change, we  rst identify large-scale structures among the thou-
sands of links between countries. In this way, we can highlight the
groups of countries that share interest in the same information. To
reveal such groups among the pairwise connections, we use a net-
work community detection method based on random walks as a
proxy for interest  ows. While the community-detection method
we use is good at breaking chains of links, we may connect some
countries primarily based on strong connections with common
countries and not between themselves. Nevertheless, simplify-
ing and highlighting important structures provide a valuable map
to investigate the large-scale structure of global information ex-
change.
In our clustering approach, we  rst build a network of coun-
tries connected with the signi cant links we  nd in our  ltering.
To identify groups of countries, we envision an editor game in
which editors from different countries are active in sequence. In
this relay race, a country exchanges information to another coun-
try proportional to the weight of the link between the countries.
Accordingly, the sequence of countries forms a random walk and
certain sets of countries with strong internal connections will be
visited for a relatively long time. This process is analog to the
community-detection method known as the map equation (Ros-
vall et al., 2009; Rosvall and Bergstrom, 2008). Here we use the
map equation s associated search algorithm Infomap (Edler and
Rosvall, 2015) to identify the groups of countries we are looking
for and to reveal the large-scale structure.
Results and discussion
We will discuss the results at four levels of detail, from the big
picture to the detailed dynamics, and highlight different potential
mechanisms for barriers of information exchange. First, we will
show a global map of countries with shared information inter-
ests, and continue with the interconnections between the clusters.
Then we will consider each cluster separately and examine the in-
terconnections between countries within the clusters. Finally, we
will apply multiple regression analysis to examine explanatory
variables to the highways and barriers of information exchange.
The world map of information interests
The world map of information interests suggests that cultural and
geopolitical features can explain the division of countries. Be-
4
Figure 2 World map of information interests. Countries that belong to the same cluster have the same color. Countries colored with gray do not
belong to any cluster. The map suggests that the division of countries can be explained by a combination of cultural and geopolitical features.
Figure 3 World network of information interests. The size of the nodes represents the total z-score of the clusters. The links represent connections
between clusters obtained from the cluster analysis with Infomap, the thicker the line, the stronger the connection. Clusters are colored in the same
way as in Fig. 2. The upper left corner shows the most signi cant connections between countries in the Central European cluster.
tween the 234 countries, we identi ed 2,847 signi cant links that
together form a network of article co-edits. By clustering the net-
work, we identi ed 18 clusters of strongly connected countries
(see Supplementary Table for a detailed list of countries in each
cluster). The resulting network is illustrated as a map in Fig. 2,
where countries of the same cluster share the same color. The map
suggests that the division of countries can be explained by a com-
bination of cultural and geopolitical features. For example, the
United States and Canada share a long geographical border and
extensive mutual trade, and are clustered together despite the fact
that other English-speaking countries are not. Moreover, religion
is a plausible driver for the formation of the cluster of countries in
the Middle East and North Africa, as well as the cluster of Russia
and the Orthodox Eastern-European countries (?). Another factor
in the formation of shared information interests is language. For
example, countries in Central and South America are divided into
two clusters with Portuguese and Spanish as common languages
in each cluster, respectively. Colonial history can also shape simi-
larity in interests, as in the cluster of Portugal, Angola and Brazil,
as well as the cluster of former Soviet Union countries (?). Over-
all, there is strong empirical evidence that geographical proxim-
ity, common religion, shared language, and colonial history can
explain the division of countries.
To examine the connections between clusters, we looked at
the network structure at the cluster level. The network in Fig.3
shows the connections between the clusters of countries illus-
trated in Fig. 2 with the same color coding. Connections tend to
be stronger between clusters of geographically proximate coun-
tries also at this level. Interestingly, the Middle East cluster in
turquoise has the largest link strengths to other clusters, forming
a hub that connects East and West, North and South. Interpret-
ing the strong connections as potential highways for information
exchange, the Middle East is not only a melting pot of ideas, but
also plays an important role in the spread of information.
To get better insights into how the clusters are shaped, we
zoomed into the country networks within clusters. In the upper
left corner of Fig. 3, we show the strongest connections within
the Central European cluster. It suggests that countries are linked
based on the overlap of the of cial languages (Hale, 2014). For
example, Belgium has three of cial languages, Dutch, French and
German. Indeed, Belgium is connected closely with the Nether-
lands, France, and Luxembourg. We observed the same pattern in
other clusters, and the triad of Switzerland, Germany, and Aus-
tria is another example of strongly linked countries with a shared
language.
Just to illustrate what interests can form the bilateral connec-
tions, we looked at a number of concrete examples. First, we
ranked the articles according to their signi cant z-scores for each
pair of countries. Then we looked at the top-ranked articles and
here report the results for two European country pairs: Germany 
Austria in the European cluster and Sweden Norway in the Scan-
dinavian cluster. The articles with the most signi cant co-edits
relate to local and regional interests, including sports, media, mu-
sic, and places (see Supplementary Table). For example, the top-
ranked articles in the Germany Austria list include an Austrian
singer who is also popular in Germany, and an Austrian football
player who is playing in the German league. The top-ranked ar-
ticles in the Sweden Norway list shows a similar pattern of lo-
cally related topics, for example, a host of a popular TV show
simultaneously aired in Sweden and Norway, a Swedish football
manager who has been successful both in Sweden and Norway,
5
and a music genre that is nearly exclusive to Scandinavian coun-
tries. Altogether, the top articles suggest that an important factor
for co-editing is related interests, which in turn may be an effect
of shared language, religion, or colonial history, as well as geo-
graphical proximity or large volume of trade between countries.
Regression analysis of the highways and barriers of infor-
mation exchange
To quantify the impact of social and economic factors behind the
shared interests, we performed a Multiple Regression Quadratic
Assignment Procedure (MRQAP) analysis.
This method is
speci cally suited when there are collinearity and autocorrelation
in the data (Dekker et al., 2007; Krackhardt, 1988). We performed
the MRQAP using the netlm function in the sna R package
(Butts, 2008). The dependent variables in the regression model
were the signi cant z-scores that we obtained from the data. Our
independent variables were geographical proximity, trade (Sub-
ramanian and Wei, 2007), colonial ties5, shared language6, and
shared religion7, as suggested by the analysis of the map of in-
formation interests (see the Supplementary Information S2 for a
more detailed description of the data).
All independent variables show signi cant correlation with the
data (see Table 1). To observe the variation between differ-
ent independent matrices, we examined them in different mod-
els.
In model R0, we examined the in uence of shared lan-
guage, which explains 13% of our observation. In model R1, we
added shared religion, which increases the power of the model
to 19%. In model R2, we included the geographical proximity.
It slightly increases the R-squared and has negative relation to
the observed z-scores, since short distance corresponds to high
proximity. In models R3 and R4, respectively, we added colonial
ties and trade. Including all these explanatory variables into the
regression model enabled us to increase the explanatory power
of the model to 22%. The correlation of each variable with the
observed z-scores can be inferred from the t-statistic. Shared lan-
guage shows the strongest association, followed by shared reli-
gion, geographical proximity, colonial ties, and volume of trade
(see Table 1).
The in uence of language on shared interests is not surpris-
ing.
It is well known that interests are formed by cultural ex-
pression and public opinion, and language is an important plat-
form for these expressions (Usunier and Lee, 2005). That the
relation between language and interests is important has also
been demonstrated by the surprisingly small overlap between lan-
guages in Wikipedia (Callahan and Herring, 2011; Hecht and Ger-
gle, 2010a) and the variation in the editing of controversial topics
(Yasseri et al., 2014).
Moreover, the in uence of religion is in line with the Hunt-
ington s thesis that the source of division between people in the
post-Cold War period is primarily rooted in cultural differences
and religion (Huntington et al., 1993). Similar results were found
in other studies that analyzed Twitter and email communication
worldwide (State et al., 2015).
Overall, the analysis reveals that information exchange is con-
strained by the impact of social and economic factors connected
to shared interests. In other words, globalization of the technol-
ogy does not bring globalization of the information and interests.
Language, religion, geographical proximity, historic background,
and trade are potential driving factors to polarize the informa-
tion interests. These results coincide with earlier works that high-
light the impact of the colonization, immigration, economics, and
Table 1 Results of the multiple regression analysis. Signi cant edit co-occurrences (z-scores) form the dependent variable matrix, which we regress
on the independent matrices in di erent models. Values in parenthesis are t-statistics. The features are ordered by importance, from shared language
to trade. Country pairs = 62,001. Values marked with an asterisk have a p-value less than 0.01
6
R0
0.41
R1
0.3
0.91  (69) 0.82  (64)
2.76  (46)
Intercept
Shared language
Shared religion
Log distance
Colonial tie
Log trade
R3
2.33
0.75  (58)
2.6  (43)
R2
2.33
0.77  (60)
2.6  (44)
R4
2.28
0.74  (57)
2.44  (40)
-0.23  (-23) -0.23  (-23) -0.23  (-23)
4.35  (21)
0.03  (10)
4.5  (22)
Adjusted R-squared
F-statistic
dF
0.13
7,774
30,874
0.19
3,590
30,873
0.20
2,610
30,872
0.21
2,110
30,871
0.22
1,716
30,870
politics on the cultural similarities and diversities (Bleich, 2005;
Castells, 2011; Feldman-Bianco, 2001; Gelfand et al., 2011; Hen-
nemann et al., 2012; Risse, 2001; T gil, 1995).
Conclusions
By simplifying and highlighting the important structure in the
myriad edits of Wikipedia, we provide a world map of shared
information interests. We  nd that information interests despite
globalization are diverse, and that the highways and barriers of
information exchange are formed by social and economic factors
connected to shared interests. In descending order, we  nd that
language, religion, geographical proximity, historic background,
and trade explain the diversity of interests. While technological
advances in principle have made it possible to communicate with
anyone in the world, these social and economic factors limit us
from doing so and information interests remain diverse. Ques-
tions remain how different social and economic factors affect dif-
ferent regions, how they relate to con icts on a global scale, and
how the impact of these factors changes over time. It would there-
fore be interesting to extend the methodology to track changes
over time.
Method
To  nd connections in interest, we measure the co-occurring edits
of two countries in the same articles. We quantify the connection
with an empirical weight that is computed as the product of the
countries  edit activities in the article. For a Wikipedia article a, if
the total edit activity of country i is denoted by ka
i , and for country
j is ka
j, then we calculate the empirical weight, wa
i j, according to
i j = ka
wa
i ka
j .
(6)
As the total edit activity of countries differs, the probability that
countries appear together in a certain article varies. If the total
number of edits for all articles is M, then the expected proportion
of edits for country i is
pi =
 a ka
i
M
.
(7)
This is the probability of country i making a random edit over-
all, and this is the null model we use to  lter noisy connections
in the interest model. Assume that there is a total of c countries,
and a total of n edits for article p. Let xk denote the number of
edits from country k. Then the probability of any particular com-
bination of edits for the various countries follows a multinomial
distribution
n!
x1!...xc!
px1
1 ...pxc
c ,where
c
 
i=1
xi = n.
(8)
With the above distribution, we can compute the expected proba-
bility of the co-occurrence of two countries i and j in an article
i j =  
 a
1...k
xix j
n!
x1!...xn!
px1
1 ...pxn
n
(9)
Following the multinomial theorem, we can now calculate the
mean, variance and covariance matrices for the occurrence of a
country pair. The mean value of the co-occurrence of two coun-
tries becomes
 a
i j = na(na   1)pi p j.
(10)
Using the multinomial theorem multiple times, one can also com-
pute the variance:
(  a
i j)2 =na(na   1)pi p j((6  4na)pi p j + (na   2)(pi + p j) + 1).
(11)
Thus, the standard deviation of the pair,   a
i j, is the square root
of equation (11). This equation enters into the de nition of the
z-score in equation (4). The sum of the z-scores is then approxi-
mated with a Gaussian distribution. This approximation is well
justi ed by the large number of articles.
In practice, already
1,000 articles give a good approximation, as shown by the nu-
merical simulations in the Supplementary Information.
References
Arazy, O., Ortega, F., Nov, O., Yeo, L., and Balila, A. (2015). Func-
tional roles and career paths in wikipedia. In Proceedings of the 18th
ACM Conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work & Social
Computing, pages 1092 1105. ACM.
Auer, S. and Lehmann, J. (2007). What have innsbruck and leipzig in
common? extracting semantics from wiki content. In The Semantic
Web: Research and Applications, pages 503 517. Springer.
Bleich, E. (2005). The legacies of history? colonization and immigrant
integration in Britain and France. Theory Soc., 34(2):171 195.
Butts, C. T. (2008). Social network analysis with sna.
Journal of
Statistical Software, 24(6):1 51.
Cairncross, F.
(2001).
The Death Of Distance: How The
Communications Revolution Is Changing Our Lives. Harvard Busi-
ness Press.
Callahan, E. S. and Herring, S. C. (2011). Cultural bias in wikipedia
content on famous persons. J. Assoc. Inf. Sci. Technol., 62(10):1899 
1915.
Castells, M. (2011). The Power Of Identity: The Information Age:
Economy, Society, And Culture, volume 2. John Wiley & Sons.
Dekker, D., Krackhardt, D., and Snijders, T. A. (2007).
Sensitiv-
ity of mrqap tests to collinearity and autocorrelation conditions.
Psychometrika, 72(4):563 581.
Edler, D. and Rosvall, M. (2015). The infomap software package. http:
//www.mapequation.org.
Fagiolo, G., Reyes, J., and Schiavo, S. (2010). The evolution of the world
trade web: a weighted-network analysis. J. Evol. Econ., 20(4):479 
514.
Feldman-Bianco, B. (2001). Brazilians in Portugal, Portuguese in Brazil:
Constructions of sameness and difference 1. Identities. Glob. Stud.,
8(4):607 650.
Friedman, T. L. (2000). The Lexus And The Olive Tree: Understanding
Globalization. Macmillan.
Gelfand, M. J., Raver, J. L., Nishii, L., Leslie, L. M., Lun, J., Lim, B. C.,
Duan, L., Almaliach, A., Ang, S., Arnadottir, J., et al. (2011). Differ-
ences between tight and loose cultures: A 33-nation study. Science,
332(6033):1100 1104.
Hale, S. A. (2014). Multilinguals and wikipedia editing. In Proc. Conf.
on Web Science, pages 99 108. ACM.
Hecht, B. and Gergle, D. (2010a). The tower of babel meets web 2.0:
user-generated content and its applications in a multilingual context.
In Proc. SIGCHI Conf. on Human Factors in Computing Systems,
pages 291 300. ACM.
Hecht, B. J. and Gergle, D. (2010b). On the "localness" of user-generated
content. In Proceedings of the 2010 ACM Conference on Computer
Supported Cooperative Work, CSCW  10, pages 229 232, New York,
NY, USA. ACM.
Hennemann, S., Rybski, D., and Liefner, I. (2012). The myth of global
science collaboration collaboration patterns in epistemic communi-
ties. Journal of Informetrics, 6(2):217 225.
Huntington, S. P. et al. (1993). The clash of civilizations?
Kaluza, P., K lzsch, A., Gastner, M. T., and Blasius, B. (2010). The com-
plex network of global cargo ship movements. J. R. Soc. Interface.,
7(48):1093 1103.
Keegan, B., Gergle, D., and Contractor, N. (2012). Do editors or ar-
ticles drive collaboration?: multilevel statistical network analysis of
wikipedia coauthorship. In Proc. ACM Conf. on Computer Supported
Cooperative Work, pages 427 436. ACM.
Kimmons, R. M. (2011). Understanding collaboration in wikipedia. First
Monday, 16(12).
Glob. Econ., page 7.
Kose, M. A. and Ozturk, E. O. (2014). A world of change. The Future
Krackhardt, D. (1988). Predicting with networks: Nonparametric mul-
tiple regression analysis of dyadic data. Social networks, 10(4):359 
381.
Lambiotte, R., Blondel, V. D., de Kerchove, C., Huens, E., Prieur, C.,
Smoreda, Z., and Van Dooren, P. (2008). Geographical dispersal of
mobile communication networks. Phys. A, 387(21):5317 5325.
Lancichinetti, A., Sirer, M. I., Wang, J. X., Acuna, D., K rding, K.,
and Amaral, L. A. N. (2015). High-reproducibility and high-accuracy
method for automated topic classi cation. Phys. Rev. X, 5:011007.
Lieberman, M. D. and Lin, J. (2009). You are where you edit: Locating
wikipedia contributors through edit histories. In ICWSM.
Mesgari, M., Okoli, C., Mehdi, M., Nielsen, F.  ., and Lanam ki, A.
(2014).  The sum of all human knowledge : A systematic review
of scholarly research on the content of wikipedia. J. Assoc. Inf. Sci.
Technol.
Overman, H. G., Redding, S., and Venables, A. (2003). The Economic
Geography Of Trade, Production And Income: A Survey Of Empirics.
7
Blackwell Publishing.
Pan, R. K., Kaski, K., and Fortunato, S. (2012). World citation and
collaboration networks: uncovering the role of geography in science.
Sci. Rep., 2.
Radinsky, K., Agichtein, E., Gabrilovich, E., and Markovitch, S. (2011).
A word at a time: computing word relatedness using temporal se-
mantic analysis. In Proc. Internat. Conf. on World Wide Web, pages
337 346. ACM.
Risse, T. (2001). A European identity? Europeanization and the evolu-
tion of nation-state identities. In Cowles, M. G., Caporaso, J. A., and
Risse-Kappen, T., editors, Transforming Europe: Europeanization and
Domestic Change. Cornell University Press Ithaca, NY.
Ronen, S., Gon alves, B., Hu, K. Z., Vespignani, A., Pinker, S., and
Hidalgo, C. A. (2014). Links that speak: The global language network
and its association with global fame. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci. USA.
Rosvall, M., Axelsson, D., and Bergstrom, C. T. (2009). The map equa-
tion. EPJ ST., 178(1):13 23.
Rosvall, M. and Bergstrom, C. T. (2008). Maps of random walks on
complex networks reveal community structure. Proc. Natl Acad. Sci.
USA, 105(4):1118 1123.
Serrano, M.  ., Bogu  , M., and Vespignani, A. (2007). Patterns of dom-
inant  ows in the world trade web. J. Econ. Interac. Coor., 2(2):111 
124.
Serrano, M.  ., Bogu  , M., and Vespignani, A. (2009). Extracting the
multiscale backbone of complex weighted networks. Proc. Natl Acad.
Sci. USA, 106(16):6483 6488.
State, B., Park, P., Weber, I., and Macy, M. (2015). The mesh of civi-
lizations in the global network of digital communication. PLoS ONE,
10(5):e0122543.
Subramanian, A. and Wei, S.-J. (2007). The wto promotes trade, strongly
but unevenly. Journal of international Economics, 72(1):151 175.
T gil, S. (1995). Ethnicity And Nation Building In The Nordic World.
SIU Press.
T r k, J., I iguez, G., Yasseri, T., San Miguel, M., Kaski, K., and
Kert sz, J. (2013). Opinions, con icts, and consensus: modeling
social dynamics in a collaborative environment. Phys. Rev. Lett.,
110(8):088701.
Tumminello, M., Miccich , S., Lillo, F., Piilo, J., and Mantegna, R. N.
(2011). Statistically validated networks in bipartite complex systems.
PLoS ONE, 6(3):e17994.
Usunier, J.-C. and Lee, J. (2005). Marketing Across Cultures. Pearson
Education.
Welser, H. T., Cosley, D., Kossinets, G., Lin, A., Dokshin, F., Gay, G.,
In Proc.
and Smith, M. (2011). Finding social roles in wikipedia.
iConference, pages 122 129. ACM.
Yasseri, T., Spoerri, A., Graham, M., and Kert sz, J. (2014). The
most controversial topics in wikipedia: A multilingual and geograph-
ical analysis. In Fichman, P. & Hara, N., editor, Global Wikipedia:
International and cross-cultural issues in online collaboration. Row-
man & Little eld.
Yasseri, T., Sumi, R., and Kert sz, J. (2012). Circadian patterns of
wikipedia editorial activity: A demographic analysis. PloS one,
7(1):e30091.
Zweig, K. A. and Kaufmann, M. (2011). A systematic approach to the
one-mode projection of bipartite graphs. Social Network Analysis and
Mining, 1(3):187 218.
Acknowledgements
We thank Alcides V. Esquivel, Daniel Edler, Claudia Wagner,
Markus Strohmaier and Micheal Macy for valuable discussions.
We also thank the Wikimedia Foundation for providing free ac-
cess to the data. F.K., L.B., A.L. and M.R. were supported by the
Swedish Research Council grant 2012-3729.
interests.
Additional information
The authors declare that
they have no competing  nan-
cial
Correspondence and requests for materials
should be addressed to F.K. (fariba.karimi@gesis.org). The
datasets generated during and/or analysed during the cur-
rent study are available in the  google sites  repository,  
https://sites.google.com/site/mappingbilateralwiki/ .
8
