5
1
0
2
 
l
u
J
 
0
3
 
 
]
h
p
-
c
o
s
.
s
c
i
s
y
h
p
[
 
 
2
v
4
0
8
3
0
.
5
0
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Climate change sentiment on Twitter: An unsolicited public opinion poll
Emily M. Cody,1,   Andrew J. Reagan,1,   Lewis Mitchell,2,  
Peter Sheridan Dodds,1,   and Christopher M. Danforth1,  
1Department of Mathematics & Statistics, Vermont Complex Systems Center,
Computational Story Lab, & the Vermont Advanced Computing Core,
2School of Mathematical Sciences, The University of Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia
The University of Vermont, Burlington, VT 05401.
(Dated: April 23, 2018)
The consequences of anthropogenic climate change are extensively debated through scienti c
papers, newspaper articles, and blogs. Newspaper articles may lack accuracy, while the severity of
 ndings in scienti c papers may be too opaque for the public to understand. Social media, however,
is a forum where individuals of diverse backgrounds can share their thoughts and opinions. As
consumption shifts from old media to new, Twitter has become a valuable resource for analyzing
current events and headline news. In this research, we analyze tweets containing the word  climate 
collected between September 2008 and July 2014. Through use of a previously developed sentiment
measurement tool called the Hedonometer, we determine how collective sentiment varies in response
to climate change news, events, and natural disasters. We  nd that natural disasters, climate bills,
and oil-drilling can contribute to a decrease in happiness while climate rallies, a book release, and
a green ideas contest can contribute to an increase in happiness. Words uncovered by our analysis
suggest that responses to climate change news are predominately from climate change activists
rather than climate change deniers, indicating that Twitter is a valuable resource for the spread of
climate change awareness.
INTRODUCTION
After decades receiving little attention from non-
scientists, the impacts of climate change are now widely
discussed through a variety of mediums. Originating
from scienti c papers, newspaper articles, and blog posts,
a broad spectrum of climate change opinions, subjects,
and sentiments exist. Newspaper articles often dismiss
or sensationalize the e ects of climate change due to
journalistic biases including personalization, dramatiza-
tion and a need for novelty [1]. Scienti c papers por-
tray a much more realistic and consensus view of climate
change. These views, however, do not receive widespread
media attention due to several factors including journal
paywalls, formal scienti c language, and technical results
that are not easy for the general public to understand [1].
According to the IPCC Fifth Assessment report, hu-
mans are  very likely  (90-100% probability) to be re-
sponsible for the increased warming of our planet [2], and
this anthropogenic global warming is responsible for cer-
tain weather extremes [3]. In April 2013, 63% of Ameri-
cans reported that they believe climate change is happen-
ing. This number, however, drops to 49% when asked if
climate change is being caused by humans. The percent-
age drops again to 38% when asked if people around the
world are currently being harmed by the consequences
of climate change [4]. These beliefs and risk perceptions
  emily.cody@uvm.edu
  andy@andyreagan.com
  lewis.mitchell@adelaide.edu.au
  peter.dodds@uvm.edu
  chris.danforth@uvm.edu
Typeset by REVTEX
can vary by state or by county [5]. By contrast, 97% of
active, publishing, climate change scientists agree that
 human activity is a signi cant contributing factor in
changing mean global temperatures  [6, 7]. The general
public learns most of what it knows about science from
the mass-media [8]. Coordination among journalists, pol-
icy actors, and scientists will help to improve reporting
on climate change, by engaging the general public and
creating a more informed decision-making process [9].
One popular source of climate information that has
not been heavily analyzed is social media. The Pew Re-
search Center s Project for Excellence in Journalism in
January of 2009 determined that topics involving global
warming are much more prominent in the new, social me-
dia [9]. In the last decade, there has been a shift from
the consumption of traditional mass media (newspapers
and broadcast television) to the consumption of social
media (blog posts, Twitter, etc.). This shift represents a
switch in communications from  one-to-many  to  many-
to-many  [9]. Rather than a single journalist or scientist
telling the public exactly what to think, social media of-
fers a mechanism for many people of diverse backgrounds
to communicate and form their own opinions. Exposure
is a key aspect in transforming a social problem into a
public issue [10], and social media is a potential avenue
where climate change issues can be initially exposed.
Here we study the social media site Twitter, which al-
lows its users 140 characters to communicate whatever
they like within a  tweet . Such expressions may in-
clude what individuals are thinking, doing, feeling, etc.
Twitter has been used to explore a variety of social and
linguistic phenomena [11 13], and used as a data source
to create an earthquake reporting system in Japan [14],
detect in uenza outbreaks [15], and analyze overall pub-
2
lic health [16]. An analysis of geo-tagged Twitter activity
(tweets including a latitude and longitude) before, dur-
ing, and after Hurricane Sandy using keywords related
to the storm is given in [17]. They discover that Twitter
activity positively correlates with proximity to the storm
and physical damage.
It has also been shown that in-
dividuals a ected by a natural disaster are more likely
to strengthen interactions and form close-knit groups on
Twitter immediately following the event [18]. Twitter
has also been used to examine human sentiment through
analysis of variations in the speci c words used by indi-
viduals. In [19], Dodds et al. develop the  hedonometer ,
a tool for measuring expressed happiness   positive and
negative sentiment   in large-scale text corpora. Since its
development, the hedonometer has been implemented in
studies involving the happiness of cities and states [20],
the happiness of the English language as a whole [21],
and the relationship between individuals  happiness and
that of those they connect with [22].
The majority of the topics trending on Twitter are
headlines or persistent news [23], making Twitter a valu-
able source for studying climate change opinions. For
example,
in [24], subjective vs objective and positive
vs negative tweets mentioning climate change are coded
manually and analyzed over a one year time period.
In [25], various climate hashtags are utilized to locate
pro/denialist communities on Twitter.
In the present
study, we apply the hedonometer to a collection of tweets
containing the word  climate . We collected roughly
1.5 million such tweets from Twitter s gardenhose API
(a random 10% of all messages) during the roughly 6
year period spanning September 14, 2008 through July
14, 2014. This time period represents the extent of
our database at the time of writing. Each collected
tweet contains the word  climate  at least once. We
include retweets in the collection to ensure an appropri-
ately higher weighting of messages authored by popular
accounts (e.g. media, government). We apply the hedo-
nometer to the climate tweets during di erent time peri-
ods and compare them to a reference set of roughly 100
billion tweets from which the climate-related tweets were
 ltered. We analyze highest and lowest happiness time
periods using word shift graphs developed in [19], and
we discuss speci c words contributing to each happiness
score.
METHODS
The hedonometer is designed to calculate a happiness
score for a large collection of text, based on the happi-
ness of the individual words used in the text. The instru-
ment uses sentiment scores collected by Kloumann et al.
and Dodds et al. [19, 21], where 10,222 of the most fre-
quenly used English words in four disparate corpora were
given happiness ratings using Amazon s Mechanical Turk
online marketplace. Fifty participants rated each word,
and the average rating becomes the word s score. Each
word was rated on a scale from 1 (least happy) to 9 (most
happy) based on how the word made the participant feel.
We omit clearly neutral or ambiguous words (scores be-
tween 4 and 6) from the analysis. In the present study,
we use the instrument to measure the average happiness
of all tweets containing the word  climate  from Septem-
ber 14, 2008 to July 14, 2014 on the timescales of day,
week, and month. The word  climate  has a score of
5.8 and was thus not included when calculating average
happiness. For comparison, we also calculate the average
happiness score surrounding 5 climate related keywords.
We recognize that not every tweet containing the word
 climate  is about climate change. Some of these tweets
are about the economic, political, or social climate and
some are ads for climate controlled cars. Through man-
ual coding of a random sample of 1,500 climate tweets, we
determined that 93.5% of tweets containing the word  cli-
mate  are about the earth s climate or climate change.
We calculated the happiness score for both the entire
sample and the sample with the non-earth related cli-
mate tweets removed. The scores were 5.905 and 5.899
respectively, a di erence of 0.1%. This di erence is small
enough to conclude that the non-earth related climate
change tweets do not substantially alter the overall hap-
piness score.
Based on the happiness patterns given by the hedo-
nometer analysis, we select speci c days for analysis us-
ing word shift graphs. We use word shift graphs to com-
pare the average happiness of two pieces of text, by rank
ordering the words that contribute the most to the in-
crease or decrease in happiness.
In this research, the
comparison text is all tweets containing the word  cli-
mate , and the reference text is a random 10% of all
tweets. Hereafter, we refer to the full reference collection
as the  un ltered tweets .
Finally, we analyze four events including three natural
disasters and one climate rally using happiness time series
and word shift graphs. These events include Hurricane
Irene (August 2011), Hurricane Sandy (October 2012), a
midwest tornado outbreak (May 2013), and the Forward
on Climate Rally (February 2013).
RESULTS
Fig. 1 gives the raw and relative frequencies of the
word  climate  over the study period. We calculate the
relative frequencies by dividing the daily count of  cli-
mate  by the daily sum of the 50,000 most frequently
used words in the gardenhose sample. From this  gure,
we can see that while the raw count increases over time,
the relative frequency decreases over time. This decrease
can either be attributed to reduced engagement on the
issue since the maximum relative frequency in December
2009, during Copenhagen Climate Change Conference, or
an increase in overall topic diversity of tweets as Twit-
ter grows in popularity. The observed increase in raw
count can largely be attributed to the growth of Twit-
3
Figure 1. The daily raw frequencies (top) and relative frequencies (bottom) of the word  climate  on Twitter from September
14, 2008 to July 14, 2014. The insets (in red) show the same quantity with a logarithmically spaced y-axis.
Figure 2. Average happiness of tweets containing the word  climate  from September 2008 to July 2014 by day (top), by week
(middle), and by month (bottom). The average happiness of all tweets during the same time period is shown with a dotted
red line. Several of the happiest and saddest dates are indicated on each plot, and are explored in subsequent  gures.
ter during the study period from approximately 1 million
tweets per day in 2008 to approximately 500 million in
2014. In addition, demographic changes in the user pop-
ulation clearly led to a decrease in the relative usage of
the word  climate .
Fig. 2 shows the average happiness of the climate
tweets by day, by week, and by month during the 6 year
time span. The average happiness of un ltered tweets
4
Figure 3. A word shift graph comparing the happiness of tweets containing the word  climate  to all un ltered tweets. The
reference text is roughly 100 billion tweets from September 2008 to July 2014. The comparison text is tweets containing the
word  climate  from September 2008 to July 2014. A yellow bar indicates a word with an above average happiness score. A
purple bar indicates a word with below average happiness score. A down arrow indicates that this word is used less within
tweets containing the word  climate . An up arrow indicates that this word is used more within tweets containing the word
 climate . Words on the left side of the graph are contributing to making the comparison text (climate tweets) less happy.
Words on the right side of the graph are contributing to making the comparison text more happy. The small plot in the lower
left corner shows how the individual words contribute to the total shift in happiness. The gray squares in the lower right corner
compare the sizes of the two texts, roughly 107 vs 1012 words. The circles in the lower right corner indicate how many happy
words were used more or less and how many sad words were used more or less in the comparison text.
is shown by a dotted red line. Several high and low
dates are indicated in the  gure. The average happiness
of tweets containing the word  climate  is consistently
lower than the happiness of the entire set of tweets.
Several outlier days, indicated on the  gure, do have
an average happiness higher than the un ltered tweets.
Upon recovering the actual tweets, we discover that on
March 16, 2009, for example, the word  progress  was
used 408 times in 479 overall climate tweets.  Progress 
has a happiness score of 7.26, which increases the av-
erage happiness for that particular day. Increasing the
time period for which the average happiness is measured
(moving down the panels in Fig. 2), the outlier days be-
come less signi cant, and there are fewer time periods
when the climate tweets are happier than the reference
tweets. After averaging weekly and monthly happiness
scores, we see other signi cant dates appearing as peaks
or troughs in Fig. 2. For example, the week of October
28, 2012 appears as one of the saddest weeks for climate
discussion on Twitter. This is the week when Hurricane
Sandy made landfall on the east coast of the U.S. For
the same reason, October 2012 also appears as one of the
saddest months for climate discussion.
The word shift graph in Fig. 3 shows which words con-
tributed most to the shift in happiness between climate
tweets and un ltered tweets. The total average happi-
ness of the reference text (un ltered tweets) is 5.99 while
the total average happiness of the comparison text (cli-
mate tweets) is 5.84. This change in happiness is due to
the fact that many positively rated words are used less
and many negatively rated words are used more when
discussing the climate.
The word  love  contributes most to the change in hap-
piness. Climate change is not typically a positive subject
of discussion, and tweets do not typically profess love for
it. Rather, people discuss how climate change is a   ght ,
 crisis , or a  threat . All of these words contribute to
the drop in happiness. Words such as  pollution ,  de-
nial ,  tax , and  war  are all negative, and are used
relatively more frequently in climate tweets, contribut-
ing to the drop in happiness. The words  disaster  and
 hurricane  are used more frequently in climate tweets,
suggesting that the subject of climate change co-occurs
with mention of natural disasters, and strong evidence
exists proving Twitter is a valid indicator of real time
attention to natural disasters [26].
On the positive side, we see that relatively less profan-
ity is used when discussing the climate, with the excep-
tion of the word  hell . We also see that  heaven  is used
more often. From our inspection of the tweets, it is likely
that these two words appear because of a famous quote by
Mark Twain:  Go to heaven for the climate and hell for
the company  [27]. Of the 97 non-earth related climate
tweets from our 1,500 tweet sample, 8 of them referenced
this quote. The word  energy  is also used more dur-
ing climate discussions. This indicates that there may be
a connection between energy related topics and climate
related topics. As energy consumption and types of en-
ergy sources can contribute to climate change, it is not
surprising to see the two topics discussed together.
Using the  rst half of our dataset, Dodds et. al.
[19]
calculated the average happiness of tweets containing
several individual keywords including  climate . They
found that tweets containing the word  climate  were,
on average, similar in ambient happiness to those con-
taining the words  no ,  rain ,  oil , and  cold  (see
Table 2 [19]). In the following section, we compare the
happiness score of tweets containing the word  climate 
to that of 5 other climate-related keywords.
Climate Related Keywords
The diction used to describe climate change attitudes
on Twitter may vary by user. For example, some users
may consistently use  climate change  and others may
use  global warming . There are also cohorts of users
that utilize various hashtags to express their climate
change opinions. In order to address this, we collected
tweets containing 5 other climate related keywords to
explore the variation in sentiment surrounding di er-
ent types of climate related conversation. As in [25],
we choose to analyze the keywords  global warming 
(5.72),  globalwarming  (5.81),  climaterealists  (5.79),
 climatechange  (5.86), and  agw  (5.73, standing for
 anthropogenic global warming ).
Search terms lack
spaces in the cases where they are climate related hash-
tags.
Tweets including the  global warming  keyword con-
tain more negatively rated words than tweets including
5
 climate . There is more profanity within these tweets
and there are also more words suggesting that climate
change deniers use the term  global warming  more of-
ten than  climate change . For example, there is more
usage of the words  stop ,  blame ,  freezing ,  fraud ,
and  politicians  in tweets containing  global warming .
These tweets also show less frequent usage of positive
words  science  and  energy , indicating that climate
change science is discussed more within tweets contain-
ing  climate . We also see a decrease in words such as
 crisis ,  bill ,  risk ,  denial ,  denying ,  disaster ,
and  threat . The positively rated words  real  and
 believe  appear more in  global warming  tweets, how-
ever so does the word  don t , again indicating that in
general, the Twitter users who who don?t acknowledge
climate change use the term  global warming  more fre-
quently than  climate change . A study in 2011 deter-
mined that public belief in climate change can depend on
whether the question uses  climate change  or  global
warming  [28].
Tweets containing the hashtag  globalwarming  also
contain words indicating that this is often a hashtag used
by deniers. The word contributing most to the decrease
in happiness between  climate  and  globalwarming  is
 fail , possibly referencing an inaccurate interpretation
of the timescale of global warming consequences dur-
ing cold weather. We see an increase in negative words
 fraud ,  die ,  lie ,  blame ,  lies , and again a de-
crease in positive, scienti c words. There is also an in-
crease in several cold weather words including  snow ,
 freezing ,  christmas ,  december , indicating that the
 globalwarming  hashtag may often be used sarcastically.
Similarly, Tweets including the hashtag  climaterealists 
use more words like  fraud ,  lies ,  wrong , and  scan-
dal  and less   ght ,  crisis ,  pollution ,  combat , and
 threat .
The hashtag  agw  represents a group that is even
more so against anthropogenic climate change. We see an
increase in  fraud ,  lie ,  fail ,  wrong ,  scare ,  scan-
dal ,  conspiracy ,  crime ,  false , and  truth . This
particular hashtag gives an increase in positive words
 green  and  science , however based on the large in-
crease in the aforementioned negative words, we can de-
duce that these terms are being discussed in a nega-
tive light. The  climatechange  hashtag represents users
who are believers in climate change. There is an in-
crease in positive words  green ,  energy ,  environ-
ment ,  sea ,  oceans ,  nature ,  earth , and  future ,
indicating a discussion about the environmental impacts
of climate change. There is also an increase in  pollu-
tion ,  threat ,  risk ,  hunger ,   ght , and  problem 
indicating that the  climatechange  hashtag is often used
when tweeting about the  ght against climate change.
With the exception of the  globalwarming  hashtag,
our analysis of these keywords largely agrees with what
is found in [25]. Our analysis, however, compares word
frequencies within tweets containing these hashtags with
word frequencies within tweets containing the word  cli-
6
mate . We  nd that more skeptics use  global warming 
in their tweets than  climate , while it may be the case
that  global warming  and  globalwarming  hashtag are
also used by activists.
Analysis of Speci c Dates
While Fig. 3 shows a shift in happiness for all climate
tweets collected in the 6 year period, we now move to an-
alyzing speci c climate change-related time periods and
events that correspond to spikes or dips in happiness. It
is important to note that tweets including the word  cli-
mate  represent a very small fraction of un ltered tweets
(see gray squares comparing text sizes in bottom right of
Fig. 3). While our analysis may capture speci c events
pertaining to climate change, it may not capture every-
thing, as Twitter may contain background noise that we
can t easily analyze.
Fig. 4 gives word shift graphs for three of the happiest
days according to the hedonometer analysis. These dates
are indicated in the top plot in Fig. 2. The word shift
graphs use un ltered tweets as the reference text and
climate tweets as the comparison text for the date given
in each title. Fig. 4(a) shows that climate tweets were
happier than un ltered tweets on December 28, 2008.
This is due in part to a decrease in the word  no , and an
increase in the words  united ,  play , and  hopes . On
this day, there were  high hopes  for the U.S. response
to climate change. An example tweet by OneWorld News
is given in Fig. 5(a) [29].
Fig. 4(b) shows that climate tweets were happier than
un ltered tweets on April 9, 2009, largely due to the in-
crease in positive words  book ,  energy , and  prize .
Twitter users were discussing the release of a new book
called Sustainable Energy Without the Hot Air by David
JC MacKay [30]. Also on this date, users were posting
about a Climate Prize given to a solar-powered cooker
in a contest for green ideas. Example tweets include
Fig. 5(b) and (c) [31, 32]. Finally, Fig. 4(c) shows that cli-
mate tweets were happier than un ltered tweets on April
30, 2012. This is due to the increased usage of the words
 dear ,  new ,  protect ,  forest ,  save , and  please .
On this date, Twitter users were reaching out to Brazil-
ian president Dilma to save the Amazon rainforest, e.g.,
Fig. 5(d) [33].
Similarly, Fig. 6 gives word shift graphs for three of
the saddest days according to the hedonometer analy-
sis. These dates are indicated in the top panel in Fig. 2.
Fig. 6(a) shows an increase in many negative words on
October 9, 2008. Topics of conversation in tweets con-
taining  climate  include the threat posed by climate
change to a tropical species, a British climate bill, and the
U.S. economic crisis. Example tweets include Fig. 5(e-g)
[34 36].
Fig. 6(b)
shows an increase in negative words
 poor , assault ,  battle , and  bill  on April 4, 2010.
Popular topics of conversation on this date included a
California climate law and President Obama s oil-drilling
plan. Example tweets include Fig. 5(h) and (i) [37, 38].
Finally, Fig. 6(c) shows that the words  don t  and
 stop  contributed most to the decrease in happiness on
August 6, 2011. A topic of conversation on this date was
the Keystone XL pipeline, a proposed extension to the
current Keystone Pipeline. An example tweet is given in
Fig. 5(j) [39].
This per day analysis of tweets containing  climate 
shows that many of the important issues pertaining to
climate change appear on Twitter, and demonstrate dif-
ferent levels of happiness based on the events that are
unfolding. In the following section, we investigate spe-
ci c climate change events that may exhibit a peak or a
dip in happiness. First, we analyze the climate change
discussion during several natural disasters that may have
raised awareness of some of the consequences of climate
change. Then, we analyze a non-weather related event
pertaining to climate change.
Natural Disasters
Natural disasters such as hurricanes and tornados have
the potential to focus society s collective attention and
spark conversations about climate change. A person s be-
lief in climate change is often correlated with the weather
on the day the question is asked [40 42]. A study using
 climate change  and  global warming  tweets showed
that both weather and mass media coverage heavily in-
 uence belief in anthropogenic climate change [43].
In
this section, we analyze tweets during three natural dis-
asters: Hurricane Irene, Hurricane Sandy, and a mid-
west tornado outbreak that damaged many towns includ-
ing Moore, Oklahoma and Rozel, Kansas. Fig. 7 gives
the frequencies of the words  hurricane  and  tornado 
within tweets that contain the word  climate . Each plot
labels several of the spikes with the names of the hurri-
canes (top) or the locations (state abbreviations) of the
tornado outbreaks (bottom). This  gure indicates that
before Hurricane Irene in August 2011, hurricanes were
not commonly referenced alongside climate, and before
the April 2011 tornado outbreak in Alabama and Missis-
sippi, tornados were not commonly referenced alongside
climate.
This analysis, however, will not capture every hurri-
cane or tornado mentioned on Twitter, only those that
were referenced alongside the word  climate . Hurricane
Arthur, for example, occurred in early July, 2014 and
does not appear as a spike in Fig. 7. This particular hur-
ricane did not cause nearly as much damage or as many
fatalities as the hurricanes that do appear in Fig. 7, and
perhaps did not draw enough attention to highlight a
link between hurricanes and climate change on Twitter.
Additionally, a large tornado outbreak in Kentucky, Al-
abama, Indiana, and Ohio occurred in early March 2012
and does not appear as a spike in our analysis.
Fig. 7 shows that the largest peak in the word  hurri-
7
Figure 4. Word shift graphs for three of the happiest days in the climate tweet time series.
cane  occurred during Hurricane Sandy in October 2012.
Fig. 8 provides a deeper analysis for the climate time se-
ries during hurricane Sandy. The time series of the words
 hurricane  and  climate  as a fraction of all tweets be-
fore, during, and after Hurricane Sandy hit are given in
Fig. 8(a) and (c). Spikes in the frequency of usage of
these words is evident in these plots. The decay of each
word is  tted with a power law in Fig. 8(b) and (d). A
power law is a functional relationship of the following
form:
f (t   tevent) =  (t   tevent)
  
(1)
Here, t is measured in days, and tevent is the day Hurri-
cane Sandy made landfall. f (t) represents the relative
frequency of the word  hurricane  (top) or  climate 
(bottom), and   and   are constants.
Using the power law  t, we calculate the  rst three half
lives of the decay. Letting M equal the maximum relative
frequency, the time at which the  rst half life of the power
law relationship occurs is calculated by equation 2:
t 1
2
=
(2)
(cid:19)  1
 
(cid:18) M
2 
Figure 5. Example tweets on the happiest and saddest days
for climate conversation on Twitter
The  rst three half lives of the decay in the frequency of
the word  hurricane  during hurricane Sandy are 1.57,
0.96, and 1.56 additional days. Since the decay is not ex-
ponential, these half lives are not constant. The  rst half
life indicates that after about a day and a half,  hurri-
cane  was already tweeted only half as often. The second
8
Figure 6. Word shift graphs for 3 of the saddest days in the climate tweet time series.
Figure 7. Frequency of the word  hurricane   (top) and  tor-
nado  (bottom) within tweets containing the word  climate .
Several spikes have been identi ed with the hurricane or tor-
nado that took place during that time period.
Figure 8. Decay rates of the words  hurricane  (top) and
 climate  (bottom). The left plots gives the time series of
each word during hurricane Sandy. The right plots gives the
power law  t for the decay in relative frequency, x-axes are
spaced logarithmically. The power law exponents are given in
the titles of the  gures.
half life indicates that after one more day,  hurricane 
was tweeted only one fourth as often, and so on. Thus,
it did not take long for the discussion of the hurricane to
decrease. The half lives, however, of the word  climate 
are much larger at 8.19, 22.58, and 84.85 days.
Fig. 9 gives happiness time series plots for three natu-
ral disasters occurring in the United States. These plots
show that there is a dip in happiness on the day that
the disasters hit the a ected areas, o ering additional
evidence that sentiment is depressed by natural disas-
ters [24]. The word shift graphs indicate which words
contributed to the dip in happiness. The circles on the
bottom right of the word shift plots indicate that for all
three disasters, the dip in happiness is due to an increase
in negative words, more so than a decrease in positive
9
Figure 9. Happiness time series plots for tweets containing the word  climate  one week before and one week after three natural
disasters in the United States (top) and word shift graphs indicating what words contributed most to the drop in happiness
during the natural disasters (bottom). The word shift graphs compare the climate tweets to un ltered tweets on the day of the
natural disaster.
words. During a natural disaster, tweets mentioning the
word  climate  use more negative words than tweets not
mentioning the word  climate .
ticular focus. Fig. 10 shows that the happiness of climate
tweets increased slightly above the un ltered tweets dur-
ing this event, which only occurs on 8% of days in Fig. 2.
Forward on Climate Rally
In this section, we analyze tweets during the Forward
on Climate Rally, which took place in Washington D.C.
on February 17, 2013. The goal of the rally, one of the
largest climate rallies ever in the United States, was to
convince the government to take action against climate
change. The proposed Keystone pipeline bill was a par-
Despite the presence of negative words such as
 protestors ,  denial , and  crisis , the Forward on Cli-
mate Rally introduced positive words such as  live ,
 largest , and  promise . The Keystone pipeline bill was
eventually vetoed by President Obama.
10
Figure 10. Left: Happiness time series plot for un ltered
tweets (red dashed) and tweets containing the word  climate 
(blue solid) one week before and one week after the Forward
on Climate Rally. Right: word shift plot for climate tweets
versus un ltered tweets on the day of the rally.
CONCLUSION
We have provided a general exploration of the senti-
ment surrounding tweets containing the word  climate 
in response to natural disasters and climate change news
and events. The general public is becoming more likely
to use social media as an information source, and dis-
cussion on Twitter is becoming more commonplace. We
 nd that tweets containing the word  climate  are less
happy than all tweets.
In the United States, climate
change is a topic that is heavily politicized; the words
 deny ,  denial , and  deniers  are used more often in
tweets containing the word  climate . The words that
appear in our climate-related tweets word shift suggest
that the discussion surrounding climate change is dom-
inated by climate change activists rather than climate
change deniers, indicating that the twittersphere largely
agrees with the scienti c consensus on this issue. The
presence of the words  science  and  scientists  in al-
most every word shift in this analysis also strengthens
this  nding (see also [24]). The decreased  denial  of
climate change is evidence for how a democratization of
knowledge transfer through mass media can circumvent
the in uence of large stakeholders on public opinion.
In examining tweets on speci c dates, we have deter-
mined that climate change news is abundant on Twitter.
Events such as the release of a book, the winner of a
green ideas contest, or a plea to a political  gure can
produce an increase in sentiment for tweets discussing
climate change. For example, the Forward on Climate
Rally demonstrates a day when the happiness of climate
conversation peaked above the background conversation.
On the other hand, consequences of climate change such
as threats to certain species, extreme weather events, and
climate related legislative bills can cause a decrease in
overall happiness of the climate conversation on Twitter
due to an increase in the use words such as  threat ,
 crisis , and  battle .
Natural disasters are more commonly discussed within
climate-related tweets than un ltered tweets, implying
that some Twitter users associate climate change with
the increase in severity and frequency of certain natu-
ral disasters [44 46]. During Hurricane Irene, for exam-
ple, the word  threat  was used much more often within
climate tweets, suggesting that climate change may be
perceived as a bigger threat than the hurricane itself.
The analysis of Hurricane Sandy in Fig. 8 demonstrates
that while climate conversation peaked during Hurricane
Sandy, it persisted longer than the conversation about
the hurricane itself.
While climate change news is prevalent in traditional
media, our research provides an overall analysis of cli-
mate change discussion on the social media site, Twitter.
Through social media, the general public can learn about
current events and display their own opinions about
global issues such as climate change. Twitter may be a
useful asset in the ongoing battle against anthropogenic
climate change, as well as a useful research source for
social scientists, an unsolicited public opinion tool for
policy makers, and public engagement channel for scien-
tists.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
The authors are grateful for the computational re-
sources provided by the Vermont Advanced Computing
Core which is supported by the Vermont Complex Sys-
tems Center. CMD, AJR, EMC, and LM were sup-
ported by National Science Foundation (NSF) grant
DMS-0940271 to the Mathematics & Climate Research
Network. PSD was supported by NSF CAREER Award
#0846668. Thanks to Mary Lou Zeeman for helpful dis-
cussions.
[1] Maxwell T Boyko  and Jules M Boyko . Climate change
and journalistic norms: A case-study of US mass-media
coverage. Geoforum, 38(6):1190 1204, 2007.
[2] Christopher Field and Maarten Van Aalst. Climate
change 2014: Impacts, adaptation, and vulnerability, vol-
ume 1. IPCC, 2014.
[3] E. M. Fischer and R. Knutti. Anthropogenic contribu-
tion to global occurrence of heavy-precipitation and high-
temperature extremes. Nature Climate Change, advance
online publication, April 2015.
[4] Anthony Leiserowitz, Edward Maibach, Connie Roser-
Renouf, Geo  Feinberg, and Peter Howe. Climate change
in the american mind: Americans  global warming beliefs
and attitudes in April, 2013. Yale University and George
Mason University. New Haven, CT: Yale Project on Cli-
mate Change Communication, 2013.
[5] Peter D Howe, Matto Mildenberger, Jennifer R Marlon,
and Anthony Leiserowitz. Geographic variation in opin-
ions on climate change at state and local scales in the
usa. Nature Climate Change, 2015.
[6] Peter T Doran and Maggie Kendall Zimmerman. Ex-
amining the scienti c consensus on climate change. Eos,
Transactions American Geophysical Union, 90(3):22 23,
2009.
[7] William RL Anderegg, James W Prall, Jacob Harold,
and Stephen H Schneider. Expert credibility in climate
change. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,
107(27):12107 12109, 2010.
[8] Kris M Wilson. Mass media as sources of global warming
knowledge. Mass Comm Review, 22:75 89, 1995.
[9] Maxwell T Boyko . Who speaks for the climate?: Making
sense of media reporting on climate change. Cambridge
University Press, 2011.
[10] James W Dearing and Everett M Rogers. Agenda-setting,
volume 6. Sage Publications, 1996.
[11] Nan Cao, Yu-Ru Lin, Xiaohua Sun, David Lazer, Shixia
Liu, and Huamin Qu. Whisper: Tracing the spatiotem-
poral process of information di usion in real time. Vi-
sualization and Computer Graphics, IEEE Transactions
on, 18(12):2649 2658, 2012.
[12] Yu-Ru Lin, Drew Margolin, Brian Keegan, and David
Lazer. Voices of victory: A computational focus group
framework for tracking opinion shift in real time. In Pro-
ceedings of the 22nd international conference on World
Wide Web, pages 737 748. International World Wide
Web Conferences Steering Committee, 2013.
[13] Yu-Ru Lin, Brian Keegan, Drew Margolin, and David
Lazer. Rising tides or rising stars?: Dynamics of shared
attention on Twitter during media events. PloS one,
9(5):e94093, 2014.
[14] Takeshi Sakaki, Makoto Okazaki, and Yutaka Matsuo.
Earthquake shakes Twitter users: real-time event detec-
tion by social sensors. In Proceedings of the 19th inter-
national conference on World wide web, pages 851 860.
ACM, 2010.
[15] Eiji Aramaki, Sachiko Maskawa, and Mizuki Morita.
Twitter catches the  u: detecting in uenza epidemics us-
ing Twitter. In Proceedings of the conference on empirical
methods in natural language processing, pages 1568 1576.
Association for Computational Linguistics, 2011.
[16] Michael J Paul and Mark Dredze. You are what you
tweet: Analyzing Twitter for public health. In ICWSM,
pages 265 272, 2011.
[17] Yury Kryvasheyeu, Haohui Chen, Nick Obradovich, Es-
teban Moro, Pascal Van Hentenryck, James Fowler, and
Manuel Serbian. Nowcasting disaster damage. Submit-
ted, April 2015.
[18] Tuan Q. Phan and Edoardo M. Airoldi. A natural ex-
periment of social network formation and dynamics. Pro-
ceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 2015.
11
[19] Peter Sheridan Dodds, Kameron Decker Harris, Isabel M
Kloumann, Catherine A Bliss, and Christopher M Dan-
forth. Temporal patterns of happiness and information
in a global social network: Hedonometrics and Twitter.
PLoS ONE, 6(12):e26752, 2011.
[20] Lewis Mitchell, Morgan R Frank, Kameron Decker Har-
ris, Peter Sheridan Dodds, and Christopher M Danforth.
The geography of happiness: Connecting Twitter senti-
ment and expression, demographics, and objective char-
acteristics of place. PLoS ONE, 8(5):e64417, 2013.
[21] Isabel M Kloumann, Christopher M Danforth,
and
the English
Kameron Decker Harris, Catherine A Bliss,
Peter Sheridan Dodds.
Positivity of
language. PLoS ONE, 7(1):e29484, 2012.
[22] Catherine A Bliss, Isabel M Kloumann, Kameron Decker
Harris, Christopher M Danforth, and Peter Sheridan
Dodds. Twitter reciprocal reply networks exhibit assor-
tativity with respect to happiness. Journal of Computa-
tional Science, 3(5):388 397, 2012.
[23] Haewoon Kwak, Changhyun Lee, Hosung Park, and Sue
Moon. What is Twitter, a social network or a news me-
dia? In Proceedings of the 19th international conference
on World wide web, pages 591 600. ACM, 2010.
[24] Xiaoran An, Auroop R Ganguly, Yi Fang, Steven B
Scyphers, Ann M Hunter, and Jennifer G Dy. Tracking
climate change opinions from Twitter data. Workshop
on Data Science for Social Good, 2014.
[25] Hywel TP Williams, James R McMurray, Tim Kurz, and
F Hugo Lambert. Network analysis reveals open forums
and echo chambers in social media discussions of climate
change. Global Environmental Change, 32:126 138, 2015.
[26] Joseph T Ripberger, Hank C Jenkins-Smith, Carol L
Silva, Deven E Carlson, and Matthew Henderson. So-
cial media and severe weather: Do tweets provide a valid
indicator of public attention to severe weather risk com-
munication? Weather, Climate, and Society, 6(4):520 
530, 2014.
[27] Mark Twain, Michael Barry Frank, Robert Pack Brown-
ing, Lin Salamo, Frederick Anderson, and Mark Twain.
Mark Twain s Notebooks & Journals, Volume III:(1883-
1891), volume 8. Univ of California Press, 1980.
[28] Jonathon P Schuldt, Sara H Konrath, and Norbert
Schwarz.
or ?climate change??
whether the planet is warming depends on question word-
ing. Public Opinion Quarterly, page nfq073, 2011.
?global warming?
[29] OneWorld News. Twitter, 2008 (accessed March 19,
2015). https://twitter.com/OneWorld_News/status/
1083004712.
[30] David MacKay. Sustainable Energy-without the hot air.
UIT Cambridge, 2008.
[31] Shifting Solutions. Twitter, 2009 (accessed March 19,
2015). https://twitter.com/ShiftSolutions/status/
1485975759.
[32] Cory Doctorow. Twitter, 2009 (accessed March 19, 2015).
https://twitter.com/doctorow/status/1482803994.
[33] WWF. Twitter, 2012 (accessed March 19, 2015). https:
//twitter.com/WWF/status/196902312797671424.
[34] NewGreenStu . Twitter, 2008 (accessed March 19,
2015). https://twitter.com/NewGreenStuff/status/
953099924.
[35] OneWorld News. Twitter, 2008 (accessed March 19,
2015). https://twitter.com/OneWorld_News/status/
953758970.
12
[36] Don Carli. Twitter, 2008 (accessed March 19, 2015).
https://twitter.com/dcarli/status/953288121.
[37] NewsOnGreen.
Twitter, 2010 (accessed March 19,
https://twitter.com/NewsOnGreen/status/
2015).
11608867076.
[38] Humanitarian News. Twitter, 2010 (accessed March 19,
https://twitter.com/HumanityNews/status/
2015).
11612292989.
[39] Open View Gardens. Twitter, 2011 (accessed March
https://twitter.com/openviewgardens/
19, 2015).
status/99975488293978112.
[40] Lisa Zaval, Elizabeth A Keenan, Eric J Johnson, and
Elke U Weber. How warm days increase belief in global
warming. Nature Climate Change, 4(2):143 147, 2014.
[41] Ye Li, Eric J Johnson, and Lisa Zaval. Local warm-
ing daily temperature change in uences belief in global
warming. Psychological Science, 2011.
[42] Lawrence C Hamilton and Mary D Stampone. Blowin 
in the wind: Short-term weather and belief in anthro-
pogenic climate change. Weather, Climate, and Society,
5(2):112 119, 2013.
[43] Andrei P Kirilenko, Tatiana Molodtsova, and Svetlana O
Stepchenkova. People as sensors: Mass media and local
temperature in uence climate change discussion on Twit-
ter. Global Environmental Change, 30:92 100, 2015.
[44] Michael E. Mann and Kerry A. Emanuel. Atlantic hurri-
cane trends linked to climate change. Eos, Transactions
American Geophysical Union, 87(24):233 241, 2006.
[45] Daniel G. Huber and Jay Gulledge. Extreme weather and
climate change: Understanding the link, managing the
risk. Pew Center on Global Climate Change Arlington,
2011.
[46] Christopher B Field. Managing the risks of extreme
events and disasters to advance climate change adapta-
tion: special report of the intergovernmental panel on cli-
mate change. Cambridge University Press, 2012.
