Characterizing Key Stakeholders in an
Online Black-Hat Marketplace
Shehroze Farooqi
University of Iowa
Iowa City, IA, USA
Muhammad Ikram
Data61 CSIRO, UNSW
Sydney, NSW, Australia
Emiliano De Cristofaro
University College London
Arik Friedman
Atlassian
shehroze-farooqi@uiowa.edu
Muhammad.Ikram@data61.csiro.au
e.decristofaro@ucl.ac.uk
London, UK
Sydney, NSW, Australia
arik.friedman@gmail.com
7
1
0
2
 
r
p
A
4
 
 
 
]
Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
2
v
7
3
6
1
0
.
5
0
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Guillaume Jourjon
Data61 CSIRO
Sydney, NSW, Australia
Guillaume.Jourjon@data61.csiro.au
Mohamed Ali Kaafar
Data61 CSIRO
Sydney, NSW, Australia
dali.kaafar@data61.csiro.au
Zubair Sha q
University of Iowa
Iowa City, IA, USA
Fareed Zaffar
LUMS
Lahore, Pakistan
zubair-sha q@uiowa.edu
fareed.zaffar@lums.edu.pk
Abstract Over the past few years, many black-hat mar-
facilitate access to reputation
ketplaces have emerged that
manipulation services such as fake Facebook likes, fraudulent
search engine optimization (SEO), or bogus Amazon reviews. In
order to deploy effective technical and legal countermeasures,
it is important to understand how these black-hat marketplaces
operate, shedding light on the services they offer, who is selling,
who is buying, what are they buying, who is more successful, why
are they successful, etc. Toward this goal, in this paper, we present
a detailed micro-economic analysis of a popular online black-hat
marketplace, namely, SEOClerks.com. As the site provides non-
anonymized transaction information, we set to analyze selling
and buying behavior of individual users, propose a strategy to
identify key users, and study their tactics as compared to other
(non-key) users. We  nd that key users: (1) are mostly located
in Asian countries, (2) are focused more on selling black-hat
SEO services, (3) tend to list more lower priced services, and
(4) sometimes buy services from other sellers and then sell at
higher prices. Finally, we discuss the implications of our analysis
with respect to devising effective economic and legal intervention
strategies against marketplace operators and key users.
I. INTRODUCTION
Reputation plays a very important role in online services
including e-commerce sites, search engines, or online social
networks. For instance, Amazon uses customer reviews to help
users assess the credibility of sellers, Google relies on PageR-
ank to determine search ranking of websites, while Facebook
likes often offer a measure of the popularity of brands. As a
result, it is not surprising that an increasing number of black-
hat marketplaces facilitate access to reputation manipulation
services. A multitude of online and underground (i.e., hosted
as Tor hidden services) black-hat marketplaces sell services
to generate bogus reviews, obtain fake likes, arti cially boost
PageRank, etc. Several companies such as Amazon and Face-
book have  led lawsuits against users who provide reputation
manipulation services [8], [18]. For instance, Amazon recently
conducted a sting operation on Fiverr and sued more than
a thousand  John Doe  fraudsters for selling bogus reviews
[5]. Law enforcement agencies have also cracked down on
different underground black-hat marketplaces [1], [2], [4].
However, the cleanup or closure of a black-hat marketplace
typically leads to increased popularity of other services [19].
In a way,
the overall black-hat marketplace ecosystem is
generally robust to such measures, highlighting the multi-
faceted and complex nature of the problem. Therefore, the
design and implementation of effective technical and legal
countermeasures requires a thorough examination and deep
understanding of how these black-hat marketplaces operate.
Prior work has studied their evolution and the types of fraud-
ulent and illicit services they offer
[6], [10] [16], [19] [21],
[23] [25]. However, very little work has focused on individual
sellers, buyers, and services: arguably, such an analysis is quite
challenging, as most online and underground marketplaces do
not reveal detailed buyer-seller transaction information. For
instance, many black-hat marketplaces only provide aggregate
positive and negative ratings which makes it impossible to
track speci c transactions among users on the marketplace.
Aiming to address this gap, this paper presents a  rst-of-
its-kind, detailed micro-economic analysis of a popular online
black-hat marketplace: SEOClerks.com. We select SEOClerks
as it provides detailed ratings, allowing us to analyze indi-
vidual transaction-level information. Moreover, SEOClerks is
more popular than most of the other online black-hat market-
places studied in prior work (e.g., [24], [25]). At the time of
writing, SEOClerks is ranked in the top 12K websites globally
by Alexa; whereas, for example, Sandaha.com is ranked 213K,
Zhubajei.com 353K, and Shuakewang.com 1,128K.
Our goal is to identify key stakeholders on online black-
hat marketplaces and understand their role in order to develop
effective countermeasures. First, we identify key users who are
among the early joiners, are very active, and make the most
money on the marketplace. Next, we characterize how key
users differ as compared to other (non-key) users. We compare
and contrast key and non-key users in terms of the services
they offer, and their selling and buying behavior.
We start our analysis with a general characterization of
SEOClerks,  nding that
it has over 262K users and 39K
listed services. Using individual buyer ratings as a proxy for
sales, our lower-bound estimate of the marketplace revenue
is $1.3 million. Moreover, we estimate that SEOClerks op-
erators have earned hundreds of thousands of dollars from
fees/commissions and advertising.
Next, we look for key users on the marketplace, identifying
99 of them. These are among the early joiners (accounts were
registered around the launch of the marketplace), are very
active (they have logged on to the site within a week of our
crawl), and/or make the most money on the marketplace. These
users, although accounting for less than 0.04% of all users and
offering only 9% of all services, actually generate 56% of the
marketplace revenue. We also  nd that a majority of key users
are located in Asian countries (India, Indonesia), while buyers
are relatively concentrated in European and North American
countries (USA, UK, Italy).
The vast majority of services on SEOClerks are fraudulent,
e.g., selling inbound links from other web pages ( backlinks )
to improve Google PageRank, in ating website traf c for click
fraud, fake Instagram followers, Twitter retweets, or Facebook
likes. Black-hat SEO services offered by key users actually
account for a majority of their revenue. Key users are typically
allowed to offer lower priced services (starting at $1) and their
services tend to receive more views than the services offered
by other users.
Also, some key users purchase services from other sellers
on SEOClerks and sell it at higher prices. For example, a
key user offers a service for bogus SoundCloud plays and has
also repeatedly purchased a similar service from another seller.
Finally, we show that SEOClerks operators use an escrow
mechanism to get transaction/commission fees and to resolve
disputes between sellers and buyers; thus, their marketplace
accounts on PayPal, Payza, and BitPay can be targeted for
economic and legal intervention.
Overall, black-hat marketplaces constitute a key link in the
Internet fraud chain [12]. Through their characterization, our
work aims to help in devising effective economic and legal
intervention strategies. Since key users constitute a majority
of the marketplace revenue, targeting them can considerably
limit fraudulent activities out of black-hat marketplaces.
II. DATA
last
Data Collection. We conducted a complete crawl of
SEOClerks.com in February 2015, using the Scrapy web
crawler1. SEOClerks has a directory of user pro les that
contains username, account creation date,
login date,
location, user reputation level, average response time, rat-
ings, description of skills, and the list of services offered.
SEOClerks also has a directory of services that contains
service price, service creation date, a description of the service,
seller s username, expected delivery time, number of orders
in progress, number of views, and positive/negative buyer
ratings. We collected all publicly available information from
both user and service directories. We also crawled individual
buyer ratings on service pages to identify their buyers.
1http://www.scrapy.org
2
Number of Users
Number of Services
Number of Services Sold
Total Revenue
Average Revenue per service
Alexa Global Rank
262,909
39,520
8,862
$1,349,316
$152
12K
TABLE I: Statistics of SEOClerks marketplace.
General Statistics. Table I summarizes overall statistics of
the SEOClerks marketplace. SEOClerks is ranked by Alexa
in the top 12K websites globally and top 3K in India. Our
crawled data includes 262,909 users and 39,520 services. 22%
of the services on SEOClerks are sold at least once. The
average revenue per sold service is $152. The estimated total
revenue of SEOClerks is $1,349,316, which is obtained by
multiplying the price of each service with the corresponding
rating count. Since buyers are not required but are highly-
recommended to rate the purchased services, our estimate
represents a lower-bound on the actual total revenue. We also
note that several services include some add-ons (or  service
extras ) for additional payment. From our crawls, we cannot
identify the purchase of these add-ons. Thus, our lower bound
on the estimated revenue does not include service extras.
Ethical Considerations. As we collected and analyzed data
pertaining to possibly fraudulent activities, we requested ap-
proval from our Institutional Review Board, which classi ed
our research as exempt. We note that: (1) we did not engage
in any fraudulent transactions at the marketplace, and (2) we
only collected publicly available information.
III. IDENTIFYING KEY STAKEHOLDERS
Our work aims to identify and analyze key stakeholders
who are crucial for the success of a black-hat marketplace. We
hypothesize that key users of an online black-hat marketplace
(1) join the marketplace soon after it was launched; (2) are
among the most successful sellers on the marketplace; and (3)
are very active on the marketplace. Below, we further discuss
and use these three criteria to identify key users on SEOClerks.
Early Joiners. We  rst analyze the registration of users over
time on SEOClerks using the account creation date reported
for each user. Figure 1(a) plots the daily registration rate of
new users and the cumulative number of users on SEOClerks.
We note that the  rst user account was registered in mid-
2011. Our assessment is con rmed by the Internet Archive
Wayback Machine2, which has the  rst snapshot of SEOClerks
dating back to October 7, 2011. Note that the number of
users initially grew fairly slowly (daily new users < 10).
The marketplace experienced a sudden increase in new users
beginning early 2013. The increase in the number of new users
might be explained by an aggressive social media campaign in
early 2013 (offering $2 promotional credit for tweeting about
SEOClerks)3. The vertical black line in Figure 1(a) marks the
change point in early 2013 after which we observe a sharp
2http://web.archive.org
3http://web.archive.org/web/20130102230631/http://www.seoclerks.com/
freemoney
(a) Registration of Users over time
(b) Distribution of Sellers  Revenue
(c) Distribution of Last Login Date of Sellers.
(d) Relationship between seller join date, last login date, and revenue. Circle
size represents seller revenue. Red circles represent key users while blue
circles represent non-key users.
Fig. 1: Identi cation of key users on SEOClerks
increase in new user registrations. The users who joined the
marketplace before this cutoff date are labeled as early joiners.
Using this criterion, we identify a total of 391 early joiners.
Top Sellers. We de ne a user as a seller if the user has
posted at least one service on SEOClerks. In total, we identify
8,861 sellers on SEOClerks. Figure 1(b) plots the revenue
distribution for sellers on SEOClerks. Out of 8,861 sellers,
only 2,228 sellers sold at least one service. The long-tail
distribution indicates that a small number of sellers account for
most of the marketplace revenue. We label the top 10% sellers
(marked by the vertical black line) among the 2,228 sellers
as top sellers. These 222 top sellers account for $1,181,339
(88%) revenue on SEOClerks.
Active Sellers. We identify active sellers on SEOClerks by
analyzing their last login date. Whenever a user logs in to
SEOClerks, the last login date is updated on the user s pro le.
Figure 1(c) plots the distribution of sellers  last login date (at
the time of our crawl) on SEOClerks. We observe that more
than half of the sellers on SEOClerks are not active. We note
that 2,826 (32%) sellers logged in to the marketplace within a
week of our crawl (marked by the vertical black line). Since
active sellers need to log in frequently in order to respond to
customers and receive new orders, we label these 2,826 sellers
who logged in within a week of our crawl as active sellers.
Identifying Key Users. Figure 1(d) visualizes marketplace
sellers using a scatter plot for join date and last login date,
where the radius of each circle is proportional to the seller
revenue. We mark the users who satisfy the aforementioned
three criteria with red circles. The remaining users are marked
with blue circles. It is surprising to note that a vast majority of
users who joined the marketplace before 2013 logged in very
recently. We also observe that a majority of these users are
also top sellers on SEOClerks. We label a total of 99 sellers
who satisfy the aforementioned three criteria as key users.
We next analyze the characteristics of these key users with
the aim of facilitating the design of technical countermeasures
3
and strategies for economic or legal intervention.
IV. MARKETPLACE ANALYSIS
This section presents an in-depth analysis of SEOClerks
with an emphasis on comparing and contrasting key users and
non-key users. We analyze a wide range of characteristics for
services, sellers, and buyers on the marketplace.
A. Services
A vast majority of services on SEOClerks are geared
towards fraudulent services such as selling backlinks for black-
hat SEO, website traf c, Instagram followers, Twitter retweets,
Facebook likes, URL spam, etc. We identi ed a total of 39,520
services offered on SEOClerks. A total of 3,645 (9%) services
were posted by key users, while the remaining 35,875 (91%)
services were posted by non-key users. Below we characterize
different aspects of the services offered by key users and non-
key users.
Pricing. The services on SEOClerks are priced anywhere in
the range of $1-$999. Figure 2(a) plots the distributions of
service prices for key users and non-key users. We observe
that a vast majority of services are priced in the lower range.
For instance, 3,197 (88%) services offered by key users and
31,719 (80%) services offered by non-key users are priced up
to $20. Note that $999 is the maximum service price allowed
by SEOClerks, while $5 is the minimum allowed service price
for the newly registered sellers. The mode of service price
distribution for key users is $1 and that for non-key users is
$5, which accounts for 416 (11%) services for key users and
11,227 (31%) services for non-key users. As we discuss later,
only experienced sellers on SEOClerks are allowed to post
services that are priced below the $5 limit. Since key users
are much more experienced than non-key users, more than a
quarter of the services offered by key users are under $5, while
only 11% of the services offered by non-key users are under
$5.
Sales. We recorded a total of 233,638 sales resulting in the
estimated revenue of $1,349,316 on SEOClerks. Key users
account for more than half of the total sales and revenue. More
speci cally, key users made 121,923 sales accounting for an
estimated revenue of $758,959 (56%), while non-key users
made 111,715 sales accounting for an estimated revenue of
$590,357 (44%). Figures 2(b) and 2(c) show the distributions
of service volume and revenue for key and non-key users. It is
noteworthy that a vast majority of services by key users (1,874
= 51%) and non-key users (26,547 = 74%) have no sales and
thus zero revenue.
We observe a skewed distribution of sales volume and
revenue. For key users, 9% of the services had just one sale,
5% of the services had two sales, and 3% of services had
three sales. For non-key users, 8% of the services had just one
sale, 3% of the services had two sales, and 2% of services
had three sales. On the other hand, a few popular services
account for a large fraction of sales. For key users, the most
popular service in terms of sales volume is  add 2000 to
2500 Youtube views or 600+ INSTAGRAM Followers or 1000
Likes  (priced at $2) and has 3,853 sales resulting in $7,706
revenue. For non-key users, the most popular service in terms
of sales volume is  400 Facebook Fanpage likes OR 1300
Twitter Marketing OR 1500 INSTAGRAM Marketing  (priced
at $3) and has 2,968 sales resulting in $8,904 revenue. While
we note that low priced services tend to have high sale volume,
higher priced services still tend to generate more revenue. For
key users, the top service in terms of revenue is  Backlinks
to improve Google search ranking  (priced at $29) attracting
1,364 sales yielding $39,556 in revenue. For non-key users,
the top service in terms of revenue is  Google X Factor Link
Circle For Higher Ranking And Quality Links  (priced at $57)
attracting 550 sales yielding $31,350 in revenue.
View Count. To further examine why key users account for
more sales and revenue, we analyze the correlation between
service view count and sales volume. Figure 2(d) plots the
distribution of view count for services offered by key users
and non-key users. We note that the services offered by key
users are generally viewed more than those by non-key users.
For example, the average number of views for key users is
9,218 while the average number of views for non-key users
is 1,962. Moreover, 1.3% of the services offered by key users
are viewed more than 100 thousand times while only 0.1%
of the services offered by non-key users are viewed over
100 thousand times. Our eyeball analysis revealed that most
services featured on the homepage are posted by key users.
We surmise that the services offered by key users tend to
have higher view counts because they are more frequently
featured on the marketplace. To test whether higher view
counts translate into more sales, we analyze the correlation
between service view count and sale volume. Figures 3(a) and
3(b) visualize the correlation between service view count and
sale volume for key users and non-key users, respectively. We
note that services with more views tend to have higher sales
volume for both key and non-key users. Thus, due to their
higher view count, it is expected that the services offered by
key users tend to garner more sales than those by non-key
users.
Service Categorization. To systematically analyze different
types of fraudulent services on SEOClerks, we use keyword
analysis and manual curation to group top selling services
into various categories based on their target, e.g., Twitter
followers, Instagram followers, search engine manipulation,
etc. Tables II and
the top categories of services
and the top selling service for each category for key users
and non-key users, respectively. We note that a majority of
services target black-hat search engine optimization and social
network reputation manipulation for both key users and non-
key users. Speci cally, more than 40% of services offered
by key users target black-hat SEO; whereas, 23% of services
offered by non-key users target black-hat SEO. Black-hat SEO
services account for more than half of the revenue of services
sold by key users and 31% of the total marketplace revenue.
In contrast, more than 50% of the services offered by non-
III list
4
(a) Price
(b) Volume
(c) Revenue
(d) Views
Fig. 2: Distribution of service price, volume, revenue, and views on SEOClerks.
(a) Key users
(b) Non-key users
Fig. 3: Scatter plot of service view count and sales volume.
key users target popular social media platforms while about
28% percent of services of key users are targeted towards
social media platforms. The largest service category among
social media platforms for non-key users is Twitter. The most
popular service in Twitter category provides  1 million Twitter
followers  for $849 and has garnered $11,037 in total revenue.
5
Category
% of Services
Revenue
Black-hat SEO
Instagram
YouTube
Twitter
Website traf c
Revenue
$39,556
$7,706
$3,5160
$4,320
$8,640
TABLE II: Service categories and the most popular service in each category for key users.
40.6% $417,865 (55%) Backlinks to improve search ranking
13.9%
8.0%
16.1%
9.5%
1,000 Instagram followers
100,000 safe YouTube views
50,0000 followers or 2,000 re-tweets
Promote on a large Facebook group
$78,274 (10%)
$73,409 (10%)
$52,583 (7%)
$49,599 (6%)
Description
Top Service
Price
$29
$10
$120
$20
$10
Category
% of Services
Revenue
Top Service
Description
Black-hat SEO
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Website traf c
23.0% $173,081 (29%) Rank your website on  rst page
22.2%
12.6%
10.9%
7.0%
$82,147 (14%)
$47,591 (8%)
$24,417 (4%)
$19,226 (3%) Views UP - Web Traf c Bot
1 million Twitter followers
1,000 Instagram followers
8,000 safe YouTube views
Revenue
$31,350
$11,037
$4,418
$2,052
$2,360
Price
$57
$849
$2
$12
$40
TABLE III: Service categories and the most popular service in each category for non-key users.
In contrast, the largest service category among social media
platforms for key users is Instagram. The most popular service
in Instagram category provides  1,000 Instagram followers 
for $10 and has garnered $7,706 in total revenue.
B. Users
General Stats. We  nd a list of 262,909 users on SEOClerks.
We label a user as a seller if the user has listed at least
one service. Similarly, we label a user as a buyer if the user
has purchased at least one service. Note that a user may be
categorized both as seller and buyer.We identi ed 8,861 sellers
and 33,092 buyers on SEOClerks.
Reputation. SEOClerks uses a tiered reputation system to
categorize users. The system assigns users one of the available
8 reputation levels. New users start from level 1. A user s
level is upgraded automatically based on ful llment of certain
requirements for the  rst  ve levels (1,2,3,4,5), while level X
users (X3,X4,X5) are considered elite and they are selected
manually by staff members of SEOClerks. The details of
requirements and bene ts for level promotion are described
in [3]. A higher reputation level provides more bene ts and
less restrictions. For example, users at higher reputation levels
can price services below the $5 limit and get faster payment
clearance.
Table IV lists user reputation level statistics for key users
and non-key users on SEOClerks. We note that key users
are generally more experienced than non-key users. Most key
users are at reputation level 3 (62%) while most non-key users
are at reputation level 1. We surmise that key users receive
preferential treatment from the marketplace staff. For example,
we note that 28 out of 99 key users are at reputation level X.
In contrast, only 14 non-key users are at reputation level X
even though they contain more than a hundred sellers in the
top 10 percentile.
Recall
that users can be sellers and/or buyers:
following, we analyze them separately.
in the
6
C. Seller Analysis
We identify 8,861 sellers on SEOClerks, out of which 99
are labeled key users and the remaining 8,762 are labeled as
non-key users. Note that some non-key users have not sold
any service yet these  zero-sale  sellers are included in our
statistics.
Geographic Characteristics. SEOClerks provides the geo-
graphic location of users based on IP geolocation and/or man-
ual input from users. Table V lists the geographic distribution
of sellers across top- ve countries. We note that a substantial
fraction of sellers are from a few Asian countries including In-
dia, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Indonesia, and Philippines. This is
somewhat expected because of their relatively lower per-capita
income [22]. We also note that key users are concentrated
more in Asian countries as compared to non-key users. Some
sellers may be using USA-based VPNs/proxies to manipulate
their geolocation for credibility [17].
Number of Services. Figure 4(a) plots the distribution of
the number of services listed by key and non-key users on
SEOClerks. Key users list 3,645 services while the remaining
35,875 services are offered by non-key users. Note that more
than 50% of non-key users listed only one service and more
than 90% percent posted less than 10 services. Key users tend
to post more services (per seller) as compared to non-key
users. Only 5% key users posted one service and 64% posted
more than 10 services. The seller with most listed services
among key users had 1,092 services. In contrast, the seller with
most listed services among non-key users had 458 services.
Revenue. Figure 4(b) plots the distribution of seller revenue
for key and non-key users. Overall, key users account for
$758,959 (56%) revenue, while non-key users account for
$590,357 (44%) revenue. It is noteworthy that more than 75%
of non-key users are zero-sale sellers. The long-tail distribution
indicates that a few sellers account for most revenue for non-
key users. Recall that we labeled top 10% (228) sellers in
terms of revenue as top sellers. Out of the 228 top sellers,
99 sellers were identi ed as key users. The minimum and
Reputation
Level
X5
X4
X3
5
4
3
2
1
Number of Users % of Users
Key Users
1
1
12
1
2
960
334
7,451
TABLE IV: User reputation statistics on SEOClerks.
Revenue Number of Users % of Users
$15,560
$36,680
$446,643
$0
$2,351
$217,255
$0
$40,470
Non-Key Users
 0%
 0%
 0%
 0%
 0%
11%
4%
85%
1%
2%
25%
0%
1%
62%
0%
9%
1
2
25
0
1
61
0
9
Revenue
$599
$259
$54,733
$99
$20,694
$383,626
$12,817
$117,530
(a) Services
(b) Revenue
Fig. 4: Distributions of seller services and revenue on SEOClerks.
Country
Total
India
USA
Non-Key Users Key Users
99
29%
15%
18%
12%
Pakistan
Indonesia
2%
TABLE V: Geographic location of sellers.
8,762
18%
15%
10%
7%
5%
Bangladesh
Country
Total
USA
Italy
UK
India
Non-Key Users Key Users
79
13%
-
1%
28%
Indonesia
2%
TABLE VI: Geographic location of buyers.
33,013
31%
6%
6%
6%
4%
maximum revenue earned by a key user is $721 and $94,190,
respectively. The remaining 129 out of 228 top sellers account
for 72% revenue of non-key users.
D. Buyer Analysis
We identify 33,092 buyers on SEOClerks, out of which 79
buyers are labeled key users and the remaining 33,013 are
labeled non-key users.
Geographic Characteristics. Table VI lists the geographic
distribution of buyers across top- ve countries. Overall, buyers
7
are relatively concentrated in the North American and Euro-
pean countries such as USA, Italy, UK, and Canada. However,
we note that a large number of buyers labeled as key users
are located in India. Recall that all buyers who are key users
are also top sellers on the marketplace. These key users also
purchase services of other sellers. Regardless of the role of
the marketplace users, our  ndings somewhat mirror the site s
audience statistics as estimated by Alexa. Alexa estimates that
13.8% of the site s visitors are from USA, followed by 13.5%
from India, and 4.7% from Italy.
Purchase Statistics. Figure 5(a) plots the distributions of the
purchase volume by key and non-key users. We note that a
majority of key users (88%) are buyers and they purchased
services more than non-key users. For key users, the median
purchase volume is 5 and the average is 24. For non-key
users, the median purchase volume is 2 and the average is
5. Figure 5(b) plots the distributions of buyer expense (the
total amount of money spent by a buyer) by key and non-
key users. We note that key users also spend more money to
purchase services as compared to non-key users. For key users,
the median buyer expense is $50 and average is $141. For
non-key users, the median buyer expense is $10 and average
is $41.
Reselling Behavior. We next analyze users with dual roles
of a buyer and seller (i.e., they sold at least one service and
also purchased at lease one service). Figure 6 visualizes the
(a) Volume
(b) Expense
Fig. 5: Distributions of buyer purchase volume and expense on SEOClerks.
(a) Key Users
(b) Non-key Users
Fig. 6: Each point in the scatterplots represent the number of services sold and purchased by a user on SEOClerks. There are many sellers
who are also frequently buying a large number of services
scatter plot of the services sold and purchased by all dual role
key and non-key users on the marketplace. 79 key users and
1,101 non-key users have a dual role of buyers and sellers. For
example, a key user purchased 432 services and also sold 450
services while another non-key user purchased 240 services
and sold 530 services. To understand the behavior of these
users, we manually analyze the services purchased and sold
by them. We  nd that a majority of the dual users are buying
and then selling the same kind of services. This behavior is
sometimes due to users purchasing services from other sellers
for less price and reselling them at higher prices. For example,
a key user offers a service providing 1,000 Instagram followers
for $4, and the same user has repeatedly purchased similar
services from multiple users for $2. As another example, a
key user offers a service providing 1,000 SoundCloud plays for
$1, and the same user has repeatedly purchased a service from
another user providing 15,000 SoundCloud plays for $1. We
surmise that a user may also sometimes purchase services from
other sellers to ful ll existing orders (e.g., due to receiving an
unusually large number of orders or temporary infrastructure
outages).
Buyer-Service Correlation. We next analyze the relationship
between buyers and services. Figure 7 visualizes the scatter
plot between buyers and services. Note that each data point in
the scatter plot represents a buyer-service pair, with services
and buyers sorted in the descending order with respect to their
purchase frequency. Darker circles represent fewer purchases
and lighter circles represent many repeated purchases. For
clarity, we also set the size of circles proportional to purchase
frequency.
Figures 7(a) and 7(b) visualize the purchases made by key
users from key and non-key users, respectively. It is interesting
8
(a) Services of key users purchased by other key users
(b) Services of non-key users purchased by key users
(c) Services of key users purchased by non-key users
(d) Services of non-key users purchased by non-key users
Fig. 7: Scatter plot illustrating the relationship between services and buyers.
to note that many key users have purchased services from
other key and non-key users. Furthermore, a few services
tend to have many repeat purchases from several key users
(lighter circles are concentrated on the bottom-left of the
scatter plot). To further investigate this  nding, we identify
the key users who are purchasing a large number of services.
We  nd that 7 key users are among the top 10% buyers
on the marketplace. Our manual inspection of these 7 key
users revealed that these key users are purchasing services
that are similar to the services offered by them. For example,
a key user offers a service providing Instagram followers,
and the same user has repeatedly purchased services offering
Instagram followers from other sellers. These are dual role
users on the marketplace.
Figures 7(c) and 7(d) visualize the purchases made by non-
key users from key users and non-key users, respectively. We
observe that a vast majority of non-key users buy a service
only once. However, a few popular services by key users tend
to have many repeat buyers (lighter circles are concentrated
on the bottom-left of the scatter plot).
V. DISCUSSION
We start the discussion by presenting further interesting
observations.
A. Additional Findings
Marketplace Commission. SEOClerks charges 20% commis-
sion for each order. It also charges a nominal transaction pro-
cessing fee (varying depending on the mode of payment). The
20% commission is charged from sellers and the transaction
processing fee is charged from buyers, thus, according to our
estimates, the operators of SEOClerks have earned at least
$269,863 in commissions. Note that SEOClerks operators also
offer a variety of services to temporarily  feature  services on
the marketplace homepage. Based on the number of transac-
tions of these services, we estimate that SEOClerks operators
have earned thousands of dollars.
Revenue Underestimation. Recall that buyers are not man-
dated to provide feedback ratings on SEOClerks. Moreover,
SEOClerks allows sellers to list  service extras  which cost in
addition to the base service price. From our crawled data, we
9
cannot tell whether a buyer bought service extras, therefore
our revenue estimate represents the lower bound on the actual
marketplace revenue.
Data Trust. Given the black-hat nature of SEOClerks, it is
possible that some information on the websites (e.g., user
levels) may be manipulated by the marketplace operators.
While we cannot completely rule this out, we created fresh
accounts on both marketplaces and positively veri ed their
information (e.g., geographic location, join date, user level,
etc.) to lend some con dence to our collected data.
B. Countermeasures
We now discuss potential countermeasures to curb the
activities of black-hat marketplaces, including those targeting
key users on SEOClerks as well as the operators.
Targeting Key Users. While key users constitute less than
0.04% of SEOClerks users, they account for more than half
of the revenue. Speci cally targeting these key users can
considerably limit fraudulent activities out of black-hat mar-
ketplaces. Furthermore, active experiments could be conducted
to understand the working of their infrastructure, e.g., creating
honeypot accounts to identify the fake accounts used for
providing likes/followers [7], [21].
Targeting Marketplace Operators. Another approach is to
go after the monetary systems used by black-hat marketplaces.
More speci cally, SEOClerks uses an escrow mechanism to
get transaction/commission fees and to resolve disputes be-
tween sellers and buyers. Buyers on SEOClerks can purchase
services using standard credit/debit card, PayPal, Payza, or
using cryptocurrencies. For PayPal and Payza, the marketplace
account of SEOClerks is registered to Ionicware Inc. For
all cryptocurrency transactions, SEOClerks uses an account
on BitPay which is also registered to Ionicware Inc. These
marketplace accounts on PayPal, Payza, and BitPay can be
targeted for economic and legal interventions. Another possi-
ble countermeasure would be to seek court injunctions and
shutdown these websites [8], [18] by targeting either the
domain registrar or the hosting company. However, this action
might not be as effective due to possibly lengthy procedures,
possibly allowing websites to change name and/or relocate to
other hosting providers.
VI. RELATED WORK
Prior work has looked at black-hat marketplaces to analyze
them in terms of demographics, nature and quality of offered
services, revenue models, and  nancial intervention. While
our analysis is also based on measurements (e.g., via periodic
crawls) as in some of the related work, there are two key
differences between this paper s methodology and prior work:
(i) the object of our measurement campaign, and (ii) our
investigation aimed to identify key stakeholders who dominate
the black-hat marketplace. To the best of our knowledge, we
present  rst-of-its-kind study to identify and understand the
role of key stakeholders on black-hat marketplaces.
Crowdtur ng markets. Wang et al. [24] studied  crowdturf-
ing  (astrotur ng + crowdsourcing) on two large Chinese mali-
cious crowdsourcing markets (Zhubajie and Sandaha), and sur-
veyed several USA-based and Indian malicious crowdsourcing
sites such as ShortTask, MinuteWorkers, etc. Unlike our work,
they focused on buyer-driven malicious crowdsourcing mar-
kets. Overall, in addition to the market size estimation, they
were able to measure real-world rami cations of these services
by becoming active customers in one of these markets. Xu et
al. [25] analyzed several black-hat marketplaces. They found
that, compared to normal sellers, fraudulent sellers escalate
their reputations at least 10 times. Thus, fraudulent sellers
pro t by harnessing crowd-sourced human laborers to conduct
fake transactions for their offered services. Note that SEO-
Clerks is ranked higher than these marketplaces and unlike
most other black-hat marketplaces provides non-anonymized
transaction information which allows us to analyze selling and
buying behavior of users in detail. In [16] and [10], [11],
the authors studied services and crowdtur ng, respectively,
on Freelancer and Fiverr. They developed machine learning
models to detect crowdtur ng within mostly legitimate con-
tent. Our work con rms many  ndings from [9] [11], [16] in
terms of services popularity and target. However, our analysis
differs in that Fiverr and Freelancer offer mostly legitimate
services (more than 80%, according to the authors), whereas
SEOClerks is a dedicated black-hat marketplace.
Standalone merchants. Thomas et al. [23] analyzed traf ck-
ing of fake accounts in Twitter. They bought accounts from
27 merchants and developed a classi er to detect them. Based
on this classi er, they successfully identi ed several million
fraudulent accounts, of which 95% were disabled with the
help of Twitter. In a similar study, Stringhini et al. [20], [21]
measured the market of Twitter followers, providing Twitter
followers for sale. Based on this measurement campaign,
the authors evaluated several machine learning techniques to
detect sybil accounts. In our prior work [7], we presented a
measurement study of Facebook like farms, which provide
paid services to boost the number of page likes. We note
that this line of research focuses on individual merchants and
their operational aspects, whereas our work studies operation
of black-hat marketplaces involving thousands of merchants.
Underground forums and markets. Motoyama et al. [15]
analyzed social dynamics in six underground forums and cat-
egorized illegal merchandize traded on these forums. Christin
[6] studied Silk Road, an anonymous underground marketplace
for contrabands, drugs, and pornography, providing a detailed
analysis of the items being sold and the seller population.
Buyer feedback was used to estimate total revenue and volume
of the transactions. Silk Road data suggests a core clique of
top sellers, and our analysis shows a similar trend, where a
small group of sellers joined the marketplace early and also
happen to be the most successful sellers. Soska et al. [19]
conducted a longitudinal analysis of 16 underground online
marketplaces over a time period of two and a half years to
understand the evolution of online anonymous marketplaces.
10
These anonymous marketplaces do not expose individual buyer
information, thus the authors were unable to perform analysis
of buyers.
VII. CONCLUSION
This paper presented a comprehensive analysis of key stake-
holders in a popular online black-hat marketplace, SEOClerks.
com. These key users are among the early joiners, are most
active, and make the most money on the marketplace. Specif-
ically, 99 key users (out of a total of 262K users) account for
more than 56% of the total revenue. We compare and contrast
key and non-key users by analyzing the services they offer,
and their selling and buying behavior. We  nd that a majority
of key users on SEOClerks are located in Asian countries,
and that some of them purchase services from other sellers
and then sell them at higher prices.
Black-hat marketplaces constitute a key link in the Internet
fraud chain [12]. Overall, our  ndings highlight opportunities
for economic and legal
intervention to counter black-hat
marketplaces, as we demonstrate that a signi cant part of the
activity is concentrated in the hands of relatively few actors.
More speci cally, since key users constitute a majority of the
marketplace revenue, targeting them speci cally can consider-
ably limit fraudulent activities out of black-hat marketplaces.
In future, we are interested in studying the role of key users on
multiple black-hat marketplaces over time. In the long term,
our goal is to develop statistical models for early detection of
key users to minimize activities out of black-hat marketplaces.
REFERENCES
Silk
Road,
[1] Crackdown
on
market.
crackdown-on-silk-road-the-underground-drug-market.
drug
http://www.theverge.com/2013/10/3/4798562/
underground
the
police
[2] Dutch
Utopia.
dutch-police-seize-hidden-online-marketplace-utopia.html.
marketplace
http://www.pcworld.com/article/2096740/
hidden
online
seize
[3] SEOClerks   User Levels. https://www.seoclerk.com/userlevels.
[4] Silk
Alleged
Seized,
in
silk-road-2-0-seized-alleged-admins-unmasked-fbi-crackdown/.
2.0
Crackdown.
Operator
Unmasked
http://www.coindesk.com/
Road
FBI
[5] J. Bingham. Users who post  fake  Amazon reviews could end up in
court. http://bit.ly/1kh9aqt, October 2015.
[6] N. Christin. Traveling the Silk Road: A Measurement Analysis of a
Large Anonymous Online Marketplace. In WWW, 2013.
[7] E. De Cristofaro, A. Friedman, G. Jourjon, M. A. Kaafar, and M. Z.
Sha q. Paying for Likes? Understanding Facebook Like Fraud Using
Honeypots. In IMC, 2014.
[8] Facebook, Inc. Updates in Facebooks Fight Against Spam and Spam-
mers. http://on.fb.me/1cazvTm, January 2011.
[9] H. Ge, J. Caverlee, and K. Lee. Crowds, Gigs, and Super Sellers: A
Measurement Study of a Supply-Driven Crowdsourcing Marketplace. In
ICWSM, 2015.
[10] K. Lee, S. Webb, and H. Ge. The Dark Side of Micro-Task Marketplaces:
In
Characterizing Fiverr and Automatically Detecting Crowdtur ng.
ICWSM, 2014.
[11] K. Lee, S. Webb, and H. Ge. Characterizing and Automatically Detecting
Crowdtur ng in Fiverr and Twitter. Social Network Analysis and Mining,
5(2), 2015.
[12] K. Levchenko, A. Pitsillidis, N. Chachra, B. Enright, M. Felegyhazi,
C. Grier, T. Halvorson, C. Kanich, C. Kreibich, H. Liu, D. McCoy,
N. Weaver, V. Paxson, G. M. Voelker, and S. Savage. Click Trajectories:
End-to-End Analysis of the Spam Value Chain. In IEEE Symposium on
Security and Privacy, 2011.
[13] D. McCoy, H. Dharmdasani, C. Kreibich, G. M. Voelker, and S. Savage.
Priceless: The Role of Payments in Abuse-advertised Goods. In CCS,
2012.
[14] D. McCoy, A. Pitsillidis, G. Jordan, N. Weaver, C. Kreibich, B. Krebs,
G. M. Voelker, S. Savage, and K. Levchenko. PharmaLeaks: Under-
standing the Business of Online Pharmaceutical Af liate Programs. In
USENIX Security Symposium, 2012.
[15] M. Motoyama, D. McCoy, K. Levchenko, S. Savage, and G. M. Voelker.
An Analysis of Underground Forums. In IMC, 2011.
[16] M. Motoyama, D. McCoy, K. Levchenko, S. Savage, and G. M. Voelker.
In
Dirty Jobs: The Role of Freelance Labor in Web Service Abuse.
USENIX Security Symposium, 2011.
[17] J. A. Muir and P. C. V. Oorschot.
Internet geolocation: Evasion and
counterevasion. volume 42, New York, NY, USA, Dec. 2009.
[18] B. F. Rubin. Amazon sues alleged reviews-for-pay sites. http://cnet.co/
1EUtHtF, 2015.
[19] K. Soska and N. Christin. Measuring the Longitudinal Evolution of
In USENIX Security
the Online Anonymous Marketplace Ecosystem.
Symposium, 2015.
[20] G. Stringhini, M. Egele, C. Kruegel, and G. Vigna. Poultry Markets:
On the Underground Economy of Twitter Followers. In WOSN, 2012.
[21] G. Stringhini, G. Wang, M. Egeley, C. Kruegel, G. Vigna, H. Zheng, and
B. Zhao. Follow the Green: Growth and Dynamics in Twitter Follower
Markets. In IMC, 2013.
[22] The Data World Bank. GDP per capita based on Purchasing Power
Parity (PPP). http://goo.gl/zgoRlI, 2014.
[23] K. Thomas, D. McCoy, C. Grier, A. Kolcz, and V. Paxson. Traf cking
Fraudulent Accounts: The Role of the Underground Market in Twitter
Spam and Abuse. In USENIX Security Symposium, 2013.
[24] G. Wang, C. Wilson, X. Zhao, Y. Zhu, M. Mohanlal, H. Zheng, and
B. Y. Zhao. Serf and Turf: Crowdtur ng for Fun and Pro t. In WWW,
2012.
[25] H. Xu, D. Liu, H. Wang, and A. Stavrou. E-commerce Reputation
Manipulation: The Emergence of Reputation-Escalation-as-a-Service. In
WWW, 2015.
11
