5
1
0
2
 
g
u
A
8
2
 
 
 
]
I
S
.
s
c
[
 
 
1
v
6
6
2
7
0
.
8
0
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Understanding Editing Behaviors in
Multilingual Wikipedia
Suin Kim 1, Sungjoon Park 1, Scott A. Hale2, Sooyoung Kim1,
Jeongmin Byun1 and Alice Oh 1
1School of Computing, KAIST, Daejeon, Republic of Korea
2Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK
Abstract
Multilingualism is common offline, but we have a more limited understanding
of the ways multilingualism is displayed online and the roles that multilinguals
play in the spread of content between speakers of different languages. We take a
computational approach to studying multilingualism using one of the largest user-
generated content platforms, Wikipedia. We study multilingualism by collecting
and analyzing a large dataset of the content written by multilingual editors of
the English, German, and Spanish editions of Wikipedia. This dataset contains
over two million paragraphs edited by over 15,000 multilingual users from July
8 to August 9, 2013. We analyze these multilingual editors in terms of their
engagement, interests, and language proficiency in their primary and non-primary
(secondary) languages and find that the English edition of Wikipedia displays
different dynamics from the Spanish and German editions. Users primarily
editing the Spanish and German editions make more complex edits than users
who edit these editions as a second language. In contrast, users editing the
English edition as a second language make edits that are just as complex as
the edits by users who primarily edit the English edition. In this way, English
serves a special role bringing together content written by multilinguals from
many language editions. Nonetheless, language remains a formidable hurdle to
the spread of content: we find evidence for a complexity barrier whereby editors
are less likely to edit complex content in a second language. In addition, we find
that multilinguals are less engaged and show lower levels of language proficiency
in their second languages. We also examine the topical interests of multilingual
editors and find that there is no significant difference between primary and
non-primary editors in each language.
 
 
These authors contributed equally to this work.
alice.oh@kaist.edu
1
1
Introduction
Wikipedia is the world s largest general reference work, and it depends on active
editors to generate and maintain up-to-date and accurate information. Wikipedia
is also one of the top ten websites in terms of traffic volume, and its articles are
often among the top results for many search queries on Google [31].
There are 288 language editions of Wikipedia hosted by the Wikimedia
Foundation, providing easy access to information for many Internet users globally,
but there are high levels of inequality and asymmetry in the information available
in the different language editions.
1.1
Information Inequality and Asymmetry
The English edition contains more than 4.9 million articles as of June 2015,
which is 13.8% of all the articles in the 288 language editions [2]. In comparison,
the Chinese edition has 827,273 articles and the Arabic edition has 373,064
articles. When looking at the number of edits or active editors, the inequality is
even greater. The number of active editors is greatest for the English edition of
Wikipedia, which has 6.4 times more active editors than the second most active
edition, German. About 38.4% of all edits ever made to Wikipedia were to the
English edition. This results in situations where users search for information
on Wikipedia, only to find that it is not available in their own languages. For
example, searching for PLOS ONE on Wikipedia finds the longest and most
comprehensive article in English, but no results in Russian and only very short
articles in German and Arabic. In addition to the inequality shown by the
large differences in the number of articles and active editors, there is also an
asymmetry of information between the different language editions: many topics
are available in only one language or a small number of languages [22]. This
applies even to the English edition. Although the English edition is the largest
edition, it contains, for example, only 51% of the articles that exist in the
German edition [22]. Such asymmetry is especially pronounced for Wikipedia
articles about local places and events, which are mostly written only in the local
languages of those locations [42]. For example, KAIST is a major science and
technology university and research institution in Korea with many international
students and faculty, but there is no article about it in the Spanish edition of
Wikipedia.
There are several reasons for this information inequality and asymmetry in
Wikipedia. First, Wikipedia was only available in English when it started in
January 2001. The German and the Catalan editions were added two months
later, and other language editions followed after a few years, but English has
always remained the largest edition [1]. Second, English is a de facto standard
language of the Internet and the hub among all global languages [10, 19, 41].
Lastly, many editors tend to contribute local content and that leads to an
asymmetry in the information available in the different language editions [23].
For example, on average 23% of edits by unregistered users of the English edition
of Wikipedia were to articles less than 100km from their location [23].
2
As awareness of this information inequality and asymmetry has increased
there have been efforts to grow or distribute more information for several language
editions. In 2010, Google sponsored a contest to encourage students in Tanzania
and Kenya to contribute to the Swahili edition of Wikipedia [9], and in 2007
the German government allocated funds to support the creation of articles in
the German edition of Wikipedia [30]. Even with these efforts, the English
edition remains the largest and the most extensive with 2.5 times more articles
compared to the second-largest edition, Swedish.
1.2 Multilingual Editors in Wikipedia
Previous research has shown that multilingual users play a key role in information
diffusion across languages in social media [12, 18, 24, 28]. In Wikipedia, where
editors are not explicitly linked in a social network, multilingual editors can still
play a key role in mitigating the asymmetry by transferring information across
languages [19]. Thus, we present in-depth research to understand the editing
behaviors of multilingual editors in Wikipedia.
Approximately 15% of active Wikipedia editors are multilingual, contributing
content to multiple language editions of the encyclopedia [19]. Wikipedia provides
a global account system for a single login across all Wikimedia sites, as well as
interlanguage links connecting articles on the same concepts across languages.
However, other than a small mixed-methods study of the contributions of
Japanese English bilingual editors on articles about Okinawa, Japan [16], little
is known about the content contributions of these multilingual editors at a larger
scale or across different language pairs.
Unlike the studies on monolingual Wikipedia editors [25, 32, 36, 47], we must
consider that a multilingual editor s behavior may differ for each language.
Studies have shown that multilingual speakers feel differently in each of the
languages they speak [11, 37] and tend to use a different language depending on
the purpose, domain, and conversational partner [3]. In addition, multilingual
individuals rarely possess equal and perfect fluency in all their languages [20].
Given this, we expect multilingual Wikipedia editors to also behave differently
in each language edition of Wikipedia they edit. More specifically, they may
contribute to one language more than another, they may edit articles on different
topics in each language, and their edits may demonstrate different levels of
proficiency in each language. While comparing multilingual editors  behaviors
within each language may be ideal, different languages cannot be compared
directly in terms of topics and proficiency because of inherent differences among
them.
Instead, we look at the behaviors of the multilingual editors within
each language. For each language edition, we group the editors into those
who edit that language edition more than any other language edition (primary
editors of that language) and those who edit some other language edition more
(non-primary editors of that language) and then compare the behaviors of
the primary and non-primary multilingual editors. We then ask the following
three research questions about multilingual editors in the English, German, and
Spanish language editions.
3
RQ1. Do primary and non-primary editors show different levels of engagement?
RQ2. Do primary and non-primary editors show different levels of topical inter-
est?
RQ3. Do primary and non-primary editors show different levels of language
proficiency?
Each editor s engagement is quantitatively measured by their text contributions
and the time spent revising articles. The interests of editors are identified
by the topics of the articles they edited. Lastly, the language proficiencies of
editors are measured by various language complexity measures applied to their
contributions.
Our results can be summarized in three parts. First, there is are significant
differences in the levels of engagement and language proficiency in the German
and Spanish editions: multilingual users who primarily edit either of these editions
show higher levels of engagement and language proficiency than multilingual
users who edit these editions as non-primary languages. Second, there was no
notable difference between the degrees of engagement and proficiency of editors
who edited the English edition as a primary or non-primary language, verifying
the common assumption of English as lingua franca of the Web. Third, primary
and non-primary editors show similar levels of interest for most topics with the
exception that primary editors are significantly more interested in local topics
and non-primary editors in global topics.
Our contributions to the field of Web-based study of multilingualism are as
follows:
  We construct an extensive dataset of multilingual Wikipedia edit history,
which comprises more than 5 million edits and make it publicly available
for future research.
  We define and analyze three relevant aspects of multilingual editors  be-
havior: engagement, interest, language complexity.
  We define and validate several language-independent measures for quanti-
fying the language complexity of edits.
  We show that multilingual editors indeed have potential to help mitigate
the inequality and asymmetry in the information available in different
languages.
2 Methods
In this section, we describe the data collection and analysis methods. To analyze
the editors  engagement, interests, and language proficiency levels, we first start
with the edit metadata from the English, German, and Spanish editions for one
month and construct article edit sessions to identify consecutive contributions
to articles by the same editor. Based on these article edit sessions, we extract
4
multilingual editors and their contributions. By analyzing their contributions,
we (1) measure their degrees of engagement through the number of contributions
they made to articles, (2) discover their interests through the topics of the articles
they edited, (3) estimate their language proficiency levels for each language by
measuring the language complexity of their edits.
2.1 Dataset
To extract only the contributions of multilingual editors to articles from the
unstructured edit history data, we conduct a data processing pipeline consisting
of the following steps. We first start with metadata of English, German, and
Spanish language editions from July 8 to August 9, 2013. We then construct
article edit sessions by grouping together consecutive edits to the same article
by the same editor. Based on the identified sessions, we define multilingual
editors as those who are involved in article edit sessions for two or more language
editions. Finally, we download the actual revision text for the article edit sessions
of those multilingual editors. We describe these steps in more detail below.
Identifying Edits from Metadata. We begin with the edit metadata col-
lected by Hale [19] for the largest 46 language editions of Wikipedia and extract
the data for English (en), German (de), and Spanish (es). The metadata includes
article titles, language editions, timestamps, editor ids, and URLs to the content
of each edit captured from a near real-time broadcast on Internet Relay Chat.
The extracted data comprises 2,799,729 edits by 146,616 distinct editors. We
discard edits to non-article pages including article talk pages and user pages.
We further discard edits that are indicated as being made by Wikipedia (ro)bots.
In contrast to Hale [19], we retain edits marked as  minor  because what one
considers as minor may vary from person to person and language to language.
Article Edit Session. Even though the easiest way to measure the edit
activity on Wikipedia is simply counting each edit when changes are submitted,
this does not accurately reflect editors  behavior because of individual differences
in activity patterns. For example, some editors may submit a few large edits
while others may make a series of smaller edits saving the pages more frequently
as they work. To account for these individual differences, we adopt the idea of edit
sessions [14], which measure the labor of Wikipedia editors whose contributions
tend to occur in bursts. In our work, we limit each edit session to a single
document, and so we rename it article edit session. We use one hour as the
cutoff between intra-session and inter-session edit activities.
In other words, from the collected dataset, we define an article edit session
as a sequence of continuous editing activity without a break of more than one
hour for a specific article by a single editor.
5
Primary vs. Non-Primary Editors. Next, we identify multilingual editors
from the metadata and retrieve the content of all the edits made by multilingual
editors from Wikipedia using the Wikipedia API. We define a multilingual editor
as an editor who edits two or more language editions. Using this definition,
we identified 12,577 multilingual editors with 427,529 total article edit sessions
composed of 622,766 distinct edits. Following Hale [19], we operationally define
primary and non-primary users as follows:
  We identify the primary language of an editor as the language of the
edition that the multilingual editor edits most frequently.
  We identify the non-primary languages of an editor as all the other lan-
guages that they edit.
  For each language edition X, we define primary editors as the set of all
users with primary language X.
Thus, an editor can be a primary editor in only one language edition, but can
be a non-primary editor in multiple language editions.
Fig. 1a shows the distribution of the number of languages per user in our
multilingual editor dataset. We found that most multilingual editors contribute
to two or three language editions. There are also a small number of editors with
edits in more than 10 languages, including two who edited all 46 languages we
studied. We regard all editors with more than 10 editions as either outliers or
Wikipedia bots not setting the  bot  flag for their edits and drop them from
further study. Table 1 contains the statistics of the edit history data we use,
and Fig. 1b shows the proportions of the primary languages of editors who are
contributing to the English (en), German (de), and Spanish (es) editions.
Collecting Edit Text. Wikipedia provides the previous and current versions
of each article. To look at the actual edited text, we download the diffs from
the Wikipedia Web interface for each article edit session we identified. For each
article edit session, we extract the pairs of changed paragraphs and convert the
edit from Wiki markup to plain text. In this way, we retain only the visible text
from edits, discarding all non-visible and non-text information including URL,
multimedia, metadata, and document structure. We regard an edit as non-visible
if there is no visible text change. An example of such an edit is adding a link to
existing text but otherwise making no other changes.
Distribution of Article Edit Sessions We examine the distribution of
multilingual editors  contributions by language and the number of article edit
sessions. Fig. 2 shows the distribution of editors by the number of article edit
sessions. The plot, on a log-log scale, shows that the distributions for primary
and non-primary users in all three editions is heavy-tailed; most users perform
only a few edits while a few users perform many edits.
6
Figure 1. (a) Number of languages multilinguals edit in Wikipedia.
Regarding the number of languages they edit, 77.3% of multilingual editors are
bilingual, followed by 11.4% trilingual and 4.1% and quadrilingual editors. We
discard editors who edited more than 10 languages (these editors account for
2.3% of all multilingual editors). (b) Primary languages of multilingual
editors for the three largest language editions. The English edition has
the largest, yet the most varied, number of multilingual editors by primary
language. 32.9% of the multilingual editors who edited the English edition
primarily edited English. In comparison, 49.9% of the multilingual editors in
the German edition primarily edited the German edition. Multilingual editors
who primarily edit English are the second-largest proportion of multilingual
editors in the Spanish and German editions. (c) Second most used
languages for the three primary editor groups. English primary editors
have much more diverse language usage, compared to German and Spanish
primary editors. Most of German and Spanish primary editors contribute to
English edition as their second most edited version.
7
en-p
en-np
de-p
de-np
es-p
es-np
# Multilingual Editors
# Article Edit Sessions
# Edits
# Edited paragraphs
3,832
200,883
298,868
1,447,692
7,784
36,959
51,665
230,893
1,631
112,788
151,014
816,647
1,640
7,334
9,111
27,656
996
63,947
104,341
554,762
1,510
5,609
7,757
25,340
Table 1. Number of editors, article edit sessions, edits, and edit
paragraphs. There is more activity in the English edition (en) than in either
the German (de) or Spanish (es) edition. In all three language editions there are
more primary editors (p) than non-primary editors (np) and primary editors are
more active than non-primary editors.
Figure 2. Distribution of editors and article edit sessions for the
three language editions English (en), German (de), and Spanish
(es) for primary (P) and non-primary (NP) multilingual editors.
We display the number of article edit sessions up to 100. Dots in the same color
denote the same language edition. The plot, on a log-log scale, shows that the
distributions for primary and non-primary users in all three editions is
heavy-tailed; most users perform only a few edits while a few users perform
many edits.
8
2.2 Quantifying Editors  Behavior
Our approach is to analyze and compare the behavior of primary and non-primary
multilingual editors for the English, German, and Spanish editions in terms of
engagement, interest, and language proficiency. We measure editors  engagement
by looking at the editing patterns quantitatively within article edit sessions.
Then, we investigate editors  interests by focusing on the content of edits in
terms of the main topics of the articles they edited. Lastly, we measure levels
of language proficiency by defining and computing several language complexity
metrics.
Figure 3. Example of an edit paragraph in a Wikipedia article 2015
FIFA Women s World Cup. (a) Edit paragraph containing a visible edit.
(b) Edit paragraph containing a non-visible edit. We define an edit paragraph
as one line of Wikipedia markup, utilizing the diff from Wikipedia. Pre-edit
text and post-edit text are shown on the left and right sides, respectively,
with text differences highlighted.
Examining Edits in Four Aspects. We define an edit paragraph as a line
of Wiki markup in an article, utilizing the difference of the text before and after
the edit from Wikipedia as shown in Fig. 3. In an article edit session, all of the
edit paragraphs before revisions, shown in the left side of Fig. 3, are paired with
their corresponding revised edits, shown in the right side of Fig. 3. With those
paired paragraphs, we examine the edit paragraphs in four ways as follows:
  Pre-edit: Edit paragraph (text) before revision
  Post-edit: Edit paragraph (text) after revision
  Diff: The actual revision including both inserted and deleted text in an
edit
  Delta: The difference between a Pre-Edit paragraph and its correspond-
ing Post-Edit paragraph for each computed measure
9
The Diff includes both inserted and deleted text and is used to measure
an editor s direct contributions. The difference between computed measures
for Pre-edits and Post-edits, defined as Delta, is an indirect approach that
considers the context of an edit.
Comparing Editor Behaviors within Languages Rather than comparing
each editor s behavior across languages, we compare editing behavior of primary
versus non-primary editors within each language, as defined in the previous
section. That means, for example, we take all editors in our dataset who
contributed to any articles in the English edition, divide them into two groups:
1) those who contributed to the English edition more than any other language
edition, and 2) those who contributed to some other language edition more than
the English edition, and then we compare the behaviors of those two groups. This
way, we do not need to worry about the inherent differences among languages
(e.g., German tends to have longer words than English).
Editor Engagement. Since we categorized multilingual editors into two
groups (primary and non-primary) on the basis of the number of article edit
sessions they had across language editions, we measure the level of quantitative
engagement of editors within an article edit session, such that the measure
becomes independent of the number of article edit sessions.
We measure the amount of engagement based on four metrics. First, we
count the number of revisions committed within an article edit session, only
including the sessions containing more than 1 edit. Second, we measure the
session length in minutes by the difference of timestamps between the first and
the last revision in each article edit session. Third, we measure the amount of
text added and deleted in terms of characters, words, and sentences for all the
Delta in a session. Last, we count the number of edit sessions that only include
non-visible edits indicating the changes the editor made did not affect the text
of the article (i.e, modifying URL link, images, etc.). By computing this, we
can examine whether an editor s engagement results in article content changes.
These four metrics are summarized in Table 3.
For each metric, we compute the mean over all article edit sessions for each
editor, and then again compute the mean of primary and non-primary editors
to represent the level of engagement for each groups. We perform two-tailed
independent samples t-test to examine if the differences between the means of
the two groups are significant.
Editor Interest. Assuming that the topics of the edited articles represent
editors  interests in specific fields, we measure the interests of multilingual editors
using a Bayesian topic model. We first determine the main topic category for
each article a multilingual user edited and assign each article a single topic label.
We then compute the proportion of interest from primary and non-primary
editors for each topic. By comparing the distributions, we can compare the
interests of primary and non-primary editors.
10
  Topic Modeling. We use a Bayesian topic model as an automatic method
to categorize Wikipedia articles into different topics. Although Wikipedia
already provides  categories , there are many cases where one Wikipedia
article is assigned to multiple categories. Moreover, Wikipedia categories
form a complex network in which the relationships between categories are
often unclear [29]. Instead of using these Wikipedia-defined categories,
we develop a more consistent and replicable methodology. We first model
the topics using a widely-used topic model, the latent Dirichlet allocation
(LDA) [4] using the Python Gensim [40] library with the online variational
Bayes algorithm. We set the number of topics (k) to 100 and use the
default values for the hyperparameters.
  Clustering and Labeling Articles. With the 100-dimensional topic
proportion vectors generated by LDA from the step above, we cluster the
articles using DBSCAN [13] in the Python Scikit-learn [38] package. The
generated clusters show consistency in the topics of the articles; hence, we
consider each cluster as representing a single topic. We manually examine
the articles in each cluster, assign a topic label to the cluster, and assign
the same topic label to each article in the cluster. This process results
in 20 clusters and their topic labels for each language edition with all
articles labeled with one of the 20 topic labels. To verify the clustering
process, we simply compare the inter-cluster and intra-cluster distances
using Euclidean distance. In Eq. 2, the numerator is the average of all
pairwise distances of the articles in a cluster, representing the intra-class
distance. The denominator is the mean of the pairwise distances of the
cluster medoids for all clusters, representing the inter-class distance. For
both the numerator and the denominator, ci denotes cluster i in the set of
all clusters C, and x denotes each article in ci. The resulting Ici represents
the ratio of intra-class to inter-class distance; so, we would expect this ratio
to be significantly below one if the clustering is done well. The average
value of Ici for ith cluster is 0.59 with a standard deviation 0.22.
(cid:88)
x ci
(cid:80)
(cid:80)
1|ci|
x ci
cj C,cj(cid:54)=ci
Ici =
1|C| 1
medoid(ci) = argmin
m
dist(x, m)
dist(x, medoid(ci))
dist(medoid(ci), medoid(cj))
(1)
(2)
  Comparing Levels of Interest. The previous step provides topic labels
for each article. With those labels, we can define, for each multilingual
editor, the level of interest on a topic as the proportion of the article
edit sessions for articles in that topic over all article edit sessions by the
editor. Then, we average the interest levels of editors in the primary and
non-primary groups. We define this as the  normalized frequency of edits
for each topic  (also listed in Table 3). To compare the interest levels
between the two groups, we perform a two-tailed independent samples
t-test for each topic.
11
In order to measure the language proficiency of mul-
Language Proficiency.
tilingual editors, we focus on three aspects of their edits: (1) Pre-Edits, (2)
Delta, and (3) Diff.
Using Pre-Edits, we analyze the language complexity of the paragraphs
of the articles that multilingual editors choose to revise. Using Delta and
Diff we quantify the editors  contributions in terms proficiency to estimate
editors  linguistic abilities. With Pre-Edits and Delta, the textual contents are
sufficient in length to perform both lexical diversity and syntactic complexity
measures, which have previously been used as estimates of language proficiency
in language acquisition research [6]. Meanwhile, for Diff, which often consist of
just a few words, we focus on the definite and indefinite articles edited (e.g.,  a ,
 an , and  the  in English). These have also been shown by previous research to be
a good proxy for language proficiency in English, German, and Spanish [7,26,27].
  Lexical Diversity Measures. We first compute the entropy of unigram,
bigram, and trigram frequencies as complexity measures [33]. These
measures are used to quantify the richness of word usage in Wikipedia
articles [47]. To calculate the entropy for each edit paragraph, we average
the metrics over all unigrams, bigrams, and trigrams that appear in the
paragraph.
  Syntactic Complexity Measures. We compute the entropy of parts-of-
speech (POS) frequency. Analyzing the sequence of POS has advantages
over analyzing the sequence of words. POS entropy can ignore extremely
trivial edits (e.g., correcting typos) as well as meaningless bot-produced
edits [47]. In addition, looking for diverse combinations of POS is a good
approach for detecting complex syntactic structure [5]. We count the
occurrence of POS unigrams, bigrams, and trigrams in each edit paragraph
and then compute an entropy measure based on the frequency distributions
of POS that captures the amount of information and thus indicates the
diverse use of POS in the edits.
For automatic POS tagging on edits, we employ a maximum entropy POS
tagger [39] trained on the Penn Treebank corpus for English edits with Penn
Treebank tagset [34]. For German edits, we use the Stanford log-linear
POS tagger [45] trained on the NEGRA corpus with Stuttgart-T ubinger
Tagset (STTS) [43]. For Spanish edits, we use the tagger trained on the
AnCora corpus with its tagset [44].
  Usage of Articles. A number of previous studies investigate the diffi-
culty of learning the definite and indefinite articles for language learners.
For example, Butler [7] finds that children who are learning English as
their second language (L2) have more difficulty in understanding articles
compared to children who are acquiring English as their first language
(L1). They show that L1 learners make lower frequency of errors than L2
learners. In addition, Japanese-speaking English learners have the most
difficulty in understanding the article system and even proficient English
12
learners only record about a 90% of success rate when given a task to
choose the proper article [35]. In addition, the difficulty of the article
system in Spanish and German are comparable to English [26, 27].
The difficulty comes from the complex usage of articles: i.e., that there
is not a one-to-one correspondence between languages. Such difficulty
imposes a challenge for language learners of a second language [7]. Since it
is computationally challenging to automatically test the appropriateness of
the articles editors use, we approximate the level of understanding of the
article system in each language by measuring the frequencies with which
definite and indefinite articles are used. We count the number of definite
and indefinite articles in each Diff by primary and non-primary users.
The definite and indefinite articles we count in each language are shown in
Table 2. The number of articles in a Diff is divided by total number of
words of the Diff, and we refer to this quantity as the  fraction of articles
in added tokens. 
English German
Spanish
Definite
Indefinite
the
a, an
des, die, den, der, dem, das
eine, eines, einer, einem, einen, ein
el, la, los, las
un, una, unos, unas
Table 2. The definite and indefinite articles tracked in English,
German, and Spanish.
  Computing Language Complexity Measures for Each Editor. The
language proficiency measures were summarized with a maximum value for
each editor rather than the mean value. We compute the maximum value
of the proficiency measures for all edits belonging to the same editor as a
representation of that editor s highest displayed level of linguistic ability to
produce complex edits. The maximum value is a fairer estimate than the
mean or the minimum value as not all possible revisions to an article always
require an editor s maximum linguistic ability. For this reason, widely
used central tendency measures (e.g., mean) would not reflect editors  true
proficiencies properly. Summarizing each editor s edits with the maximum
value assumes that each editor shows his/her maximum linguistic ability
to edit a paragraph at least once, which is more reasonable.
Since the maximum value may be merely affected by the number of edits,
we control the number across editors to three. We uniformly sample three
edits within the entire edits an editor made, repeating 100 times for editors
and average the evaluated 100 maximum values.
All of the engagement, interest, and proficiency measures described in this
section are summarized in Table 3.
13
  Engagement
  Number of edits
  Session length in minutes
  Number of edited characters, words, sentences (for Delta)
  Fraction of non-visible article edit sessions.
  Interest
  Normalized frequency of edits for each topic
  Language Proficiency
  Lexical diversity measures (for Pre-Edit and Delta)
  Entropy of unigram, bigram, trigram frequencies
  Syntactic complexity measures (for Pre-Edit and Delta)
  Entropy of POS unigram, bigram, trigram frequencies
  Article usage measures (for Diff)
  Fraction of articles in added tokens
Table 3. Measures of engagement, interest, and language proficiency.
3 Results
In this section, we report our findings on engagement, interests, and language
proficiency of primary and non-primary multilingual editors for the English,
German, and Spanish editions of Wikipedia.
3.1 Editor Engagement
We show in Fig. 4 that primary editors commit more edits than non-primary
editors within an article edit session, for all three language editions. Likewise,
the article edit sessions of primary editors are longer than those of non-primary
editors. These results indicate that primary editors are more engaged. They
make more edits and spend more time revising each article.
We also find that the number of tokens added per edit session by primary
editors is higher than the number added by non-primary editors in all three
language editions. This also holds whether tokens are measured by characters,
words, or sentences. These findings on the amount of edited content align with
the previous findings on the number of edits and the overall time spent indicating
that in general primary editors are more engaged in revising the text of articles
than non-primary editors.
Finally, we find that non-primary editors make more non-visible edits, such as
adding/removing hyperlinks or applying stylistic changes, in all three languages.
This tendency indicates that editors may be making different types of edits in
their primary and non-primary languages. Similar results have been shown in
qualitative research (e.g., [16]) at a much smaller scale.
14
Figure 4. The evaluated engagement measures for primary and
non-primary editor groups. For all metrics and languages, primary and
non-primary editors are showing significantly different behavior: primary
editors tend to be more engaged than non-primary editors. (*p < 0.05;
**p < 0.01; ***p < 0.001).
3.2 Editor Interests
The twenty topics discovered for the articles edited by multilingual users in
the English edition are as follows: Science, Football, Film, Middle East
Geography, American Sports, Songs & Albums, Musicians, Cities, Global
Sports, TV Shows, Politics, History, Military, Transportation, Computer,
Education, Geographical Locations, Descriptive, Olympics, and Animals
& Plants. Fig. 5 shows the number of articles in each topic in the English
edition. The titles of the representative articles for each topic are given in the
supporting information S1 Topic Clusters from the English Edition of Wikipedia.
Similarly, the twenty topics discovered for Spanish articles are as follows:
Art, Descriptive, Soccer, Film, Animal, Global Sports, History, Plants,
Politicians, Natural Science, Social Science, Music, Cities, Geographical
15
Figure 5. Top: Number of English Wikipedia articles in each topic
cluster. Articles related to Descriptive and History make up a large proportion
of all articles while Middle East Geography, American Sports, and
Transportation articles are relatively small in proportion. Bottom:
Differences in interest in the English edition. Primary and non-primary
editors show similar levels of interest for most topics. (*p < 0.05; **p < 0.01;
***p < 0.001)
Locations, Olympics, Literature, Musicians, Politics, Entertainment, and
Tennis.
Finally, the twenty topics discovered for German articles are as follows:
Computer, Natural Science, Descriptive, Geographical Locations: U.S.,
Names, Geographical Locations: Europe, History, Academic, Celebrities,
Soccer, Cultural Heritage, Musicians, Natural Topography, Land Transport,
Politicians, Entertainment, Air transport, Global Sports, Authors, and
Military.
The overall difference of interest between primary and non-primary editors
is not significant ( 2
de(19)=0.019, ns). Indeed,
as shown in Fig. 5 bottom, we observe that primary and non-primary editors of
the English edition have similar interests. This tendency is also shown in the
other language editions.
en(19)=0.005,  2
es(19)=0.031,  2
However, when looking at each topic, we observe notable differences of the
16
level of interests between primary and non-primary editors for a few topics in
each language. In the English edition, we observe two topics with significantly
different levels of interest between primary and non-primary editors. Primary
editors show significantly higher level of interest in the topic of Computer, while
non-primary editors show higher level of interest for Cities. In the German
edition, primary editors show more interest in Computer and Natural Science,
while non-primary editors show more interest in Soccer and Global Sports.
In the Spanish editions, primary editors show more interest in Politicians,
Social Science, and Entertainment, while non-primary editors show more
interest in Plants and Geographical Locations.
In the German and the Spanish editions, we also observe an interesting
pattern where topics with more interest from primary users have higher syntactic
complexity compared to topics with more interest from non-primary users (see
Table 4). For example, in the German edition, Natural Science has an average
entropy value of 3.52 compared to 2.52 of Soccer. We do not observe such a
pattern in the English edition.
English
German
Spanish
Primary
Computer
(2.58)
Computer (3.21),
Natural
Science (3.52)
Politicians (3.19),
Social Science (3.01),
Entertainment (2.97)
Non-Primary
Cities
(2.63)
Soccer (2.76),
Global
Sports (2.52)
Descriptive (2.80),
Plants (2.37),
Geographical
Locations (2.53)
Table 4. Topics having significant difference of interest levels
between primary and non-primary users in each language edition.
Number next to each topic represents the average entropy for Part-of-Speech
trigrams for the articles within each topic.
3.3 Language Proficiency
Prior to computing the language complexity measures for edits, we control for
the topics of the articles presented in the previous section, as prior research found
that the language used in conceptual articles tend to be more complex than the
language used in biographical and factual articles [47]. Fig. 6 shows that the
complexity of language differs greatly by topic. Sports-related and other fact-
oriented articles (e.g. Football, Middle East Geography, and Olympics) show
lower language complexity than conceptual articles (e.g., History, Education,
and Science). To control for topic, we calculate each of language complexity
measures within a topic (intra-topic) and then average them over all topics
(inter-topic).
17
Figure 6. Language complexity varies by topic. Language complexity as
measured by the entropy of POS trigrams varies by topic. Thus, we control for
topic in order to measure language complexity more accurately.
Pre-Edit We first examine the complexity of Pre-Edits to understand the
text which multilingual editors choose to edit in their primary and non-primary
languages.
Fig. 7a shows that the entropy of unigrams, bigrams, and trigrams is always
higher for the edits of multilingual users writing in English or Spanish as a
primary language compared to those writing in English or Spanish as a non-
primary language. The same is true for unigram entropy in German, while
bigram and trigram entropy show a similar pattern although the difference is not
significant. In short, we observe a difference between primary and non-primary
editors for all conditions, indicating that primary editors use more diverse terms
while editing.
Moreover, we observe that the entropy of part-of-speech unigrams, bigrams,
and trigrams is significantly higher for edits by primary editors in English and
Spanish. Likewise, the POS entropy of edits is always higher for primary than
non-primary editors in the German edition. The difference for bigrams and
trigrams is significant while the difference in unigram POS entropy is not. This
indicates that syntactic complexity also differs between primary and non-primary
editors in all three languages in general. Thus, we conclude that primary editors
edit more complex parts of articles compared to non-primary editors. In addition,
the result implies that multilingual editors writing in a non-primary language
may face a complexity barrier whereby they shy away from editing more complex
sections of articles.
18
Figure 7. (a) Language complexity of pre-edits for primary and
non-primary editors. Both lexical diversity measures and syntactic diversity
measures show primary users edit more complex articles. (b) The increase of
lexical and syntactic diversity per paragraph per edit (delta). The
higher delta complexity scores for primary users indicate that multilinguals have
higher linguistic abilities and make more complex edits in their primary
languages. (c) Fraction of article words in added tokens. Primary editors
use more article words, both definite and indefinite articles, than non-primary
editors. (+p < 0.08; *p < 0.05; **p < 0.01; ***p < 0.001)
19
Delta Delta complexity measures the difference in complexity before and after
each article edit session and thus provides a measure of how the edits by the
multilingual user changed the complexity of the article.
Fig. 7b shows that there are significant differences between primary and
non-primary groups, but that these differences are not consistent across the
three language editions. Specifically, for the German and Spanish editions, we
find the average increase in entropy between article edit sessions is higher from
primary than non-primary editors. Surprisingly, however, we do not observe a
significant difference between editors writing in English as a primary or non-
primary language for the lexical diversity and syntactic complexity. Opposite
to the other language editions, all entropy measures are slightly higher for
non-primary editors of the English edition compared to primary editors.
These results implies that primary editors in German and Spanish editions
possess higher linguistic proficiency, in terms of writing ability at least, than
non-primary editors. This is consistent to the findings from the analysis of user
interest. However, this does not apply to English, where there is no evidence that
primary and non-primary editors of English possess different levels of linguistic
proficiency.
Diff Fig. 7c shows that there are significant differences in the use of articles
between by primary and non-primary editors. For all three language editions, pri-
mary editors use more articles both definite and indefinite than non-primary
editors. Given that choosing the proper article is a difficult task even proficient
learners only have an accuracy of   90% [35] the difference in the use of articles
between primary and non-primary users likely stems from different levels of
proficiency. It is possible that non-primary editors simply skip using article
words when confused as to which article to use.
4 Discussion
In this article we looked at the editing behaviors of multilinguals in Wikipedia,
one of the largest online user-generated content platforms. The results of
analyzing engagement shows that multilinguals add more content and spend
significantly more time per article edit session in their primary languages. In all
three language editions, we find that multilingual users are slightly more likely
to make non-visible edits that do not change any of the visible article text in
their non-primary languages compared to their primary languages. Past work
has shown many multilingual users engage with images and multimedia content
in their non-primary languages [16, 17], and a portion of these non-visible edits
may be image-related although we have not specifically tested that possibility.
We also find that the overall distribution of interests is very similar between
primary and non-primary users in each language although there are a few
differences by topic and language. For the few topics with significantly different
levels of interest between primary and non-primary users, we find that the topics
with more interest from primary users are more complex than the topics with
20
more interest from non-primary users for the German and Spanish editions. We
do not observe the same pattern in English, however.
Within the Spanish and German editions, we find that primary users choose
to edit more complex text than non-primary users (pre-edit), that the edits of
primary users result in a larger increase in the complexity of the articles than
the edits of non-primary users (delta), and that the content of the edits primary
users show greater language proficiency compared to non-primary users (diff,
particularly the use of articles).
The English edition of Wikipedia shows similar findings for the types of
articles primary and non-primary users choose to edit (pre-edit) and for the
use of articles (diff). However, the results for the English edition are markedly
different from the Spanish and German editions in regard to the effect of edits
by multilingual users editing the English edition (delta). We find almost no
difference in the effects of edits by multilingual users to English articles regardless
as to whether the multilingual is a primary editor of the English edition or a
non-primary editor of the edition. If anything, the edits of non-primary users
raise the complexity of articles in the English edition slightly more than the
edits of primary users.
These findings reinforce how strong of a barrier language is on user-generated
content platforms. Even multilingual users who edit multiple editions of Wikipedia
devote most of their efforts to editing the edition of their primary language 
making more edits and spending more time within article edit sessions in their
primary languages than in their non-primary languages.
When multilingual users do edit in a second, non-primary language they
often face a language complexity barrier. Users editing a non-primary language
edition restricted their edits to less complex parts of articles. In addition, with
the exception of English, the edits that they made did not raise the linguistic
complexity of the articles as much as the edits by multilingual users who primarily
edited the language. This accords with linguistics research that multilinguals
have differing levels of competency in their languages and that such competency
is often related to how much they use each language [15, 20].
However, the contribution of editors in English edition is a unique and
noteworthy exception to the general pattern. In this way, we add to the find-
ings about the unique role English has online as a bridge between multiple
languages [18, 19, 24, 28]. Since non-primary editors of the English edition of
Wikipedia are able to make equally complex edits as primary editors of the
edition, they can better overcome the language barrier and contribute to the
English version of documents using knowledge from their primary languages.
In this way they might help mitigate the information asymmetries between
English and the other language editions, and information may further flow from
the English edition into other language editions [46]. The potential of English
as a bridge language is somewhat muted on Wikipedia, however, given that
many foreign-language articles do not an equivalent article in English [22]. This
is partially driven by the interests of editors, but also by differing standards
as to what is noteworthy or significant enough to have an article in different
languages [8, 21].
21
In this article we have analyzed the complexity of Wikipedia edits by multi-
lingual users in their primary and non-primary languages. One concern is how
well a multilingual user s primary language (i.e., the languages of the edition of
Wikipedia that the user edits most frequently) maps to their native language.
Limited ground truth data is available as only a small fraction of Wikipedia users
disclose their native languages on their personal user pages. Nevertheless, we
checked the alignment between users  primary languages and their self-declared
native languages for English by constructing another dataset of all 221,162 edi-
tors who contributed to one or more articles in the English edition of Wikipedia
appearing within the category  Wikipedia Controversial Topics.  Among these
editors, there are 18,962 users who disclosed their native languages on their user
pages. Since the editors are crawled from the edit histories of the English edition
of Wikipedia, we retain only the editors whose primary language or disclosed
native language is English. We find that 94.4% of these editors (1,604 of 1,699)
have the same primary language as the disclosed native language, indicating
that there is very close alignment between the primary languages and the native
languages of the multilingual users.
There remains a range of questions to be tackled. In addition to Wikipedia,
there are many other sources for user-generated contents. In addition to the
specific editing behaviors we studied here, there are many other behavioral
patterns that could be examined to reveal the nature of knowledge diffusion and
contributions of multilingual users. Furthermore, to understand the behavior
and the roles of multilingual users more fully the contributions of multilingual
users should also be compared with those of monolingual users.
References
[1] History of Wikipedia. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/History_of_
Wikipedia, 2015. [Online; accessed 02-July-2015].
[2] WikiStats - Mediawiki Statistics. http://wikistats.wmflabs.org, 2015.
[Online; accessed 10-July-2015].
[3] Suzanne Barron-Hauwaert. Bilingual: life and reality. International Journal
of Bilingual Education and Bilingualism, 14(1):107 110, 2011.
[4] David M. Blei, Andrew Y. Ng, Michael I. Jordan, and John Lafferty. Latent
dirichlet allocation. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 2003.
[5] Kristy Hollingshead Brian Roark, Margaret Mitchell. Syntactic complexity
measures for detecting mild cognitive impairment. BioNLP  07, pages 1 8,
2007.
[6] Bram Bult e and Alex Housen. Conceptualizing and measuring short-term
changes in l2 writing complexity. Journal of Second Language Writing,
26:42 65, 2014.
22
[7] Yuko Goto Butler. Second language learners  theories on the use of english
articles. Studies in second language acquisition, 24(03):451 480, 2002.
[8] Ewa S. Callahan and Susan C. Herring. Cultural bias in Wikipedia content
on famous persons. Journal of the American Society for Information Science
and Technology, 62(10):1899 1915, 2011.
[9] Noam Cohen. Hungry for New Content, Google Tries to Grow Its Own
http://www.nytimes.com/2010/01/25/technology/25link.
in Africa.
html, 2015. [Online; accessed 10-July-2015].
[10] Brenda Danet and Susan C Herring. The multilingual Internet: Language,
culture, and communication online. Oxford University Press, 2007.
[11] Jean-Marc Dewaele. Emotions in multiple languages. Palgrave Macmillan,
2010.
[12] Irene Eleta and Jennifer Golbeck. Bridging languages in social networks:
How multilingual users of Twitter connect language communities. Pro-
ceedings of the American Society for Information Science and Technology,
49(1):1 4, 2012.
[13] Martin Ester, Hans-Peter Kriegel, J org Sander, and Xiaowei Xu. A density-
based algorithm for discovering clusters in large spatial databases with noise.
In Kdd, volume 96, pages 226 231, 1996.
[14] R Stuart Geiger and Aaron Halfaker. Using edit sessions to measure
participation in Wikipedia. In CSCW 2013, 2013.
[15] Fran cois Grosjean. Bilingual: Life and Reality. Harvard University Press,
2010.
[16] S.A. Hale. Cross-language Wikipedia editing of Okinawa, Japan. In Proceed-
ings of the 33rd Annual ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems, CHI  15, pages 183 192, New York, NY, USA, 2015. ACM.
[17] Scott A. Hale. Net increase? Cross-lingual linking in the blogosphere.
Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 17(2):135 151, 2012.
[18] Scott A. Hale. Global connectivity and multilinguals in the Twitter network.
In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems, CHI  14, pages 833 842, New York, NY, USA, 2014. ACM.
[19] Scott A. Hale. Multilinguals and Wikipedia editing. In WebSci  14, New
York, NY, USA, 2014. ACM.
[20] Einar Haugen. The Norwegian Language in America: A Study in Bilingual
Behavior. Indiana University Press, 1969.
23
[21] Ari Hautasaari and Toru Ishida. Analysis of discussion contributions in
translated Wikipedia articles. In Proceedings of the 4th International Con-
ference on Intercultural Collaboration, ICIC  12, pages 57 66, New York,
NY, USA, 2012. ACM.
[22] Brent Hecht and Darren Gergle. The Tower of Babel meets Web 2.0:
User-generated content and its applications in a multilingual context. In
Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on human factors in computing
systems, pages 291 300. ACM, 2010.
[23] Brent J Hecht and Darren Gergle. On the localness of user-generated
content. In Proceedings of the 2010 ACM conference on Computer supported
cooperative work, pages 229 232. ACM, 2010.
[24] Susan C Herring, John C Paolillo, Irene Ramos-Vielba, Inna Kouper, Elijah
Wright, Sharon Stoerger, Lois Ann Scheidt, and Benjamin Clark. Language
networks on LiveJournal. In Proceedings of the 40th Annual Hawaii In-
ternational Conference on System Sciences, HICSS  07, Washington, DC,
USA, 2007. IEEE Computer Society.
[25] Takashi Iba, Keiichi Nemoto, Bernd Peters, and Peter A Gloor. Analyzing
the creative editing behavior of wikipedia editors: Through dynamic social
network analysis. Procedia-Social and Behavioral Sciences, 2(4):6441 6456,
2010.
[26] Mar a del Pilar Valverde Ibanez and Akira Ohtani. Annotating article errors
in spanish learner texts: design and evaluation of an annotation scheme.
2014.
[27] Carol Jaensch. L3 acquisition of articles in german by native japanese
speakers. In Proceedings of the 9th Generative Approaches to Second Lan-
guage Acquisition Conference (GASLA 2007). Somerville, MA: Cascadilla
Proceedings Project, volume 8189, page L3, 2008.
[28] Suin Kim, Ingmar Weber, Li Wei, and Alice Oh. Sociolinguistic analysis of
twitter in multilingual societies. In Proceedings of the 25th ACM conference
on Hypertext and social media, pages 243 248. ACM, 2014.
[29] Aniket Kittur, Ed H. Chi, and Bongwon Suh. What s in Wikipedia?:
Mapping topics and conflict using socially annotated category structure. In
Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems, CHI  09, pages 1509 1512, New York, NY, USA, 2009. ACM.
[30] Torsten
Kleinz.
F orderung.
Wikipedia-erhaelt-staatliche-Foerderung-143938.html,
[Online; accessed 02-July-2015].
staatliche
http://www.heise.de/newsticker/meldung/
2007.
Wikipedia
erh alt
24
[31] Dirk Lewandowski and Ulrike Spree. Ranking of wikipedia articles in search
engines revisited: Fair ranking for reasonable quality?
Journal of the
American Society for Information Science and technology, 62(1):117 132,
2011.
[32] Michael D Lieberman and Jimmy Lin. You are where you edit: Locating
wikipedia contributors through edit histories. In ICWSM, 2009.
[33] Christopher D. Manning and Hinrich Sch utze. Foundations of Statistical
Natural Language Processing. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, USA, 1999.
[34] Mitchell P. Marcus, Beatrice Santorini, and Mary Ann Marcinkiewicz. Build-
ing a large annotated corpus of english: The penn treebank. Computational
Linguistics, 1993.
[35] Tony McEnery, Richard Xiao, and Yukio Tono. Corpus-based language
studies: An advanced resource book. Taylor & Francis, 2006.
[36] Felipe Ortega, Jesus M Gonzalez-Barahona, and Gregorio Robles. On the
inequality of contributions to wikipedia. In Hawaii International Conference
on System Sciences, Proceedings of the 41st Annual, pages 304 304. IEEE,
2008.
[37] Aneta Pavlenko. Emotions and multilingualism. Cambridge University
Press, 2005.
[38] F. Pedregosa, G. Varoquaux, A. Gramfort, V. Michel, B. Thirion, O. Grisel,
M. Blondel, P. Prettenhofer, R. Weiss, V. Dubourg, J. Vanderplas, A. Passos,
D. Cournapeau, M. Brucher, M. Perrot, and E. Duchesnay. Scikit-learn:
Machine learning in Python. Journal of Machine Learning Research, 12:2825 
2830, 2011.
[39] Adwait Ratnaparkhi et al. A maximum entropy model for part-of-speech
tagging. In Proceedings of the conference on empirical methods in natural
language processing, volume 1, pages 133 142. Philadelphia, USA, 1996.
[40] Radim  Reh u rek and Petr Sojka. Software Framework for Topic Modelling
with Large Corpora. In Proceedings of the LREC 2010 Workshop on New
Challenges for NLP Frameworks. ELRA, 2010.
[41] Shahar Ronen, Bruno Gon calves, Kevin Z Hu, Alessandro Vespignani,
Steven Pinker, and C esar A Hidalgo. Links that speak: The global language
network and its association with global fame. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences, 111(52):E5616 E5622, 2014.
[42] Shilad W Sen, Heather Ford, David R Musicant, Mark Graham, Oliver SB
Keyes, and Brent Hecht. Barriers to the localness of volunteered geographic
information. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors
in Computing Systems, CHI 2015. ACM, 2015.
25
[43] Wojciech Skut, Thorsten Brants, Brigitte Krenn, and Hans Uszkoreit. A
linguistically interpreted corpus of german newspaper text. In the ESSLLI
Workshop on Recent Advances in Corpus Annotation, 1998.
[44] Mariona Taul e, M. Ant`onia Mart  , Marta Recasens, and Centre De Llen-
guatge I Computaci o. Ancora: Multilevel annotated corpora for catalan
and spanish. In 6th International Conference on Language Resources and
Evaluation, 2008.
[45] Kristina Toutanova, Dan Klein, Christopher D. Manning, and Yoram
Singer. Feature-rich part-of-speech tagging with a cyclic dependency network.
NAACL  03, 2003.
[46] Morten Warncke-Wang, Anuradha Uduwage, Zhenhua Dong, and John Riedl.
In search of the ur-Wikipedia: Universality, similarity, and translation in the
Wikipedia inter-language link network. In Proceedings of the Eighth Annual
International Symposium on Wikis and Open Collaboration, WikiSym  12,
pages 20:1 20:10, New York, NY, USA, 2012. ACM.
[47] Taha Yasseri, Andr as Kornai, and J anos Kert esz. A practical approach to
language complexity: A Wikipedia case study. PLoS ONE, 7(11), 2012.
26
Supporting Information
S1 Topic Clusters from the English Edition of Wikipedia
Topic 2: Football
Beb e
Georgi Kinkladze
Ra  s M Bolhi
John Carew
John Guidetti
Topic 4: Middle East Geography
Counties of Iran
Shevir
Robat (disambiguation)
Rijan
Chalmeh
Topic 6: Songs & Albums
Hurry Up, We re Dreaming
Paradise (Lana Del Rey EP)
Topic 1: Science
Museum Boerhaave
History of photography
Planetarium
List of Dutch inventions and discoveries
Electrotyping
Topic 3: Film
Levar Burton
Tribeca Film Festival
Romeo and Juliet (films)
Viggo Mortensen
Walt Disney
Topic 5: American Sports
October 2005 in sports
NHL trade deadline
2005 Nebraska Cornhuskers baseball team The Sweet Escape
Bobby Ryan
History of the New York Jets
Topic 7: Musicians
The Decemberists
The Band
Carlos Santana
Brian May
Dirty Three
Topic 9: Global Sports
List of association football competitions
1982 FIFA World Cup
Promotion and relegation
Lokomotiv Cove FC
1998 FIFA World Cup
Ceremonials
Do It Again (the Beach Boys Song)
Topic 8: Cities
Sch uttorf
Rodgau
Aachen
Olpe
Lisbon
Topic 10: TV Shows
The Hunger Games Trilogy
The Penguins of Madagascar
The Real Adventures of Jonny Quest
The Animatrix
M.I. High
Table 5. Examples of Wikipedia Article Titles for Topics 1 10
27
Topic 11: Politics
European Conservatives and Reformists
Viktor Yushchenko
List of state leaders in 1993
Tarja Halonen
United Kingdom Alternative Vote Referendum
Topic 13: Military
Air Warfare of World War II
Battle of Jutland
Defence of the Reich
Battle of the River Plate
A World at War
Topic 15: Computer
Packet switching
Videoconferencing
List of software forks
Bulletin board system
Trusted computing
Topic 17: Geographical Locations
Quehanna Wild Area
Global storm activity of 2009
Death Valley National Park
Kimberley (Western Australia)
Hwange National Park
Topic 19: Olympics
Chronological summary of the 2012 Summer Olympics Lobatus Gigas
2013 IPC Athletics World Championships
2014 in Sports
Yelena Isinbayeva
1980 Summer Olympics
Topic 12: History
Pierre-Marie-Alphonse Favier
Society of the Song Dynasty
Taukei Ni Waluvu
17th century
Eruera Maihi Patuone
Topic 14: Transportation
Railway station layout
Railways in Melbourne
LSWR suburban lines
Train station
Hastings Line
Topic 16: Education
Stanford University
Waded Cruzado
Massachusetts Institute of Technology
Vishen Lakhiani
University of California, Berkeley
Topic 18: Descriptive
BBC Sport
BMC Racing Team
Coca-Cola formula
Coal
Colombian cuisine
Topic 20: Animals & Plants
List of recently extinct birds
Gal apagos Tortoise
Common Starling
Giant Trevally
Table 6. Examples of Wikipedia Article Titles for Topics 11 20
28
S2 Topic Clusters from the Spanish Edition of Wikipedia
Topic 2: Descriptive
Ancient history
Psychokinesis
European Train Control System
Functional programming
Pluto
Topic 4: Film
The Great Gatsby (1974 film)
Tom Hiddleston
Topic 1: Art
Kinetic art
Self-portrait
Claude Monet
History of architecture
S ao Paulo Museum of Art
Topic 3: Soccer
Celtic F.C.
Carlos T evez
1964 Argentine Primera Divisi on Nickelodeon Movies
Everton F.C.
FC Barcelona
Kaley Cuoco
Topic 5: Animal
Nudochernes leleupi
Oxydactylus
Mordellistena chopardi
Parazaona pycta
Desert Sparrow
Topic 7: History
Gustaf VI Adolf of Sweden
Hundred Years  War
King in Prussia
Catholic Monarchs
Maximilian I of Mexico
Topic 9: Politicians
Alfonso Guerra
List of Governors of Iowa
First Lady of Peru
Ban Ki-moon
President of Honduras
Pen elope Cruz
Johnny Depp
Kaley Cuoco
Topic 6: Global Sports
Asian Football Confederation
2013 FIFA Confederations Cup
2018 FIFA World Cup
UEFA Women s Euro 2013
Argentina national rugby union team
Topic 8: Plants
Notholaena
Martretia
Peach
Trevo
Totora (plant)
Topic 10: Natural Science
Ozone layer
Nitrogen cycle
Biomechanics
Earth s rotation
Spinal cord
Table 7. Examples of Spanish Wikipedia Article Titles for Topics
(presented in English) 1 10
29
Topic 11: Social Science
Democratic centralism
Political economy
Market research
Social movement
The Third Wave
Topic 13: Cities
Machu Picchu
Madrid
New Delhi
Montreal
Santiago
Topic 15: Olympics
Czechoslovakia at the 1988 Winter Olympics
Denmark at the 1992 Winter Olympics
Great Britain at the 1992 Winter Olympics
Finland at the 2010 Winter Olympics
Hungary at the 1956 Winter Olympics
Topic 17: Musicians
Metallica
Billy Joel
Janis Joplin
Keith Emerson
Marilyn Manson
Topic 19: Entertainment
Half-Life 2
Glee (TV series)
The Phantom of the Opera (1986 musical)
Garfield
Nickelodeon
Topic 12: Music
Red (Taylor Swift album)
Boys Like Girls
Barcelona (song)
Get Lucky (Daft Punk song)
Folk music
Topic 14: Geographical Locations
Regions of Senegal
Guavio Province
Central Region Venezuela
Province of Castell on
Khar Turan National Park
Topic 16: Literature
Spanish Golden Age
Voltaire
Poetry
Franz Kafka
Giovanni Papini
Topic 18: Politics
Venezuelan Democratic Party
Social Christian Reformist Party
Andalusian parliamentary election 2004
United States presidential election 1788 1789
Green Ecologist Party (Chile)
Topic 20: Tennis
2013 ATP Challenger Tour
Canadian Open (tennis)
2013 Western & Southern Open
Maria Sharapova
Rafael Nadal
Table 8. Examples of Spanish Wikipedia Article Titles for Topics
(presented in English) 11 20
30
S3 Topic Clusters from the German Edition of Wikipedia
Topic 1: Computer
IPv6 rapid deployment
C (programming language)
Real-time operating system
Graphical user interface
Web Server Gateway Interface
Topic 3: Descriptive
Abraham Lincoln
Anti-Zionism
Ice
Eiffel Tower
BMW 340
Topic 5: Names
Watson (Familienname)
Williamson (Surname)
Taylor (Name)
Shaw (Name)
Peter (Given Name)
Topic 7: History
List of state leaders in 655
Charles VIII of Sweden
Frederick William I of Prussia
Vianden Castle
Guelderian Wars
Topic 9: Celebrities
List of American novelists
Lists of golfers
List of Medal of Honor recipients Real Madrid C.F.
Franklin Roosevelt
Sebastian Shaw
Topic 2: Natural Science
Boiling point
Solar cell
Recombinant DNA
Klinefelter syndrome
Volcano
Topic 4: Geographical Loc. (Locations): U.S.
Moorhead Mississippi
Madison County Texas
List of cities in Virginia
Leon County Florida
San Rafael California
Topic 6: Geographical Loc. (Locations): Europe
Westfalen
Pram Austria
Monforte Portugal
Hamburg-Marienthal
Cologne (Region)
Topic 8: Academic
University of Mannheim
Computer science
Individual psychology
Industrial sociology
Keynesian economics
Topic 10: Soccer
List of football clubs in Germany
2003 04 UEFA Cup
Lionel Messi
Son Heung-Min
Table 9. Examples of German Wikipedia Article Titles for Topics
(presented in English) 1 10
31
Topic 11: Cultural Heritage
Liste der Kulturg uter in Oberwil-Lieli
Liste der denkmalgesch utzten Objekte in Krumbach
Liste der denkmalgesch utzten Objekte in Gleisdorf
Liste der denkmalgesch utzten Objekte in Arnoldstein
Liste der denkmalgesch utzten Objekte in B urs
Topic 13: Natural Topography
Najerilla (River)
Olympic National Park
Nock Mountains
Niedersonthofener See
Quincy Bay
Topic 15: Politicians
Rudolf Hierl (Politiker)
Ulrich Kelber
Robert Thaller
Norbert Otto (Politiker)
Liam Aylward
Topic 17: Air transport
Lombok International Airport
Salzburg Airport
Airline
Aviation accidents and incidents
Human-powered helicopter
Topic 19: Authors
Franz Kafka
Jan Zimmermann
Herbert Schmidt
List of authors by name: F
List of authors by name: W
Topic 12: Musicians
Eminem
Flo Rida
2012 Grammy Awards
John Lennon
Lady Gaga
Topic 14: Land Transport
Hesper Valley Railway
Innsbruck Central Station
Highways in Bulgaria
List of tunnels in Germany
Metrobus
Topic 16: Entertainment
Denzel Washington
Bradley Cooper
Anna Karenina (2012 Film)
Braid (Video Game)
Boss (TV series)
Topic 18: Global Sports
Badminton at the Asian Games
Australian Football International Cup
Australian Goldfields Open
Australia national association football team
2012 13 FA Cup
Topic 20: Military
Japanese conquest of Burma
Pacific War
Russian Navy
Soviet submarine K-19
Rocket artillery
Table 10. Examples of German Wikipedia Article Titles for Topics
(presented in English) 11 20
32
S4 Syntactic Complexity for each topics by Three Language
Editions
Topic
Science
Football
Film
Middle East Geography
American Sports
Music: Song, Albums
Music: Musician
Cities
Sports Related Articles
TV Shows
Politics
History
Military
Transportation
Computer
Education
Geographical Locations
Descriptive
Olympics
Animal, Plants
Complexity Primary Non-Primary
0.061
0.031
0.048
0.002
0.007
0.026
0.060
0.057
0.048
0.059
0.027
0.189
0.034
0.016
0.049
0.074
0.019
0.151
0.023
0.020
0.064
0.029
0.046
0.001
0.006
0.030
0.057
0.043
0.047
0.056
0.030
0.196
0.033
0.014
0.057
0.078
0.023
0.152
0.022
0.017
2.917
1.995
2.610
1.733
2.312
2.495
2.630
2.638
1.563
2.930
2.701
3.071
2.938
2.565
2.577
2.776
2.676
2.505
1.952
2.770
t-value
0.747
-0.756
-0.542
-1.081
-0.361
1.343
-0.801
-4.023
-0.122
-0.840
0.955
1.208
-0.536
-1.368
2.099
0.846
1.753
0.129
-0.348
-1.471
p-value
4.550E-01
4.496E-01
5.880E-01
2.799E-01
7.184E-01
1.793E-01
4.231E-01
5.796E-05
9.029E-01
4.009E-01
3.396E-01
2.271E-01
5.919E-01
1.715E-01
3.582E-02
3.975E-01
7.960E-02
8.974E-01
7.278E-01
1.413E-01
Table 11. Syntactic Complexity for 20 English topics.
33
Topic
Computer
Natural Science
Descriptive
Geographical Loc.: U.S.
Names
Geographical Loc.: Europe
History
Academic
Celebrities
Soccer
Cultural Heritage
Musicians
Natural Topography
Land Transport
Politicians
Entertainment
Air Transport
Global Sports
Authors
Military
Complexity Primary Non-Primary
0.030
0.022
0.322
0.002
0.011
0.028
0.037
0.117
0.036
0.051
0.001
0.053
0.025
0.027
0.067
0.061
0.016
0.035
0.037
0.021
3.219
3.511
3.220
2.025
2.361
2.964
3.341
3.432
3.120
2.769
1.906
3.034
3.062
3.306
3.207
3.331
3.291
2.531
3.429
3.630
0.047
0.035
0.304
0.002
0.013
0.036
0.046
0.123
0.038
0.036
0.004
0.049
0.025
0.026
0.056
0.052
0.017
0.024
0.046
0.021
t-value
3.070
2.943
-1.445
-0.434
0.700
1.685
1.619
0.709
0.392
-2.393
2.404
-0.483
0.019
-0.139
-1.756
-1.408
0.194
-2.173
1.765
-0.050
p-value
2.157E-03
3.276E-03
1.486E-01
6.643E-01
4.840E-01
9.200E-02
1.055E-01
4.783E-01
6.949E-01
1.679E-02
1.629E-02
6.292E-01
9.845E-01
8.896E-01
7.921E-02
1.591E-01
8.461E-01
2.987E-02
7.760E-02
9.603E-01
Table 12. Syntactic Complexity for 20 German topics.
Topic
Art
Descriptive
Soccer
Film
Animal
Global Sports
History
Plants
Politicians
Natural Science
Social Science
Music
Cities
Geographical Locations
Olympics
Literature
Musicians
Politics
Entertainment
Tennis
Complexity Primary Non-Primary
0.016
0.418
0.072
0.038
0.002
0.031
0.010
0.017
0.019
0.051
0.030
0.039
0.087
0.037
0.002
0.037
0.024
0.019
0.046
0.005
0.016
0.384
0.077
0.038
0.002
0.038
0.011
0.005
0.032
0.039
0.042
0.052
0.081
0.020
0.001
0.033
0.027
0.022
0.076
0.004
3.012
2.808
2.347
2.747
2.444
2.295
3.001
2.376
3.179
3.084
3.005
2.789
2.931
2.523
1.970
3.094
2.814
3.029
2.967
2.654
t-value
0.025
-2.159
0.593
0.064
-0.358
1.115
0.417
-3.429
2.443
-1.676
2.023
1.741
-0.670
-3.324
-0.423
-0.645
0.503
0.599
3.736
-0.552
p-value
9.804E-01
3.092E-02
5.536E-01
9.494E-01
7.201E-01
2.648E-01
6.769E-01
6.189E-04
1.466E-02
9.387E-02
4.322E-02
8.183E-02
5.029E-01
8.991E-04
6.725E-01
5.193E-01
6.147E-01
5.492E-01
1.921E-04
5.811E-01
Table 13. Syntactic Complexity for 20 Spanish topics.
34
