The  who  and  what  of #diabetes on Twitter
Mariano Beguerisse-D  az,1, 2,   Amy K. McLennan,3 Guillermo
Gardu no-Hern andez,4 Mauricio Barahona,1,   and Stanley J. Ulijaszek3,  
1Department of Mathematics, Imperial College London, UK
2Mathematical Institute, University of Oxford, UK
3School of Anthropology and Museum Ethnography, University of Oxford, UK
4Sinnia, Mexico City, Mexico
Social media are being increasingly used for health promotion, yet the landscape of users, mes-
sages and interactions in such fora is poorly understood. Studies of social media and diabetes have
focused mostly on patients, or public agencies addressing it, but have not looked broadly at all
the participants or the diversity of content they contribute. We study Twitter conversations about
diabetes through the systematic analysis of 2.5 million tweets collected over 8 months and the inter-
actions between their authors. We address three questions: (1) what themes arise in these tweets?;
(2) who are the most in uential users?; (3) which type of users contribute to which themes? We
answer these questions using a mixed-methods approach, integrating techniques from anthropology,
network science and information retrieval such as thematic coding, temporal network analysis, and
community and topic detection. Diabetes-related tweets fall within broad thematic groups: health
information, news, social interaction, and commercial. At the same time, humorous messages and
references to popular culture appear consistently, more than any other type of tweet. We classify
authors according to their temporal  hub  and  authority  scores. Whereas the hub landscape is
di use and  uid over time, top authorities are highly persistent across time and comprise bloggers,
advocacy groups and NGOs related to diabetes, as well as for-pro t entities without speci c diabetes
expertise. Top authorities fall into seven interest communities as derived from their Twitter follower
network. Our  ndings have implications for public health professionals and policy makers who seek
to use social media as an engagement tool and to inform policy design.
I.
INTRODUCTION
Of an estimated three billion internet users around the
world (over 40% of the global population), approximately
310 million actively use the social networking site Twit-
ter [71]. Since Twitter s launch in 2006, the platform
and its users have been the protagonists of several ma-
jor events (e.g., the Arab Spring, protest movements in
Iran, Spain and elsewhere [1 7]), and it has become a
prominent venue for companies, personalities, and ordi-
nary people to broadcast news and events, send public
messages, express opinions, and socialise [8, 9].
There is growing interest in the potential uses for Twit-
ter, and other social media, in public and population
health. Research has been carried out on the use of Twit-
ter for epidemiological applications and public health
surveillance. For instance, in uenza spread [10, 11], con-
tagious disease outbreaks [12] and tobacco use [13] have
been mapped using public data from Twitter. Geo-
graphic or spatial risk factors have also been elucidated
using Twitter [14, 15]. This medium is being increas-
ingly used for health information sharing [16], primary
care, delivery of health support, primary prevention, and
public health education [17 21].
Health promotion has typically drawn on unidirec-
 Electronic address: beguerisse@maths.ox.ac.uk
 Electronic address: m.barahona@imperial.ac.uk
 Electronic address: stanley.ulijaszek@anthro.ox.ac.uk
tional, top-down social marketing and advertising strate-
gies to disseminate health-related messages to a wide au-
dience [22]. The recent use of Twitter in health pro-
motion coincides with the in ux of commercial agen-
cies into social media to sell commodities, trends and
ideas [22]. The con uence of health promotion and
commercial agents on Twitter has led to a cacophony
of short health-related messages directed at users and
passed through social networks. Some users who cre-
ate and disseminate content have the exclusive aim of
promoting health, while others may have additional or
alternative aims (e.g., commercial interest, self promo-
tion). Yet this complex environment is rarely acknowl-
edged in public health promotion research, reviews and
planning.
Instead, public health marketing strategies
and evaluations focus on the quantity of messages dis-
seminated by health authorities over time, the number
of followers an account has attracted, and the design of
new slogans [20, 21]. There is little critical analysis of
the wider landscape of, and relationships underpinning,
health-related content on Twitter, or of the impact that
messages have in the broad user base.
In this paper, we investigate messages on Twitter
( what  is discussed, and by  whom ) relating to a sin-
gle clinical and public health concern: diabetes. Dia-
betes is a clinical condition associated with blood sugar
regulation by the hormone insulin and other endocrine
factors. Complications associated with unmanaged or
poorly-managed diabetes can typically a ect the heart,
blood vessels, eyes, kidneys and nerves. There are two
types of diabetes: Type 1 (often abbreviated as T1 or
7
1
0
2
 
n
a
J
 
0
3
 
 
]
h
p
-
c
o
s
.
s
c
i
s
y
h
p
[
 
 
4
v
4
6
7
5
0
.
8
0
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
2
FIG. 1: The number of daily tweets in English containing the term  diabetes  (blue line), the number of daily tweets containing
some version of the  Mathematics joke , a particularly recurrent tweet (red line, see also Table VII), and the number of tweets
mentioning the actor Tom Hanks (green dashed-line), who revealed his diabetes in October 2013.
T1D on Twitter) occurs when the pancreas does not
produce su cient insulin; Type 2 (T2 or T2D) develops
when the body does not e ectively respond to insulin.
In 2012, the global prevalence of diabetes of both types
was estimated to be nine percent among adults aged 18
years and over [23]. However, this is likely to be an un-
derestimate; in the United States alone, 27.8% of all dia-
betes cases are thought to be undiagnosed [24]. Globally,
around 10% of all people with diabetes have T1, which
typically requires the daily administration of insulin. The
remaining 90% have diagnoses of T2, which is commonly
associated with obesity, poor nutrition and physical inac-
tivity. Both types have genetic components, although no
known genes directly cause diabetes by themselves [23].
T2 is managed predominantly through health education,
diet activity change, and weight loss; treatments also
may include medication, and in more advanced cases,
regular insulin administration [23]. People who have di-
abetes are encouraged to self-surveil their blood sugar
levels and self-manage their lifestyles and insulin levels
(through diet, physical activity, and medications, where
prescribed) in order to control their blood sugar levels
and minimise related health complications such as those
described above.
Previous research on diabetes and social media has fo-
cused on the possibilities that the internet and social me-
dia open up for both self-management [25, 26] and clin-
ical management [27 29] for people living with the dis-
ease. Others have focused on the dissemination of infor-
mation relating to diabetes-speci c outreach events [30]
or from speci c platforms [31]. Our approach is di erent;
instead of assuming that patients, clinicians and health
promotion organisations are the main protagonists in the
Twitter conversation about diabetes, we place all stake-
holders on an initial equal footing with respect to Twitter
exchanges around the broad category  diabetes .
We compiled over 2.5 million English-language tweets
containing the term  diabetes , which were generated by
more than one million users over a period of 8 months
(March 2013 to January 2014). These are the type
of messages that users encounter when they search for
the term  diabetes  on Twitter, or click on the hashtag
#diabetes. We analysed these tweets (public messages
comprising of text strings with a maximum length of
140 characters), using a mixed-methods approach that
combines mathematical and computational techniques
with anthropological analysis. We used tools from data
and network science to detect patterns in social inter-
actions [1, 32, 33] and to extract topics from the mes-
sages [34, 35]. We then interrogated these patterns using
discourse analysis approaches from anthropology [36 38],
which permit the elaboration of themes, personalities,
and contexts. As a result, we extract and classify the
topics that appear in the messages, and identify the im-
portant participants in the conversations (which include
patients, practitioners, public health authorities, com-
mercial entities and others).
Researchers have called for improving our understand-
ing of social media to inform its use in public health pol-
icy making and practice [29]. Our work contributes to
this understanding by addressing three questions. First,
what are the main themes of messages posted on Twitter
that contain the term  diabetes  ? To answer this question,
we extract the topics that appear in the tweets by pro-
cessing word co-occurrence networks, and analyse their
content, participants, and evolution. Second, who talks
about diabetes on Twitter and in what capacity? To an-
swer this question, we investigate the Twitter users who
drive conversations by analysing networks of interactions
(posting, sharing/retweeting, following) among the users.
And third, which users contribute content to which topics
and themes? We answer this question by examining the
type of accounts that post in the di erent themes. We
discuss the relevance of this interdisciplinary research for
public health professionals and policy. The methods em-
ployed in this project are general and may be applied in
other studies where similar data become available.
II. METHODS
A. Data from Twitter
We collected every tweet containing the term  diabetes 
(2,698,114 tweets in total), posted between 26 March
2013 and 19 January 2014 by 1,202,143 di erent users
(Fig. 1). We also collected information about  retweets  
a retweet event is when a user re-broadcasts a message
(or  status ) originally posted by another user and which
is disseminated to his or her followers. Each retweet is
a time-annotated interaction between two users: the tar-
get (the author of the original tweet, or the target of the
attention) and the source (the user who retweeted the
message, or the source of the attention). We recorded
1,219,282 retweets from June 2013 up until when the
data collection ended. We also recorded 41,582 friend-
follower relationships among a select subset of the users
along with their Twitter biographies, messages of at most
140 character in which users can describe themselves. All
data were collected by Sinnia using Twitter Gnip Power-
Track API [72]. We have made available a list containing
tweet IDs used in this study (see Data Statement).
There is an ongoing debate about the ethical implica-
tions of using Twitter data for research. Some authors
maintain that the lack of complicated privacy settings on
Twitter means that messages placed in the public domain
are intended to be there; alternatively, other authors con-
sider that posting tweets should not be interpreted as
permission to use tweets for research [39]. We believe
that the topic, analysis and results presented here serve
the public interest and pose no risk to users. None of
the tweets we analyse and reproduce here contain no-
table amounts of sensitive or private material. Indeed,
the most prominent users in our data set also maintain
other online pro les and produce tweets for public con-
sumption.
B. Construction of the di erent networks
The number of  diabetes  tweets follows weekly cycles
of activity (Fig. 1). Consequently, we group the data in
weekly bins. Given that the date of the original mes-
sage and the date of its retweet are not always the same,
retweets are labelled by the date of the original posting.
3
FIG. 2:
In retweet networks, nodes that are exposed to
content can  pass it on  to their followers. The  ow of data
goes in the opposite direction to the interest of the users,
where interest is represented by arrows which indicate the
direction of attention.
Retweet network: For each week w, we construct a
directed, weighted retweet network with N (w) nodes, cor-
responding to all the users who participated in a retweet
event either actively (by retweeting) or passively (by hav-
ing their statuses retweeted by someone else). A directed
connection (edge or arc) exists between two nodes if the
source node has retweeted the status of the target node,
and the weight of the edge corresponds to the number
of retweets (see Fig. 2), i.e., we de ne the N (w)   N (w)
adjacency matrix of the retweet network as A(w), where
the element Aij(w) records the number of retweets from
i to j over week w. For a given node, the in-degree cor-
responds to the number of users who have retweeted sta-
tuses of that node, and the out-degree corresponds to the
number of users whose status that node has retweeted. In
the example network from Fig. 3A, node 1 has retweeted
statuses of nodes 3, 4 and 7, and has had nodes 2, 6 and
8 retweet some of her own (i.e. the in-and out-degree of
node 1 are both three). A weakly-connected component
is a group of nodes that are all mutually reachable if we
ignore the direction of the edges. For example, the initial
network in Fig. 3A consists of only one weakly-connected
component, but its co-citation and bibliographic projec-
tions (de ned below) have six and  ve components re-
spectively.
In a retweet network, the direction of the edge signi-
 es an explicit declaration of interest (i.e. source nodes
 nd certain messages worth passing along to their follow-
ers) and information  ows in the opposite direction (i.e.
from the target nodes), as shown in Fig. 2. Such retweet
networks have a distinct structure, with many weakly-
connected components and an abundance of  star  motifs,
in which a highly-retweeted node (with high in-degree) is
surrounded by many nodes that point almost exclusively
to the star node. Figure 3B shows a typical network for
one week in our data with 34,000 nodes and about 4,000
weakly-connected components. Over 50% of the nodes
belong to a giant connected component (nodes in pur-
ple) whereas each of the smaller components contain less
that 1% of the nodes.
A fundamental feature of retweet networks is the fact
that they are directed (they may contain extreme asym-
metry of interest,
 leaders  and  followers  and other
roles). Directionality entails additional computational
4
FIG. 3: A: Projections of a retweet network. The origi-
nal retweet network is directed. The co-citation projection
joins nodes who are the targets of the interest of other nodes.
Nodes 5 and 6 have both been rewteeted by node 4, hence
they are connected in the co-citation projection (edges in
red).
In turn, nodes 2 and 8 have both retweeted statuses
by node 1, which is why they are connected in the biblio-
graphic projection (edges in magenta). Both of the projec-
tions have several disconnected components. B: Example of
retweet, co-citation and bibliographic networks constructed
from one week s worth of interactions in our data. There are
approximately 44,000 nodes, each coloured according to their
weakly-connected component in each network.
challenges, which is why it is often neglected. However,
ignoring directionality in such settings destroys valuable
information and can severely a ect the results and their
interpretation [1]. Our analysis below takes the directed
and temporal nature of the network into full account.
Co-citation and bibliographic projections of the
retweet network: To understand not only who drives
conversations and produces in uential content, but also
which users are instrumental in the dissemination of con-
tent, we study two useful networks derived from the orig-
inal retweet network: the co-citation and bibliographic
projections [33]. These projections re ect the asymmetry
of the original adjacency retweet matrix A(w), and pro-
vide (a) information about the shared interests of users
who have retweeted tweets by the same authors (biblio-
graphic) and (b) information about whose tweets gener-
ate responses from the same users (co-citation).
The co-citation network projection of A(w) is an undi-
rected, weighted network de ned on the same set of N (w)
nodes as the original retweet network with adjacency ma-
trix C(w):
C(w) = A(w)T A(w).
(1)
An edge of the co-citation network Ci,j(w) exists when
at least one user has retweeted messages from both users
i and j during week w. Hence this network links authors
of tweets that elicit interest in users, even though they
themselves may belong to di erent spheres of interest and
FIG. 4: A: Number of nodes, number of components and size
of the two largest connected components in the co-citation
projection through the observation period. B: Same mea-
surements for the bibliographic projection.
activity (Fig. 3). The number of disconnected nodes in
the co-citation network is typically large (Fig. 4A). For
example, all nodes whose in-neighbours have a maximum
out-degree equal to 1 in the retweet network will be iso-
lated in the co-citation projection (Fig. 3).
The bibliographic network projection is the converse of
the the co-citation network.
It is also built from the
original retweet network A(w) and has adjacency matrix
B(w) = A(w)A(w)T .
(2)
This projection links pairs of users who have retweeted
messages posted by at least one author in common; in
other words, the bibliographic projection connects users
who share interests. In a retweet networks context the
size of the largest component in the bibliographic projec-
tion is typically larger than in the co-citation projection
(Figs. 3B and 4); this is due to the fact that, on average,
Twitter users retweet more than they are rewteeted.
Note that all nodes in the original retweet network ex-
ist in both projections. However, depending on their con-
nectivity (induced by the interest elicited or the interest
bestowed) they may appear isolated in one or both of the
projections. Figure 3 shows an illustration of the con-
struction of the co-citation and bibliographic projections
in a simple example, as well as the retweet, co-citation
and bibliographic networks compiled from a typical week
in the data.
Follower network:
In addition to the retweet net-
work, we also constructed a follower network for a small
subset of users of interest (see Sec. III B 2 below).
In
this network a directed connection between two nodes
exists when the source node follows the target node on
Twitter (i.e., is subscribed to the target s content). The
interpretation of the follower network is similar to the
retweet network (Fig. 2) in the sense that a directed con-
nection is a declaration of interest, with content  owing
in the opposite direction [1]. One key di erence between
retweet and follower networks is that connections in the
retweet network can be understood as localised expres-
sions of interest associated to a speci c tweet, whereas in
follower networks a connection may be understood as a
more general (and stable) expression of interest.
C. Computation of the hub and authority scores
over time
Hub and authority scores provide a useful tool to anal-
yse directed networks [32]. Intuitively, a hub is a node
whose outgoing connections point to important nodes
in the retweet network (authorities); conversely, an au-
thority is a node with many incoming connections from
hubs. The entries of the lead eigenvectors of the adja-
cency matrices of the co-citation and bibliographic pro-
jections C(w) and B(w) correspond to the authority and
hub centrality scores of the nodes during week w. A node
may rank highly as hub, authority, both or none, as we
will show below.
Henceforth, for notational simplicity, we drop the w
from the matrices A(w), C(w) and B(w), but the depen-
dence on w remains implicit.
An alternative way to understand hub and authority
scores is through the singular value decomposition (SVD)
of A: A = U VT , where U and VT are unitary ma-
trices containing the left and right singular vectors, re-
spectively, and   = diag( i) is the diagonal matrix of
the N singular values. The entries of the leading left and
right singular vectors of A correspond to the hub and
authority scores, respectively [40].
As
explained above,
the bibliographic and co-
citation networks contain several disconnected compo-
nents (Figs. 3 and 4). The largest connected compo-
nent in a typical co-citation network in our dataset con-
tains about 10-15% of the nodes, yet it is responsible
for producing about 50% of messages that have at least
one retweet. This observation is consistent with Ref. [9]
which reports that about 50% of URLs on Twitter are
5
posted by a small minority of  elite users . On the other
hand, since the number of users who retweet is much
larger than those whose messages are retweeted, the bib-
liographic projection has a much larger giant connected
component, with about 75% of the nodes.
Given the fragmented nature of the projection net-
works, we compute hub/authority scores weight-averaged
over all components as follows. Let the co-citation net-
work for a given week C have K weakly-connected com-
ponents (excluding components of size 1), which we label
with the index k in order of decreasing size (i.e., k = 1
corresponds to the largest and k = K to the smallest
k=1 Ck, where Ck is the
Nk   Nk adjacency matrix of the k-th component. For
each component k, we compute the authority score, vk:
component). Therefore, C =(cid:76)K
Ckvk =  max
k
vk,
k
v =(cid:2)(N1/N ) vT
where  max
is the largest eigenvalue and vk is nor-
malised such that all
its entries add up to 1 (i.e.,
||vk||1 = 1). The authority score of the i-th user in
component k is vk(i). We then aggregate the authority
scores of all components into the weight-averaged vector
. The score for each
node is weighed according to the size of the component
in which it is found, thus ensuring that the scores are
comparable and that we do not discard information from
the smaller components.
1 , . . . , (NK/N ) vT
K
(cid:3)T
To extract the hub scores in each week we follow the
same procedure on matrix B.
D. Topic extraction
Topic extraction from the data proceeds in several
steps. First, the tweets in the dataset are grouped in
weekly bins (as for the networks constructed above). For
each week, the raw text is pre-processed and a word co-
occurrence network is created. The probability that the
tweets in each bin belong to di erent topics is computed
using techniques from textual analysis and community
detection for graphs. Note that topics are extracted us-
ing only the original tweets retweets are excluded be-
cause they do not add any new topical information. The
details of each of the steps for topic extraction are as
follows:
a. Text pre-processing: Prior to topic extraction,
the text of each tweet is processed in the following way:
  Convert words to lowercase, e.g., the terms  di-
abetes ,  Diabetes  and  DIABETES  are all pro-
cessed as the same word.
  Remove
all
non-
alphanumeric characters, i.e., we compare tweets
based only on the words they contain.
punctuation
signs
and
  Replace collocations for speci c terms (e.g.,  Type
2  or  T2D  are replaced by  type2 ) in order to ho-
Raw tweet
US FDA approves Johnson & Johnson diabetes drug, canagli ozin -
Reuters http://t.co/pKYCbqiVAZ #health
SAVOR-TIMI 53 sets new standard for cardiovascular outcome trials
in diabetes http://t.co/j9jkB1RagE #pharma
RESEARCH AND MARKETS: Type 2 Diabetes - Pipeline Review,
H2 2013 http://t.co/5afh5ypDTl
Last Dec my son (then 4) was diagnosed with type 1 Diabetes.
JDRF UK do excellent research into prevention, lifestyle and cure.
#walkforcure
Processed tweet
us fda approv johnson johnson drug canagli ozin reuter health
savortimi set standard cardiovascular outcom trial pharma
research market type2 pipelin review h2
last dec diagnos type1 jdrf uk excel research prevent lifestyl cure
walkforcur
TABLE I: Examples of  raw tweets  and their processed version prior to topic extraction.
6
mogenise terms that are known to refer to the same
concept.
  Remove stop-words and special words (articles,
conjunctions, etc) [35], numbers and vestigial
URLs, which bear no topical information.
  Stem the text [41]. This step strips su xes so that
related words are mapped to the same stem, e.g.,
 house ,  houses ,  housing  are replaced by  hous .
The result of this pre-processing step is illustrated in Ta-
ble I, which contains examples of  raw tweets  and their
processed version.
b. Topic extraction from word co-occurrence
graphs: After text pre-processing, we extract the top-
ics from the tweets in each weekly bin in the following
steps:
1. Following Lancichinetti et al [34], we create a word
adjacency graph for each weekly bin. The nodes in
the graph are words, and edges indicate two words
that co-appear in tweets with higher probability
than one would expect at random (i.e., when the
probability of such an edge in a random network
with the same degree sequence is less than 0.05).
2. We analyse the word co-occurrence graph using
Markov Stability [42, 43] (in contrast with the use
of Infomap in Ref. [34]) to extract relevant commu-
nities (or groups) of words that co-appear in tweets
more consistently than with words outside of their
own group, and to consider groupings of di erent
granularity [1, 44].
3. The communities of words are used as the input for
the Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) topic extrac-
tion method [45]. Hence, the communities obtained
with Markov Stability provide an initial guess for
the topics to which a tweet is likely to belong.
Speci cally, we assume that each document (tweet)
di belongs to a topic (community) tk with a prior
probability P0(di|tk) that is proportional to the
number of words that document di has in topic tk.
LDA then proceeds iteratively to produce the pos-
terior probability that document di belongs to each
topic tk: P (tk|di). LDA also produces P (hj|tk), the
probability of  nding word hj given topic tk.
4. We make the assumption that, given their brevity,
each tweet can only belong to at most one topic.
This entails collecting only the assignments of top-
ics to documents with abnormally large values (i.e.,
the outliers) of P (tk|di), and discarding all other
values. A tweet is assigned to a topic if P (tk|di) >
pc(99) + IPR, where pc(99) is the 99th percentile
of the distribution and IPR is the inter-percentile
range: IPR = pc(99)   pc(1). Figure 5A shows an
example of this criterion where a tweet about the
FDA s approval of a diabetes drug is assigned to a
topic that contains almost 2,000 tweets about this
event.
This method for topic extraction is applied separately
to each of the 43 weeks in our dataset. Figure 5B shows
the number of topics in each week. The average number
of topics per week is 75.
E. Themes from topics:
In order to identify the dominant themes in the
dataset, we applied open thematic coding [38] to the top-
ics obtained in the previous section, for a random selec-
tion of weeks. In total, we analysed in-depth 290 topics
(from weeks 34, 39, 44 and 50 of 2013, and week 2 of
2014) containing 63,000 processed tweets with identi ed
topic.
The analysis consisted of reading all the tweets in each
topic, and assigning a label to the topic according to the
dominant theme present. In general, one or two themes
clearly dominated each topic. In some cases, tweets in
one topic were too mixed to identify one single theme; in
this case, we did not assign a theme label but we read
the tweets to ensure that no new themes emerged within
the topic. As per standard practice, we continued this
process until saturation; that is, until no new themes
emerged from the evaluation of topics, and the repeti-
tion of existing theme labels was constant [37]. This pro-
cess was repeated twice by the same researcher to ensure
consistency. For ease of representation, we then grouped
the themes identi ed through open thematic coding into
thematic groups, as seen in Table II.
In summary, our analysis of content progressed as fol-
lows:  rst, we automatically extracted weekly topics from
7
ant connected component of this network comprises 880
nodes, with the rest being either isolated or suspended.
To extract the communities in the networks, we used the
Markov Stability community detection framework as de-
scribed in Refs. [1] and [46]; we found a robust partition
of the network into seven communities of di erent size.
We labelled the communities according to the type of ac-
counts that each contains (e.g., health agencies, diabetes
advocacy, research scientists, and so on).
III. RESULTS
A. The  what  of diabetes on Twitter
As described above, the tweets on our dataset were  rst
automatically grouped into topics, and their content was
then manually assigned themes using open thematic cod-
ing. These themes fall into one of four broad thematic
groups: health information, news, social interaction, and
commercial. For tweets in these groups, although the
content and messages changed from week to week, the
themes remained constant. In addition to these four the-
matic groups, we identi ed a  fth group of tweets with
consistent and recurrent content. In this distinct group,
the speci c content was repeated consistently across the
data sample (i.e., the tweets did not change from week
to week).
In Table II, we present the thematic groups
and the themes within each group. Figure 6 contains a
visual summary of the thematic groups as  word clouds 
with the 200 top words in each thematic group (i.e., the
words most likely to appear in the topics), and  word
clouds  with the usernames (scaled to size of number of
tweets) of the 200 most active users (available also as a
Supplementary spreadsheet (see Data Statement). Note
that the term diabetes has been removed from the analy-
sis because it appears in all of the tweets. It is important
to remark that the most active users (e.g., those who
tweet the most) are not necessarily the most important,
or  central  in the di erent networks, from the point of
view of information generation.
We now discuss in more detail the themes, topics and
users found in each of the  ve thematic groups.
1. Health information tweets
One of the largest thematic groups consists of health
information, research  ndings, recommendations, advice
and warnings, which are all abundantly tweeted and
retweeted. Figure 6A contains a word-cloud with the 200
most probable words in the topics of this group (the total
number of distinct terms is 29,647 in 90 topics from open
thematic coding). The top 10 words in this thematic
group are: risk, type2, disea (disease, diseased), heart,
research, month, obe (obese, obesity), fruit, news, awar
(aware, awareness). Such terms are typical of tweets
that fall within this broad thematic group, as seen in
FIG. 5: A: Box-plot of the posterior probability of a speci c
tweet di after LDA optimisation. The red line indicates the
median LDA assignment score for this tweet, the box indicates
the 25th and 75th percentiles, and the whiskers mark the
interpercentile range (IPR, see text). There are three topics
(red crosses) that lie outside the interpercentile range, the one
furthest to the right is designated as the topic of the tweet.
This tweet belongs to a topic which covers the FDA s approval
of a diabetes drug in late March 2013. The topic belongs
to a theme the  Commercial  thematic group in Table II. B:
The number of topics extracted varies for each week with an
average of 75.
the tweets; second, we manually applied open thematic
coding until saturation to obtain a list of coded themes;
and third, we manually placed these themes into thematic
groups.
In order to learn which themes dominated in tweets by
the most in uential accounts, we also analysed the tweets
by the top authority nodes. Here, tweets belonging to
each user were coded according to themes identi ed in
the thematic analysis.
F.
Interest communities in the follower network of
authorities:
To complement the textual analysis above, we also
analysed the community structure of the follower net-
work of the 1,000 accounts with the highest cumulative
authority score over the observation period. The gi-
8
Thematic group
Health information
News
Social Interaction
Commercial
Recurrent content
Theme
Public health messages
Links to articles, blogs and studies about risks, treatment and cure
Population health fears
Publicity about outreach and awareness events and activities
Advice about diabetes management and diagnosis
Lifestyle, diet and cookery tips, news and links
Life stories and experiences (some for marketing purposes)
Dangers of sugar, sugar replacements and/or soda
Headline links to particular  breakthrough  studies or technologies
Celebrity news
General news articles about diabetic people or pets
News relating to the pharmaceutical industry and the economy
Users joking about how what they have eaten is likely to give them diabetes
Chatter and social interchanges that include mentions of diabetes
Everyday experiences of diabetes
Stigmatising comments
Banter and sexual innuendo and humour relating to sweetness and diabetes
Advertisements for jobs in the pharmaceutical and care industries
Marketing for a speci c product, app, treatment, event or service
Pharmaceutical, health industry and stockmarket updates and FDA approvals
Sale of diabetes drugs, diets or treatment products online
Song lyric:  All the time  by Jeremih [47]
Song lyric:  I m still happy  by Boosie Badazz [48]
Viral  fact : Alcohol reduces diabetes risk
Viral  fact : Urine tasting
The mathematics joke
TABLE II: Thematic groups and associated themes obtained through open coding applied to the topics detected in the tweets
of the collected dataset.
Figure 6A and Supplementary Spreadsheet, as well as
in Table III in the Appendix containing speci c exam-
ples of tweets. The tweets in this group include informa-
tion about diabetes (its causes, treatments and cures);
technologies and pharmaceutical products that can be
used for managing it; as well as risks associated with the
disease. Other health-related messages include publicity
about outreach and awareness events, activities and in-
formation. These individual messages are typically not
long-lived, and are only visible at the top of a user s time-
line for short periods of time [49]. In general, there is a
high turnover in the content that each user is exposed to,
even though many messages (e.g., those from newspapers
and online media) are posted multiple times. One of the
themes that is less variable in this regard concerns the
dangers of sugar, sugar replacements and/or sodas. Its
frequency is unsurprising given the nature of diabetes as
a problem of blood sugar regulation.
It is worth men-
tioning that the largest spike of activity in our data (in
November 2013, see Fig. 1) is in part due to a surge in
tweets about World Diabetes Day on 14 November 2013.
The health information in the collected sample does
not appear to be directly or speci cally associated with
health promotion groups. Instead, such tweets are posted
by users with di erent claims to expertise:
individuals
who have experienced diabetes; personal trainers mar-
keting their services; companies selling lifestyle products
or services; and other users with an apparent interest in
diabetes, cookery and healthy eating. These tweets in-
clude advice about diabetes management and diagnosis,
cookery and diet tips, life stories and experiences, and
links to articles about new treatments or promising cures.
Some tweets make claims about  curing  diabetes, or of-
fer natural or  miracle  treatments. Advice of this nature
appears to be authoritative in tone and language, mak-
ing it di cult to distinguish it from advice disseminated
by o cial health authorities. Links contained in such
tweets point to di erent types of authoritative sources of
content: from people who have  rst-hand experience of
diabetes, to marketing agencies trying to sell a particu-
lar food, supplement or device, to hospitals attempting to
communicate a speci c health message. Home remedies
and  miracle  cures appear alongside health tips and rec-
ommendations. Digests and newsletters speci cally con-
taining diabetes-related news (where the authors gather
information from multiple sources around the internet
and supply it to their followers) appear at di erent mo-
ments in time and mix all such messages together.
2. News tweets
News-related tweets in the collected dataset typically
list a headline of a news article; they sometimes give the
 rst line of the story and often also provide a weblink to
the complete story. These tweets rarely relate to health
promotion or education messages. Figure 6B contains
the 200 most probable words theme (out of 10,416 in 29
topics). The top 10 words are: type2, risk, fruit, type1,
eat, peopl (people, peoples), blueberri (blueberry, blueber-
ries), cut, research, juic (juice, juicer, juicing, juicy).
Some news-related tweets communicate research break-
through studies or technologies, which may be reported
with messages of hope for those who have diabetes, in
particular T2. Just as common in this thematic group are
tweets with celebrity news (especially about celebrities
diagnosed with diabetes) and diverse news about peo-
ple or pets with diabetes. Another prominent theme in
this group consists of tweets disseminating news head-
lines about the pharmaceutical industry and stock mar-
ket. Diabetes treatment is a lucrative industry because
diabetes is a chronic condition that requires regular and
ongoing treatment (rather than cure), and so the demand
for pharmaceutical products and lifestyle aids is inelas-
tic [50]. Furthermore, the number of people with T2
is projected to increase dramatically in the future as a
result of population ageing and obesity [51], which will
further expand the market. Table IV in the Appendix
contains examples of tweets in this category.
3. Social interaction and humorous tweets
Twitter is not simply an information-sharing technol-
ogy, but also a space that permits (virtual) social inter-
action [3, 8]. Social interaction tweets use language dif-
ferently to the thematic groups above: they are typically
informal in tone, their attention to spelling and gram-
mar is limited, and they often use exclamation marks
and punctuation to express fun, laughter, exasperation,
sarcasm, irony, and abuse. The top 10 words (out of
31,061 in 97 topics) in this group are: give, health, food,
die, think, fat, year, diet, diseas (disease, diseased), cau
(cause, causes, causing). See Fig. 6C for the theme s
word-cloud. Users frequently joke about how what they
have eaten is likely to give them diabetes, with a wide
variety of sugary foods and drinks, junk foods and other
 unhealthy  options being cited. Such tweets indicate a
level of awareness of dietary guidelines and diabetes ae-
tiology. Users have conversations and interact about a
diversity of topics in a chatter that is not necessarily di-
rectly related to diabetes but may include references to
it. People who have diabetes particularly T1 also talk
about their daily experiences of their bodies, sugar man-
agement, and social acceptance or stigma; such tweets
may elicit retweets or messages of support from others.
Some users also talk in terms of  us  (with T1) and
 them  (without). For example, one user talks about T1
as being a  perk  or feature he/she looks for in a romantic
partner:
I haven t stopped thinking about this girl for seriously
like...a month. AND she has diabetes! #diabetes-
perks
Such chatter often elicits retweets and replies, including
messages of support, or appreciation of a joke.
9
On the other hand, stigmatising comments, especially
tweets which blame diabetic people for bringing the dis-
ease on themselves through, for example, poor diet or
lack of physical activity, are abundant in the dataset.
Figure 6C and the Supplementary Spreadsheet contain
numerous examples of profanity and pejoratives. Faced
with such messages, users with T1 diabetes frequently
point out that it is important to di erentiate between
T1 and T2, insinuating that while T1 diabetes is not a
person s  fault , T2 may well be. Other tweets include
calling other people  diabetic  as an insult and wishing
diabetes upon a person a user does not like. Table V
in the Appendix contains examples of social interaction,
humorous and stigmatising tweets.
A distinct theme in this category consists of tweets
with sexual innuendo. At their mildest, such tweets refer
to boy-band members or other (often celebrity)  crushes 
that are so sweet they are diabetes-inducing. At their
most extreme, tweets joke that others  bodily  uids and
genitals are so sweet they are diabetes-inducing. These
tweets contain weblinks to pornography websites or other
explicit material. Like the jokes discussed earlier, these
tweets might re ect a baseline awareness of the links be-
tween sugar and diabetes.
4. Commercial tweets
As mentioned previously, diabetes is an industry with
an attractive (and expanding) market:
it is a chronic
condition which is currently incurable, and it requires
constant and regular testing, surveillance and treatment.
The top 10 words (out of 5,841 words in 20 topics) in this
group are: type2, drug, job, manag (manage, manager),
care, health, marijuana, sale, test, forsal (for sale). See
Fig. 6D for the theme s word-cloud and the most active
users within this topic. People with diabetes depend on
di erent technologies, consumables, health services, and
pharmaceutical products. This commercial dimension of
diabetes is re ected in many Twitter messages. Tweets
concerned with stockmarket listing announcements, FDA
approval (e.g., Fig. 5A), court cases, and business re-
cruitment (for example, a company hiring a new CEO,
or advertising for new sta ) are common. Table VI in
the Appendix contains typical examples of these types of
message.
5. Recurrent content
While the speci c content of tweets in di erent themes
varies over time, there are some tweets whose content
appears consistently across time over our dataset. The
top 10 words (out of 8,731 words in 19 topics) in this
theme are: sugar, eat, blood, sweet, risk, type2, drink,
high, reduc (reduce, reducing, reduction), health. Fig-
ure. 6E contains this theme s word-cloud. There is a
large number of tweets repeating lyrics from two speci c
10
been reported to reduce diabetes [53]). These few spe-
ci c facts appear intended to entertain or amuse. They
retain almost identical phrasing over time, with sustained
popularity. In fact, such facts are repeated more consis-
tently over time than other headlines, health messages
and reports.
One of the most prominent instances of recurrent con-
tent in our data corresponds to various versions of a
mathematics-themed joke. A typical instance of this joke
is
Math Problems: If Jim has 50 chocolate bars, and
eats 45, what does he have? Diabetes. Jim has dia-
betes...
See Table VII in the Appendix for more versions of the
same joke. This joke appears consistently in our dataset
(44,130 times including retweets, Fig. 1). As with other
jokes about certain foods that are linked to diabetes, for
this joke to be amusing or entertaining (which its sheer
volume suggests it is to many) it requires that readers and
retweeters have a minimum awareness of certain foods
that might contribute to diabetes. To highlight the con-
sistency with which the mathematics joke appears in our
data, we also show on Fig. 1 the number of tweets men-
tioning the actor Tom Hanks.
In October 2013, Tom
Hanks announced he had Type 2 diabetes, which was
discussed and shared widely on Twitter (13,454 tweets
in our dataset). In contrast to the mathematics joke, the
number of tweets about Tom Hanks displays an abrupt
 exogenous peak  (evidence of external events a ecting
the behaviour of a system [54]) followed by a steady re-
laxation to a baseline level.
B. The  who  of diabetes on Twitter
We now turn our focus to the analysis of the users in
the retweet networks extracted from our dataset. Fig-
ure 6 provides a visual
illustration of the users that
posted more tweets in the topics contained within each of
the thematic groups. Although helpful, this  gure does
not provide information about how important these users
are perceived to be in the community, or the impact they
have in the conversation about diabetes. Therefore, in or-
der to understand who are the key users that in uence
diabetes-related content on Twitter over time, we exam-
ine the hub and authority scores of all nodes for each of
the weekly retweet networks from June 2013 to January
2014 (see Section II C for a description of the method-
ology). We then examine the content generated by the
most important users (according to their hub and author-
ity scores), and we  nally analyse their follower network
(i.e., who follows whom within this group of important
users).
1. Authorities and hubs in the weekly retweet networks
FIG. 6: Top 200 words and most frequent authors in each
of the thematic groups in Table II. The size of each word is
proportional to its probability of appearing in a topic in the
group. The size of the username is proportional to the number
of tweets in the thematic group.
rap songs, both of which contain the term  diabetes  (see
Table VII). Of these,  All the Time  by Jeremih [47] was
released in 2013, so it is possible that the appearance of
one line from the song in many tweets in our sample may
be linked to marketing and initial responses to the song.
The lyric repeated from the song relates to the sexual
innuendo discussed previously, so its continued presence
may result from it being used to express a joke rather
than as a direct and deliberate citation (indeed, the song
name or artist are rarely mentioned). The second song
 I m Still Happy  by Lil Boosie (now Boosie Badazz) [48]
was released on a 2010 digital mixtape, suggesting that
the lyric has been consistently attractive to users over
time. This lyric is about determination in the face of
challenges; the artist himself has T1 and has talked with
his fans about the challenge of managing his diabetes.
In addition, several speci c viral  facts  and jokes are
posted frequently and repeatedly (for example, that tast-
ing urine for sweetness was a method to detect diabetes in
the past [52], or that consuming alcohol moderately has
11
FIG. 7: Top ten users by aggregate authority score, number of weeks with nonzero authority score, and brief description.
a. Authority nodes: Figure 7 shows the score over
time for the top ten authorities ranked by their aggregate
weekly score. Of these authorities, nine are institutional
accounts and one belongs to an individual blogger, Kelly
Kunik (@diabetesalish). This blogger is a diabetes advo-
cate who has had T1 for over 30 years and is involved with
a number of diabetes advocacy organisations. She also
administrates the Diabetesaliciousness blog [73], which
 spreads diabetes validation through humour, ownership
and advocacy . Kunik s tweets and blog posts are hu-
morous, casual, and interpersonal in style.
of
the
institutional
Three
accounts belong
to
stockmarket-listed commercial ventures (i.e., established
with the purpose of generating pro ts for shareholders).
Of these, two (@diabetesfacts and @EverydayHealth) be-
long to Everyday Health Media. This company, which
does not claim to have any speci c diabetes expertise,
owns and operates a range of brands.
It was founded
in 2002 by Ben Wolin (an entrepreneur who has pre-
viously worked for Beliefnet, acquired by News Corp.,
PBS, Warner Brothers and Tribune Interactive), and
Mike Keriakos (a media sales expert who began his ca-
reer at Procter and Gamble and who built partnerships
between Everyday Health and AOL, Google, YouTube
and the ABC). The other listed company account, @Di-
abetes Sano , belongs to the global pharmaceutical  rm
Sano , which produces diabetes treatments.
@WDD (which belongs to the International Diabetes
Federation). The latter account is established especially
to promote World Diabetes Day (November 14), although
it disseminates diabetes information and messages all
year round. These associations were originally founded
by physicians and they focus on advocacy and research.
The remaining three authorities in the top ten be-
long to not-for-pro t organisations founded by people
who have experienced T1. These organisations target T1
speci cally: one is a funding body (@JDRF, an organ-
isation previously known as Juvenile Diabetes Research
Foundation), and the other two are blog platforms that
host discussions and disseminate information (@diabetes-
blogs and @DiabetesSocMed).
Figure 8 shows the complement of the cumulative dis-
tribution (CDF) (i.e., 1  CDF) of the aggregate author-
ity scores (blue triangles). The distribution of authorities
shows that over 95% of users involved in a retweet event
do not feature as an authority at all (in our weekly bin-
ning). Users who do attain a non-zero authority score
fall into two categories:
(i) users with a sporadic or marginal appearance (i.e.,
they appear in only a handful of weeks and/or not
in the giant components of the weekly co-citation
networks). These users are concentrated in the long
plateau in Fig. 8.
Another three of the top ten authorities correspond to
national and international diabetes associations: @Am-
DiabetesAssn (the American Diabetes Association) @Di-
abetesAssoc (the Canadian diabetes association) and
(ii) users who appear more regularly usually as part
of the weekly giant connected components. These
users constitute the top 2% in the heavy tail of high
scores in Fig. 8.
12
These hub nodes have a highly variable number of fol-
lowers. For instance, in August 2016 @Diabetes Month
had over twenty thousand followers, whereas @abdSauce
had about 50. What all hubs have in common is a high
rate of retweeting and a feeble, unsustained presence
throughout the observation period. Figure 9A shows the
scores over time for the top ten hubs based on aggregate
score, along with the number of weeks in which they have
a nonzero score. The data shows that, in most cases, the
high aggregate hub score is the result of a  one-o   surge.
We thus term these  intermittent hubs .
The biographical information provided by these users
about who they are and what they do is sparse, often
vague, and di cult to corroborate. For example, the ac-
count @1MEDICAL2NEWS claims to be a Dr Richard
Billard from Los Angeles, but while the account had a
high level of activity on Twitter in our data (and un-
til August 2014) there is no other evidence online that
this doctor exists. Given the extremely active Twitter
account, it is unusual that this doctor has absolutely no
other online presence. The rate at which this particular
user retweeted (on average, 65 times per day), together
with the lack of any original tweets (or non-retweets),
further suggests that it could have been an automated
account assigned an authoritative-sounding alias.
Figure 8 shows the complementary CDF of aggregate
hub scores for all users (red squares). In contrast with
the authority scores, most users (  90%) have a non-zero
aggregate hub score), and the split between low scoring
and high scoring hubs is more even, with around 50% of
the  1.2M users contained in the heavy-tailed part of the
distribution. There is a distinct bend at the right end of
the heavy tailed regime of the distribution that contains
the top 20 users by aggregate hub score, most of which
have been discussed above.
To obtain a clearer picture of  persistent hubs , we cre-
ated an additional activity ranking of hubs by number of
weeks in which the users have a nonzero hub score (Fig-
ure 9B). The top hub according to this persistence score
is still @1MEDICAL2NEWS, which is a hub in each of
the 31 weeks for which we computed the hub scores. An-
other noteworthy appearance is @diabetesalish, who is
also a top ten authority, and who was active as a hub in
each week as well. The top 1000 (intermittent and per-
sistent) hub accounts are included in the Supplemental
Spreadsheet as a resource for further research.
c. Authorities vs. hubs: Our results in Figs. 7, 8
and 9 show that the behaviour of the top authorities and
hubs in our data is fundamentally di erent: top author-
ities tend to have a more sustained presence throughout
the observation period than top hubs. We therefore in-
vestigate the combined characterisation of users in terms
of joint aggregate hub and authority scores. Figure 10
shows the accounts with high hub and authority scores
(i.e., in the global top 2% in both rankings). It is rele-
vant to study users that have a prominent role as both
hub and authority. These include not only the the blog-
ger @diabetesalish and the advocacy group @Diabetes-
FIG. 8: Cumulative distribution of aggregate hub (red) and
authority (blue) scores on a doubly-logarithmic scale. The
horizontal dotted-lines show the proportion of nodes with zero
aggregate hub (< 10%) and authority ((cid:39) 95%) scores.
In the Supplemental Spreadsheet, we provide the top
1000 accounts by aggregate authority score as a further
resource for research. As with the top ten users discussed
above, this longer list contains accounts of known com-
mercial, public and advocacy organisations, as well as
medical schools, hospitals, individual activists and blog-
gers. In addition, we note the appearance of academic
publishers (@bmj latest, ranked 55, @NEJM, ranked 67);
comedians (@ChelcieRice, ranked 28, @SherriEShepherd,
ranked 85); news and media outlets (@medical xpress,
ranked 40, @foxnewshealth, ranked 82); entertainment
(@FoodPorn, ranked 197); and large health-oriented or-
ganisations (@WHO, ranked 88, @NIH, ranked 111), all
of which have a focus much broader than diabetes.
These accounts disseminate content and information
about diabetes on Twitter e ciently, with messages that
elicit a wide, measurable response through re-tweets and
replies from the general population. The sustained pres-
ence of the top authorities (i.e., the sustained strictly
positive authority score in Fig. 7) is an indication that
these users consistently produce content that resonates
with the general Twitter-using population.
b. Hub nodes:
The top ten accounts by aggre-
gate hub score have a markedly di erent character to
the authorities, both in behaviour and types of users. In
the context of a retweet network, hubs are connectors;
they forward information generated by authorities across
Twitter. The top accounts by aggregate hub score over
time (see Fig. 9A and the Supplemental Spreadsheet)
contain: content aggregators (i.e., accounts that gather
internet content for re-use such as @1MEDICAL2NEWS
or @Diabetes Month); accounts designed to promote
products like @reTouchMD; automated accounts (e.g.,
so-called  robots ); and some individual accounts. Some
of these accounts have been suspended (@shaschneider1);
have become inactive (@1MEDICAL2NEWS); or have
seemingly changed hands (@abdSauce) since the data
was originally collected.
13
FIG. 9: Two di erent rankings of hub nodes. A: Top ten users ranked by their aggregate hub score, along with the number of
weeks in which they appear with a nonzero hub score. B: Top ten users ranked by their number of weeks with a nonzero hub
score. Note the change in the scale of the y-axis.
SocMed, but also the following users (highlighted in black
in Fig. 10):
  @JDRFAdvocacy: a US Government-funded or-
ganisation which focuses on building support for
T1D research; the advocacy account of @JDRF;
(authority rank, hub rank) = (38, 234).
  @askmanny: Manny Hernandez, a prominent
Venezuelan-American diabetes advocate who has
had diabetes since 2002, and whose professional ex-
pertise is in social media, technology and health
(authority rank, hub rank) = (12, 208).
  @amidiabetic: Diabetes advocate and writer Stuart
Wimbles, who runs a diabetes information website
and reportedly has T1D, although there is little ad-
ditional information about him online; (authority
rank, hub rank) = (20, 366).
  @DiabetesMine: A website/blog/newsletter run by
Healthline, a consumer health information website.
The company has a large team of sta  and a panel
of three medical advisors (a Professor of Emergency
Medicine, a drug information specialist, and a phar-
macist) who provide insights into user needs; (au-
thority rank, hub rank) = (13, 208),
  @KayleighAdams3: Account currently suspended;
(authority rank, hub rank) = (300, 64).
  @theNGdoc: Nigeria Diabetes Online Community,
a non-government organisation launched in 2013 to
provide empowerment, education and support for
diabetics in Nigeria. An original idea by Cherise
Showkley (@DiabetesSocMed), the site is o cially
recognised by the International Diabetes Federa-
tion, and two of its Directors are medical doctors;
(authority rank, hub rank) = (127, 200).
  @BattleDiabetes:
Account
of
informationaboutdiabetes.com,
website
with no details about who it belongs to, but which
traces to Jill Knapp, a T2 diabetic who is an
advocate for the American Diabetes Association;
(authority rank, hub rank) = (49, 442).
a
  @KellyRawlings: Diabetes advocate, T1 diabetic,
journalist, and editor of Diabetes Forecast, a pub-
lication of the American Diabetes Association; (au-
thority rank, hub rank) = (107, 387).
  @diaTribeNews: Account of the diaTribe Founda-
tion, a non-pro t organisation founded by T1 di-
abetic Kelly Close to help people with diabetes
to live better lives. Close was previously a  nan-
cial sector analyst and also runs Close Concerns,
a healthcare information  rm focusing on diabetes
and obesity; the Foundation Board contains one
medical doctor; (authority rank, hub rank) = (171,
273).
14
2. Extended analysis of authorities: content and
relationships.
The analysis so far has established the persistence and
relevance of a relatively small number of authorities in
the collected retweet networks. To further our under-
standing of the group of authorities, we perform two
further analyses. First, we analyse in detail the the-
matic content produced by the top ten authorities. Sec-
ond, we extract the network of followers within the top
1,000 authorities and characterise the interest communi-
ties within the network of authorities [1, 46].
a. Topical analysis of authorities: We analyse
into which of the topics and themes obtained through
our earlier analysis of the whole dataset, the tweets from
the top ten authorities are classi ed. All of the top ten
authorities post messages frequently and consistently in
all the themes listed under the thematic group  Health
Information  in Table II. Some  News  related tweets are
also featured, although these are less common.
Two accounts, @Diabetes Sano  and @diabetesblogs,
do not appear to be dominated by any one of the themes
listed, but contain a mixture of all the  Health Informa-
tion  themes. Two other accounts, @WDD and @Am-
DiabetesAssn participate in themes that are related to
outreach and advocacy activities, events and news. The
not-for-pro t organisation and research funding body
@JDRF produces tweets that contain life stories and ex-
periences of diabetes su erers more than any other top-
ten authority.
Two accounts, @diabetesfacts and @EverydayHealth
(owned by the same company) focus predominantly on
lifestyle and diet-related tips, hints and advice. Unlike
the other authorities, these do not produce outreach or
advocacy messages at all. Typical messages posted by
these accounts include:
@diabetesfacts: Tips on adjusting your insulin pump
during exercise from diabetes educator Gary Scheiner
@Integ Diabetes - http://t.co/28Hx8c7PES
@EverydayHealth: Medical costs for people with
#diabetes are more than 2x those of people
without
Are you budgeting for diabetes?
http://t.co/2ohMOVJvwp
it.
@EverydayHealth: The best beverages to quench
your thirst with #diabetes http://t.co/HbR4poFfF5
The vast majority of the tweets from these two accounts
provide a link back to the company s website, which o ers
articles containing health and lifestyle advice.
The messages posted by the accounts @diabetesalish
and @DiabetesSocMed are dominated by a mix of social
interactions, banter and advocacy. They participate in
news topics, but to a lesser degree than the other top-ten
authorities. Their tone is di erent to the others:
it is
informal and conversational rather than authoritative or
informational. For example:
@DianetesSocMed: Happy Mother s (aunts, fur baby
moms, god moms, etc.) to all the women in the dia-
betes community! Have a great day!
FIG. 10: Twitter accounts with the highest combined aggre-
gate hub and authority score (top 2% on both rankings, on a
logarithmic scale). The colour of each data point corresponds
to the user s combined hub/authority score; blue denotes a
lower hub or authority both (relative to the other accounts
on shown here), a transition towards red denotes strength on
both scores. Shown here are the usernames of 35 accounts
that score highly both as hubs and as authorities; usernames
in black are discussed further in the text.
  @MyGlu: T1D Exchange, a non-pro t organisation
providing connectivity for people whose lives are
a ected by diabetes. The site s leadership team
contains a physician and pediatric endocrinologist;
but it also makes a clear disclaimer that discussions
on the site should not be a substitute for medical
advice; (authority rank, hub rank) = (122, 326).
  @abdSauce: Top hub account, has been taken down
or switched hands since data were collected; a Pin-
terest account with the same handle belongs to
Rasheed Adewole, who works with the Nigeria Dia-
betes Online Community (@theNGdoc); (authority
rank, hub rank) = (676, 6),
  @dr bolajidauda: Top hub account, no longer ac-
tive at the time of analysis; (authority rank, hub
rank) = (637, 7).
In addition to posting messages that evoke a broad
response (as authorities), these users also engage by
retweeting and replying to messages posted by other
users (as hubs). The empty upper-right corner in Fig. 10
indicates that there are no accounts at the very top as
both hubs and authorities.
and
@diabetesalish: #dblog:Dear240 #bgnow: You
R but  eeting & temporary,
am perma-
nently fabulous. #Iwin #diabetes #doc #dsma
http://t.co/w9iZw83f97
I
which links to a blog posting about the user s experi-
ence with diabetes. Two other users, @diabetesblogs
and @DiabetesAssoc, also tweet some social and inter-
personal messages.
Two accounts, @diabetesblogs and @diabetesalish oc-
casionally feature marketing or product promotion mes-
sages. Such instances of marketing are to be expected,
as some bloggers generate income by advertising goods
and services, and sponsoring blog advertising in this way
is not regulated by governments. In this case and oth-
ers, while marketing might not be made explicit to other
users, it is still possible that ostensibly non-commercial
accounts are also practising marketing, especially ac-
counts owned by stockmarket-listed  rms.
The topics where the highest number of top ten au-
thorities converge are related to advocacy and aware-
ness. For example, a topic about Diabetes Blog Week
in May 2013 gathered 6 of the top ten authorities: @di-
abetesalish, @diabetesblogs, @DiabetesSocMed, @Dia-
betes Sano , @diabetesfacts, and @EverydayHealth. In
other weeks, the top 10 authorities appear together in
topics related to promotion of blogs by diabetics (using
the hashtag #dblogs, which appears in 15,901 tweets in
the data set), and diabetes social media awareness (using
the hashtag #dsma, which is promoted by @Diabetes-
SocMed and appears in 10,945 tweets).
b. Analysis of the authority follower network:
In order to understand how the users with high authority
scores interact with each other, we have mined Twitter
further to extract and analyse the follower network of
the top 1000 authorities by aggregate score (see Supple-
mental Spreadsheet).
In this network, each of the top
1000 authorities is a node and a directed connection be-
tween two nodes indicates that the source node  follows 
the target node on Twitter.
This directed network has a large weakly connected
component of 880 nodes (see Fig. 11) the rest of the
nodes are either isolated (a handful are connected to only
one node) or have since been deleted or blocked. We work
below with this network of 880 Twitter users and their
follower relationships.
It is important to note that, unlike the retweet net-
works studied up to this point, the follower network is
not  conversation-centric . In a retweet network, the ex-
istence of a connection is the result of one user retweeting
a message containing the term  diabetes  at least once. In
contrast, in the follower network a directed edge indicates
an interest by the  follower  to receive information from
the  followed  on a more permanent basis. This decla-
ration of interest may re ect more general information
beyond the speci c retweets about diabetes.
As discussed above, the top 1000 authorities form a
heterogeneous group of users, including, among others:
15
public health institutions and foundations; diabetes ad-
vocates, researchers, activists, and patients; hospitals
and medical schools; academic and mainstream publish-
ers, media, and personalities; companies. The most cen-
tral nodes in this follower network according to pager-
ank [55, 56] (a proxy for importance) are users with a
broad reach and not diabetes-speci c:
1. Centers for Disease Control & Prevention (CDC),
@CDCgov (ranked 65 as an authority in the previ-
ous section).
2. National Institutes of Health, @NIH (authority
rank 111)
3. New York Times-Health, @NYTHealth (authority
rank 150)
4. World Health Organization, @WHO (authority
rank 88)
5. CDC  u updates, @CDCFlu (authority rank 87)
6. Recall information from the US Food and Drug Ad-
ministration (FDA), @FDArecalls (authority rank
651)
7. News about medical research and health advice
from the New York Times, @nytimeswell (authority
rank 412)
8. National Public Radio-Health, @NPRHealth (au-
thority rank 336)
9. US O ce on Women s Health, @womenshealth (au-
thority rank 93)
10. New England Journal of Medicine, @NEJM (au-
thority rank 67)
The high centrality of accounts relating to health research
and information (@NIH, @NEJM, @CDCgov, @WHO,
@CDCFlu, @womenshealth), health-speci c news media
(@NYTHealth, @nytimeswell, @NPRHealth), health ad-
vocacy (@WHO) and commercial activities relating to
foods and medicines (@FDArecalls) indicates that health
in general is a key concern to users in this network. Di-
abetes is one health concern, but it is not isolated from
others.
Beyond a ranking of centrality, it is important to ex-
tract information about relevant communities in this fol-
lower network, so as to reveal information about who
the authorities are and about their interests. A com-
munity in a network is usually de ned as a highly co-
hesive group of nodes, with above-expected connections
within the group [57]. In directed networks such as the
follower network, we de ne communities in terms of  ows
of information, i.e. as groups of nodes in which inter-
est or information is retained and circulated. To extract
such interest communities, we use the Markov Stability
framework [42, 43], a dynamical framework especially
well-suited to extract directed communities [1, 44].
In
16
FIG. 11: A: The Twitter follower network of the top authorities. The nodes correspond to the 1000 users with the highest
aggregate authority score and the follower network was obtained by mining Twitter in September 2015. The users are coloured
according to their interest community, as obtained through the analysis of the follower network using Markov Stability. We
 nd 7 main communities (there are an additional six very small communities not shown). B: The authority follower network
coarse-grained by the obtained communities. Word clouds of the Twitter biographies of the users in each interest community
were computed a posteriori to help establish the thematic content of each of the seven groups, as summarised in the description.
The directed arrows re ect the direction of interest between groups, and the width of the arrows is proportional to the number
of connections between the groups.
this follower network, we found a robust partition into
seven main interest communities (Fig. 11B) and six ad-
ditional communities with three nodes or fewer. Each of
the seven larger communities contains a distinct group
of users characterised by domain of activity, background,
interests or employer (see Supplemental Spreadsheet for
the full list):
C0 Health and medicine generalist accounts:
This community, the largest in the network (30%
of the nodes, light blue in Fig. 11), contains many
accounts with high pagerank (including all the top
10 by pagerank listed above). Most members are
related in general to health and medicine. For
example, public health bodies, hospitals, medical
schools, academic publishers, the health divisions
of mainstream media, and commercial entities.
C1 Diabetes-related users: This community (28%
of nodes, in green) contains the overwhelming ma-
jority of the diabetes-centred accounts discussed
earlier, including associations, funders, advocates
and patients, and companies. All of the top 10 au-
thority accounts in Fig. 7 belong to this community.
C2 Lifestyle and well-being users: This commu-
nity contains accounts related to lifestyle and well-
being advice, publications, natural and alterna-
tive remedies, detox, health and organic foods and
products (17% of the nodes, in red).
C3 Science writers and media: This commu-
nity contains science writers (e.g., @bengoldacre)
and popular scienti c publications, British media,
and biotech-industry related accounts (11% of the
nodes, in orange).
C4 Celebrity and wider public: This commu-
nity contains celebrities, men s publications, and
celebrity doctor @DrOz (5% of nodes, in dark blue).
C5 Tesco-related: In this community, most accounts
are either owned by the UK retailer Tesco or by its
employees (3% of the nodes, in yellow).
C6 Humour: This community contains comedians,
parody, novelty accounts, and others (2% of the
nodes, in purple).
Through this succinct analysis of the follower network
of authorities we obtain a clearer global picture of: the
general participants in the diabetes-speci c discussions
analysed earlier; the groups of interests that are present;
the audiences involved in the debate; and how they re-
late to each other. For instance, as Fig. 11B shows, the
largest community (C0), which contains generalist health
and medicine agencies, is clearly seen as a reference by
all other communities, and especially by the three other
large communities: C1 (Diabetes), C2 (Life-style) and C3
(Science writers and media). There are other clear asym-
metries in the follower-followed relationships: C2-lifestyle
accounts strongly follow C1-diabetes accounts (but this
following is not reciprocated to the same extent), whereas
C2 users do not strongly follow C3-science writers/media
accounts (which largely ignore C2). The connection be-
tween C1-diabetes and C3-science writers/media is not
strong in either direction. The presence of the UK re-
tailer Tesco as a distinct community (C5) in this network
is also noteworthy; Tesco is a high-pro le supporter of the
charity Diabetes UK (@DiabetesUK, in C1) [74]. As we
have previously noted, humour is a prominent feature in
our datasets, and it makes another signi cant appearance
here. Community C6, which contains many comedy and
parody accounts. Parody and comedy communities have
also been observed in other follower networks obtained
from di erent topical issues [1]. To provide a visual in-
terpretation of the communities found, Figure 11B also
contains word-clouds constructed from the Twitter bi-
ographies of the members in each community. The word
clouds are aligned with our descriptions of the interest
communities.
In particular the members of communi-
ties C0, C1, C2, C3 and C5 use consistently-themed lan-
guage to describe themselves. In contrast, the members
of the celebrity and humour communities (C4 and C6)
are heterogeneous in their self-descriptions, yet clearly
identi able through examination of their usernames. As
noted in [1], the word-clouds obtained from the biogra-
phies can be thought of as an independent annotation or
 self-description  of the communities. It is important to
remark that the biographies were not used in the analysis
of the network.
IV. DISCUSSION
Twitter is a source of information and interaction for
a growing section of the world s population [58]. Hence,
understanding online conversations around health issues
on Twitter (and social media platforms more broadly) is
important, especially since such platforms are frequently
considered as possible tools in public health outreach and
health promotion initiatives [20, 21, 59 61]. Such initia-
tives are designed based on extended assumptions about
the Twitter health landscape, the messages which domi-
nate it, and the interactions of users within it. However,
detailed data-driven research can help ascertain the va-
lidity of such assumptions and enrich our understanding
of the online landscape and its implications for popula-
tion health.
In our study, references to diabetes on Twitter fall into
four broad thematic groups: health information, news,
social exchanges and commercial messages (Table II).
While these groups de ne a body of consistent themes,
speci c messages are largely irregular and variable over
time, both in their language and content.
In contrast, there exists an additional group of highly
consistent messages that are propagated through popu-
lar culture and humour, including jokes, song lyrics or
viral  facts . Such messages are consistent in content and
17
style over time as they continue to be posted and shared.
Humorous tweets, banter, jokes and social engagement
(both supportive and stigmatising) are common in our
data. Tweets with such content have a di erent tone and
vocabulary than tweets containing authoritative posts,
formal health messages or news headlines. This obser-
vation is in line with previous reports, which have found
that the most retweeted tweets are emotionally evocative
(either humorous or evoking anger) [46, 62, 63]. More-
over, we also  nd that these tweets appear on Twitter
more persistently over time than other tweets in the sam-
ple (Fig. 1). From a health promotion perspective, this
highlights a need to consider not only the consistency of
slogans or lines in the messages, but also their style and
sentiment. The importance of sentiment in promoting
dietary choices has also been discussed in Refs. [64 66].
The abundance of jokes and sexual innuendo about
foods and substances that contribute to diabetes indi-
cate at least a basic understanding of diabetes, some of
its causes, and its connection to blood sugar. The embed-
ding of such fundamental understandings about diabetes
in online social media may be the result of health e orts
in nutrition over the past decades. This observation is
at odd with assumptions that more health education is
required to help people to understand the sorts of foods
which might contribute to the development of diabetes.
Furthermore, such use of humour may imply a sense of
powerlessness to make  healthy  choices as users seem-
ingly mock health advice when faced with realities of the
food and drink products they encounter on a daily ba-
sis [67].
When it comes to the  who  of diabetes on Twitter, our
analysis shows a clear separation between the relatively
few accounts that produce the most engaging content
(authorities), and the broader audiences that dissemi-
nate and respond to it (hubs), as seen in Fig. 10). Only
about 10% of the accounts in our dataset (approximately
120,000) produce tweets that evoke some (heterogeneous)
response (Fig. 8). Among the top authority accounts, we
 nd a mix of stockmarket-listed  rms; public, civil and
grassroots organisations; and individuals who have expe-
rience as diabetes patients and care-givers. The engage-
ment levels of all authorities are sustained throughout
the observation period, and it is di cult to clearly dis-
cern between these di erent groups based on the content,
style or theme of their tweets alone. These observations
re ect the fact that the health landscape today no longer
consists of government and citizens alone [65]. Other
entities (such as commercial agents, individual bloggers
and automated accounts) also exist and exert in uence
on the health promotion landscape, and on the conver-
sations taking place around such themes. Their motives
are sometimes challenging to discern, and sponsorship ar-
rangements can be di cult to identify or regulate. Sim-
ilar  ndings have been noted with respect to Facebook,
another social media platform used for health care and
communication [31]. Such entities, which are assumed
by health authorities to be extrinsic to the healthcare
arena, need to be acknowledged and considered in suc-
cessful strategies for health promotion.
Our results show that the role of hubs in disseminat-
ing information is less persistent over time than the role
played by authorities in generating information. Hubs
are generally far less transparent about their identity.
Some accounts, for example, claim to have medical ex-
pertise, but these claims cannot always be veri ed. As
a result, it is di cult for Twitter users to be  informed
citizens  and discern legitimate from misleading or dis-
credited information, or a bona- de health expert from
a social-media expert, or a marketer with business mo-
tivations from a marketer with public health ones. Es-
tablishing the credibility of an account by the number of
messages, followers or even through the published user
pro le, for example, can therefore be misleading. This
poses challenges to the use of Twitter as a health promo-
tion platform, and requires the use of sophisticated tech-
niques (e.g., collaboration of health professionals with
practitioners of network and data science). Further re-
search and engagement with  real  people, and not sim-
ply their virtual online personae which represent them,
is necessary to elucidate the expertise and intentions of
users generating some of the key diabetes-related content
on Twitter.
This research has implications for health policy mak-
ers and health promotion practitioners. We show that
key authorities in relation to diabetes on Twitter are
not simply those with accredited and formally-recognised
health expertise, but also bloggers (men and women), pa-
tients, celebrities, advocacy organisations, stockmarket-
listed  rms, news media and automated accounts. There
are diverse stakeholders that use Twitter; even when lim-
ited to the English language, these accounts originate
from a range of countries (notably, several Nigerian ac-
counts have prominent roles as both hubs and author-
ities). It may be that establishing long-term collabora-
tions with the most in uential users, as well as enhancing
the connections between di erent communities of users,
may be more e ective health promotion strategies than
running short-term government-led campaigns and slo-
gans aimed at informing people who have (or who are at
risk of developing) diabetes. In addition, it is important
that policy makers understand what social media users
already know about health before new initiatives are in-
troduced: simply telling users what they already appear
to know, for example, about which foods contribute to
diabetes, may hinder health agencies  impact and credi-
bility.
Our  ndings also have implications for programme
evaluation, where  number of tweets/followers  is com-
monly assumed to equate to  impact . Other metrics that
leverage the structure of the network of interactions to
consider relative impact, or a sustained high-centrality
presence over time (e.g., via centrality metrics such as
hub-authority scores) may more closely re ect the real-
ity of Twitter use for health purposes.
The health information landscape on Twitter is com-
18
plex, and it cannot be assumed that people can eas-
ily discern  good  and  bad  information. Our observa-
tions echo previous reports that there is more informa-
tion available to consumers than they have the capacity
to process and understand [68, 69]. In this context, public
health approaches and messages that simply aim to  in-
form  the public might be insu cient in themselves, or
even be counterproductive as they make a complicated
cacophony of messages even busier. This is particularly
relevant for health policy makers. For instance, infor-
mation that is disseminated by bloggers, stockmarket-
listed  rms or automated accounts may be in line with
broad health recommendations (and indeed may provide
a valuable service to users), but without clear distinction
from  legitimate  health advice, such information might
equally push particular aspects of a commercial agenda
that could lead to harm or greater health costs in future.
In this case, public health agencies may have to develop
novel approaches to ensure that the electronic health in-
formation landscape is one that promotes healthy citizens
and not only sweet pro ts.
DECLARATIONS
Contributions
MBD and AM researched literature and conceived the
study, carried out quantitative (MBD) and qualitative
(AM) data analysis, and prepared the  rst draft of the
manuscript. GGH and MBD collected the data. MBD,
AM, MB, SU wrote the paper. All authors reviewed and
edited the manuscript and approved the  nal version of
the manuscript.
Acknowledgements
We thank E. Gardu no for useful advice and discussions
on how best to gather and process the data. We thank
H. Harrington and S. Yaliraki for fruitful discussions and
comments on the manuscript.
Funding
support
MBD acknowledges
from the James S.
McDonnell Foundation Postdoctoral Program in Com-
plexity Science/Complex Systems Fellowship Award
(#220020349-CS/PD Fellow). MB acknowledges fund-
ing from the EPSRC through grants EP/I017267/1 and
EP/N014529/1.
Data statement
Con icting interests
The IDs of the tweets used in this research and the
Supplemental Spreadsheet can be downloaded from the
ReShare UK Data Service repository [70].
GGH is an employee of Sinnia, a data analytics com-
pany. The remaining authors declare no con icting in-
terests.
19
[1] Beguerisse-D  az M, Gardu no-Hern andez G, Vangelov
Interest commu-
the
Journal of
Avail-
http://rsif.royalsocietypublishing.
B, Yaliraki SN, Barahona M.
nities and  ow roles
Twitter network of
The Royal Society Interface. 2014;11(101).
able
org/content/11/101/20140940.
in directed networks:
the UK riots.
from:
[2] Denef S, Bayerl PS, Kaptein N. Social media and the
police   Tweeting practices of British police forces during
the August 2011 riots. In: Proceedings of the Computer-
Human Interaction Conference. ACM; 2013. .
[3] Gonz alez-Bail on S, Borge-Holthoefer J, Rivero A,
Moreno Y. The dynamics of protest recruitment through
an online network. Sci Rep. 2011;1:197. Available from:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/srep00197.
[4] Gonz alez-Bail on S, Wang N. Networked discontent:
in social me-
The anatomy of protest campaigns
dia.
Avail-
able from: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0378873315000659.
Social Networks. 2016;44:95   104.
[5] Morales AJ, Losada JC, Benito RM. Users struc-
ture and behavior on an online social network during
a political protest. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics
and its Applications. 2012;391(21):5244   5253. Avail-
able from: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S037843711200386X.
[6] Tonkin E, Pfei er HD, Tourte G. Twitter,
informa-
tion sharing and the London riots?
Bulletin of the
American Society for Information Science and Technol-
ogy. 2012;38(2):49 57. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1002/bult.2012.1720380212.
[7] Zhou Z, Bandari R, Kong J, Qian H, Roychowdhury V.
Information resonance on Twitter: watching Iran.
In:
Proceedings of the First Workshop on Social Media An-
alytics. SOMA  10. New York, NY, USA: ACM; 2010.
p. 123 131. Available from: http://doi.acm.org/10.
1145/1964858.1964875.
[8] Kwak H, Lee C, Park H, Moon S. What is Twitter, a
Social Network or a News Media?
In: Proceedings of
the 19th International Conference on World Wide Web.
WWW  10. New York, NY, USA: ACM; 2010. p. 591 
600. Available from: http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/
1772690.1772751.
[9] Wu S, Hofman JM, Mason WA, Watts DJ. Who says
what to whom on twitter. In: Proceedings of the 20th
international conference on World wide web. WWW  11.
New York, NY, USA: ACM; 2011. p. 705 714. Available
from: http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1963405.1963504.
[10] Culotta A. Towards Detecting In uenza Epidemics by
Analyzing Twitter Messages. In: Proceedings of the First
Workshop on Social Media Analytics. SOMA  10. New
York, NY, USA: ACM; 2010. p. 115 122. Available from:
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1964858.1964874.
[11] Signorini A, Segre AM, Polgreen PM. The Use of Twitter
to Track Levels of Disease Activity and Public Concern in
the U.S. during the In uenza A H1N1 Pandemic. PLoS
ONE. 2011 05;6(5):e19467. Available from: http://dx.
doi.org/10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0019467.
[12] Garc  a-Herranz M, Moro E, Cebri an M, Christakis
NA, Fowler JH. Using Friends as Sensors to Detect
Global-Scale Contagious Outbreaks. PLoS ONE. 2014
04;9(4):e92413. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.
1371%2Fjournal.pone.0092413.
[13] Prier KW, Smith MS, Giraud-Carrier C, Hanson CL.
Identifying Health-related Topics on Twitter: An Explo-
ration of Tobacco-related Tweets As a Test Topic.
In:
Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on So-
cial Computing, Behavioral-cultural Modeling and Pre-
diction. SBP 11. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag;
2011. p. 18 25. Available from: http://dl.acm.org/
citation.cfm?id=1964698.1964702.
[14] Paul M, Dredze M. You Are What You Tweet: An-
alyzing Twitter for Public Health; 2011. Available
from:
https://www.aaai.org/ocs/index.php/ICWSM/
ICWSM11/paper/view/2880.
[15] Llorente A, Garcia-Herranz M, Cebrian M, Moro E. So-
cial Media Fingerprints of Unemployment. PLoS ONE.
2015 05;10(5):e0128692. Available from: http://dx.
doi.org/10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0128692.
[16] Scanfeld D, Scanfeld V, Larson EL.
Dissemi-
nation of health information through social net-
works: Twitter and antibiotics. American Journal
of Infection Control. 2010;38(3):182   188.
Avail-
able from: http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/
article/pii/S0196655310000349.
[17] Hawn C. Take Two Aspirin And Tweet Me In The
Morning: How Twitter, Facebook, And Other Social
Media Are Reshaping Health Care. Health A airs.
2009;28(2):361 368. Available from: http://content.
healthaffairs.org/content/28/2/361.abstract.
[18] Heaivilin N, Gerbert B, Page JE, Gibbs JL. Public
Health Surveillance of Dental Pain via Twitter. Jour-
nal of Dental Research. 2011;90(9):1047 1051. Avail-
able from:
http://jdr.sagepub.com/content/90/9/
1047.abstract.
[19] King D, Ramirez-Cano D, Greaves F, Vlaev I,
Beales S, Darzi A. Twitter and the health reforms
Health
in the English National Health Service.
Policy.
from:
http://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/
pii/S0168851013000456.
2013;110(2-3):291 297.
Available
[20] Public Health England. Social marketing strategy
one year on; 2015. Available from:
2014 to 2017:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
public-health-england-marketing-strategy-2014-to-2017.
[21] Public
England.
Marketing
Health
to
2014
egy:
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/
Available
2015.
2017;
strat-
from:
public-health-england-marketing-strategy-2014-to-2017.
[37] Bowen GA.
20
[22] Lupton D. M-health and health promotion: The
Social The-
digital cyborg and surveillance society.
ory & Health. 2012;10(3):229 244. Available from:
http://www.palgrave-journals.com/sth/journal/
v10/n3/abs/sth20126a.html.
[23] World Health Organization. Fact sheet No. 312: Dia-
betes. Geneva: WHO Media centre. 2015;.
[24] Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and oth-
ers. National diabetes statistics report: estimates of
diabetes and its burden in the United States, 2014.
2014;US Department of Health and Human Services.
Available from: http://www.cdc.gov/diabetes/data/
statistics/2014statisticsreport.html.
[25] Shaw R, Johnson C. Health Information Seeking and
Social Media Use on the Internet among People with
Diabetes. Online Journal of Public Health Informatics.
2011;3(1). Available from: http://journals.uic.edu/
ojs/index.php/ojphi/article/view/3561.
[26] El-Gayar O, Timsina P, Nawar N, Eid W. Mobile applica-
tions for diabetes self-management: status and potential.
J Diabetes Sci Technol. 2013;7(1):247 262.
[27] Kaufman N.
Internet and information technology use
in treatment of diabetes. International Journal of Clin-
ical Practice. 2010;64:41 46. Available from: http:
//dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1742-1241.2009.02277.x.
[28] Gough A, McCance D, Alderdice F, Harper R, Holmes
V. Preconception counselling resource for women with
diabetes. BMJ Qual Improv Rep. 2015;4(1). Avail-
able from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmjquality.
u209621.w3984.
[29] Harris JK, Mueller NL, Snider D, Haire-Joshu D. Lo-
cal health department use of twitter to disseminate di-
abetes information, United States. Prev Chronic Dis.
2013;10:E70. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.
5888/pcd10.120215.
[30] Desai T, Shari  A, Shari  A, Kats M, Fang X, Christiano
C, et al. Tweeting the meeting: an in-depth analysis
of Twitter activity at Kidney Week 2011. PLoS One.
2012;7(7):e40253. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/
10.1371/journal.pone.0040253.
[31] Greene JA, Choudhry NK, Kilabuk E, Shrank WH.
Online social networking by patients with diabetes:
a qualitative evaluation of communication with Face-
J Gen Intern Med. 2011 Mar;26(3):287 
book.
292. Available from:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/
s11606-010-1526-3.
[32] Kleinberg JM. Authoritative Sources in a Hyperlinked
Environment. J ACM. 1999 Sep;46(5):604 632. Available
from: http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/324133.324140.
[33] Newman M. Networks: an introduction. Oxford Univer-
sity Press; 2010.
[34] Lancichinetti A, Sirer MI, Wang JX, Acuna D, K ording
K, Amaral LAN.
High-Reproducibility and High-
Accuracy Method for Automated Topic Classi cation.
Phys Rev X. 2015 Jan;5:011007. Available from: http:
//link.aps.org/doi/10.1103/PhysRevX.5.011007.
[35] Manning CD, Raghavan P, Sch utze H, et al. Introduction
to information retrieval. vol. 1. Cambridge, UK: Cam-
bridge University Press; 2008.
[36] Wilson SM, Peterson LC. The Anthropology of On-
line Communities. Annual Review of Anthropology.
2002;31(1):449 467. Available from: http://dx.doi.
org/10.1146/annurev.anthro.31.040402.085436.
Naturalistic inquiry and the satura-
tion concept:
a research note.
Qualitative Re-
search. 2008;8(1):137 152. Available from: http://qrj.
sagepub.com/content/8/1/137.abstract.
[38] Braun V, Clarke V. Using thematic analysis in psychol-
ogy. Qualitative Research in Psychology. 2006;3(2):77 
101. Available from: http://www.tandfonline.com/
doi/abs/10.1191/1478088706qp063oa.
[39] Zimmer M, Proferes NJ.
disciplines, methods, and ethics.
A topology of Twitter
research:
Aslib
Journal of Information Management. 2014;66(3):250 
261. Available from:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1108/
AJIM-09-2013-0083.
[40] Ding CHQ, Zha H, He X, Husbands P, Simon HD. Link
Analysis: Hubs and Authorities on the World Wide
Web. SIAM Review. 2004;46(2):256 268. Available from:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1137/S0036144501389218.
[41] Porter MF. Snowball: A language for stemming al-
gorithms; 2009. Available from: http://snowball.
tartarus.org/texts/introduction.html.
[42] Delvenne JC, Yaliraki SN, Barahona M. Stability of
graph communities across time scales. Proc Nat Acad Sci
USA. 2010;107(29):12755 12760. Available from: http:
//www.pnas.org/content/107/29/12755.abstract.
[43] Delvenne JC, Schaub MT, Yaliraki SN, Barahona M.
The Stability of a Graph Partition: A Dynamics-Based
Framework for Community Detection.
In: Mukherjee
A, Choudhury M, Peruani F, Ganguly N, Mitra B, edi-
tors. Dynamics On and Of Complex Networks, Volume
2. Springer New York; 2013. p. 221 242. Available from:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4614-6729-8_11.
[44] Lambiotte R, Delvenne J, Barahona M. Random Walks,
Markov Processes and the Multiscale Modular Organiza-
tion of Complex Networks. Network Science and Engi-
neering, IEEE Transactions on. 2014 July;1(2):76 90.
[45] Blei DM, Ng AY, Jordan MI. Latent Dirichlet Allocation.
J Mach Learn Res. 2003 Mar;3:993 1022. Available from:
http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=944919.944937.
[46] Amor B, Vuik S, Callahan R, Darzi A, Yaliraki SN, Bara-
hona M. Community detection and role identi cation in
directed networks: understanding the Twitter network of
the care. data debate. arXiv:150803165. 2015;Available
from: http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.03165.
[47] Jeremih, Wayne L, Mosley N. All The Time; 2013. Def
Jam Records. Digital Download.
[48] Boosie L. I m still happy; 2010. Gone Til December.
[49] Gleeson JP, O Sullivan KP, Ba nos RA, Moreno Y. De-
terminants of Meme Popularity. arXiv:150105956. 2015;.
[50] Simonsen M, Skipper L, Skipper N. Price sensitivity of
demand for prescription drugs: exploiting a regression
kink design. Journal of Applied Econometrics. 2015;p.
n/a n/a. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/10.1002/
jae.2436.
[51] Wild S, Roglic G, Green A, Sicree R, King H. Global
Prevalence of Diabetes: Estimates for the year 2000 and
projections for 2030. Diabetes Care. 2004;27(5):1047 
1053. Available from: http://care.diabetesjournals.
org/content/27/5/1047.abstract.
[52] Polonsky KS. The Past 200 Years in Diabetes. New
England Journal of Medicine. 2012;367(14):1332 1340.
PMID: 23034021. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/
10.1056/NEJMra1110560.
[53] Koppes LLJ, Dekker JM, Hendriks HFJ, Bouter LM,
Heine RJ. Moderate Alcohol Consumption Lowers the
Risk of Type 2 Diabetes: A meta-analysis of prospective
observational studies. Diabetes Care. 2005;28(3):719 
725. Available from: http://care.diabetesjournals.
org/content/28/3/719.abstract.
[54] Sornette D, Desch atres F, Gilbert T, Ageon Y. Endoge-
nous versus exogenous shocks in complex networks: An
empirical test using book sale rankings. Physical Review
Letters. 2004;93(22):228701.
[55] Page L, Brin S, Motwani R, Winograd T. The PageRank
Citation Ranking: Bringing Order to the Web. Stanford
InfoLab; 1999. 1999-66. Previous number = SIDL-WP-
1999-0120. Available from: http://ilpubs.stanford.
edu:8090/422/.
[56] Gleich DF. PageRank Beyond the Web. SIAM Re-
view. 2015;57(3):321 363. Available from: http://dx.
doi.org/10.1137/140976649.
[57] Porter MA, Onnela JP, Mucha PJ. Communities in Net-
works. Notices of the American Mathematical Society.
2009;56:1082.
[58] Mitchell A, Barthel M, Shearer E, Gottfried J, Matsa KE,
Keeter S, et al. The Evolving Role of News on Twitter
and Facebook. Pew Research Center; 2015. Avail-
able from: http://www.journalism.org/2015/07/14/
the-evolving-role-of-news-on-twitter-and-facebook/.
[59] Shi man DS. Twitter as a tool for conservation ed-
ucation and outreach: what scienti c conferences can
do to promote live-tweeting. Journal of Environmental
Studies and Sciences. 2012;2(3):257 262. Available from:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s13412-012-0080-1.
[60] Radmanesh A, Duszak R, Fitzgerald RT.
Social
Media and Public Outreach: A Physician Primer.
American Journal of Neuroradiology. 2014;Available
from: http://www.ajnr.org/content/early/2014/09/
11/ajnr.A4100.short.
[61] You J. Who are the science stars of Twitter? Science.
2014;345(6203):1440 1441. Available from: http://www.
sciencemag.org/content/345/6203/1440.short.
[62]  Alvarez R, Garc  a D, Moreno Y, Schweitzer F. Senti-
ment cascades in the 15M movement. EPJ Data Science.
2015;4(1):1 13.
[63] So J, Prestin A, Lee L, Wang Y, Yen J, Chou WYS.
What Do People Like to  Share  About Obesity? A
Content Analysis of Frequent Retweets About Obesity
on Twitter. Health Communication. 2015;0(0):1 14.
21
PMID: 26086083. Available from: http://dx.doi.org/
10.1080/10410236.2014.940675.
[64] McLennan AK, Ulijaszek SJ, Eli K. 1 Social Aspects of
Dietary Sugars. Dietary Sugars and Health. 2014;p. 1.
[65] McLennan AK, Ulijaszek SJ. Political models of obe-
sity: Set within regulatory frameworks and ideologies.
In: 22nd European Congress on Obesity 2015, Prague;
2015. .
[66] Ulijaszek SJ, McLennan AK. Framing obesity in UK pol-
icy from the Blair years, 19972015: the persistence of in-
dividualistic approaches despite overwhelming evidence
of societal and economic factors, and the need for col-
lective responsibility. Obesity Reviews. 2016;17(5):397 
411. OBR-10-15-2417.R1. Available from: http://dx.
doi.org/10.1111/obr.12386.
[67] McLennan AK, Ulijaszek SJ, Beguerisse-D  az M. Who
talks about diabetes on Twitter, what do they say, and
why are there so many jokes? In: Schneider T, Eli K,
Dolan C, S U, editors. Digital Food Activism. Routledge;
2016. To appear.
[68] Berg L, Gornitzka  A. The consumer attention de cit
syndrome: Consumer choices in complex markets. Acta
Sociologica. 2012;55(2):159 178. Available from: http:
//asj.sagepub.com/content/55/2/159.abstract.
[69] Gallotti R, Porter MA, Barthelemy M. Lost in trans-
portation:
Information measures and cognitive limits
in multilayer navigation. Science Advances. 2016;2(2).
Available from:
http://advances.sciencemag.org/
content/2/2/e1500445.
[70] Beguerisse-D  az M. Diabetes tweets. UK Data Archive;.
http://reshare.ukdataservice.ac.
Available from:
uk/852474/.
[71] According to Twitter s own  gures from July 2016
[72] https://gnip.com/realtime/powertrack/
[73] http://diabetesaliciousness.blogspot.co.uk/
[74] https://www.diabetes.org.uk/tesco/ Accessed on Oc-
tober 8 2015.
Appendix A: Additional tables with illustrative
tweets for each thematic group
22
Public health
messages
Links to articles,
blogs and studies
about risks,
treatment and cure
Population health
and fears
Publicity about
outreach and
awareness events
and activities
Advice about
diabetes
management and
diagnosis
Lifestyle, diet and
cookery tips, news
and links
Life stories and
experiences (some
for marketing
purposes)
Dangers of sugar,
sugar replacements
and/or soda
Launches
Global
Campaign
Diabetes
Animal
Health
Awareness
fears diabetes
to soar across Bradford district
(From Bradford Telegraph and Argus)
Experts recommend universal diabetes testing for pregnant women at  rst prenatal visit http://t.co/6nLAUytBCX
FDA warns of massive diabetes test strip recall Nova Max strips http://t.co/dxtv4YLMIR via @nbcnewshealth
One Overlooked Trace Mineral Could Wipe Out Diabetes: http://t.co/lD1GgBy6ry
: Insulin Pumps vs. Insulin Injections for Type 1 Children http://t.co/d2Np519zAN #diabetes
E ect of imidapril versus ramipril on urinary albumin excretion in hypertensive patients with type 2 diabetes...
http://t.co/wLZfIsiElp
Reverse Your Diabetes Today: Learn a little-known but 100% proven way to erase your pre-diabetes and type 2
diabetes. http://t.co/TUDwKT3R8F
Studies show chlorella could improve insulin sensitivity in type 2 diabetes patients http://t.co/J4GxrbLF32 via
@HealthRanger
Flu shot extra important if you have diabetes http://t.co/59Qx57TiI4
Health chief
http://t.co/g5A1yZTbsJ
Fears Rockhampton facing diabetes epidemic: Diabetes Queensland says more than 10 per cent of the population i...
http://t.co/bQhnR4x4Rk
Obesity and diabetes pose a serious threat to the long-term health of young people in the United States.
http://t.co/biz4U2gWup
Diabetes is a disease that can strike when you don t take care of your body. Check out these eye-opening statistics.
http://t.co/zwpfTPgbtu
Many @Enterasys employees riding in @AmDiabetesAssn Tour de Cure are too familiar w/ diabetes. Here s why they
ride http://t.co/qURu4XP2xy
Donate to @Brenda Novak s auction for the cure for diabetes. I m giving away 2 tix to my blog tour course #win -
http://t.co/sR65gINrx6
Join us as we  ght to #StopDiabetes. Sign our petition to urge Congress to invest in #diabetes prevention & a cure:
http://t.co/6ztkHxnNy1
Support World Diabetes Day 2012, add a #twibbon to your avatar now! - http://t.co/7mLvcvY1Hx
Merck
Month  http://t.co/BDr77CoCg5
Open Question: Diabetes question i want to know if i have diabeties? i was in eye hospital today and they have...
http://t.co/2BNfwNZL2f
Open Question: Whart are some good ways to deal with pre-diabetes? 9I have some too but are open to yous)?
http://t.co/y6wT3BXSaX
5 things #caregivers need to know about #diabetes. http://t.co/oncoPhK0QH via @sallyabrahms
Open Question: I think I may have diabetes? http://t.co/UGnLZaZ3Gf
8 Tips for Eating Out With Diabetes - Type 2 Diabetes Center-Everyday Health http://t.co/u5nIZ4cg5E #diabetes
#health #diettips
Control Your Diabetes: Diet Tips Check out this post Control Your Diabetes: Diet Tips!.. http://t.co/nES3pfIwg
Purina veterinary diets dm http://t.co/cJ7bVFrbz8 #diabetes management feline formula
Zucchini Escarole Soup: From Diabetes Cooking for Everyone, by Carol Gelles. Exchanges: 1/4 bread, 1 vegetable,...
http://t.co/IiH1Da9d4u
Micronutrient Enriched Wheat Steamed Bread is Bene cial for Diabetes Patients http://t.co/SHthuJliHh #health
#cancer
Tips For Living A Life With Diabetes: TIP! Almonds are a great way to get some additional protein into your di...
http://t.co/XPkJm6jAJ0
To manage your diabetes, Weird Science recommends the munchies http://t.co/QybNo8qfTd
Tiny cells lift Type 1 diabetes hope: Michael Scho eld gets to meet the mother of the man whose death gave hi...
http://t.co/ODMOzctOWI
Debby M Shared this yesterday and its outstanding!!! April 23rd 2013, I was diagnosed with diabetes type 2. My...
http://t.co/iv4blIR5Nj
The Day I was Diagnosed with Juvenile Diabetes: I was diagnosed on July 21st 1999 when I was eight years old. ...
http://t.co/U1GPaX812b
#50ThingsAboutMe 38) I have diabetes since I was 9 years old
Drinking one can of soda a day increases your chances of getting type 2 diabetes by 22%!
http://t.co/BzOmFKhhbw
Diabetes warning over soft sugary drinks: Dr Tim Dalton, chair of the Wigan Borough Clinical Commissioning Gro...
http://t.co/uaLWTZaHDI
A soda a day keeps the doctor in pay: soft drinks and diabetes: Recent research linking soft drinks to type 2 ...
http://t.co/QhB31VRES2
If Mountain Dew: Baja Blast was sold in the stores, diabetes would spread like wild re, y all.
Thanks for putting a damper on my #1 pregnancy craving.
http://t.co/MI8it8xphD via @adweek
Fighting  ab? Think before u reach out 4 sugar substitute #Sugar #Sucralose #Diabetes http://t.co/cfeYURK7r3
Coke and Pepsi Face Diabetes Backlash
to
Support
Pet
Details  
TABLE III: Speci c examples of health information tweets.
23
Headline links to
particular
 breakthrough 
studies or
technologies
Celebrity news
General news
articles about
diabetic people or
pets
News relating to
the pharmaceutical
industry and the
economy
Immune protein could stop diabetes in its tracks, discovery suggests: Researchers have identi ed an immune pr...
http://t.co/rd8Jx2avnn
$FPMI - Advanced Imaging Studies May Enhance Diabetes Management http://t.co/Ow3QX0yuYm
Fish Oil Pills Might Cut Diabetes Risk, Researchers Say http://t.co/fvsIMXFKGR
Great article from @jdwilson2 on islet cell transplant testing o ering hope for T1 #diabetes http://t.co/qn9XYwIxC5
@cnnhealth
Another reason to dislike the Pats   NFL Patriots release Kyle Love after diabetes diagnosis: http://t.co/lAV114TP06
via @wtcommunities
Sherri Shepherd Talks About Her Fight With Diabetes! [Video]: video platformvideo managementvideo solutionsvid...
http://t.co/6FiJMcUal3
Wow Trump just gave Lil John $100K toward his diabetes charity & his mom just passed away they all cheered
endlessly. #apprentice nale
Thief steals family car with daughters #diabetes medicine insidehttp://youtu.be/juPZtMmzL2s via @youtube @tmz
http://t.co/agDquGWmUL
Diabetes service dog saves the day and night for Fort Worth teen http://t.co/LQ4NRm9PLm
Cop beats up girl for diabetes, exposes racist government schools: http://t.co/5AYnBxPEsI via @youtube
Why Jasper TX Service Trains Quality Service Dogs For Those With Diabetes And Autism http://t.co/xFzI5hdRCP
Glooko s New Diabetes Management System FDA Cleared: Glooko (Palo Alto, CA) received FDA clearance for its
lat... http://t.co/j1K Omigz
$CXM Plays Two Vital Roles in the Fight Against Diabetes http://t.co/f0zVaXMsv9   #diabetes #stocks
http://t.co/QK5Zw5tGQt
Woman with Type 2 diabetes sees premiums plummet from $500 to $1 under Obamacare   http://t.co/CUurbdnwqR
News: Cytori Licenses AsiaPaci c Cardiovascular Renal & Diabetes Markets to Lorem Vascular for up to $531 Million
http://t.co/6SNySsC7qX
AstraZeneca could buy Bristol stake in diabetes JV: analyst: LONDON (Reuters) - AstraZeneca may seek to increa...
http://t.co/rcZQPIIZxo
Salix to Buy Santarus for $2.6 Billion to Gain (type 2) #Diabetes Drug http://t.co/wpjNIxKGLf #
TABLE IV: Examples of news tweets.
24
Users joking about
how what they
have eaten is likely
to give them
diabetes
Chatter and social
interchanges
Everyday
experiences of
diabetes
Stigmatising
comments
Sexual innuendo
and humour
relating to
sweetness and
diabetes
Jokes, sarcasm and
humorous tweets
aren t
getting
????
along
today.
and diabetes
#ifeellikepoop #badmood #diabeticproblems
cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake cake
cake cake cake diabetes
2 bowls of yogurt, a bowl of oreos, hersheys, chips, cheese and a shitload of mints. My diet consists of diabetes.
Bother! Burger King has arrived. Hello obesity, diabetes, poor nutrition. McD s is bad enough. Grumble Grumble
????
To us: candy,chocolate,nasi lemak,fries To parents: diabetes,tooth decay,heart disease,high blood pressure.
I JUST TOLD MY DAD A BAD DIABETES JOKE AND HE S A DIABETIC OMFG IM SUCH A BAD PERSON
My mom said I probably have diabetes.. aaa I didn t know she went to school to be a doctor lol
Screw this diabetes business today. Just wanna sleep.. #HeadAche #FeelHungover
My #husband going in for #surgery this morning for #amputation of his toe and partial foot due to #diabetes
#diabetesawareness #fckudiabetes
Watching belly dancers on youtube & wishing I never stopped going-No time & damn diabetes took over my life.
#killjoy #fcbd #hipsofglory
Breakfast gone wild? Pump set gone wild? Hellooo Monday. WTF diabetes. http://t.co/uK3xTuJuMD
Me
http://t.co/3OwXSe2keO
Ever have a cat chew on your insulin pump tubing? #diabetes #tubing #insulinpump
Is it too much to ask that media clearly di erentiate between type 1 and type 2 diabetes? Lap band surgery will not
cure T1 diabetes #fedup
 I m working on something   The only thing you re working on is diabetes you fat fuck  #Projectx is jokes :L
Why do you think your beautiful you look like a fucking frog with diabetesOMFG ahahahahahahahah
To the cunt in work that smeared shit on the  oor in the toilets. I hope you get type 2 diabetes and aids.
I hope y all fucking future kids get fat and get diabetes talking shit bout Ms Dumas
I seriously miss my doctor in touness, this one told me today that he thinks diabetes is gonna be the cause of my
death. How rude):
 A nation of porkers : Diabetes expert complains on national radio that we re eating ourselves into an early grave
Excuse me sir..Just leave the gym with ur diabetes-lookin, wheezin self.. Pu ng ur chest doesnt hide ur huge beer
belly ??? #idontplayatgym
 Niall s so sweet, i d bet you d get diabetes by swallowing his cum  OMFG HAHAAHAHAAH I LOVE THIS
HARRY YOU LJTTLE CUTIE PATOOTIE I THINK I JUST RECIEVED DIABETES FROM LOOKIGN AT THIS
SUGAR PIE HOINEY BUCNH http://t.co/nJZqYUfOMW
I d lick your sweet pussy till I get diabetes.
Do me baby. Uh oh, did you say DEW ME?! *Mountain Dew gushes from his penis and gives her sexually transmitted
diabetes*
woah woah stop giving girls diabetes Ahh EYE CANDYMAN   EH I don t even know what s going on now! What
eye candy...
#ABCReports The Blacker The Berry,The Sweeter the Juice Is Wesley Snipes own sweat giving him Diabetes???More
@ 10pmlol
Just saw a commercial for diabetes medicine. Side e ects: Low Blood Sugar. Let that sink in.
I didn t even know what the gd pancreas did until Violet was diagnosed with Type 1 Diabetes. Fuck you, you shitty
non-working pancreas.
A marwadi opens a Sweets Shop ... Puts an Advertisement : Helper Needed ... Quali cation : Should have Diabetes
Pray for the rain forest. Pray for that gay NBA player. Pray for the o-zone layer. Pray for stray animals. Pray for
diabetes
The coca cola Christmas advert, because nothing says Christmas quite like diabetes and capitalism. LOL
TABLE V: Social interaction and humorous tweets.
Advertisements for
jobs in the
pharmaceutical
and care industries
Marketing for a
speci c product,
app, treatment,
event or service
Buy diabetes
drugs, diets or
treatment
products online
- Albuquerque, NM
- Diabetes Products
Sioux City Jobs: Sioux City, IA Diabetes Sales Specialist at Inventiv Health (Sioux City, IA) http://t.co/9vDO6xjUKS
#Jobs #SiouxCityJobs
#jobs4u #jobs #ABQ Pharmaceutical Representative
http://t.co/ghNCYrMbHo #albuquerque #NM
#jobs,#ukjobs Clinical Nurse Specialist Diabetes http://t.co/QtnCwYK6WR #jobs4u
Start a new #career at American Diabetes Association in Rocky Hill, CT. Associate Director - Fundr...
http://t.co/Wi3tM70wMd
Ca eine stimulates elevated of Cortisol = arthritis, obesity, diabetes, and depression. Try healthy co ee:
http://t.co/4paSPZ0mrc
Acid Re ux, Arthritis, Diabetes, Enlarged Prostate, Overweight! http://t.co/aCXiugNQsh
FREE Kindle
http://t.co/gGNGXwVfqx
http://t.co/wJ6z0hd1BO Buy Diabetes online if Cheap Diabetes no prescription, Order Diabetes without prescription
aggressive diabetes actos http://t.co/biK2GYcOQI #buy #cheap #pills #online #pharmacy #drugs #generic
#aldactone: Co-trimoxazole: Buy Generic Bactrim - Aldactone for diabetes at http://t.co/0qM9gUUa69
No Script Slimex For Cheap No Prescriptions Needed For Slimex Cause Diabetes http://t.co/6uhu2RmMZh
American-Diabetes-Wholesale : $12 O  Order of $100 or More! Code: ADW12100 http://t.co/e5K20ptIhH
Apple Cider Vinegar Natural Cures
eBook:
for Diabetes, Cancer,
and MORE!...
25
-
TABLE VI: Commercial tweets.
Lyrics of  All the
time , by
Jeremih [47]
Lyrics of  Mind of
a maniac , by
Boosie Badazz [48]
Alcohol reduces
diabetes risk
Viral fact about
detecting diabetes
by tasting urine
The mathematics
joke
If its sweet then ima eat it, til I get sugar diabetes. Ima blood n she anemic. We perfect.
And If It s Sweet Then Ima Eat It Till I Get Sugar Diabetes Ima Blood And She A Nemick!!!!
And if it s sweet then imma smoke it till I get sugar diabetes - wayne
Pusssssy for breakfast. Yo  pussy betta. Ima eat till i get sugar diabetes. #AllTheTime #Jermiah
Use to hold my head down.. not no more diabetes n my body police kickin in my door.. but I m still happyyyy...
#boosie
USED TO HOLD MY HEAD DOWN NOT NOMO DIABETES IN MY BODY POLICE KICKING IN MY
DOE!!!BUT IM STILL HAPPY!!!!!!
diabetes in my body police kickin in my door, but im still happy.
 One Alcoholic drink a day can reduce your risk of type 2 diabetes by up to 30 percent.  See I m not an alcy I m
keepin helthy
 One Alcoholic drink a day can reduce your risk of type 2 diabetes by up to 30 percent.  Let s drink more
 One Alcoholic drink a day can reduce your risk of type 2 diabetes by up to 30 percent.  #tequila
 Doctors used to taste urine to determine if someone had diabetes because their urine would taste sweet. 
HAHAHAHA
 Doctors used to taste urine to determine if someone had diabetes because their urine would taste sweet.  #nasty
Ammm ewwww  Doctors used to taste urine to determine if someone had diabetes 
Elementary math problems are weird.  I had 10 chocolate bars and ate 9. What do I have now?  Oh, I don t know,
DIABETES MAYBE. : 
Louis has 40 chocolate bars. He eats 35. What does Louis have now? Diabetes. Louis has diabetes.
Here s a question. Juan has 40 choco bars. He eats 35. What does Juan hve now? Diabetes. Juan has diabetes.
*Mathematics + Logic = Sarcasm
TABLE VII: Recurrent tweets
