7
1
0
2
 
b
e
F
2
 
 
 
]
L
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
5
v
5
7
1
7
0
.
9
0
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Exploration and Exploitation of Victorian Science
in Darwin s Reading Notebooks
Jaimie Murdocka,b, Colin Allena,c,d, Simon DeDeoa,b,e,f, 
aProgram in Cognitive Science, Indiana University, Bloomington, IN 47405, USA
bSchool of Informatics and Computing, Indiana University, 919 E. 10th Street,
Bloomington, IN 47408, USA
cDepartment of History and Philosophy of Science and Medicine,
Indiana University, Bloomington, IN 47405, USA
dSchool of Humanities and Social Sciences, Xi an Jiaotong University, Xi an, China
eDepartment of Social and Decision Sciences, Carnegie Mellon University, 5000 Forbes
Avenue, BP 208, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA
fSanta Fe Institute, 1399 Hyde Park Road, Santa Fe, NM 87501, USA
Abstract
Search in an environment with an uncertain distribution of resources involves
a trade-o  between exploitation of past discoveries and further exploration.
This extends to information foraging, where a knowledge-seeker shifts be-
tween reading in depth and studying new domains. To study this decision-
making process, we examine the reading choices made by one of the most
celebrated scientists of the modern era: Charles Darwin. From the full-text
of books listed in his chronologically-organized reading journals, we gener-
ate topic models to quantify his local (text-to-text) and global (text-to-past)
reading decisions using Kullback-Liebler Divergence, a cognitively-validated,
information-theoretic measure of relative surprise. Rather than a pattern of
surprise-minimization, corresponding to a pure exploitation strategy, Dar-
win s behavior shifts from early exploitation to later exploration, seeking
unusually high levels of cognitive surprise relative to previous eras. These
shifts, detected by an unsupervised Bayesian model, correlate with major
intellectual epochs of his career as identi ed both by qualitative scholarship
and Darwin s own self-commentary. Our methods allow us to compare his
 To whom correspondence should be addressed.
Email addresses: jammurdo@indiana.edu (Jaimie Murdock),
colallen@indiana.edu (Colin Allen), simon@santafe.edu (Simon DeDeo )
Preprint submitted to Cognition
February 3, 2017
consumption of texts with their publication order. We  nd Darwin s con-
sumption more exploratory than the culture s production, suggesting that
underneath gradual societal changes are the explorations of individual syn-
thesis and discovery. Our quantitative methods advance the study of cog-
nitive search through a framework for testing interactions between individ-
ual and collective behavior and between short- and long-term consumption
choices. This novel application of topic modeling to characterize individual
reading complements widespread studies of collective scienti c behavior.
Keywords: Cognitive search, information foraging, topic modeling,
exploration-exploitation, history of science, scienti c discovery
1. Introduction
The general problem of  information foraging  (Pirolli & Card, 1999) in
an environment about which agents have incomplete information has been
explored in many  elds, including cognitive psychology (Todd et al., 2012;
Hills et al., 2015), neuroscience (Cohen et al., 2007), economics (March,
1991; Azoulay-Schwartz et al., 2004),  nance (Uotila et al., 2009), ecology
(Stephens & Krebs, 1986; Eliassen et al., 2007), and computer science (Sut-
ton & Barto, 1998). In all of these areas, the searcher aims to enhance future
performance by surveying enough of existing knowledge to orient themselves
in the information space.
Individual scientists and scholars can be viewed as conducting a cognitive
search (Todd et al., 2012) in which they must balance exploration of ideas that
are novel to them against exploitation of knowledge in domains in which they
are already expert (Berger-Tal et al., 2014). Researchers have studied the
exploration-exploitation trade-o  in cognitive search at timescales of minutes
up to years and decades. Laboratory experiments on visual attention are one
example of this balancing act on short timescales (Chun & Wolfe, 1996), while
studies of the recombination of patented technologies demonstrate long-term
group behavior (Youn et al., 2015). New advances in the digitization of
historical archives enable longitudinal study of how individuals explore and
synthesize the work of their contemporaries and predecessors over the course
of a lifetime.
2
Major Events in Charles Darwin s Life (1809-1882)
12 Feb 1809 Born in Shrewsbury, England
22 Oct 1825 Matriculates at University of Edinburgh
15 Oct 1827 Admitted to Christ s College, Cambridge
27 Dec 1831 Departs England aboard the HMS Beagle
2 Oct 1836 Return to England aboard the HMS Beagle
July 1837 First entries in reading notebooks
Aug 1839 Publication of The Voyage of the Beagle (1st edition)
May 1842 Writes the 1st Essay on Species
4 July 1844 Writes the 2nd Essay on Species
Aug 1845 Publication of The Voyage of the Beagle (2nd edition)
1 Oct 1846 Begins barnacle project
19 Feb 1851 Publishes  rst volume of barnacle work
9 Sep 1854 Begins sorting notes on natural selection
14 May 1856 Starts writing  large work  on species
24 Nov 1859 Publication of The Origin of Species (1st edition)
13 May 1860 Last entry in reading notebooks
24 Feb 1871 Publication of The Descent of Man
19 Feb 1872 Publication of The Origin of Species (6th and  nal edition)
21 Apr 1882 Dies at Down House in Kent, England
Table 1: Timeline. Major events in Charles Darwin s life, including those marked on
Fig. 1. This paper focuses on the critical period of his work from 1837 to 1860, leading to
the publication of The Origin of Species. See Berra (2009) for an expanded chronology.
As one of the most successful and celebrated scientists of the modern
era, Charles Darwin s scienti c creativity has been the subject of numerous
narrative and qualitative studies (Gruber & Barrett, 1974; Johnson, 2010;
Van Hulle, 2014).
In part, these studies are possible because Darwin left
his biographers careful records of his intellectual and personal life. These
include records of the books he read from 1837 to 1860, a critical period which
culminated in the publication of The Origin of Species. Table 1 summarizes
key events in Darwin s life.
This article presents the  rst quantitative analysis of an important sci-
entist s reading diaries, tracking how Darwin navigated the exploration-
exploitation trade-o  in choosing what to read. We link Darwin s reading
records with the full text of the original volumes. We then use probabilistic
3
topic models (Blei et al., 2003; Blei, 2012b) to represent the original text of
each book Darwin read as a mixture of topics. We use information theory
to measure the surprise, or unpredictability, of the next book that Darwin
chose to read, compared to his past history of reading.
We present three key  ndings:
1. Darwin s reading patterns switch between both exploitation and ex-
ploration throughout his career. This is in contrast to a pure surprise-
minimization strategy that consistently exploits content within a local
region before moving on. The general trend, as Darwin s career devel-
ops, is towards increasing exploration.
2. In comparison to the publication order of the texts Darwin read, Dar-
win s reading order shows higher average surprise. This indicates that
the order in which the books were written by the scienti c community
is less surprising than the order in which Darwin read them.
3. Darwin s strategies fall into three long-term epochs, or behavioral modes
characterized by distinct patterns of surprise-seeking. These epochs
correspond to three biographically signi cant periods: Darwin s post-
Beagle studies, his extensive work on barnacles, and a  nal period
leading to his synthesis of natural selection in the Origin of Species.
While the bulk of empirical studies in cognitive science are concerned
with measuring population-level e ects due to experimental manipulations,
case studies play an important role in driving cognitive theorizing, experi-
mentation, and modeling. For example, the case of the memory-impaired
patient H.M. has driven many advances in cognitive neuroscience and com-
putational models of memory (reviewed in Squire & Wixted (2011)). Other
case studies, such as that of the frontal-lobe injury in Phineas Gage, provide
important contrasts for later studies (reviewed in Macmillan (2000)).
Detailed longitudinal investigations of a single individual may involve re-
peated trials and changing strategies that cannot be observed in laboratory
experiments involving a single task. Cognitive science could be enriched
by using longitudinal studies such as ours to design laboratory studies with
higher ecological validity. However, it is a challenging task to design labora-
tory studies of (for example) reading choices that take into account a subjects
extensive prior history of reading decisions.
An advantage of taking Charles Darwin as a case study is the the exten-
sive attention that he has received from historians and biographers since his
death. These studies provide a novel means for validating our mathematical
4
tools. We will present a number of theoretical and empirical reasons why our
methods measure cognitively-relevant features of a reader s experience. At
the same time, the fact that our results also recover key features of Darwin s
intellectual life provides additional support for the reliability of our methods.
We cannot claim Darwin s information foraging behavior is typical for
either scientists or the population-at-large; however, our analytic methods
may be applied to other case studies to  nd population-level generalizations,
provided there is access to the full text of each reading.
Our approach contrasts with previous uses of topic modeling to analyze
the large-scale structure of scienti c disciplines (Gri ths & Steyvers, 2004;
Hall et al., 2008; Blei & La erty, 2007; Cohen Priva & Austerweil, 2015) and
the humanities (Mohr & Bogdanov, 2013; Blei, 2012a; Jockers, 2013), which
are each created through the collective e ects of individual-level behavior.
Previous models of historical records have focused on language use as an in-
dication of larger shifts in style (Hughes et al., 2012; Underwood & Sellers,
2012), learnability (Hills & Adelman, 2015), or content (Michel et al., 2011;
Goldstone & Underwood, 2014; Klingenstein et al., 2014) of signi cant por-
tions of publications in a  eld, including a study of Cognition itself (Cohen
Priva & Austerweil, 2015).
These works model the collective state of all published works at a partic-
ular date, but obscure the role of individual foraging behavior. By focusing
on a single individual for whom ample records exist, we gain access to what
Tria et al. (2014) describe as  the interplay between individual and collective
phenomena where innovation takes place .
2. Materials and Methods
2.1. Darwin s Reading Records
Darwin was a meticulous record-keeper starting in April 1838, he kept
a notebook of  books to be read  and  books read . These records span the
23 years from 1837 to 1860, tracking his reading choices from just after his
return to England aboard the HMS Beagle to just after the publication of
The Origin of Species. We located the full-text of 665 of the 687 (96.7%)
English non- ction mentioned in these reading notebooks through a variety
of online digital libraries. See Appendix A for details of corpus curation.
5
2.2. Probabilistic Topic Models
We model these texts using using Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA; Blei
et al. (2003); Blei (2012b)), a type of probabilistic topic model. LDA is a
generative model that represents each document as a bag of words generated
by a mixture of topics. LDA topic models have been extensively used to
analyze human-generated text across many domains (Gri ths & Steyvers,
2004; Blei & La erty, 2007; Mohr & Bogdanov, 2013; Blei, 2012a; Jockers,
2013). Furthermore, topic models predict the behavior of human subjects
in a variety of word association and disambiguation tasks (Gri ths et al.,
2007). Topic models allow us to describe Darwin s reading as taking place in a
(k 1)-dimensional space, the simplex, where a particular volume is described
as a probability distribution, (cid:126)p, over k topics. To test the robustness of our
results, we vary the number of topics, k. In the main body of the paper,
we report for k = 80 because we found that our results were robust to
alternative values of k and to di ering random seeds for each; see Appendix
E.1 for k = {20, 40, 60}. Darwin s  semantic voyage  is the path he takes
through this space from text to text.
2.3. Cognitive Surprise and Kullback-Leibler Divergence
We use probabilistic topic models to quantify the structure of the texts.
Characterizing Darwin s reading choices then becomes the problem of com-
paring distributions over topics. Our goal is to quantify surprise: the extent
to which a new reading either satis es, or violates, the expectations a reader
would have based on what came before. A high-surprise reading indicates
that the reader has chosen a book that contains a new mixture of topics
compared to what came before.
In our model, (cid:126)p and (cid:126)q are topic distributions over texts or an aggrega-
tion of texts. The reader is modeled in an information-theoretic fashion as
building e cient mental representations of these distributions. Our task is
then to quantify his exploratory behavior as he moves from one distribution
to another.
To compare two distributions in this way we use the Kullback-Leibler
(KL) divergence,  rst introduced by Kullback & Leibler (1951). It is de ned
by
k(cid:88)
i=1
6
DKL((cid:126)q|(cid:126)p) =
qi log2
qi
pi
,
(1)
where (cid:126)p is the distribution over topics that the reader has encountered before,
and (cid:126)q the new distribution of topics that the reader encounters next. (In this
paper, we consider two choices for (cid:126)p: 1) the distribution over topics for the
just previous book, and 2) the average over all books in the reader s past.
Meanwhile, (cid:126)q will always refer to a distribution over topics for the next book
a reader encounters.)
KL divergence can be thought of as a measure of surprise associated with
a change in representation of a learner who encounters the unexpected in
ways that require her to alter the way she represents the world. An agent
expecting observations to be draw from probability distribution (cid:126)p will have
those expectations violated if it arrives according to a di erent distribution (cid:126)q.
KL divergence quanti es the surprise in a particularly natural fashion; to aid
the reader unfamiliar with this quantity, we present two ways to understand
the mathematical structure of KL in Appendix B:  rst in terms of  coding
failure  and second in terms of the rate of accumulation of Bayesian evidence
against one distribution and in favor of the other.
The use of KL to measure cognitive surprise has had a number of re-
cent successes. Vision researchers have used KL to track surprise in a visual
scene: the places on the screen where new events most violate the viewer s
previous assumptions; KL then accurately captures attention attractors in
visual search tasks (Demberg & Keller, 2008; Itti & Baldi, 2009). More gen-
erally, KL has seen wide use in the cognitive sciences; Resnik (1993), for
example, proposed the KL divergence as a measure of selectional preferences
in language (reviewed in Light & Grei  (2002)). It has found use in many
successful models of linguistic discrimination, including syntactic comprehen-
sion (Hale, 2001; Levy, 2008), speech recognition (Calamaro & Jarosz, 2015;
Martin et al., 2013) and word sense disambiguation (Resnik, 1997).
2.4. Text-to-text and Text-to-past Surprise
We use KL in two distinct ways. We measure the text-to-text surprise:
given a distribution over topics for the text Darwin just read, how surprised is
he upon encountering the next volume s topic distribution? Text-to-text sur-
prise is a local measure. We also measure the text-to-past surprise: given all
of the volumes that Darwin has encountered so far, how surprised is Darwin
by the text that comes next? Text-to-past surprise is a global measure.
If we de ne  i as the topic distribution for document i, then text-to-text
(T 2T ) and text-to-past (T 2P ) surprise are de ned as
T 2T (i) = DKL( i| i 1),
(2)
7
(cid:32)
T 2P (i) = DKL
 i
(cid:80)i 1
j=0  j
i
(cid:12)(cid:12)(cid:12)(cid:12)(cid:12)
(cid:33)
.
(3)
Text-to-text surprise and text-to-past surprise provide complementary
windows onto Darwin s decision-making. Local decision-making, meaning
the choice of the next text to read given the current one, is captured by
text-to-text surprise. Global decision-making, the choice of which text to
read given the entire history of reading to date, is captured by text-to-past
surprise. Low surprise, in either case, is a signal of exploitation, while high
surprise indicates larger jumps to lesser-known topics, and thus of explo-
ration. These measures can be easily generalized to arbitrary text-to-N sur-
prise measures, representing the choice of the next reading given the history
of readings within the past N volumes or time periods.
We characterize Darwin s decision process by the combination of text-
to-text and text-to-past surprise. Exploration, indicated by high surprise,
happens when a searcher is moving across a space not previously explored.
Exploitation, indicated by low surprise, happens when a searcher has a sus-
tained focus on material they are already familiar with.
These local and global behaviors do not have to align. For example,
text-to-text surprise may be high (local exploration) at the same time that
text-to-past surprise is low (global exploitation). This can happen if Darwin s
readings interleave di erent topics that he has already seen. If, for example,
Darwin alternates between readings in philosophy with readings in travel
narratives, then each local jump will have high KL (a travel narrative is
dominated by topics that are rare in a philosophical text, and vice-versa)
and Darwin s readers will appear as a local exploration. However, once this
pattern of alternation has been established, the average over past texts will
include both philosophical and travel narrative topics, lowering the text-to-
past surprise, and driving the system back towards global exploitation.
Conversely, text-to-text surprise can also be low while text-to-past sur-
prise is high. This can happen if Darwin has recently begun a novel, but
focused, investigation. In this situation, he focuses on a particular subset of
topics that are under-represented in his overall history. If Darwin begins by
focusing on philosophical texts, and then switches to travel narratives, his
second (and subsequent) travel narrative readings will have low text-to-text
surprise; but the average over past texts will be dominated by a long history
of philosophical readings, leaving the text-to-past surprise high until he has
accumulated so many readings of the latter type that they dominate the past
8
average.
2.5. Cultural Production and Null Reading Models
Our methods also allow us to understand how Darwin selectively re-orders
the products of his culture. To do this, we measure text-to-text and text-to-
past surprise using the publication order of the texts that Darwin read. We
can then ask questions about the extent to which Darwin s encounters with
the products of his culture were more or less exploratory than the order in
which they were produced. Does Darwin s reading order reduce the surprise
relative to the publication order, or does it increase it?
All results are relative to a null reading model that holds Darwin s origi-
nal reading dates  xed and re-samples without replacement from his original
reading list. The title selection at each reading date is constrained to those
titles published before that date. In contrast to a null that includes permuta-
tions that neglect publication date, this restricted null captures the dynamics
of publication in which a new work can unexpectedly change the information
space. We are unable to resolve publication dates to less than a year; this
occasionally implies an ambiguity in creation date for texts in the corpus
that have the same year of publication. To solve this, we average our results
over all possible within-year orders.
We compare the production and consumption of texts by considering only
the texts Darwin recorded himself as reading. This allows us to make a direct
comparison between the average surprise of the publication order and reading
order within that set. But the production of these texts, of course, occurs in a
much larger context, and it is reasonable to ask about the books that Darwin
considered reading but did not, or an even more complete representation
of the state of Victorian science constructed using all the scienti c books
available to him in Kent and London during these years. Here we focus on
the books he chose to read, and the space he actually explored, partly for
practical reasons and partly because we are interested in the decisions he
made to order the texts, rather than the decision of whether to read them at
all.
2.6. Bayesian Epoch Estimation
In the foraging literature, individuals are often assumed to persist in sus-
tained periods of either exploration or exploitation. We call this an epoch. We
are particularly interested in whether or not these epochs align with impor-
tant events in Darwin s life. By using Bayesian models to infer epoch breaks,
9
we can determine whether the data support a qualitative interpretation of
the quantitative model.
Bayesian epoch estimation (BEE) models an epoch as a Gaussian dis-
tribution of relative surprise, in either the text-to-text or text-to-past case,
with  xed mean and variance. Each epoch is de ned by a beginning point
(which is also either the end of the previous epoch, or the start of the data),
an average level of surprise, and the variance around that average. For each
time-series, the model then contains 3n 1 parameters, where n is the number
of epochs.
Epoch switches are independently selected for the text-to-text and text-
to-past measures. Each transition can then be interpreted as a change in
Darwin s exploration and exploitation behavior at the local or global level.
When a new epoch has higher average surprise than the one before, for
example, we can understand Darwin as moving to a more exploration-based
strategy.
Our one externally-set parameter is the total number of epochs, n. As n
rises, it becomes easier and easier to  t the data; at some point, we encounter
the over- tting problem, and in the extreme case we have as many parameters
as we have data points. For each choice of n, our model returns a likelihood:
the probability that the observed data were generated by the (best  tting)
choice of parameters for that model. As n rises, so does the log-likelihood.
To determine the best- t number of epochs, we use a simple model-
complexity penalty, Akaike Information Criterion (AIC) (Akaike, 1974), to
verify that the selected model is preferred, despite the addition of new pa-
rameters. The AIC penalizes a model s log-likelihood by the total number of
parameters in the model; adding more epochs, in other words, must justify
itself by a su ciently large increase in goodness of  t. The AIC can be un-
derstood as an information-theoretic and Bayesian version of the chi-squared
test, which attempts to maximize a model s predictive power (Burnham &
Anderson, 2003).
To  x attention on the longest timescales in Darwin s life, we set the
minimum epoch length to  ve years. See Appendix E for further discussion
of the BEE model, for the likelihood space of epoch breaks for Darwin s
readings, and for our AIC analysis.
10
3. Results
3.1. Exploration and Exploitation
Over the 647 records in our corpus, Darwin s reading order led to a below-
null average surprise, where the null is the average surprise of 1,000 permuta-
tions of Darwin s reading order, constrained by each book s publication date
(see Section 2.4).
On average, the KL divergence from text to text in the corpus is 10.78
bits compared to a null expectation of 11.41 bits (p (cid:28) 10 3). Meanwhile,
Darwin s text-to-past average surprise is 2.96 bits in the data versus 2.98 bits
in the null (p = 0.02). Darwin s average surprise, in both text-to-text and
text-to-past, is lower than expected from a null model. While our rejection of
this simple null model provides little new insight into the cognitive process of
a reader s decision-making which we expect to have some correlation from
book to book it is a crucial test of the sensitivity of our methods themselves.
A surprise-minimizing path is one that orders the texts so as to minimize
the total sum of text-to-text, or text-to-past, surprise. Finding this shortest
path amounts to a variant of the  traveling salesman problem , which is fa-
mously di cult to solve (reviewed in Cook (2011)). The greedy shortest path
algorithm attempts to approximate the surprise-minimizing path by starting
with the  rst text that Darwin read, and choosing as the next one to read
the one with smallest KL divergence from the  rst, and so on, minimizing
at each step either the text-to-text, or text-to-past KL depending on which
quantity one is interested in.
While Darwin s path is lower in surprise than the null, it is far larger
than many paths that can be found: the greedy shortest-path algorithm,
for example, can reduce the text-to-text average surprise to 2.11 bits and
text-to-past average surprise to 2.97 bits. Table S6 shows the raw local text-
to-text and global text-to-past KL divergence data, along with the greedy
shortest path single-visit traversals of the KL distance matrix.
The null, actual, and greedy shortest-path results show that Darwin has
a focused reading strategy despite not following a pattern of pure surprise-
minimization. Interestingly, the greedy shortest path is slightly longer than
the path Darwin took in the global measure. This highlights how preference
for exploration at the local scale i.e., not taking the closest book in topic
space at each step can lead to an unexpectedly e cient path in the global
measure. See Appendix D for an alternative rank-order analysis reinforcing
this null-model testing.
11
Darwin s order
Null (1,000 permutations)
(p-value)
Greedy shortest path
Local
text-to-text
(bits/step)
11.41   0.28
10.78
(cid:28) 10 3
2.11
Global
text-to-past
(bits/step)
2.96
2.98+0.04 0.02
0.02
2.97
Table 2: Exploration habitsf. Average text-to-text (local) and text-to-past (global) KL
Divergence (bits/step) over the reading path. Text-to-past KL is lower, as Darwin s read-
ing spreads out to cover the topic space and lowers the information-theoretic surprise of
subsequent books. Darwin s reading strategy is simultaneously more exploitative than
would be expected of a random reader while also not following a strategy of pure surprise-
minimization. Note that Darwin s order displays lower global surprise than the greedy
shortest path, which demonstrates that selecting the next most similar book is not the
best overall strategy for minimizing average global surprise over time.
3.2. Readings over Time
While Darwin is on average more exploitative, this is not necessarily true
at any particular reading date. Darwin s surprise accumulates at di erent
rates depending on time, as can be seen in Fig. 1 for the text-to-text case
(top panel) and the text-to-past case (bottom panel). These  gures plot the
cumulative surprise relative to the null, so that a negative (downward) slope
indicates reading decisions by Darwin that produce below-null instantaneous
surprise (exploitation). Conversely, a positive (upward) slope indicates deci-
sions that are more surprising than the null (exploration).
Over the entire corpus, as we know from the previous section, Darwin s
cumulative surprise is below the null expectation, showing an overall bias
towards both local and global exploitation. Tracking the slopes in these
charts over time, however, allows us to see how Darwin moves between low-
surprise and high-surprise choices on a range of timescales. The interaction
of these decision rules at the text-to-text and text-to-past levels characterize
Darwin s behavior.
3.3. Individual and Collective
While many studies see scienti c innovations as following large-scale cul-
tural trends (Sun et al., 2013), individuals can also be understood as ahead of
their time, pursuing connections and ideas before they are recognized by the
12
Figure 1: Epochs of exploration and exploitation in Darwin s reading choices.
Text-to-text (top) and text-to-past (bottom) cumulative surprise over the reading path,
in bits. More negative (downward) slope indicates lower surprise (exploitation); more
positive (upward) slope indicates greater surprise (exploration). The three epochs, iden-
ti ed by an unsupervised Bayesian model, are marked as alternating shaded regions with
key biographical events marked as dashed lines and labeled in the top graph. The  rst
epoch shows global and local exploitation (lower surprise). The second epoch shows local
exploitation and global exploration (increased surprise, in text-to-past only). The third
epoch shows local and global exploration (higher surprise in both cases).
13
Figure 2: Darwin s reading order more exploratory than the culture s produc-
tion. Text-to-text (top) and text-to-past (bottom) cumulative surprise over the reading
order (solid) and the publication order (dashed). More negative (downward) slope indi-
cates lower surprise (exploitation); more positive (upward) slope indicates greater surprise
(exploration). In both cases, Darwin s cumulative surprise is higher than the publication
order; in the second case, very signi cantly so. We mark the positions of three biographi-
cally signi cant books: Charles Lyell s Principles of Geology (3rd ed., 1837; read in 1837),
Thomas Malthus s An Essay on the Principle of Population (1803; read on October 3,
1838), and Robert Chambers s Vestiges of the Natural History of Creation (1844; read
on November 20, 1844). Darwin s juxtaposition of Lyell and Malthus, for example, is
characteristic of how Darwin s reading strategies reordered the products of his culture.
14
culture as a whole (Johnson, 2010; Bliss et al., 2014). By ordering Darwin s
readings by publication date, rather than reading date, we see how the cul-
ture gradually accumulates and assimilates content. We then compare how
the culture produced these texts to how Darwin, in his reading, consumed
them.
Whether surprise is higher in the reading order or the publication order
is a substantive empirical question. There are good reasons to imagine that
the reading order will be lower in text-to-text and text-to-past surprise than
the publication order but equally plausible reasons for the opposite.
Consider,  rst, the idea that the reading order surprise is the lower of the
two. Informally, this would suggest that reader has been at least partially
successful at reordering the large number of texts into a more systematic se-
quence,  nding similarities between chronologically distant texts and making
sense of a disordered, distributed discovery process. A reader like Darwin,
particularly early in his career when bene ting from more senior mentors,
might be expected to attempt to do something similar.
However, equally reasonable arguments work for the opposite direction,
where reading order is more surprising than the publication order. In this
case, the reader is  remixing  the products of the past, sampling texts from
di erent periods in such as way as to juxtapose thematically distant readings.
While society accumulates themes gradually, in an exploitation regime, the
reader is in an exploration regime, bringing them into unexpected contact.
While both possibilities appear a priori plausible, the data decisively
favor the second. Figure 2 shows the text-to-text and text-to-past cumulative
surprise for Darwin s reading order (solid line) compared to the publication
date order (dashed line). Since volumes are published and read at di erent
times, the x-axis is now ordinal (i.e., by position in the reading or publication
sequence), rather than temporal (i.e., by date read or published). This allows
us to compare his reading order to the publication order independent of time.
Compared to Darwin s reading practices, cultural production has lower
rates of surprise. While cumulative text-to-text surprise for Darwin often
shows either  at or positive (above-null text-to-text surprise) slope, the
publication order path is less explorative in both text-to-text and text-to-
past cases. These  ndings, both at high levels of statistical signi cance
(p (cid:28) 10 3), provide strong evidence for the remixing hypothesis.
15
3.4. Strategy Shifts between Biographically Signi cant Epochs
Between 1837 and 1860, Darwin s three major intellectual projects are
re ected in his publication history. First, he began assembling his research
journals on the geology and zoology from the voyage of the HMS Beagle.
The last of these nine volumes was published in 1846. A second epoch can
be dated from 1 October 1846 when, while assembling the last of his Beagle
notes, Darwin discovered a gap in the taxonomic literature concerning the
living and fossil cirripedia (or barnacles) (Darwin, 1838-1851a). After a
period of intense work, he published four volumes on the taxon from 1851
to 1854. A  nal epoch begins with his journal entry on 9 September 1854,
marking the day he began sorting his notes for a major work on species
(Darwin, 1838-1851b). The revolutionary Origin of Species was published
on 24 November 1859. These dates de ne three intellectual epochs: (1) from
the beginning of records in 1837 to 30 September 1846; (2) from 1 October
1846 to 8 September 1854; and (3) from 9 September 1854 to the end of
records in 1860.
We use the text-to-text and text-to-past models to characterize the ex-
ploration and exploitation of Darwin s reading behavior in each epoch. In
instances where Darwin s average KL-divergence is above the null (more pos-
itive), Darwin is more exploratory. In instances where Darwin s average KL-
divergence is below the null (more negative), Darwin is more exploitative.
The degree to which he is in either mode is shown by the magnitude of the
number. Table 3 shows these values.
Darwin s three biographical epochs are characterized by major shifts in
both text-to-text and text-to-past surprise. Darwin begins, in epoch one, in
an exploitation mode in both text-to-text and text-to-past. His turn to the
barnacles in 1846 is marked by a shift from exploitation towards exploration
at the text-to-past level (global shift to new area), and an intensi cation
of his exploitation strategy at the local, text-to-text level (increased focus
in this new area).
In the third epoch, when Darwin  began sorting his
notes for Species Theory  (Darwin, 1838-1851b), text-to-past remains in the
exploration mode; text-to-text now shifts to exploration as well.
3.5. Unsupervised Detection of Strategy Shifts
In addition to using Darwin s personally-speci ed epochs, we use a Bayesian
model (Bayesian Epoch Estimation [BEE], see Methods) to estimate epoch
breaks from text-to-text and text-to-past surprise alone. This process de-
termines in ection points for Darwin s behavior without reference to outside
16
Start date
Text-to-text
Text-to-past
Beagle writings
2 October 1836
Barnacles
Synthesis
1 October 1846
9 September 1854
-0.68
-0.09
-0.96
-0.06
0.32
0.26
Table 3: Information-theoretic correlates of biographically signi cant events. In
this  rst table, we measure the relative surprise of Darwin s reading order by reference
to dates derived from qualitative biographical work. The  rst major epoch of Darwin s
intellectual life identi ed in this fashion corresponds to his post-Beagle work, when his
readings were mostly in natural history and geology. Both text-to-text and text-to-past
surprise remain low a regime of simultaneous local and global exploitation. The second
epoch, when Darwin turns to a study of barnacles, shows an increase in text-to-past
surprise (new topics; exploration) coupled with a decrease in text-to-text surprise (smaller
jumps within these new topics; exploitation). The third epoch, when Darwin begins to
collect his notes for his  Species Theory , is characterized by a rise in both text-to-text
and text-to-past surprise. Now Darwin is neither repeatedly returning to well-covered
topics (as in epoch one), nor turning his attention to a new, but narrow, range (as in
epoch two), but rather ranging widely over new, previously understudied topics.
biographical facts, allowing us to determine the extent to which the intellec-
tual epochs identi ed by traditional, qualitative scholarship align with purely
information-theoretic features of his reading.
For text-to-text surprise, we  nd the boundary at 16 September 1854 (log-
likelihood relative to not having a boundary:  L = 2.61; 14 times as likely
as not having a boundary). This is within 1 week of his journal entry on 9
September 1854 marking the start of his synthesis. For text-to-past surprise,
we  nd the boundary at 27 May 1846 ( L = 6.17; 479 times as likely). The
di erence between the automatically-selected date and his recorded start
date on 1 October 1846 suggests the need for further investigation of what
our results suggest was a period of relative uncertainty for Darwin about his
research plans.
The exploration-exploitation characteristics of these epochs are shown in
Table 4. The close proximity of these automatically-detected breaks and the
biographically signi cant epochs of the previous section con rm the central
role of information-theoretic surprise in tracing the evolution of Darwin s
search strategies.
Both the text-to-text and text-to-past models make highly simplifying as-
17
Start date
Text-to-text
Text-to-past
Beagle writings
2 October 1836
Barnacles
Synthesis
27 May 1846
16 September 1854
-0.78
-0.11
-0.76
-0.02
0.21
0.24
Table 4: Biographically signi cant events are detectable by unsupervised learn-
ing. Even in the absence of qualitative information about Darwin s life, our Bayesian
model, based only on text-to-text and text-to-past surprise measurements  nds with
only slight di erences the three historically-noted epochs of Table 3: (1) from the start
of our records in 1837 until text-to-past surprise changes from exploitation to exploration
in Spring 1846, (2) from Spring 1846 until text-to-text surprise changes from exploita-
tion to exploration in Autumn 1856, and (3) from Autumn 1856 to the end of our data,
when both (local) text-to-text and (global) text-to-past selection behaviors are in the
exploration state. The automatically-selected and biographical epochs agree on these
characterizations, with small variance in the second epoch s start date.
sumptions about the nature of Darwin s reading. The text-to-text case makes
the most severe assumption of all: that Darwin s reading choices are condi-
tional solely on the book just read. If Darwin s reading choices are strongly
in uenced by longer term memory (as seems likely), and it is these patterns
which de ne the true epoch boundaries, it is natural that evidence for epoch
boundaries in the text-to-text BEE model is weaker than the text-to-past
case. In addition, our BEE makes the simplifying assumption that succes-
sive surprise values are independent draws from the distribution associated
with that epoch.
4. Discussion
Models of cultural change often understand innovation as a multi-level
combinatoric process, in which bundles of ideas are subject to cultural pro-
cesses analogous to natural selection (Jacob, 1977; Wagner & Rosen, 2014).
These evolutionary analogies typically consider change at the population
level, as new ideas are created, spread, and modi ed by the crowd. A variety
of recent studies covering conceptual formation in science, technology, and
the humanities have taken this population-level perspective, including work
on the recombination of patents (Youn et al., 2015), novelties (Tria et al.,
2014), and citations (Gar eld, 1979). Sociological studies of scienti c prac-
tice have investigated how disciplines (Sun et al., 2013) or  communities of
practice  (Bettencourt & Kaiser, 2015) are formed.
18
The mechanisms driving cultural innovation at the population-level can-
not, however, be fully understood without taking into account the cognitive
processes that operate at the level of individual scientists. We have taken a
step towards modeling these individual-level processes by studying the infor-
mation foraging behavior of one preeminent scientist, using an information-
theoretic framework applied to probabilistic topic models of his reading be-
havior. The information-theoretic measure we use to quantify surprise, KL
divergence, connects both analytically and empirically to linguistics (Cala-
maro & Jarosz, 2015; Hale, 2001; Levy, 2008; Light & Grei , 2002; Martin
et al., 2013; Resnik, 1993) and visual search (Demberg & Keller, 2008; Itti
& Baldi, 2009). The LDA topic models that generate this information space
also have cognitive correlates (Gri ths et al., 2007).
Our methods allow us to zoom in on Darwin s individual-level process
to identify major epochs in his reading strategies. Over time, Darwin shifts
towards increasing exploration as he prepares to write the Origin. Interest-
ingly, the overall order we  nd empirically exploitation then exploration 
is in contrast to many of predictions derived from mathematical accounts
of how optimal agents navigate the exploration-exploitation dilemma (Git-
tins, 1979). These generally predict that individuals begin with exploration
(see, e.g., Berger-Tal et al. (2014)), shifting later to exploitation as they gain
information about the environment.
Our results may be consistent with the standard models, if Darwin s
early exploitation was guided by an earlier exploration phase prior to 1837.
Or, it may be the case that the early phase of exploitation was necessary
for Darwin to gain su cient abilities or con dence to explore in a reliable
fashion later. Finally, it is worth noting that some evidence in favor of these
standard models can still be found in the short-term switch towards greater
exploitation at the text-to-text surprise from the  rst to the second epoch.
This suggests that these models may be useful at shorter timescales in an
individual s life.
Our use of Charles Darwin allows us to validate our methods by ref-
erence to the extensive qualitative literature on his intellectual life. Hav-
ing presented a general information-theoretic framework for describing the
exploitation-exploration trade-o , we can now look at other searchers to see
if other strategies exist for managing the exploitation-exploration trade-o s.
Expanding these results beyond the Darwin test case will be essential to pro-
viding new empirical constraints on theories of how individuals explore the
cultures of their time.
19
Reading records exist not only for elites, like Charles Darwin, but also for
the general public. The maintenance of personal reading diaries is widespread,
as evidenced by the more than 30,000 records in the UK Reading Experience
Database (1450 1945),1 and the 50 million registered users of Goodreads.2
Further studies will be accelerated by advances in information retrieval tech-
niques to  nd the full text for each entry in these reading diaries. These
large-scale surveys can be complemented by in-depth studies of the  com-
monplace books  left by historical  gures. These books record quotes, read-
ings, and interactions that may become useful in their later intellectual life,
and include Marcus Aurelius (Aurelius, 2012), Francis Bacon (Bacon, 1883),
John Locke (Locke, 1706), and Thomas Je erson (Wilson, 2014).
Our method also allows us to compare the individual and the collective.
We have found, in particular, that Darwin followed a path through the texts
that was more exploratory than the order in which the culture produced
them. Our work reveals an important distinction between these two levels of
analysis; underneath gradual cultural changes are the long leaps and explo-
ration comprising an individual s consumption, combination, and synthesis.
Our cognitive analysis of these records builds upon decades of archival
scholarship and innovations in the digital humanities. Darwin s industry ex-
tends beyond the bounds of the data we use here, however. During the Beagle
voyage, he kept a library of 180 to 275 titles (Burkhardt & Smith, 1989). His
retirement library contains 1,484 titles (Rutherford, 1908). Darwin s hand-
written marginalia in 743 of these books is currently being digitized by the
Biodiversity Heritage Library. This retirement library contains many texts
not included in our study of his reading records, which only last through
1860. Finally, an extensive network of correspondents also contributed to
Darwin s knowledge. The Darwin Correspondence Project3 contains over
15,000 letters to and from Darwin before 1869. A complete understanding
of his information foraging will necessarily seek to understand this separate
social process.
Darwin s sustained engagement with the products of his culture is remark-
able. He averaged one book every ten days for twenty-three years, including
works of  ction and foreign-language texts which are not part of the present
1http://www.open.ac.uk/Arts/reading/
2https://www.goodreads.com/about/us (accessed 2016 July 14)
3https://www.darwinproject.ac.uk/
20
analysis. For some months in our data, Darwin appears to be reading one
book every two days, a fact even he was astonished by:
When I see the list of books of all kinds which I read and ab-
stracted, including whole series of Journals and Transactions, I
am surprised at my industry.
  Autobiography of Charles Darwin, p. 119.
Darwin not only consumed information, it consumed him. In the words of
Herbert Simon:  what information consumes is rather obvious: it consumes
the attention of its recipients  (1971). Even the most ambitious individu-
als must confront and manage the limits of their own biology in allocating
attention.
Standard theories for how individuals balance the exploration-exploitation
tradeo  draw on classic work in the statistical sciences (Gittins, 1979) and
machine-learning (Thrun, 1992), and often focus on determining mathemat-
ically optimal strategies for di erent environments (Cohen et al., 2007). Our
work provides both new tools for the study of how individuals in the real
world approach these problems, and new results on an exemplar individual.
5. Conclusion
Charles Darwin s well-documented reading choices show evidence of both
exploration and exploitation of the products of his culture. Rather than
follow a pure surprise-minimization strategy, Darwin moves from exploitation
to exploration, at both the local and global level, in ways that correlate with
biographically-signi cant intellectual epochs in his career. These switches
can be detected with a simple unsupervised Bayesian model. Darwin s path
through the books he read is signi cantly more exploratory than the culture s
production of them.
To what extent the patterns we identify in Darwin, and his relationship to
culture as a whole, hold for other scientists in other eras is an open question.
The development of an individual is in part the history of what they choose
to read, and it is natural to ask what patterns these choices have in common.
The methods we have developed and tested here represent the  rst ap-
plication of topic modeling and cognitively-validated measures, such as KL
divergence, to a single individual. These domain general methods can be
used to study the information foraging patterns of any individual for whom
appropriate records exist, and to look for common patterns across both time
and culture.
21
Acknowledgments
We thank Peter M. Todd for extensive comments on a draft of this
manuscript, as well as David Kaiser, Caitlin Fausey, Vanessa Ferdinand, and
Jim Lennox for their feedback on presentations of this work. We also thank
the audiences at various locations where the ideas in this paper were pre-
sented, especially within the Indiana University Cognitive Science Program.
JM and SD thank the Santa Fe Institute for their hospitality while this work
was completed. We thank Tom Murphy for assistance with corpus curation
and Robert Rose for programming assistance. Tools for corpus preparation
and modeling were produced by Robert Rose and JM while supported by the
National Endowment for the Humanities Digging Into Data Challenge (NEH
HJ-50092-12, CA, co-PI). JM and CA were supported by an Indiana Univer-
sity (IU) O ce of the Vice Provost for Research (OVPR) Faculty Research
Support Program (FRSP) Seed Funding Grant and Bridge Funding Grant.
JM was also supported by an IU Cognitive Science Program Supplemental
Research Fellowship. Finally, we thank the anonymous reviewers and the
editor for their constructive comments and honest inquiries.
22
Supporting Information
This supporting information provides additional information about the
corpus curation, null model justi cation, alternative KL analyses, details on
Bayesian Epoch Estimation, and a  nal section on model robustness. The
 rst section presents detailed characterization of Darwin s reading corpus,
preparation methods, and software. We next introduce the Kullback-Leibler
Divergence measure (KL) used in our analyses, and we discuss two interpre-
tations of the measure, from information theory and from Bayesian statistics.
We then provide further justi cation of the null model, noting that any rep-
resentation of Victorian science will be impoverished. Next, we present a
more detailed analysis of the greedy shortest-path through Darwin s texts,
showing that he indeed does not follow a surprise-minimization strategy. We
also show the rank-order distribution of each move in Darwin s reading order
compared to the null models, indicating that while Darwin does not follow
pure surprise minimization, he does select the nearest neighbor more often
than chance. Finally, we explicitly detail the Bayesian epoch estimation and
further justify the independent selection of epoch break points. We show the
AIC analysis, and then repeat the entire analysis for 3 alternative models
with k = 20, 40, 60 topics.
Appendix A. Corpus Characterization
Despite our use of a digital library, it is important to remember that
books are originally physical artifacts (see Fig. S3). Victorian publishing
practices often spread a single title over multiple volumes for portability and
ease of use. In this paper, we use volume to refer to each physical artifact.
Each individual entry of Darwin s notebooks is referred to as a title. In the
case of books, a title gathers together one or more volumes. In the case of
journal articles, a title is merely a subpart of a particular volume. We model
at the level of a catalog record, which corresponds to a title in almost all
cases, except for journals, where it corresponds to the aggregate of all issues
listed as read across entries in the notebooks.
Darwin also read French, German, and Latin texts. We reduced the
corpus to English-only to reduce cross-linguistic e ects in the model (Boyd-
Graber & Blei, 2009). Additionally, we focused only on non- ction texts.
An examination of the in uence of  ction on Darwin is a topic for further
exploration.
23
There are 647 catalog records and 1057 volumes corresponding to the 665
titles modeled in this study. Some volumes in the corpus alignment were
unable to be matched to the exact edition listed by the DCP, and thus there
is occasionally a di erence between the volume Darwin read and the volume
whose text we use for topic modeling. Table S5 shows the summary of the
items which were located and remain missing.
Our publication dates are those listed by the Darwin Correspondence
Project (DCP); the DCP uses the publication date of the volume, if found in
Darwin s library, otherwise the date of  rst publication. The reading order
is determined by dates listed in the reading notebook. When multiple titles
are listed at a particular date, we use their natural ordering in the notebooks
  titles written at the top of the page are assumed to be read before those
Figure S3: Darwin s Reading Notebooks. Page 3a of Darwin s  rst notebook (DAR 119),
during which he began to track the exact dates. Note the reading of Malthus s On Popu-
lation on October 3, 1838. Photo courtesy of Cambridge University Libraries.
24
Total
- Fiction
- Non-English
English Non- ction
Located Non-located Total
915
- 80
- 148
687
104
- 1
- 85
22
811
- 79
- 63
665
Table S5: Corpus Composition: Composition of the Reading List in terms of  ction, non-
 ction, English, and non-English texts. Located titles refers to the number identi ed in
the HathiTrust (http://hathitrust.org/), Internet Archive (http://archive.org/),
and Project Gutenberg (http://gutenberg.org/). Non-located texts were unavailable
in the HathiTrust, Internet Archive, or Project Gutenberg as of December 1, 2015.
at the bottom.
We use the InPhO Topic Explorer (Murdock & Allen, 2015) for tokeniza-
tion and modeling of texts. First, plain-text editions downloaded from the
HathiTrust, the Internet Archive, and Project Gutenberg are normalized by
merging cross-line hyphens into single words, normalizing into ASCII using
the Python library Unidecode, removing all words containing punctuation
and numerals (often due to OCR errors), and lower-casing all words. Then,
words appearing in the English stopwords corpus from the Natural Language
Toolkit (NLTK) (Bird et al., 2009) are removed. Finally, words occurring less
than 30 and more than 15,000 times were excluded from the corpus. After
this pre-processing, the corpus consisted of 40,822,136 tokens drawn from
77,611 unique tokens. We made no attempt to apply stemming or clean up
OCR errors, other than the  ltering of words occurring fewer than 30 times.
Fig. S4 shows the density of Darwin s readings modeled. Notice the large
jump in 1840 corresponds to a period when he was reading entire series of
journals, each article of which was a separate title in his notebook. Also,
note that Fig. S4 shows both the density of the selection modeled and the
entire reading notebook list.
Fig. S5 indicates that as Darwin s readings progress he begins reading
more recently published, contemporary sources. We also show the regression
for the un-modeled texts, showing that his total reading also progressed
toward contemporary sources, although at a slower rate.
25
Figure S4: Reading Density   Reading density, smoothed over a 6-month window. The
dashed line shows the 665 titles here modeled, while the thin solid line represents all 915
titles in the reading notebooks.
26
Figure S5: Publication vs. Reading Dates   Scatter plot of the publication and reading
dates of the titles in Darwin s reading list. The 665 modeled titles are shown with dots,
while the remaining 250 titles are shown as xs. The solid line indicates when the reading
date and publication date are equal. The dashed line indicates a linear regression over
the dots (r2 = 0.1992), and the dotted line indicates a linear regression over the dots and
xs combined (r2 = 0.1147). The appearance of older materials in 1856-57 corresponds
to Darwin s literature review of pigeon breeding, conducted as a case study in arti cial
selection and included in The Origin of Species.
27
Appendix B. An Introduction to Kullback-Leibler Divergence
Kullback-Leibler Divergence (KL) will be our a measure of  cognitive sur-
prise  in higher-order linguistic search processes: as we say in the main text,
a way to measure the extent to which a learner encounters the unexpected
in ways that require them to alter the way they represent the world. To see
why KL is particularly useful for this, it is worth returning to one of the
canonical interpretations of information theory: as a way to quantify the ef-
 ciency with which a process can be represented. Consider, for example, the
children s game  Twenty Questions : one player (the  parent ) chooses a
noun at random. The other player (the  child ) must then attempt to guess
the noun, by asking a series of questions that the parent can only answer
 yes  or  no .
One way to play the game is, of course, for the child herself to guess nouns
at random:  is it a car?   is it a tree? . But there are usually better ways
to play the game: the child might begin by asking  is it something that can
be dead or alive? , narrowing down the possibilities more quickly.
It is also clear that which questions are better to ask depends upon how
the parent chooses the noun to begin with: the probability pi for each noun
i. If, for example, a (somewhat lazy) parent chooses the word  car  90% of
the time,  is it a car?  will be a particularly e ective opening question for
the child. Furthermore, if the child is playing well, she will use a branching
script: which question to ask next will generally depend upon the answers
to all the questions that came before; if we know that the noun is something
that can be dead or alive, we know to skip the car questions.
How e cient can the child be? More formally, what is the average number
of yes/no questions the child has to ask, if she is using one of the best possible
scripts? Remarkably, this is related to the Shannon entropy of the probability
distribution (cid:126)p:
H((cid:126)p) =   N(cid:88)
pi log2 pi.
(B.1)
i=1
In particular, the average number of questions Q that the child has to ask,
if she is using an optimal script, lies somewhere between
H((cid:126)p)   Q   H((cid:126)p) + 1,
(B.2)
a result known as Shannon s source coding theorem, and proven in Shannon
(1948). For an informal introduction to this result, see DeDeo (2016); the
28
upper limit in Eq. B.2 can be made arbitrarily close to H((cid:126)p) if the child is
allowed to play multiple games simultaneously.
Let us now imagine that the child has developed an optimal script for
one of her parents. What happens when she uses this script playing against
the other?
If the two parents have similar patterns of noun choice, she may do well.
But if the patterns di er if the  rst parent s distribution, (cid:126)p is very di erent
from the second parent s distribution, (cid:126)q then her script could fail very badly.
This is true even if there exists an optimal script for (cid:126)q that is just as e cient
(for (cid:126)q) as the original script was for (cid:126)p.4
It so turns out that this coding failure can also be quanti ed. In particu-
lar, if the child builds an optimal script for distribution (cid:126)p, but then encounters
the parent with distribution (cid:126)q, she will, on average, ask more questions than
she needs to. The average number of excess questions is related to the KL
divergence, which is is de ned as
k(cid:88)
i=1
DKL((cid:126)q|(cid:126)p) =
qi log2
qi
pi
.
(B.3)
This becomes an exact measure of coding failure when, as before, the child
is playing multiple, simultaneous games.
It is worth noting that KL is a directed measure: the divergence from (cid:126)p
to (cid:126)q is, generically, di erent from the divergence from (cid:126)q to (cid:126)p. If one builds
a script for a (cid:126)p biased towards some subset of topics, but encounters a more
uniform (cid:126)q, the coding will fail more badly than if (cid:126)p were uniform and (cid:126)q highly
biased. KL, in other words, is not a measure of distance between texts, but
a way to quantify the ordered processing that happens as learning unfolds
over time.
A second interpretation of KL divergence comes from Bayesian statis-
tics. Imagine an agent observing a process and trying to decide whether her
4If, for example, the  rst parent chooses from one of three words, {A, B, C}, with
probabilities {1/2, 1/4, 1/4}, the child can ask  is it A?  as her  rst question, and  is
it B?  as her second; on average, she will  nish the game in 1.5 questions. Confronted
with the second parent, whose probabilities are {1/4, 1/2, 1/4}, however, she will take on
average 1.75 questions before  nishing the game even though an optimal script exists
that requires only 1.5. The KL divergence approximates this coding failure (and becomes
exact in certain natural limits); here, in fact, the KL divergence from the  rst parent to
the second is precisely the coding failure, 0.25 bits, or  excess questions .
29
observations are drawn from (cid:126)p or (cid:126)q, when her priors are equally split be-
tween the two possibilities. Given a single observation, of type i, the relative
log-likelihood of distribution (cid:126)q compared to distribution (cid:126)p is just
 L = log
qi
pi
.
(B.4)
If the true distribution is (cid:126)q, the average rate at which this relative log-
likelihood increases is simply
N(cid:88)
qi L.
(B.5)
i=1
On substituting Eq. B.4 into Eq. B.5, we recover the KL divergence equation
Eq. B.3. This provides a second interpretation for KL: the rate at which
log-evidence for the true distribution accumulates over time. When the new
distribution is very di erent from the one that came before ( more surpris-
ing ), evidence for that di erence will accumulate quickly.
Appendix C. Null Model Justi cation
A more complete representation of the state of Victorian science (i.e.
Darwin s entire search space) would require the null model to be constructed
against all the books available to him in Kent and London during these
years, rather than books Darwin actually read. To construct and model such
a corpus would be a monumental task, and would be circumscribed by the
subsequent curatorial decisions that have shaped present access to digitized
Victorian era texts.
Fortunately, the null model based on Darwin s own reading list provides
a more rigorous test of our results. This is because text-to-text surprise over
the entire set of published books is expected to be greater, thus accentuating
the di erence between data and null for Darwin s lower-surprise trajectory.
Similarly, text-to-past surprise should be greater in a null model constructed
against a broader set of books. This is because whether the prior state of
the  null  reader based on one text or many, the model of the larger corpus
provides more opportunities for long range jumps.
Appendix D. Text-to-text and text-to-past KL
Table S6 shows the raw local text-to-text and global text-to-past KL
divergence data, along with the greedy shortest path single-visit traversals
30
of the KL distance matrix. While Darwin s average text-to-text surprise is
lower than expected from a null model, it is far larger than many paths that
can be found: a greedy shortest-path algorithm, for example, can reduce the
text-to-text average surprise to 2.14 bits and text-to-past average surprise to
2.86 bits.
Measured
Null
(p-value)
Greedy Shortest Path
Local
(bits/step)
11.41   0.28
10.78
(cid:28) 10 3
2.11
Global
(bits/step)
2.96
2.98+0.04 0.02
0.02
2.97
Table S6: Exploration habits. Average text-to-text (local) and text-to-past (global) KL
Divergence (bits/step) over the reading path. Text-to-past KL is much lower, as Darwin s
reading spreads out to cover topic space and lowers the information-theoretic surprise of
subsequent books. Darwin s reading strategy is simultaneously more exploitative than
would be expected of a random reader while also not following a strategy of pure surprise-
minimization.
Appendix D.1. Rank Distribution
In addition to the information-theoretic measures described in the paper,
descriptive statistics also capture Darwin s explore-exploit behavior. For
each volume, we look at the rank of the KL divergence to the next volume
by reading order compared to all other volumes in the corpus, as shown in
Fig. S6. We can compare this to a null model, as described in the Methods.
Interestingly, Darwin is 8 times more likely than the null model to pick the
nearest neighbor, indicating that explorations are overall rarer than exploita-
tions, and emphasizing that exploitations do indeed occur on a text-to-text
basis.
Appendix E. Bayesian Epoch Estimation
Our generative model for Bayesian epoch estimation has 3n   1 param-
eters. There are (n   1) parameters to describe the end points of the  rst
n   1 epochs, and 2n parameters to describe the mean and variance of the
text-to-text (or text-to-past) surprise within each epoch. We estimate these
parameters using an approximate maximum-likelihood procedure. Within
31
Figure S6: Rank Distribution. Rank distribution of DKL( i,  i+1) for Darwin s reading
notebooks relative to a null-model permutation of his reading order, as indicated by the
dashed line, with 95% con dence intervals shown. The lines are logarithmically binned,
showing clearly that Darwin is 8 times more likely to select the nearest KL neighbor, as
opposed to volumes further away, which are selected 0.85 times as likely than the null.
each epoch i, we assume the surprise is constant and Gaussian distributed
i . We write the 3n   1 parameters
with a particular mean  i and variance  2
as a vector (cid:126)v; then the distribution over (cid:126)v given the data s, equal to a list of
surprises, {si}, is
(cid:17)
1 + ln(2    2
i)
+ C,
log P ((cid:126)v|s) = log P (s|(cid:126)v) + C =   n(cid:88)
(cid:16)
(ei+1   ei   1)
2
i=1
(E.1)
where ei is the start point of epoch i and C depends on the prior. The start
point of the  rst epoch, e1, is  xed to be volume zero; given our conventions,
en+1 is  xed to be the  nal volume plus one. The sigma estimator,   2
i, is
32
the standard maximum likelihood estimator of the variance,
  2
i =
1
ei+1   ei   1
(sk     i)2 ,
ei+1 1(cid:88)
ei+1 1(cid:88)
k=ei
and   i is de ned as
  i =
1
ei+1   ei   1
sk.
k=ei
(E.2)
(E.3)
To do Fisher maximum-likelihood estimation, we ignore the e ect of the prior
P ((cid:126)v) on the maximum; equivalently, we do maximum a posteriori estimation
and assume that P ((cid:126)v) is  at over the region of interest.
The results for a 2-epoch independent selection model are shown in Fig-
ure S7. Note the alternative maxima in the text-to-past model.
Appendix E.1. Epoch Model Selection
To verify that our model is not over- tting, we use the Akaike Information
Criterion (Akaike, 1974); we increase the number of epochs until the increase
in the log-likelihood is less than the complexity penalty, equal to the number
of parameters.
For the two- and three-epoch models we compare this likelihood to the a
single-epoch null model of 2 parameters - mean and variance for text-to-text
or text-to-past surprise over the whole data-set. Our 2-epoch model has 5
parameters. A 3-epoch model has 8 parameters.
This AIC analysis further emphasizes the relative strength of evidence for
text-to-text and text-to-past epoch boundaries (see Results). Evidence for
boundaries in the text-to-text BEE model is naturally weaker than the text-
to-past case. The text-to-text model assumes decisions are made solely by
the last read text, as opposed to longer term memory, which seems more plau-
sible. In addition, our text-to-past BEE makes the simplifying assumption
that successive surprise values are independent draws from the distribution
associated with that epoch. Because memory accumulates over time, this
assumption, at best, only approximates the text-to-past case.
The results of our AIC analysis are shown in Table S7.
Appendix F. Model Robustness
The  model checking problem  is an enduring problem for applied topic
modeling (Blei, 2012b), but recent work on selection of a  reference model 
33
Breaks
[0, 646]
Null T2T
1-epoch T2T
2-epoch T2T [0, 383, 548, 646]
[0, 548, 646]
Null P2T
1-epoch P2T
2-epoch P2T [0, 422, 547, 646]
[0, 325, 646]
[0, 646]
k
2
5
8
2
5
8
AIC
3911.61
3912.38
3914.67
2035.18
2028.83
2021.93
relative LAIC
1.0
0.68
0.21
1.0
23.82
750.70
Table S7: AIC Model Selection. The likelihood for each 1-epoch selection is shown in
Figure S7. The AIC of the independent selection for a 2-epoch model is also shown.
Note that the AIC for text-to-past selects for epoch breaks, but not for text-to-text (see
Results).
in the social sciences provided guidance to selecting a value of k = 80 for
the number of topics to use in our analysis (Roberts et al., 2015). More
speci cally, setting k = 80 produced a set of topics subjectively deemed
more interpretable than the lower values of k suggested by more  objective 
measures of model  t to data.
In addition to the k = 80 topics results shown in the main paper, the
same analyses are also shown below for k = 20, 40, 60 in Figs. S9, S10, S11,
respectively.
Epoch breaks are also noted in the  gure captions. All topic models agree
on a break in 1854, but the k = 40 model does not detect an earlier break in
the text-to-past case, rather selecting volume 548. The k = 60 model seems
to be an outlier from the other values of k.
34
Figure S7: Two-epoch model   Fisher maximum-likelihood estimation for a 2-epoch BEE
model over the text-to-text and text-to-past k = 80 models of 647 of Darwin s readings.
The darker line indicates the window of the 5-year minimum epoch length. Note the phase
transition at the 325th volume in the text-to-past case (bottom) and the 548th volume in
the text-to-text case (top). Note also that the text-to-past case comes close to transition
at the 548th volume as well, indicating the strength of the transition to exploration in the
third epoch on both local and global scales.
35
Figure S8: Bayesian Epoch Estimation   Analysis of Figures S7 repeated for k =
{20, 40, 60}. Left (k = 20)   The text-to-text epoch break is volume 280 (1 January
1845). The text-to-past epoch break is volume 555 (27 December 1854). Center (k = 40)
  The text-to-text epoch break is volume 548 (16 September 1854). The text-to-past
epoch break is volume 547 (4 September 1854). Note that while a division point in 1845 is
not selected in k = 40 the text-to-past likelihood shows a local maxima at approximately
volume 300. Right (k = 60)   The text-to-text epoch break is volume 282 (1 March
1845). The text-to-past epoch break is volume 547 (4 September 1854).
36
Figure S9: Cumulative and Cultural Surprise (k = 20)   Analysis of Figures 1 (left) and 2
(right) repeated for k = 20. Left: Average text-to-text (top left) and text-to-text (bottom
left) cumulative surprise over the reading path and over the publication history, measured
as the cumulative KL divergence (bits). As Darwin drops below zero in these plots, his
choices are producing surprises lower than expected in the null. Right: Average text-to-
text (top) and text-to-past (bottom) cumulative surprise over the reading order (solid)
and over the publication order (dashed), measured in bits.
37
Figure S10: Cumulative and Cultural Surprise (k = 40)   Analysis of Figures 1 (left)
and 2 (right) repeated for k = 40. Left: Average text-to-text (top left) and text-to-past
(bottom left) cumulative surprise over the reading path and over the publication history,
measured as the cumulative KL divergence (bits). The k = 40 model does not select an
epoch boundary in 1846, resulting in a very short 1-volume epoch. Right: Average text-
to-text (top) and text-to-past (bottom) cumulative surprise over the reading order (solid)
and over the publication order (dashed), measured in bits.
38
Figure S11: Cumulative and Cultural Surprise (k = 60)   Analysis of Figures 1 (left) and 2
(right) repeated for k = 60. Left: Average text-to-text (top left) and text-to-past (bottom
left) cumulative surprise over the reading path and over the publication history, measured
as the cumulative KL divergence (bits). Right: Average text-to-text (top) and text-to-past
(bottom) cumulative surprise over the reading order (solid) and over the publication order
(dashed), measured in bits.
39
References
References
Akaike, H. (1974). A New Look at the Statistical Model Identi cation. Au-
tomatic Control, IEEE Transactions on, 19 , 716 723. doi:10.1109/TAC.
1974.1100705.
Aurelius, M. (2012). Meditations. Mineola, NY, USA: Dover Publications.
Translated by George Long.
Azoulay-Schwartz, R., Kraus, S., & Wilkenfeld, J. (2004). Exploitation
vs. Exploration: Choosing a Supplier in an Environment of Incom-
plete Information. Decision Support Systems, 38 , 1 18. doi:10.1016/
S0167-9236(03)00061-7.
Bacon, F. (1883). The Promus of Formularies and Elegancies. Longman,
Greens and Company.
Berger-Tal, O., Nathan, J., Meron, E., & Saltz, D. (2014). The Exploration-
Exploitation Dilemma: A Multidisciplinary Framework. PLoS ONE , 9 .
doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0095693.
Berra, T. M. (2009). Charles Darwin: The Concise Story of an Extraordinary
Man. Baltimore, MD: John Hopkins University Press.
Bettencourt, L. M., & Kaiser, D. I. (2015). Formation of Scienti c Fields
as a Universal Topological Transition. arXiv eprint, 1504.00319v1 . SFI
Working Paper 2015-03-009.
Bird, S., Loper, E., & Klein, E. (2009). Natural Language Processing with
Python. OReilly Media Inc.
Blei, D. (2012a). Topic Modeling and Digital Humanities. Journal of Digital
Humanities, 2 , 8 11.
Blei, D. M. (2012b). Probabilistic Topic Models. Communications of the
ACM , 55 , 77 84. doi:10.1145/2133806.2133826.
Blei, D. M., & La erty, J. D. (2007). A Correlated Topic Model of Science.
The Annals of Applied Statistics, (pp. 17 35). doi:10.1214/07-AOAS114.
40
Blei, D. M., Ng, A. Y., & Jordan, M. I. (2003). Latent Dirichlet Allocation.
The Journal of Machine Learning Research, 3 , 993 1022.
Bliss, N. T., Peirson, B. E., Painter, D., & Laubichler, M. D. (2014). Anoma-
lous Subgraph Detection in Publication Networks: Leveraging Truth. In
48th Asilomar Conference on Signals, Systems and Computers (pp. 2005 
2009). doi:10.1109/ACSSC.2014.7094823.
Boyd-Graber, J., & Blei, D. M. (2009). Multilingual Topic Models for Un-
aligned Text.
In Proceedings of the Twenty-Fifth Conference on Uncer-
tainty in Arti cial Intelligence UAI  09 (pp. 75 82). Arlington, Virginia,
United States: AUAI Press. URL: http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?
id=1795114.1795124.
Burkhardt, F., & Smith, S. (1989). Books on the Beagle.
In Dar-
win Correspondence Project. URL: https://www.darwinproject.ac.uk/
books-on-the-beagle.
Burnham, K. P., & Anderson, D. R. (2003). Model selection and multi-
model inference: a practical information-theoretic approach. New York,
NY, USA: Springer Science & Business Media.
Calamaro, S., & Jarosz, G. (2015). Learning General Phonological Rules
From Distributional Information: A Computational Model. Cognitive Sci-
ence, 39 , 647 666. doi:10.1111/cogs.12167.
Chun, M. M., & Wolfe, J. M. (1996). Just Say No: How are Visual Searches
Terminated when there is No Target Present? Cognitive Psychology, 30 ,
39 78. doi:10.1006/cogp.1996.0002.
Cohen, J. D., McClure, S. M., & Yu, A. J. (2007). Should I Stay or Should
I Go? How the Human Brain Manages the Trade-o  between Exploita-
tion and Exploration. Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society B:
Biological Sciences, 362 , 933 942. doi:10.1098/rstb.2007.2098.
Cohen Priva, U., & Austerweil, J. L. (2015). Analyzing the history of Cogni-
tion using Topic Models. Cognition, 135 , 4 9. doi:10.1016/j.cognition.
2014.11.006.
Cook, W. (2011). In Pursuit of the Traveling Salesman: Mathematics at the
Limits of Computation. Princeton University Press.
41
Darwin, C.
(1838-1851a).
Darwin s
 Journal 
(1809-1881).
URL:
http://darwin-online.org.uk/content/frameset?viewtype=
text&itemID=CUL-CUL-DAR158.1-76.-&pageseq=62
Accessed on: 4 December 2015.
CUL-DAR158.
Darwin, C.
(1838-1851b).
Darwin s
 Journal 
(1809-1881).
URL:
http://darwin-online.org.uk/content/frameset?viewtype=
text&itemID=CUL-CUL-DAR158.1-76.-&pageseq=46
Accessed on: 4 December 2015.
CUL-DAR158.
Darwin, C. (1887). The Life and Letters of Charles Darwin, including an
Autobiographical Chapter . John Murray.
DeDeo, S. (2016).
Information theory for intelligent people.
http://
santafe.edu/~simon/it.pdf. Last Accessed: 2016-08-08.
Demberg, V., & Keller, F. (2008). Data from Eye-tracking Corpora as Ev-
idence for Theories of Syntactic Processing Complexity. Cognition, 109 ,
193   210. doi:10.1016/j.cognition.2008.07.008.
Eliassen, S., J rgensen, C., Mangel, M., & Giske, J. (2007). Exploration or
Exploitation: Life Expectancy Changes the Value of Learning in Foraging
Strategies. Oikos, 116 , 513 523. doi:10.1111/j.2006.0030-1299.15462.
x.
Gar eld, E. (1979). Citation Indexing   Its Theory and Application in Sci-
ence, Technology, and Humanities. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.
Gittins, J. C. (1979). Bandit processes and dynamic allocation indices. Jour-
nal of the Royal Statistical Society. Series B (Methodological), (pp. 148 
177).
Goldstone, A., & Underwood, T. (2014). The Quiet Transformations of
Literary Studies: What Thirteen Thousand Scholars Could Tell Us. New
Literary History, 45 , 359 384. doi:10.1353/nlh.2014.0025.
Gri ths, T. L., & Steyvers, M. (2004). Finding Scienti c Topics. Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences, 101 , 5228 5235. doi:10.1073/pnas.
0307752101.
42
Gri ths, T. L., Steyvers, M., & Tenenbaum, J. B. (2007). Topics in semantic
representation. doi:10.1037/0033-295X.114.2.211.
Gruber, H. E., & Barrett, P. H. (1974). Darwin on Man: A Psychological
Study of Scienti c Creativity. EP Dutton.
Hale, J. (2001). A Probabilistic Earley Parser as a Psycholinguistic Model.
In Proceedings of the second meeting of the North American Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics on Language technologies (pp.
1 8). Association for Computational Linguistics. doi:10.3115/1073336.
1073357.
Hall, D., Jurafsky, D., & Manning, C. D. (2008). Studying the history of ideas
using topic models. In Proceedings of the Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing EMNLP  08 (pp. 363 371). Stroudsburg,
PA, USA: Association for Computational Linguistics. URL: http://dl.
acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1613763.
Hills, T. T., & Adelman, J. S. (2015). Recent evolution of learnability in
American English from 1800 to 2000. Cognition, 143 , 87 92. doi:10.1016/
j.cognition.2015.06.009.
Hills, T. T., Todd, P. M., Lazer, D., Redish, A. D., & Couzin, I. D. (2015).
Exploration Versus Exploitation in Space, Mind, and Society. Trends in
Cognitive Sciences, 19 , 46 54. doi:10.1016/j.tics.2014.10.004.
Hughes, J. M., Foti, N. J., Krakauer, D. C., & Rockmore, D. N. (2012).
Quantitative Patterns of Stylistic In uence in the Evolution of Literature.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 109 , 7682 7686. doi:10.
1073/pnas.1115407109.
Itti, L., & Baldi, P. (2009). Bayesian Surprise Attracts Human Attention.
Vision Research, 49 , 1295 1306. doi:10.1016/j.visres.2008.09.007.
Jacob, F. (1977). Evolution and Tinkering. Science, 196 , 1161 1166. doi:10.
1126/science.860134.
Jockers, M. (2013). Macroanalysis: Digital Methods and Literary History.
Topics in the Digital Humanities. University of Illinois Press.
43
Johnson, S. (2010). Where Good Ideas Come From: The Natural History of
Innovation. Penguin UK.
Klingenstein, S., Hitchcock, T., & DeDeo, S. (2014). The Civilizing Process
in Londons Old Bailey. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences,
111 , 9419 9424. doi:10.1073/pnas.1405984111.
Kullback, S., & Leibler, R. (1951). On information and su ciency. Annals
of Mathematical Statistics, 22 , 79 86. doi:10.1214/aoms/1177729694.
Levy, R. (2008). Expectation-based Syntactic Comprehension. Cognition,
106 , 1126   1177. doi:10.1016/j.cognition.2007.05.006.
Light, M., & Grei , W. (2002). Statistical models for the induction and use
of selectional preferences. Cognitive Science, 26 , 269 281. doi:10.1207/
s15516709cog2603_4.
Locke, J. (1706). A New Method of Making Common-Place-Books. Printed
for J. Greenwood, bookseller, at the end of Cornhil, next Stocks-Market.
Macmillan, M. (2000). Restoring Phineas Gage: A 150th Retrospective.
Journal of the History of the Neurosciences, 9 , 46 66. doi:10.1076/
0964-704X(200004)9:1;1-2;FT046.
March, J. G. (1991). Exploration and Exploitation in Organizational Learn-
ing. Organization Science, 2 , 71 87. doi:10.1287/orsc.2.1.71.
Martin, A., Peperkamp, S., & Dupoux, E. (2013). Learning Phonemes
With a Proto-Lexicon. Cognitive Science, 37 , 103 124. doi:10.1111/j.
1551-6709.2012.01267.x.
Michel, J.-B., Shen, Y. K., Aiden, A. P., Veres, A., Gray, M. K., Team,
T. G. B., Pickett, J. P., Hoiberg, D., Clancy, D., Norvig, P., Orwant, J.,
Pinker, S., Nowak, M. A., & Aiden, E. L. (2011). Quantitative Analysis of
Culture Using Millions of Digitized Books. Science, 331 , 176 182. doi:10.
1126/science.1199644.
Mohr, J. W., & Bogdanov, P. (2013). Introduction   Topic Models: What
They are and Why They Matter. Poetics, 41 , 545   569. doi:10.1016/j.
poetic.2013.10.001.
44
Murdock, J., & Allen, C. (2015). Visualization Techniques for Topic Model
Checking. Proceedings of 29th Association for the Advancement of Arti -
cial Intelligence (AAAI-15), .
Pirolli, P., & Card, S. (1999). Information Foraging. Psychological Review ,
106 , 643 675. doi:10.1037/0033-295X.106.4.643.
Resnik, P. (1997). Selectional preference and sense disambiguation. In Pro-
ceedings of the ACL SIGLEX Workshop on Tagging Text with Lexical Se-
mantics: Why, What, and How (pp. 52 57). Washington, DC.
Resnik, P. S. (1993). Selection and Information: A Class-based Approach to
Lexical Relationships. IRCS Technical Reports Series, (p. 200).
Roberts, M., Stewart, B., & Tingley, D. (2015). Navigating the Local Modes
In Data Analytics in Social
of Big Data: The Case of Topic Models.
Science, Government, and Industry. New York: Cambridge University
Press.
Rutherford, H. W. (1908). Catalogue of the library of Charles Darwin now
in the Botany School, Cambridge. Cambridge University Press. Compiled
by H. W. Rutherford, of the University Library; with an Introduction by
Francis Darwin.
Shannon, C. E. (1948). A mathematical theory of communication. Bell
System Technical Journal , 27 , 379 423.
Simon, H. A. (1971). Designing Organizations for an Information-rich World.
Computers, communication, and the public interest, 37 , 40 41.
Squire, L. R., & Wixted, J. T. (2011). The cognitive neuroscience of human
memory since h.m. Annual Review of Neuroscience, 34 , 259 288. doi:10.
1146/annurev-neuro-061010-113720.
Stephens, D. W., & Krebs, J. R. (1986). Foraging Theory. Princeton Uni-
versity Press.
Sun, X., Kaur, J., Milojevic, S., Flammini, A., & Menczer, F. (2013). Social
Dynamics of Science. Sci. Rep., 3 . URL: 10.1038/srep01069.
Sutton, R. S., & Barto, A. G. (1998). Introduction to Reinforcement Learn-
ing. MIT Press Cambridge.
45
Thrun, S. (1992). The role of exploration in learning control. In D. White,
& D. Sofge (Eds.), Handbook for Intelligent Control: Neural, Fuzzy and
Adaptive Approaches. Florence, Kentucky: Van Nostrand Reinhold.
Todd, P. M., Hills, T. T., & Robbins, T. W. (Eds.) (2012). Cognitive Search:
Evolution, Algorithms, and the Brain. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press.
Tria, F., Loreto, V., Servedio, V. D. P., & Strogatz, S. H. (2014). The
Dynamics of Correlated Novelties. Scienti c Reports, 4 . doi:10.1038/
srep05890.
Underwood, T., & Sellers, J. (2012). The Emergence of Literary Diction.
Journal of Digital Humanities, 1 .
Uotila, J., Maula, M., Keil, T., & Zahra, S. A. (2009). Exploration, Ex-
ploitation, and Financial Performance: Analysis of S&P 500 Corporations.
Strategic Management Journal , 30 , 221 231. doi:10.1002/smj.738.
Van Hulle, D. (2014). Modern Manuscripts: The Extended Mind and Creative
Undoing from Darwin to Beckett and Beyond . Historicizing Modernism.
Bloomsbury Academic.
Wagner, A., & Rosen, W. (2014). Spaces of the Possible: Universal Darwin-
ism and the Wall between Technological and Biological Innovation. Journal
of the Royal Society, Interface, 11 , 20131190 . doi:10.1098/rsif.2013.
1190.
Wilson, D. (2014). Je erson s Literary Commonplace Book . Papers of
Thomas Je erson, Second. Princeton University Press.
Youn, H., Strumsky, D., Bettencourt, L. M., & Lobo, J. (2015). Invention as
a Combinatorial Process: Evidence from US Patents. Journal of the Royal
Society, 12 , 1 8. doi:10.1098/rsif.2015.0272.
46
