Wearable Computing for Health and Fitness: Exploring the Relationship
between Data and Human Behaviour
KATRIN H  ANSEL, Queen Mary University of London
NATALIE WILDE, Queen Mary University of London
HAMED HADDADI, Queen Mary University of London
AKRAM ALOMAINY, Queen Mary University of London
A
6
1
0
2
 
n
a
J
 
9
2
 
 
]
Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
2
v
8
3
2
5
0
.
9
0
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Health and  tness wearable technology has recently advanced, making it easier for an individual to monitor their be-
haviours. Previously self generated data interacts with the user to motivate positive behaviour change, but issues arise
when relating this to long term mention of wearable devices. Previous studies within this area are discussed. We also
consider a new approach where data is used to support instead of motivate, through monitoring and logging to encourage
re ection. Based on issues highlighted, we then make recommendations on the direction in which future work could be most
bene cial.
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Wearable Technology, Pervasive Sensing, Behaviour Change, Health Monitoring
1. INTRODUCTION
Wearable technologies are a relatively new entrant in the health and  tness sector. Examples
of health and  tness wearable devices and applications include health monitors,  tness trackers,
activity monitors, and analysis aids. According to Orange [2014],  tness and medical wearables
accounted for 60% of the wearables market in 2013 and it is predicted that the health wearables
market will be worth roughly   3.7 billion by 2019. The ever-growing popularity of smartwatches
and  tness bands suggest that the increase of wearable health and  tness devices remains an
ongoing trend; the technology associated with these wearable devices is improving at a fast rate.
Devices are becoming increasingly smaller and more energy ef cient, making them better suited
for continuously sensing and giving feedback.
Although the technology is improving and applications are evolving, ensuring long-term user re-
tention is a challenge that still remains. The dropout rate of health and  tness wearable devices
currently stands at around 85% [Velayanikal 2014]. The lack of ef cient data collection, utilisation
and feedback may all contribute to the causes of this issue. Advanced sensors can log individu-
als  health data ef ciently and can present the users with comprehensive information about their
health. However, the meaningfulness of data can have a major effect on a user s behaviour. Poorly
presented data or the overload of information can lead to an individual becoming confused and
discouraged. This in turn leads to them abandoning their wearable device.
In this paper, we present an extensive survey of different approaches for data utilisation from
wearable and mobile technology with regards to  tness and health behaviour change. We explore
examples and studies of wearable sensors, actuators, and applications used to promote health and
wellness. We then point out different methods of utilising an individual s data to support positive
behaviour change.
Within this literature review, we focused on wearable sensing technologies. Wearable sensing
can be used to provide data on various health aspects. These include body movements, physical
activity and behaviour, bio-signals like heart rate, respiration, brain activity, or health in uencing
environmental factors. A large body of research also focused on the use of mobile phone sensing to
pick up those signals, and is therefore included in this survey on the basis that their approaches
are transferrable to wearable device applications. A criteria for the presented wearable approaches
is the presentation of the collected data to the user, either as raw data, in a processed form, or
as persuasive, contextualised feedback. For behaviour change theories and techniques, we mainly
focused on the work of the UCL Behaviour change group by Michie et al. [2014, 2013].
This survey is organised as follows; in Section 2, we focus on using data to encourage behaviour
change through motivation and persuasive techniques, using gaming and social aspects to achieve
this. We outline several psychological aspects and theories which surround technology driven be-
haviour change and present related projects. In Section 3, we focus on different approaches of
This work is supported by the Engineering and Physical Sciences Research Council (EPSRC) and the Media and Arts
Technology Doctoral Programme. This work was done while Haddadi was at Qatar Computing Research Institute. Authors 
address: School of Electronic Engineering and Computer Science, Queen Mary University of London, UK;
Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or classroom use is granted without fee
provided that copies are not made or distributed for pro t or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and
the full citation on the  rst page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be honored. For all other uses,
contact the owner/author(s).
c(cid:13) YYYY Copyright held by the owner/author(s). 0000-0000/YYYY/01-ARTA $15.00
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/0000000.0000000
ACM Journal Name, Vol. V, No. N, Article A, Publication date: January YYYY.
data presentations to in uence a person s behaviour. This includes the contextualised and adap-
tive presentations, as well as cognitive supporting ambient displays. In Section 4, we explain a
more modern approach where data is used to support and facilitate human health behaviour. We
outline studies conducted where data from wearable technology can support intrinsic driven be-
havioural changes. By analysing studies that have been carried out in these areas, we highlight
the challenges posed for the future of wearables in Section 5. Finally, in Section 6 we suggest areas
and directions for future work that we feel would be bene cial to the  eld.
2. PERSUASIVE WEARABLE TECHNOLOGIES FOR BEHAVIOUR CHANGE
When looking into behavioural change, motivation is a key factor to consider. Nevid [2012]
describes the term motivation as the  factors that activate, direct and sustain goal directed be-
haviours  [Nevid 2012, p. 288]. He further describes motives to be the needs or wants that drive
behaviours.
Motivation has the power to cause a person to start more healthy activities but also to continue
and repeat these activity routines. If there is a lack of motivation or it is not used in the correct
way, this can lead to opposite effects in an individual s behaviour [Arteaga et al. 2009]. Motivation
can be, furthermore, classi ed into two categories; intrinsic and extrinsic motivation, whereby the
latter can be further distinguished in sub-types identi ed by Deci and Ryan [1985]. Intrinsic mo-
tivation can be seen as motivation created through internal interest and enjoyment, whereby the
reward lies within performing a behaviour itself and plays an substantial role in one s well-being.
Extrinsic motivation, on the contrary, is generated through external in uences and rewards. Ex-
trinsic motivation can be further distinguished into external regulation, introjection, identi cation,
and integration. While external regulation is merely based on external rewards and punishments,
introjection already describes a certain degree of internalisation of motivation driven by guilt or
a gained feeling of self-esteem; but still inherits an external control. Identi cation and integrated
regulation are more autonomous, self-determined and internalised. Ryan and Deci [2000] describe
that there can be a process of internalising originally external motivation when the values are iden-
ti ed as consistent with one s perception of self and the motivation is identi ed as less controlling.
The Cognitive Evaluation Theory of Deci [1975] speci es factors to facilitate intrinsic motivation
through contexts that support the personal feeling of competence.
Motivation is also an important part of Fogg s Fogg [2009] Behaviour Change Model (Figure 1). It
de nes three components for successful behaviour: motivation and ability to perform a behaviour
in a suf ciently high level and triggers. Different approaches can be made to make a successful
behaviour more achievable; this can be accomplished by either making it easier to perform the
task by breaking it down in easier actions or by increasing motivation. Gami cation aims to highen
motivation through use of points, leader boards and rewards created from data. The trigger to carry
out behaviour happens whilst the player is in the game itself. Nobody wants to lose and this triggers
people to carry out the actions.
This section outlines two of the biggest data utilisation methods used to create motivation; gam-
i cation and social in uence.
2.1. Gami cation
Gami cation is a common way to motivate behavioural change. It refers to taking game design
elements and applying these within other contexts. For example, rewarding an individual with
game points if they eat healthy food for a day can motivate them and help develop a speci c type
of behavioural outcome [Deterding et al. 2011]. Gami cation is a relatively new concept and the
exact origins are unknown. Pelling [2011]  rst used the concept of gami cation within commercial
devices. The main aim of his consultancy Condura was to incorporate gaming methodologies into
businesses. Fogg [2002] describes the Pocket Pikachu; it is one of the  rst wearable devices that
utilised gami cation to become persuasive tool. The simple device includes a pedometer to mea-
sure the step count of the wearer. This data is then translated into game points which help the
virtual Pikachu to grow. Robson et al. [2015] state that presenting data and utilising it within a
gaming context works well in encouraging behavioural change because it taps into an individual s
motivational drivers; particularly intrinsic motivation which is behaviour driven by internal re-
wards like fun and extrinsic motivation through rewards like badges and game point. Engaging
motivation can arise from within the individual because they enjoy the behaviour and experience
it as rewarding [Cherry]. A comprehensive review by Seaborn and Fels [2015] highlights future
directions in gami cation research.
2.1.1. Motivational Affordances. Wearable applications can utilise motivational affordances and gam-
i cation to motivate extrinsically. This includes emotionally positive stimuli like the use of badges,
leader boards and challenges. Based on Hamari et al. [2014], the points system claims to be the
2
High
Motivation
n
o
i
t
a
v
i
t
o
M
Low
Motivation
Triggers 
Succeed here
Triggers 
Fail here
Activation Threshold
Hard to do
Ability
Easy to do
Fig. 1. Foggs Behaviour Model (Adapted from [Fogg 2009])
most commonly used method. Bleecker et al. [2007] presented the prototype of a mobile based game
 MobZombies  incorporating wearable sensors. The sensors provide accelerometer data which is
used to move the virtual avatar. Physical movement by the player within the real world are trans-
lated into moves within the game. The main aim of the game is to run away from the zombies and
collect points through body movement. Rewarding the player with points utilises features that the
user is already familiar with and presenting data in this way ensures that the user gains instant
grati cation and motivation.
An issue that most of the motivational affordances have in common, is the clouding of the actual
data. Health data is not directly presented to the user and the focus is on the rewards and achieve-
ments to stimulate extrinsic motivated behaviour change. The removal of external incentives can
lead the the termination of the exercise and termination of health behaviour if the behaviour is
not internalised and congruent with personal, self-determined goals [Deci 1975]. This indicates
that the behavioural change is strongly connected to the presence of game elements. Further re-
search is needed to determine long-term health behaviour outside of the game world. Furthermore,
there is evidence that a special personality type prefers a certain motivational affordance and that
applications should take this into account [Karanam et al. 2014].
Payton et al. [2011] developed a mobile game to reduce sedentary lifestyles in college students.
World of Workout motivates the player to increase step count in small amounts throughout the
day. The users can de ne a goal they wish to achieve and the mobile phone application generates
suitable quests for the player to complete. The user s step count is calculated by using the iOS
shake event and is then related to the set goal. Rewarding feedback is provided to the user when a
goal is reached. The game was found to have a positive effect on participants, with players  nding
it fun and enjoyable to play. Feedback from other players suggested that they would enjoy a feature
to share their data outside of the game. This could include the possibility of posting achievements
on Facebook or Twitter.
Others have also looked at levering extrinsic motivation by enabling the user to earn tangible
rewards such as money or psychological rewards like praise. An example of a device that utilises
rewards is the Mymo. Developed by Tupelo1, the activity tracker allows users to cash in their
steps to earn rewards such as mobile talk time and airline miles [Velayanikal 2014]. But other
studies suggest that the use of extrinsic incentives, like materialistic rewards, may have  aws.
In general, we can say that extrinsic regulation can negatively in uence intrinsic motivation and
undermine the feeling of autonomy and competence [Deci and Ryan 1985]; it can therefore have
1www.tupelolife.com/
3
a negative impact on our well-being. Greene and Lepper [1974] stated that when an intrinsically
motivated task, such as drawing for children, is rewarded externally, it can be harmful. It leads to
people expecting external rewards all the time and can have a detrimental effect on the individual s
intrinsic motivations.
2.1.2. Social Incentives within Games. Social aspects are important in gami cation. Ali-Hasan et al.
[2006] state that single player games can lead to the user feeling isolated. To avoid this, some gam-
i cation strategies include social incentives. There are two main incentives used   competition and
cooperation. Competition can be created by comparing data of two users against each other within
an application. In 2010, Clawson et al. created a mobile game where players have to dance in time
to get points. Two people wear wireless sensors around their ankles that contain accelerometers
to measure movements. This data is then translated into game points. Users found this game en-
joyable and were satis ed with the experience, and although the participants were just testing the
application for two songs, the majority indicated that they would use the game for 20 minutes or
more a day. Clawson et al. concluded that comparing an individual s data to others within a gaming
context can heighten the motivation to dance more and get physical active.
Ali-Hasan et al. [2006] discusses Fitster, a mobile social  tness application that incorporates
large scale competitiveness. It includes an online dashboard which contains the daily step count
and activity data of the user s friends. The application accommodates the light-hearted competition
that can take place between befriended groups to motivate physical activity. The application is
socially oriented and takes this further by allowing users to actively challenge another member
to walk a set amount of steps within a given time. The introduction of timing can apply pressure
for the user to perform speci c behaviours. Although this may not make it as enjoyable, it may
increase motivation.
The second social incentive is cooperation; users can work together to reach a goal and motivate
each other within a gaming context. Ahtinen et al. [2010] created and trialled Into; a social mobile
wellness application. In the application, the physical activity data from the individuals merges
together to achieve a group goal with the aim to encourage physical activity for all group members.
The game contains virtual trips between cities in the world made up of step count goals. The player
and their group can work together to achieve a goal and gain rewards whilst travelling around
the world virtually. The social aspects of the application and the merging of data were found to be
bene cial for users.
But which social incentive is the most in uential? Chen and Pu [2014] noticed that many games
focus on the competitive element of gaming. They developed a mobile application to  nd out which
social incentive is most in uential and observed how players reacted to data presented in three
gami cation modes. This included competition, cooperation and a hybrid of the two. The application
included a messaging service, allowing pairs of users to talk to each other. Users could communicate
either to help, support or to taunt one another. Results showed that all modes caused people to
increase their daily activity but cooperation was more powerful than competition. Their qualitative
results also indicate that users prefer to be paired with a partner with similar abilities.
2.1.3. Real versus Virtual Worlds. More recently gami cation has started merging data from the real
world with the virtual world within the game. Mobile games developed by Macvean and Robertson
[2012] and Chuah et al. [2012], created virtual game maps using location and movement data from
the phone to bridge the gap between the real and gaming worlds; those games can be considered
alternate reality games [McGonigal 2004]. The user must physically move around their physical
environment to earn virtual rewards. The audio augmented Zombies, Run!2 game motivates run-
ners by playing zombie noises through the headphones while they are on a run. These noises are
supposed to create the immersive feeling of being hunted and motivate the user to run faster.
Freegaming by G org  u et al. [2010] is an interactive game using augmented reality through the
user s mobile phone camera. It places information and directions over real life footage of buildings
and landmarks as the user views them in real time. The aim of Freegaming is to motivate outdoor
exercising. This is achieved by presenting data about the user s status and environment itself in an
immersive, augmented way. Based on this information, the app suggests workout routines to the
user. As a result of the study, the author suggests that presenting data within a familiar environ-
ment can have an in uence on an individual s behaviour. For example, if they know the running
route and the rough distance in advance, users may be easier motivated. Getting feedback is an
important factor for working successfully towards a goal [Locke and Latham 2002].
2www.zombiesrungame.com
4
2.2. Social In uence
Rashotte [2007] de nes social in uence as the effect on another humans behaviour, thoughts,
and attitudes as a result of interacting with others. For example, recommendations by friends
likely lead to an desire to try out or buy the same thing. Instances like this sway our own ideas,
actions and behaviours on a daily basis. According to Ledger and McCaffrey [2014], social factors
are important for our health and there is strong evidence to suggest that our behaviours are shaped
by the behaviour of our family, friends and even the people we work with.
Social in uence can also be a key factor in the adoption of new health behaviours. Intille [2004]
explains how an individual s behaviour can re ect that of their peers. Sticking to a diet can be eas-
ier for the individual if they have friends that also engage in healthy behaviours. Having friends
that eat bad foods around you can cause unwanted temptations [Bruening et al. 2012]. Various
wearable applications offer the functionality to share health data through online social networks.
This allows competition or comparisons to happen between all members of the social group. This
can lead to members of the group re ecting upon themselves and wanting to change their be-
haviours [Ananthanarayan and Siek 2012]. Effects of social networks can even be observed on the
large scale; the effect of social contagion and the propagation of obesity, smoking behaviour etc. can
be identi ed [Smith and Christakis 2008]. New technologies and online media can even enhance
this effect. There are many different types of social in uence which are outlined below.
2.2.1. Normative In uence. Norms within social groups have in uence on our behaviour; Asch [1951]
explains how normative in uence causes an individual to alter behaviour. An individual conforms
to a groups social norms in order to be liked and accepted within the group. One type of informal
conformity is social proof [Aronson et al. 2009]; it explains how, in times of uncertainty, an individ-
ual observes the reaction of others [Cialdini 2006]. They will then base their own behaviours upon
their observations. Chang [2012] created a social food journalling application called Food Fight.
The mobile application allows the user to take pictures of the food they eat and share this with
other app users to compare. Similarity is one of the factors that increases the effectiveness of social
proof [Cialdini 2006]; we are more likely to be in uenced by people we believe to be similar to our-
selves. The Food Fight app allows to look out for people that have similar goals. The pictures that
the users share become part of a timeline called the food feed. Within this timeline other users can
vote up pictures that they like. As most of the users on the app aim to eat healthy, this means that
the most popular images are usually healthy foods. If an individual is unsure of what to eat for
lunch they may look at popular up-voted images for ideas. This may in uence them to try healthier
options if they see it is a popular choice.
Another factor that increases the effectiveness of social proof is authority [Cialdini 2006]. If an
individual believes the information to be coming from a reliable and trusted source, they are more
likely to conform to it. Buttussi and Chittaro [2008] created MOPET, a mobile personal training
application. The application utilises real-time  tness data from activity and heart rate sensors;
analyse it and provides health and safety advice to the user. This advice comes from a virtual per-
sonal trainer which is visualised to the user via a talking 3D embodied agent. The belief that the
information comes from a real personal trainer, can have an effect on how in uential the infor-
mation is. The user may be more likely to change their behaviour if they feel the advice is from a
knowledgeable source.
2.2.2. Social Comparison. Another type of in uence, proposed by Festinger [1954], is the Theory
of Social Comparison. It describes, that we evaluate our own opinions and abilities by comparing
them to others around us. This happens to reduce uncertainty and supports an individual learning
to de ne themselves. In the wearable ecosystem, this can mean comparing user data within a
group. It can also include representing information in a way to encourage comparison to peers
and promote self re ection. Lin et al. [2006] utilised social comparison to create a computer game
called Fish n Steps. Within this game, the users wear pedometers which collect their daily step
count. A higher step count leads to the growth of the user s animated  sh character in the game.
Social comparison comes into play when many players place their  sh within the same bowl. This
encourages the players to look at the growth of the other s  sh compared to their own. Presenting
the step count data in this manner had a positive in uence on the activity levels of the participants.
Bandura [2001] explains a similar concept of Vicarious Capability in his Social Cognitive The-
ory (SCT); it explains how we do not learn only from our own experiences but from also observing
those around us. This also applies to observing others mastering tasks; and the vicarious experi-
ence of observing others successfully performing a behaviour can improve the self-belief   namely
our self-ef cacy   in the own ability to master a challenge [Bandura 1977]. Success of a friend los-
ing weight by using an activity tracker could not just become driver for us ourselves getting the
same tracker [Ledger and McCaffrey 2014], but it could also improve our self-belief to master the
5
same challenge and be successful. Anderson et al. [2007] used a wearable mobile device as a health
promotion tool by utilising a groups collected data. Shakra calculates the daily exercise levels of
users from the measured movement data. These daily exercise levels are then shared amongst
the group of friends. The study found that this sharing of data was perceived positively by the
participants. It helped them to re ect more upon their own exercise level data and encouraged be-
havioural change. If an individual  nds that their friend with a  gure they perceive as desirable
is more active during the day, this may lead to the friend becoming a role model with an in uence
on the own behaviour. After re ection, the individual may choose to start walking more in hope to
achieve a similar success.
Social comparison has been shown to be a successful driver for health behaviour change, but
there can be negative implications on a person s wellbeing and interpersonal relationships. These
implications include decreased happiness [Lyubomirsky and Ross 1997], feelings of guilt, and dis-
honesty to others [White et al. 2006].
2.2.3. Social Facilitation. Zajonc et al. [1965] describe social facilitation, a type of in uence where an
individual s performance can be improved by the mere presence of others. This includes working
with others within a team or by having an audience. Audience effect within wearable applications
may involve sharing  tness data and goals with others. Sharing goals on social networks like
Facebook increases the likelihood of an individual changing their behaviour to what they feel is
acceptable, because they feel a sense of commitment [Ledger and McCaffrey 2014]. The fear and
guilt of letting others down by not achieving goals is a main driver of behaviour modi cation.
Lim et al. [2011] created Pediluma which is a wearable device strapped to the user s foot. It takes
the user s step count and maps it to a  ashing LED light. The more steps the user takes, the
more the device will  ash. The ambient manner used to display the data results in the public
becoming an audience. The individual may adjust their behaviour to ensure the data presented to
the public is promoting a positive self-image. The study found the device to increase the amount
of daily steps taken. Public commitment can be important with regards to changing a person s
behaviour [Locke and Latham 2002]. Contrary, Fogg [2013] describes anecdotally how this may not
be enough on its own. He owns a pair of scales which tweet out the weight to his Twitter account
every time they get used. Although this automated process was supposed to motivate through
social facilitation, it was not motivational to him and he did not pay much attention to it. The
scales barely attracted his interest and therefore did not encourage him to want to lose any weight.
Zajonc et al. [1965] explain another type of social facilitation called co-action which describes
the effect on the own performance when other people are carrying out the same task. Toscos et al.
[2006] created an app called Chick clique. The application aims to motivate teenage girls to exercise
more, through use of their  tness data. Data presented in the application levers the power of so-
cial relationships to bring about behavioural change. The app includes a leaderboard of each group
member s daily step counts. This encourages the girls to talk about health and  tness with each
other and allows the application to become a persuasive social actor. Furthermore, this approach
can counteract misperceptions of peer thoughts and behaviour, which can be one factor of promot-
ing unhealthy behaviour. Social Norms Theory describes three concepts of discrepancies between
actual norms and individually perceived norms: pluralistic ignorance, false consensus and false
uniqueness [Berkowitz 2004]. Pluralistic ignorance describes the misperception that the majority
of peers behave differently than oneself and can lead to the adaption of less healthy behaviour; for
example, a physically active person inaccurately perceives the majority of the social group more
sedentary, will likely adapt a less active lifestyle. On the other hand, a sedentary person could
falsely perceive the majority of the group as sedentary as well and take this as justi cation to not
become more active   this is called false consensus. If a person perceives the own behaviour as
falsely unique within the group, this can lead to withdraw from the social group. While the major-
ity of studies focus on alcohol consumption and smoking behaviour [Berkowitz 2004], application
which facilitate a raised awareness within social groups can counteract those misperceptions and
may promote healthier behaviour within the groups.
Other wearable applications encourage co-action by motivating groups whilst they are physi-
cally together. Mauriello et al. [2014] designed and built a set of wearable, electronic textile dis-
plays. These displays support a group of people while they are running. Accumulated running data
obtained from sensors is displayed on e-ink screens attached to the back of the runners T-shirts.
Their studies concluded that they improved motivation within the group through social facilitation.
Karau and Williams [1993] also state that group members work harder on tasks if they perceive
their contribution as instrumental to the desired team outcome. They will also work harder if they
feel their peers are monitoring them.
6
The use of social awareness can increase the effectiveness of co-action techniques. It can lead
to an individual having an active interest in others and how they are doing. Burns et al. [2012]
created Activmon which is a wrist-worn device. Members of a group all wear the device and it
contains a custom-built square LED screen. The device monitors each user s step counts and while
LEDs light up on the device to correspond with the progress towards the user s daily goal, the whole
group s achievements are also displayed on an ambient screen. This allows the user to see how the
group is performing as a whole but also individuals. Displaying other member s data can encourage
an individual to become interested in how other members are performing, raise the awareness and
sense of team belonging, and support motivation and socially-driven behaviour change.
2.2.4. Social Impact. [Nowak et al. 1990] describe the theory of social impact which presents three
factors that affect the amount of social in uence. The  rst factor is number of sources for the
in uence. As the amount of people providing data increases, so does the in uence exerted on each
individual. This is evident in traditional support groups. The second factor is strength, which refers
to the perceived importance of the feedback source. The more trusted the source providing feedback
are to someone, the more likely they are to in uence them. As mentioned earlier by Lin et al.
[2006], Fish n steps placed many individual s  sh in the same bowl. Family members   sh were
more in uential than strangers  when placed in the same bowl.
The last factor is immediacy, the closeness of the group both in time and space. Wearables open
up opportunities for people to share data with others and be within the same shared digital space.
Online social networks provide great opportunities to create these digital spaces. Lu and Lemonde
[2014] developed an app called UOIFit. The mobile application aims to increase levels of activity
amongst adolescents. The app collects  tness data of each user and shares this data to everyone
through a  t feed tab. The app also allows users to exercise with each other remotely. This is an
example of creating digital spaces for collaboration through data. Studies conducted into the app
found social aspects to have a positive impact on an individual s behaviour. It increased the users 
activity level and lowered their Body Mass Index (BMI).
2.2.5. Wearable Computers as Social Actors. Fogg [2002] talks about wearable technology becoming a
social actor itself and outlines the possibility of communicating with a wearable device to create
a social experience. Wearables themselves may be able to lever social in uence. This social in u-
ence may persuade individuals to change their behaviours. Fogg highlights cues that can lead to
a wearable becoming a persuasive social actor, the  rst of which is physical cues. The more at-
tractive the interface of a device is to the user, the more of an impact it will make on the user
(e.g. [Sonderegger et al. 2014; Chang et al. 2014]). The way that data represented aesthetically
makes a great difference with regards to in uence.
The second cue is psychological cues. This involves making the user believe that the application
possesses emotions and feelings like a human. A subgroup of the Affective Computing community
focuses on the technology imitation of human emotions [Picard 1997]. As Lin et al. [2006] showed,
Fish n steps represents the collected activity data in the form of a  sh avatar growing. This repre-
sentation works well in developing a persuasive, emotional relationship between the user and their
data. But as found in the study it can also have a negative effect on the user s behaviour. The user
would feel responsible for the avatar when it was not growing or looking sad. This feeling of guilt
would lead some people to avoid the application as they did not want to see an unhappy avatar.
Language is another cue mentioned by Fogg [2002], this can involve the application asking ques-
tions and offering a dialog. Wearable applications can offer praise, which is common among health
and  tness applications. The wearable collected data can be used to determine when praise should
be given. Using data to create a conversation with the user is important in in uencing long-term
behaviour change. Arteaga et al. [2010] created an application which uses a talking head to com-
municate motivational phrases and advice to the user at appropriate times. The use of a talking
head made the application more anthropomorphic. This was perceived positively in studies and
found to make a difference to the users. Bickmore et al. [2008] conducted studies looking at virtual
agents and how they were able to in uence health behaviour change in more depth. The virtual
agent talked to the user, but they also utilised non-verbal behaviour and facial expressions to com-
municate messages. These messages were based on data collected from the user. The agent was
part of an application designed for use in the of ce, and the application s virtual agent suggested
short breaks to the user at timed intervals. Their studies concluded that the more social cues were
presented by the agent, the more breaks the users were taking. Visualising data to a user in an
empathetic way may encourage long-term compliance with new behaviours.
7
3. WEARABLE DATA REPRESENTATION
In current wearable applications, visual representations and methods of feedback are the most
common way to communicate data to the user [Ludden 2013]. The way in which the raw data is
processed and manipulated before it is presented to the user, plays a big role in how in uential it
can be. One of the issues raised by researchers in the health and personal data space is provision
of meaningful data to the users and enabling Human Data Interaction [Haddadi et al. 2013].
Current step counters, pedometers and their accompanying applications struggle to provide long-
term behaviour change. The users are still aware of the data provides of these devices, but it is
not perceived as so meaningful and in uential after six months [Ananthanarayan and Siek 2012].
Data representations need to emphasise the importance of being healthier in more intuitive and
meaningful ways.
3.1. Adaptive and Contextual Data
Adaptive and personal data representations can be a powerful tool to deliver meaningful infor-
mation from wearable devices. An individual s health and  tness is a personal issue to them, so
the way of presenting the data should be just as personal. By making the representations user
adaptive, a personal experience for each user can be offered.
A context aware system is able to tell what the user is doing from utilising and analysing sensor
data. It can then use this to make motivational suggestions at speci c, in uential times in the
day. Intille [2004] conducted a study that looked into utilising just-in-time messaging of health
information. The presentation of contextualised information at important decision times within the
user s day proved to be effective and previous studies show that just-in-time persuasive interfaces
can in uence behavioural change. Patel et al. [2015] suggest supporting new behaviours may be
best facilitated by regular, appropriately framed feedback. This feedback should be presented at
the times where the user is most likely to notice it. [Carroll et al. 2013] looked at a sensor-equipped
bra that senses emotions. They plan to utilise the collected data to determine when the individual
is most vulnerable to emotional eating and then present just-in-time interventions. Intille [2004]
had four rules which they believed helped the data representation to be effective. The  rst rule was
to keep the data representation as simple as possible. This ensures the user understands the data
that s displayed to them as clearly as possible. Other rules include displaying data at appropriate
times and in the appropriate place. This is to make it as easy as possible for the user to refer to the
data within their day-to-day life. If the data representation is irritating to the user this can lead
them to ignoring the device altogether.
Gockley et al. [2006] created a wearable device that contextualises sensor data. Aviva tracks the
users  and their close friends  eating and exercise patterns. A wrist-worn, watch-type device shows
the feedback to them. It aims to display qualitative and holistic data to the user, not just simply
numbers from sensors. Experts suggested that displaying lots of raw unexplained data can lead to
the user becoming discouraged [Gockley et al. 2006]. Aviva displays personalised, contextualised
suggestions. For example, the user could be noti ed to  eat a bag of nuts  as opposed to just telling
them they  need more protein . This contextualising of data can be more persuasive when get-
ting an individual to change their behaviour. Another way to contextualise data demonstrated by
Macvean and Robertson [2012] and Chuah et al. [2012] in 2012. They suggest to give recommenda-
tions speci c to the user s location. Making an application location aware can lead to it being more
entertaining for the user as they feel they can relate to the data more easily.
Previous studies have shown personalisation to be an important factor for device usage and
adaptations. Studies outlined by Ananthanarayan and Siek [2012] have shown that users want to
create their own system to access their data. Users do not like having to use a prede ned default
form that everyone else uses as it does not feel personal. Ananthanarayan et al. [2014] developed
another wearable to look into the effectiveness self-crafted devices. The device the users could
create held a set of sensors that tracked an individual s UV exposure. They found that people
received the device well with people attaching it to their bags or even wearing it as an headband.
Another device developed by Ananthanarayan and Siek [2010] looks into raising health awareness
in children. They wanted to motivate them to think about their behaviour. It had a personalised
build-it-yourself approach to the fabrication of the devices. All the components the device contained
were plug and play in style. The children could attach components to a leather bracelet, including
sensors and displays for feedback. The LED display changed colour dependant on the amount of
exercise the child had done that day. Allowing individuality for data representation and form factor
may make the device more meaningful to the user. This is because they feel they have created it so
it may be more in uential than a standard generic form.
8
3.2. Triggering Habits
Presenting meaningful data to the user is encouraging in promoting behaviour change, but pre-
senting it in a way to compliment behavioural change processes is the most effective method to
use. Fogg [2013] suggests behavioural change is systematic. He also suggests that motivation is
not enough to sustain long-term behaviour change. Fogg created Tiny Habits, tiny life changes
that become automatic. For example he decided to do two push ups every time after he went to
the toilet. He increased this slowly everyday until he was able to do 20 pushups a day. Wearable
applications and the presentation of data should not place importance on motivating the individ-
ual. They should instead accommodate letting the natural processes emerge. He quotes that an
application can  plant a seed in the right spot and it will grow without coaxing .
Habits play a substantial role in forming behaviour. As a  behaviour that has been repeated un-
til it has become more or less automatic, enacted without purposeful thinking, largely without any
sense of awareness  [Nilsen et al. 2012, p. 1], habits are hard to consciously establish and to change
and require self-consciousness, willpower and self-regulation. According to Strack and Deutsch
[2004], motives and behaviours can be addressed to two systems; the Re ective Impulsive Model
describes these two two systems as the re ective system and the impulsive system. While the re-
 ective system is characterised by cognitively intensive decision processes based on knowledge and
active willingness to perform the behaviour, the impulsive system in uences actions concerning
basic human needs and habits; and it performs with less cognitive load for the triggering of these
actions. Technologies which support the information processing with less cognitive load could there-
fore lead to an easier suppression of habitual behaviour in the right moments. Strack and Deutsch
[2004] also highlighted is the role of the physiological arousal on the re ective system. While a high
level of arousal promotes the execution of habits and stereotypic behaviour, low levels of arousal
weaken self-control. A mid level of arousal appears to be the optimal level for the re ective system
and for addressing conscious behaviour change. Context aware sensing to detect stress and arousal
could lead to context-aware systems which could give recommendations in the right moment. Food
and Mood by Carroll et al. [2013] considers  rst approaches in this direction to intervene emotional
eating habits. Other projects looked into the identi cation of boredom using mobile phone sensing
[Pielot et al. 2015]. These approaches could build the basis for future contextualised and emotion
aware interventions.
The establishment of habits plays a substantial role in establishing long-term behaviour success.
When we look at the Transtheoretical Model from Prochaska and DiClemente [1982], the transi-
tion from the action stage to the maintenance stage includes a longer-term adaption of the new
behaviour, an increased self-con dence and less likelihood to fall back into old behaviours. This is
also a prerequisite for habits
Rajanna et al. [2014] created an application called Step up life. The application uses the sugges-
tion of small contextually suitable activities at regular intervals. Step up life promotes brief bursts
of physical exercise after periods of inactivity. It does this by sending data in the form of on screen
nudge reminders. Suggesting small behaviour changes to the user can lead to the incorporation of
these changes into their daily lifestyles. The changes seem easy to do by the user so they are more
likely to lead to long-term behaviour change than setting up unrealistic goals.
3.3. Theory of Planned Behaviour
When thinking about how best to personalise data representation to make it as persuasive as
possible, the Theory of Planned Behaviour (TPB) could be considered (Figure 2). Created by Ajzen
[1991], TPB states that intentions are the best predictor of how an individual is going to behave
in certain situations. For example, if we plan to do something we are more likely to go through
with it. Three factors produce an individual s intentions to perform a speci c behaviour. These
are their attitude, subjective norms and perceived behavioural control. Behavioural attitude refers
to how the individual feels about the behaviour. This includes affective attitudes which describe
whether they feel they would enjoy doing it. Also, instrumental attitudes refer to whether they
feel a behaviour would bene t them. Contextualising health data to make the user aware of the
bene ts may have an impact on the user s behaviours. Subjective norms deal with the support that
we get from our friends, family and even the doctor. Injective norms involve others encouraging
speci c behaviours. An example of this is a friend making you go to the gym. Descriptive norms
involve others actually engaging in a speci c behaviour. This would involve your friend actually
going to the gym with you. Wearable ecosystems have adapted the social aspect of sharing data
to address these social norms. The  nal factor is the extent to which the individual believes that
they can carry out the behaviour. This is in uenced by how the data is presented to them. If a task
sounds easy, an individual is more likely to engage in it.
9
Fig. 2. Theory of Planned Behaviour
Arteaga et al. [2010] developed a mobile phone application that considers TPB within its design.
The app aimed to change an adolescents behaviour and get them to exercise more. They wanted
to achieve long-term behavioural change as opposed to the short-term changes that other  tness
games were producing. To design data representations that are engaging for teenagers, the system
incorporated TPB principles. To stop the user getting bored of the game they decided it needed
to take their personality into consideration. Everyone s preferences are different so they created a
game that assesses the person s attitudes. Based on this assessment, it would suggest games that
would be the most motivational and bene cial to them. Adjusting data representations around an
individual s attitudes and personal traits can lead to stronger intentions for behavioural change.
3.4. Ambient Displays
We mentioned before that the way of presenting the data from wearable sensors to the users plays
an important role in supporting long-term health promotion. The displaying of numbers and  g-
ures may not be enough to encourage behavioural change. Ananthanarayan and Siek [2012] state
that wearable technology has the capacity to track dif cult metrics such as heart rate. The right
presentation of this data to the user can have an impact on the in uence on behaviour change. The
subtle and ambient presentation of the data can be a key to motivate and subconsciously trigger a
behaviour change.
When presented with a lot of complex information an individual can lack the cognitive capacity
to process it. Ham and Midden [2010] show that ambient displays can be more persuasive because
they do not require the user s conscious attention and use little cognitive resources. Studies con-
ducted have found that the use of simple displays for information have more effect on an individ-
ual s behaviour than displaying numerical values. Modern health wearable devices have started to
harness the power of using ambient ways to display data. Consolvo et al. [2008] developed an early
example of such an application. Ubi t is a mobile application that includes a glancable display.
This display is a non-literal representation of the physical activity that the user has done. It also
represents the goals that they have achieved. The display contains a metaphor of a garden and
the user gains more  owers by exercising more. They gain butter ies in their garden for achieving
goals. The application collects data from sensors on the user s body. It then analyses the data to
change the aesthetics of the garden display throughout the week. From studies they discovered
that participants did  nd the display motivating. They agreed that the metaphorical representa-
tion of their data helped them to focus on their goals. Lin et al. [2012] presented another similar
application called BeWell+. The metaphor of  sh within a  sh bowl is used. The more  sh it shows,
the more physical and socially active the users have been. It also gives feedback on sleep quality by
changing the light in the underwater world. This application gives unobtrusive feedback whenever
the user glances at the screen of the phone. This subconsciously promotes healthier behaviour and
wellbeing. Fortmann et al. [2014] created Waterjewel, a wrist worn device which aims to in uence
the user to drink more water throughout the day. It has a light up display that indicates to the user
how much of their daily goal they have already achieved. The device also  ashes every 2 hours
as a nudge to tell the user to drink more water. Studies conducted with the device found it was
10
Action
I
n
c
o
n
s
i
s
t
e
n
c
y
Belief
High 
Dissonance
Change 
Belief
Change 
Action
Change 
Action Perception
Fig. 3. Cognitive Dissonance Theory
Lower 
Dissonance
successful in promoting healthy drinking behaviour. Users did drink more water when wearing the
bracelet then when not.
3.5. Cognitive Dissonance
When thinking about the reasons that ambient ways of data representation are effective, cogni-
tive dissonance theory (CDT) offers some insight (Figure 2). Created by Festinger [1962], cognitive
dissonance theory refers to situations that cause a con ict for an individual s attitudes, beliefs or
behaviours. As humans we have a inner drive to keep all three of these in harmony. Contradiction
can lead to discomfort which causes the individual to change their behaviour to restore the balance.
Using displays and feedback techniques can also present data in a way to get the user to think of
the long-term effects of their current short-term actions and cause the contradiction effect.
The Fatbelt created by Pels et al. [2014] is an example of CDT in action. The device looks into
utilising isomorphic feedback to get the user to think of the consequences of their behaviours.
The user wears the device around their waist. It uses physical feedback by in ating around the
user s stomach when they consume too many calories. This simulates the long-term weight gain
associated with overeating. In tests the device contributed to a signi cant decrease in calorie con-
sumption from the user. The use of data in this way leads to the user feeling that the device is
an extension of their own body. This gives the wearable more emotional power over the user and
their behaviour. Zhang et al. [2013] created a similar device which uses augmented reality glasses
to represent potential UV damage on the user s skin. It discouraged them from staying out in the
sun too long as was also found to encourage healthy behaviour.
Both techniques made the users more aware of the future consequences of current unhealthy
behaviour. This makes them feel uneasy about continuing the behaviour. This raised awareness on
problematic behaviour and the focus on consequences can be an initial trigger to start a behaviour
change. Prochaska and DiClemente s Transtheoretical Model [1982] describes stages of behaviour
change and that different techniques can support people to change in different changes. Technolo-
gies which focus on consciousness raising can support a transition from the pre-contemplation
stage, where people are not considering a behaviour change in the foreseeable future, to the con-
templation stage, where people are aware of the problem and are seriously considering to change
the action in the foreseeable future (the next six month) [Prochaska and DiClemente 1982].
4. SUPPORT OF BEHAVIOUR CHANGE
Methods of using wearable device applications to drive behaviour change have proven to work
well in previous research. But the feasibility of such methods in ensuring long-term retention is an
area that needs further research. Recent studies focus on using the data that wearable technology
provides to support individuals with behaviour change. Fogg [2013] showed concerns about technol-
ogy focusing on motivation for behaviour change for the western culture. He believes that systems
that support behaviour change would be much more successful in the long term. Similarly, Deci
[2012] states in his TED talk:  Don t ask how we can motivate people. That s the wrong question.
Ask how we can provide the conditions within which people can motivate themselves.  Wearable
products are starting to support instead of drive behaviour and are utilising data with the aim of
in uencing our inner abilities to change behaviour.
4.1. External and Self-Monitoring
This section focuses on the use of wearable technology to monitor health and wellbeing. These
aspects can be monitored by the users themselves or by an health professional. We brie y outline
11
sensing technologies used to provide health related data. This information about our behaviour can
be a prerequisite for enabling behaviour change. Fogg s behaviour change model describes  ability 
as factor of behaviour [Fogg 2009]. Monitoring devices can provide information and ease our ability
reason about behaviour. We then focus on the use of data for self-re ection, which can help improve
self-understanding. This increased self-understanding can lead to an individual making changes
and informed decisions in their everyday behaviours. Similarly, COM-B by Michie et al. [2011]
model identi es the capability as an important component to enable behaviour. Capability can be
seen as the psychological and physical capacity of a user to engage in a behaviour; and it is partially
characterised by being able to comprehend and reason about the target behaviour. This comprises
knowledge about the behaviour as well as the ability to compare the behavioural performance with
the target behaviour. Behaviour monitoring is an important part in this process to enable users to
make informed decisions.
4.1.1. Health Monitoring. The increasing accuracy and portability of health monitoring sen-
sors is promoting less obtrusive data collection and enables long-term health monitor-
ing [Pantelopoulos and Bourbakis 2010]. There are many examples where wearable technol-
ogy is used successfully in monitoring an individual s recovery from illnesses and rehabilita-
tion [Patel et al. 2012]. While this health data can be used by the user to adjust heath behaviour,
the data provided by wearable devices allow this monitoring to happen remotely, too. An example
of this could include a medical professional being able to monitor patients without them having
to be in the hospital. This is advantageous because the patient can bene t from healing at home.
Being at home is more comfortable for many and this can lead to improved healing compared to a
recovery in hospitals. Remote monitoring also cuts costs for the healthcare system due to shorter
hospital stays.
Table I. Common wearable sensors and example applications
Sensor
Measurement
Examples
Accelerometer
Is usually used to determine movements and activity
by measuring the acceleration.
  Activity monitor:
Bulling et al. 2014]
[Clawson et al.
2010;
  Movement
execution
in
rehabilitation:
[How et al. 2013; Nerino et al. 2013]
food
(smoking,
tracking
  Habit
intake):
Stretch sensors
(textile)
Stretch sensors are  exible sensors that change con-
ductivity when stretched or bend.
[Lopez-Meyer et al. 2013; Amft et al. 2005]
  Sports performance: [Spelmezan et al. 2009]
  Measure angle of
joints in rehabilitation:
[Shyr et al. 2014]
  Movement of the chest to determine respiration
rate: [Qureshi et al. 2011]
Piezoelectric
sensors (textile)
Piezoelectric sensors measure force/pressure applied
to them
  Tracking of hits Taekwando [Chi et al. 2004]
Heart Rate
sensor (ECG or
PPG)
Heart Rate sensors can be used to measure the ac-
tivity of the heart, which gives indication on health,
energy expenditure or arousal
levels. It can be
measured with Electrocardiograms (ECG) or Photo-
plethysmogram (PPG)
  For more accurate calculation of Energy Expen-
diture: [Altini et al. 2013]
  Fetal monitoring
[Fanelli et al. 2013]
with
special
belt:
UV sensors Sense the amount of UV light
  For warnings when there
is
sun light
Ananthanarayan et al. [2014]
exposure:
[Zhang et al.
too much
2013],
GPS GPS is used for localisation
  Used
to
contextualise
[Macvean and Robertson
[Chuah et al. 2012]
other
2012]
data:
and
Wearable devices bring a wide variety of sensing to detect the amount, type and execution of
movements. An overview of sensors and their application can be found in Table I. Accelerometers
are devices which determine acceleration data and can therefore detect movements. These sen-
sors are widely used for activity tracking [Garcia-Ceja et al. 2014]. They can be present in either in
12
mobile phones or body-worn devices. Accelerometers form the basis for data collection in many com-
mercially available activity trackers. Utilising Accelerometer data can identify activities such as
walking, running, eating and drinking movements [Amft et al. 2005; Bulling et al. 2014]. They can
even detect human behaviours such as smoking [Lopez-Meyer et al. 2013]. A clinician or the indi-
vidual themselves can analyse the automatically recorded data. Analysis of behaviours and habits
can help support a healthy behaviour change by forming a basis for services such as counselling or
other intervention methods.
This also brings new possibilities to the physiotherapies after injuries or surgeries. How et al.
[2013] created a mobile application called MyWalk. The application supports patients who have
suffered from a stroke in the past. Step patterns of the wearer provided from the phones accelerom-
eter detect gait asymmetry. If asymmetry exists, it lets them know that they need more training to
establish a symmetry in their step pattern again. The mobile app offers different trainings modes
and a overall score after each session. The user is able to view their score history to review their
improvements. They can also share this score history with their therapist. The data collected from
their training at home may help to enhance their physiotherapy sessions and enables patients to
monitor a part of their rehabilitation from home. Nerino et al. [2013] focused on the rehabilitation
after knee surgery. They used accelerometers to collect data at different positions around the leg.
They then used this data to monitor motor functions of the exercising patient. They created an
application that included a coaching function, which would suggest exercises. There is also a video
conferencing functionality for situations when the therapists is needed. Patel et al. [2012] presents
a detailed review of wearable sensors that are currently used for rehabilitation and he especially
identi es the trend of using ambient sensing for holistic home health monitoring and the need for
a telepresence integrated in home monitoring systems.
Textile sensors and fabrics are other enablers for wearable technology in the healthcare sector.
The combination of conventional, non-conductive fabrics with conductive materials have led to new
sensor technologies [Marculescu et al. 2003]. These new technologies allow easy integration into
textile products and garments. Stretch sensors are an example of these new technology. These sen-
sors are able to collect data that can be used to monitor movements of joints in the body [Shyr et al.
2014]. Qureshi et al. [2011] used knitted stretch sensors to monitor breathing and Rai et al. [2013]
used textile sensors to monitor neurological and cardiovascular biosignals. Textile sensors bring the
possibilities of  exibility and unobtrusive integration into clothing. Where delicate and soft sensors
are required,  exibility can be an advantage. An example of where this is important is textiles for
newborn infants. Chen et al. [2010] developed neonatal babywear that measures the temperature
of babies using soft textile sensors. The sensors were designed to be aesthetically pleasing but also
as comfortable as possible for newborns to wear. An extensive review of wearable, smart textiles
has been presented by Stoppa and Chiolerio [2014].
Another use case is the monitoring of health parameters to give the patient peace of mind and
contact a medical professional in emergencies. Wearable sensors can be used to monitor pregnant
women. Fanelli et al. [2013] monitored the fetal heart rate with a stomach belt. The designed the
belt to be easy to put on to ensure it is easily useable at home. This reduces hospital visits during
the pregnancy and make the pregnant woman feel calmer.
There are several technologies for detecting seizures with wearable technology which could pro-
vide data to inform clinicians or family of a seizure. Patel et al. [2009] used accelerometer data
and EEG brain signals to detect seizures with a 95% accuracy. The Human+ platform created by
Altini et al. [2011] uses various sensors like EEG, heart activity via ECG and skeletal muscle ac-
tivity via EMG to obtain data and detect seizures. While these approaches are not very usable
in everyday applications due to the use of EEG and ECG electrodes, the MIT Affective Comput-
ing group developed a seizure detecting wristband which uses Electrodermal Activity [Poh et al.
2012]. This research formed the foundation for the commercially available Embrace watch3. The
watch has an accompanying app, which alerts parents or caretakers in the event of a seizure of
the child or patient. Additionally it can be used to monitor stress and sleep levels. Wearable tech-
nology can be used to monitor behaviour and use the data to gain insight into health states of a
person. Madan et al. [2010] looks at the usage of mobile phone data to detect the health status of an
individual. The data is analysed to detect health conditions such as colds or depression. This appli-
cation can form the basis for informing the user s doctor of their condition. More broadly available
mobile phone sensing can be used for epidemiological studies amongst large populations.
In healthcare it is often necessary to avoid unhealthy situations. Data provided by wearable
technology can help identify unhealthy situations and environmental in uences. One example is
the UV sensing glasses from Zhang et al. [2013]. Too much sun exposure is widely known to be
3https://www.empatica.com/product-embrace
13
connected to skin cancer. These glasses keep track of the sun exposure and warn the user when
they are at risk. Fabrizi [2014] presented a concept for a wearable textile  ower. The  ower is a
visual representation of air quality data and can raise the awareness about unhealthy polluted air.
4.1.2. Quanti ed Self. The Quanti ed Self (QS) is a new movement supported by sensing data ob-
tained from wearable devices. QS is part of the Personal Informatics, focusing on tools to support
the personal growth and improvement and an individual. Within the QS community, this is mostly
achieved through the use of technology in data collection and analysis with the focus on collecting
data about ourselves with the purpose to re ect. Re ection can increase self-understanding about
areas that need improvement in the future [Swan 2013].
Choe et al. [2014] state that health improvements are one of the most reported reasons for self-
quanti cation and especially activity is a commonly tracked feature. Commercially available  tness
trackers like Fitbit or Jawbone4 allow daily assessment of steps and activity. Fitness watches, like
the Atlas5 promise the automation of workout logging, which is usually a manual task. It achieves
this by using data to identify workout activities and repetitions. The consumer market for self-
tracking wearable technology is ever growing. Tools like the open-source Fluxtream6 support self-
tracking by providing a platform for data aggregation and visualisation from multiple sources. It
also supports the identi cation of correlations within the data.
Quanti ed Self can be a powerful tool to gain insights and support behaviour changes within
an individual by providing information on the own performance; this allows users to identify . But
it can requires skills to understand data fully to ensure long-term engagement. Choe et al. [2014]
identi es two reasons why self-tracking often fails. One is that too many things are tracked and the
effort is relatively high to track these. Automated data capturing and simple tracking mechanisms
can ease the burden of tracking. The second reason is lack of knowledge about triggers and the
context of the data. This confusion around the interpretation of data makes behaviour change
dif cult for the user. Self-tracking can be a powerful tool for re ecting and making us more aware
of our own daily habits, patterns and performance. But at the current time, it still requires a
lot of effort, engagement and knowledge. Creating tools to ease these hurdles could assist us by
identifying our own behavioural and habitual patterns. By presenting this data back effectively it
could provide active support for self-improvement.
4.1.3. Sports Performance Monitoring. When it comes to sports, performance monitoring is essential
in improving performance or preventing injuries. Using data monitoring can be useful for individ-
ual or even group performance. Strohrmann et al. [2011] looked at the use of shoe sensors to access
kinematic parameters of runners. This data can give an insight into the runner s performance and
technique. This can help medical professionals and the runners themselves to analyse how effec-
tive the training was. The Sensoria  tness tracker works in a similar way7. The Sensoria tracker
consists of a sock with textile pressure sensors and an attachable main unit for the data transfer
to a mobile app. It can provide data about the performance during a run as well as feedback about
the right running technique.
Spelmezan et al. [2009] looked at the use of force, bend and accelerometer sensors to track the
movements of snowboarding beginners. The data collected is then shared with their trainers. The
data helps the trainer to give more accurate feedback on the movements and technique of the
snowboarder. They suggest a system like this could help in the teaching process. Chi et al. [2004]
looked at the tracking of movements of Taekwondo players. They used piezoelectric sensors to
detect forces applied by hits of the competitor. The system then counts the hits and calculates a
score based on this information. This calculated data is then used as feedback for the athletes,
trainers and the jury in competitions. Not just the performance of an individual is important.
In team sports, the performance and communication of the whole team matters. Technological
advances within networks and algorithms allow real-time assessment and remote monitoring of
bio-signals within a group of athletes. Garcia et al. [2011] gives an example for using bio-signal
sensing to monitor a group of soccer players.
4.2. Encouraging Re ection
Re ection is uniquely human ability and belongs to the basic capabilities de ned in the Social
Cognitive Theory by Bandura [2001]; next to our capability to abstract, to learn from others, think
about the future, and validate our own behaviour against standards. While re ection is a cogni-
4www. tbit.com/ and www.jawbone.com/
5www.atlaswearables.com/
6www. uxtream.org/
7http://www.sensoria tness.com/Technology
14
tively heavy process, it involves introspection and a willingness to learn; and allows us to make
decisions based on knowledge [Strack and Deutsch 2004]. Re ection plays a substantial role in all
the above presented sections on external and self-monitoring. Getting users to re ect upon their
own behaviour can help them to stay on track by supporting their learning and introspection; and
it builds the basis for to self-control. It helps us identify discrepancies of our own behaviour to the
desired outcome and supports the regulation towards goals.
Fleck and Fitzpatrick [2010] distinguished different levels of re ection, these include revisiting,
revisiting with explanation, exploring relationship, fundamental change, and wider implications.
The Quanti ed Self movement and the exploration of relationships
Fleck and Fitzpatrick [2010] present an overview on technology support for re ection. One sup-
port type focuses on helping us revisit information, moments and thoughts from the past. While
they consider  revisiting  not as a re ection process, it is a facilitator. Technology which records
aspects of our lives and let us revisit these aspects later, can become such a facilitator. Lifelogs can
be seen as such technology; the aim of a lifelog is to record various aspects of a person s lifestyle.
Gemmell et al. [2006] created one of the  rst technologies to support lifelogging. MyLifeBits creates
a complete historical log of documents, websites, and other objects a person has encountered whilst
using their computer. To build upon the effectiveness of presenting data in a lifelog, Epstein et al.
[2014] utilised the Moves mobile phone app8 which records activity and location data on the phone.
They developed cuts which focus on a subset of the data with a shared feature, e.g. days with the
most physical activity or time to commute by the type of weather at the day. New visualisation
offered new insights in the data for the user and were perceived positively.
Technologies can also support gaining explanations for experiences or on data. In section 4.1.1 we
highlighted health monitoring systems which allow the sharing of data with health professionals.
This dialog can support the process of making sense of the own health data. Kocielnik et al. [2013]
focused on the long-term stress monitoring at the workplace. They used wristbands to monitor
stress levels and combined it with data collected from online calendars to generate an aggregated
view for self-re ection. This allowed workers to review the stress levels in different situations at
the workplace. Interviews conducted with participants were promising and indicated that workers
found it easier to identify stressful factors and support them to make sense from the situations.
Another commonly used technique mentioned by Fleck and Fitzpatrick [2010] is the use of tech-
nology to  see more . This includes technologies addressing the collection of data, we could not
gather without technological support, like step count data or bio-signal data. Several project have
looked into supporting self-re ection; Sanches et al. [2010] developed a mobile application called
Mind the body which is focussed on mental health and encourages the user to re ect upon both
negative and positive aspects of their behaviour. Sensing data on skin conductance and heart rate
are used to determine the stress levels of the user. The mobile phone app presents the stress levels
in real time. Based on the user feedback during their study, they also offer a history to view past
stress levels and support re ection. [Fleck and Fitzpatrick 2010] also highlighted the important of
audio and visual recording to relive our experience. St  ahl et al. [2009] created Affective Diary which
is a digital diary. The mobile application has access to recorded stress data from sensors, mobile
usage data, and photos. They present this data in a timeline which contains photos and arousal
levels represented by shapes. They found that some users appreciated the application as it helped
their self-understanding. Others experienced discomfort because the data shown highlighted bad
moments.
4.3. Self-ef cacy
Self-ef cacy is a person s belief in their ability to succeed within a speci c situation. Bandura
[1977] stated that these beliefs are great drivers of how people think, behave and feel. A person
with a strong sense of self-ef cacy forms a strong sense of commitment to tasks and likes to master
challenges. A person with a weak sense of self-ef cacy would avoid challenging tasks altogether. In
order to sustain long-term behavioural change, an individual s self-ef cacy needs to remain high.
There are different techniques to promote physical activity; Supporting vicarious experience from
observing others being successful, giving feedback, providing participants with goals set by an
interventionist and tailoring of interventions have shown to be successful strategies to increase
self-ef cacy for physical activity[Consolvo et al. 2009]. In section 2.2, we already presented a body
of research on social in uences and how the observations of others can support the own belief in
being able to succeed.
The most effective method for maintaining self-ef cacy is mastery experiences. If an individ-
ual has success and an application makes them more aware of this, it can have a positive effect
8www.moves-app.com
15
on their self-con dence. Wearable applications can give rewards when users have achieved their
goals. Using data in a way to set realistic goals provides the most effective methods of support for
the individual. Using unrealistic and generic goals within a system could set the user on a path
where they are likely to not succeed. This can cause more damage than good. The GymSkill mo-
bile application by Kranz et al. [2013] involves sensor data logging and activity recognition. The
application works for an individual while they are balance board training. They use this to present
the user with goals suitable for their ability. In the study, users liked the personalised feedback
and suggestions. This shows that there is potential for this type of system to support long-term
behaviour change.
4.4. Social Support
Social support has been shown to have bene cial effects on our health [Holt-Lunstad and Uchino
2015];
it can be de ned as the  verbal and nonverbal communication between recipients
and providers that reduces uncertainty about the situation, the self, the other, or the re-
lationship, and functions to enhance a perception of personal control
in one s experience 
[Albrecht and Adelman 1987, p. 19]; and it can play an important part in supporting behaviour
change. Albrecht and Adelman [1987] describe the key factors of social support as: enhancing con-
trol, communication, and reduction of uncertainty. Different types of social support can be de-
rived [Schaefer et al. 1981]. Emotional support is the offering of support in the form of concern,
affection and caring from others. This type of support makes the individual feel valued; and it
can also promote the feeling of the carried out behaviour being meaningful. Providing emotional
support through a wearable interface may be positive in supporting behaviour change. It could be
effective because it enhances the support that we get from our friends and family in everyday life.
In their exploratory study - CalmMeNow - Paredes and Chan [2011] looked at different interven-
tions for people in stressful situations; haptic feedback (guided breathing and acupressure), games
and emotional, social support in form of text messages from loved ones. Although the results show
no signi cant difference between these intervention types on the relaxing effect, this  ndings could
be personality type speci c.
Another type of social support is informational support. This involves offering advice and sug-
gestions to someone to help them solve problems. Health and  tness wearables can utilise informa-
tional support through the use of virtual trainers. Freyne et al. [2012] created an application which
comprises of a weight management mentor that supports dietary changes. The application would
take in data about what the user was eating. It would then analyse the collected data and make
suggestions for changes to the user. They created two versions of the application; the full version
offered suggestions and pushed these as prompts to the user, and the control version was a simple
base line application that did not have the pushing feature. The study found that users who had
suggestions in the form of prompts sent to them, lost more weight than those who were not offered
suggestions.
Companionship support gives an individual a sense of belonging to a social network or group.
This involves encouraging the presence of others in shared social activities. Mueller et al. [2007]
created a wearable device called Jogging over a distance. The device uses audio pace cues to allow
two people to go on a run together when they were in two different geographical locations. The
spatial sound lets the user know whether the other runner is jogging in front or behind them. They
found that providing companionship support in this situation was very supportive. Users could  nd
a person to run with of similar experience and at the time of day which was most convenient to
them.
Polzien et al. [2007] aimed to investigate support offered through data provided by a wearable
compared to support from a human being. Their study compared results of weight loss programs
supported by counselling or supportive technology. The technology used was the SenseWear Pro
wristband. This provided data to the user about their total energy expenditure and sleep ef ciency.
The study found that the group that used technology lost more weight within the 12 week inter-
vention period. Those who had face to face conversations with a counsellor did not lose as much.
Comparing the effectiveness over an even longer period would provide a more solid insight. The
study also found that a mixture of using counselling and technology was not as effective as solely
using one or the other.
4.5. Biofeedback
Another important topic for supporting behaviour change is biofeedback. Biofeedback involves
instant feedback on an individual s own biosignals, like heart rate, respiration or brain waves.
Providing meaningful feedback pre-requires that the patient understands about the meaning of the
signals as well as how to in uence them. Appropriate visual cues and training can help the user to
16
instantly adjust the behaviour to positively in uence their biosignals; whereby these adjustments
can improve physical and mental health [Frank et al. 2010]. The use of wearable technology can
help to bring the traditional biofeedback therapy to the home of the user.
MacLean et al. [2013] created MoodWings, a project which uses biofeedback for drivers. The aim
of the wearable bracelet was to make the users aware of their current stress state while they are
driving. When the driver was stressed, the butter y s wings  apped faster. The feedback positively
increased their task performance and driving safety, but they found showing feedback on a driver s
internal state could make them feel even more stressed. Yu et al. [2014] presented a study looking
at use of biofeedback to change the ambient environment. They used Electrocardiogram sensors to
observe the heart activities; the changes in heart rate were then used to control the ambient light-
ning in the room. The aim was to help the user relax by actively trying to control their heart rate
patterns. This subtle and intuitive interface was perceived more positively than usual Graphical
User Interfaces.
5. CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES FOR FUTURE WORK
In the previous sections, we surveyed the current  eld of wearable technologies and applications
with focus on health and  tness promotion. Different techniques and psychological concepts have
been applied and they bring new opportunities and challenges along. In this section, we explain
the challenges wearable technology faces at the current time.
5.1. Encourage Self-Motivation
Most wearable applications aim to drive behavioural change through persuasion and creating
extrinsic motivation within an individual. We showed that they achieve this by using gami cation,
incorporating social incentives or persuasive data representation methods. We believe that there
are issues with this approach of machine-made motivation.
Constant motivation through external rewards can lead to the effect that we expect to get
rewarded all the time to stay motivated. Effects on the removal of those external incenti-
tives remain an area for research. These external motivators can even spoil otherwise intrin-
sic and enjoyable task [Greene and Lepper 1974] and decrease wellbeing and feelings of self-
determination [Deci and Ryan 1985]. Wearable applications currently risk manipulating data be-
yond recognition, especially games.
In games, the actual sensing data is often not represented in a direct way to the user on the
interface but instead it may be manipulated and hidden behind game points. In the short term,
this can create motivation and a stimulus for the user to move in order to score points. But the
behaviours may not be adapted by the users every day life outside of the game. Other studies have
shown that the removal of the game elements lead to a decrease in usage of a system [Thom et al.
2012]. A similar effect could in uence the long-term effects of gami ed wearable applications. Fur-
ther studies have to investigate long-term motivational consequences of game elements on health
behaviour changes.
In section 2, we presented the Behavioural Change Model by Fogg [2009] which illustrates that a
balance of high motivation and high ability to execute a behaviour in combination with a trig-
ger is needed to facilitate behavioural change. Instead of persuading us to change, wearables
should support self-motivation and raise awareness through providing a direct, positive link be-
tween changing our behaviour and the health outcomes. Technologies, which show us the con-
sequences of unhealthy behaviour, like the FatBelt [Pels et al. 2014], could raise the awareness
and our self-motivation to change and avoid unpleasant outcomes. Identifying these unhealthy
behaviours and providing contextualised, meaningful alternatives could help to promote a better
behaviour through internal triggered motivation.
5.2. Design to support and motivate long-term use
Long-term retention of health and  tness wearable devices
cur-
rently [Ledger and McCaffrey 2014]. The majority of the studies we present in this paper
take place over a short time span. Studies conducted over longer time periods are scarce and hard
to  nd. The development of future devices and future research should take this into consideration.
Long-term studies and the comparison of multiple approaches, like gami cation and social incen-
tives, could lead to insights on sustainable support for healthier behaviour. There is also evidence,
that personal traits have to be taken into account (e.g. [Karanam et al. 2014]). Long-term studies
could investigate these issues and help to develop a framework for the design of wearable health
promotion applications which are optimised to support different personality types in the long term.
It is important to bring together researchers, designers and engineers with different background
and expertise to address technological problems, like accurate sensing and battery life, device de-
is a big issue
17
sign and aesthetics, cognitive supporting visualisations, as well as psychological, behavioural con-
cepts.
5.3. Support of change from the beginning to the end
Behaviour change does not happen overnight and with the same stimuli throughout the process,
but it rather is happening in stages. The Transtheoretical Model from Prochaska and DiClemente
[1982] describes six stages of behaviour change:
  Pre-contemplation: In this phase, the user has no intention to change in the near future. Tech-
niques raising the consciousness about the problem can help raising the awareness and support
a transition to the next stage.
  Contemplation: The user became aware of the problem and has the intention to change in the
near future. If this change really happens in the near future is still unclear, but support of self-
evaluation can support a transition forward.
  Preparation: This stage is characterised by the serious intent to action and often involves  rst
steps towards action. Self-ef cacy support and support of commitment can help towards a transi-
tion into the action phase.
  Action: People in this stage have begun to change their behaviour and make efforts to keep this
going. Social support, reinforcement and substitution of problem cues with healthy cues can sup-
port the establishment of a long-term behaviour and healthy habit.
  Maintenance: This stage is characterised by a successful behaviour change of more than six month
and is characterised by a high self-control and self-ef cacy.
The iteration through this stages is not necessarily sequential and it is possible, that users fall
back. Technology that helps through all the stages could help us to identify problematic behaviour
and become aware of it, take the  rst action steps and ensure a long-term maintenance.
5.4. Personal but non-intrusive interfaces for data collection and analysis
Studies show that users want wearable health devices and applications to be person-
alised to their needs and situation [Ananthanarayan and Siek 2012; Gockley et al. 2006;
Macvean and Robertson 2012]. Collecting and utilising data about the user s behaviour, person-
ality and location can give insights in their needs and situation and support personalised and
meaningful feedback.
Collecting data about the user s behaviour and health raises issues concerning privacy and prac-
ticability. How much data needs to be collected about a user in order to be able to give a reliable
representation of the user s lifestyle? This includes and overview of their choices and overall health.
Obtaining many different types of data can require a collection of different sensing methods. All
of these sensors obtaining data may feel intrusive for the user. We feel there is an opportunity
to study the correlation between the amount of data collected about someone and how effective
it is at describing their health in general. Current systems require many data sources to built a
context around an individual s health. These countless sources can include emails, sleep patterns
and location. Some users may  nd these systems to be intrusive and may not be comfortable with
giving all of this information away. These users should still be able to have access to a system that
is customisable to their comfort requirements.
A compromise needs to be found between two elements. The  rst is the amount of data points
a system collects to analyse. The second is the user s perception of personalisation. Can a system
using minimal data input sources intelligently be just as personal as another with multiple inputs?
Devices should not be intrusive, they should blend into the user s environment. Devices need to
selectively analyse the minimal amount of data collected ef ciently. Future work in this area will
lead to integrated intelligent systems. These systems will offer a personal interface, regardless of
the amount of data the user wants to provide.
5.5. Understanding not everyone wants and needs the same type of support
Most wearable applications offer motivation or support in one de ned way. But the support of-
fered may not be the most effective method for every person that uses the application. This leads to
applications being limited to the amount of people that they can support. There is an opportunity to
utilise data to  nd out which methods are most effective in supporting behaviour in each user. This
could work well in is establishing the most effective social incentives to use within an application.
For example, one person may be motivated more by competing with their friends but another
person may prefer working as a team to achieve goals [Chen and Pu 2014]. Some people may ex-
perience the self-monitoring and analysis of their own data as a suf cient tool to gain insight in
their health and adjust their behaviour based on that. Other users may need active support from
18
an wearable application through rewards, interventions or similar things. But little research has
looked into providing appropriate methods support. A smart and adaptive system can analyse data
and learn from the user s behaviour to work out an individual s support preferences.
5.6. Installing and Changing Habits
As mentioned in Subsection 3.2, habits are automatic behaviours which require less cognitive
load. Old habits are hard to overcome, and new ones hard to establish. Willpower and self-control
are key factors, and both are dependent on our arousal and stress levels [Strack and Deutsch
2004; Segerstrom and Nes 2007]. Technology could support us in this processes, by detecting those
arousal levels and offering contextualised support in those situations. Furthermore, technology can
be used to support stress management.
5.7. Technology Adaption
An important factor for wearable device facilitated behaviour change interventions is the adap-
tion of the technology by the user. The Technology Acceptance Model by Davis et al. [1989] states
that tho main factors need to be considered for adaption: the perceived ease of use and the per-
ceived usefulness. A prerequisite for users to use the health promoting technologies is their un-
derstanding and perception of the technologies ability to enhance their performance and improve
their health. New applications have to clearly communicate their role in the intervention pro-
cess. In the second version of the model this criteria was extended by social in uences like the
subjective norm of others approving of the use of such technology and an potential increase of
status within a social group [Venkatesh and Davis 2000]. The perceived ease of use is in uenced
by factors like computer self-ef cacy and anxiety, the perceived controls and external resources
to support the technology usage, and the personal ability for computer playfulness to try out new
interactions [Venkatesh and Bala 2008].
These factors have to be considered through the design processes of wearable device user inter-
faces have to consider these factors to ease the use of the technology, support long-term retention
and support the behaviour change.
6. DISCUSSIONS AND CONCLUSION
In this paper, we reviewed the current research on utilising wearable technology to in uence
human health behaviour. We focused speci cally on methods of data collection, manipulation and
representation in wearable ecosystems. As previous studies have shown, wearable applications
and the data have the power to drive positive behaviour change within an individual. By utilising
methods such as gami cation and social interaction, motivation can be created. This motivation
increases the possibility of someone changing their health behaviours for the better. But we have
found issues with using wearable sensing data as a behavioural driver. Although studies have
shown it to be effective in the short term, there are issues regarding data losing its meaning to
the user over time. As a response to this, it has been suggested that data and data representations
should act as a facilitator for behaviour change. This can be archived by encouraging re ection and
presenting the health data to accommodate cognitive theories and support the natural behavioural
change process. Using data as a facilitator is showing positive hope for the development of further
health wearables, but we believe that even more research is needed.
Through outlining previous studies, we believe that there are many opportunities for further
research. Personalisation is an area in which more research would be bene cial. A system that
can adapt to the user and recognise their needs could help to form a long-term relationship be-
tween a user and their health data. Data meaningfulness needs to remain high to ensure long-
term retention between the user and their device. We suggest ways that this could be done through
non-invasive collection and intelligent interpretation of health data in a way to encourage self-
motivation. Wearable systems need to offer a number of different data manipulation and presen-
tation methods. The methods would then be chosen to re ect which process the system determined
to be the most effective. Ideally, research needs to be conducted that can inform the design process
of future wearable technology. Ensuring long-term retention needs to be considered from the very
beginning of the development process to create effective systems.
REFERENCES
Aino Ahtinen, Pertti Huuskonen, and Jonna H  akkil  a. 2010. Let s All Get Up and Walk to the North
Pole: Design and Evaluation of a Mobile Wellness Application. In Proceedings of the 6th Nordic
Conference on Human-Computer Interaction: Extending Boundaries (NordiCHI  10). ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 3 12. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1868914.1868920
19
Icek Ajzen. 1991. The theory of planned behavior. Organizational behavior and human decision
processes 50, 2 (1991), 179 211. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/0749-5978(91)90020-T
Terrance L Albrecht and Mara B Adelman. 1987. A Theoretical Perspective.
Noor Ali-Hasan, Diana Gavales, Andrew Peterson, and Matthew Raw. 2006.
Fitster:
Social Fitness Information Visualizer. In CHI  06 Extended Abstracts on Human Fac-
tors in Computing Systems (CHI EA  06). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 1795 1800.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1125451.1125792
M. Altini, S. Del Din, S. Patel, S. Schachter, J. Penders, and P. Bonato. 2011. A low-power
multi-modal body sensor network with application to epileptic seizure monitoring. In Proceed-
ings of the 2011 Annual International Conference of the IEEE on Engineering in Medicine
and Biology Society (EMBC  11). IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA, 1806 1809.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/IEMBS.2011.6090515
Marco Altini, Julien Penders, and Oliver Amft. 2013. Personalizing Energy Expenditure Estima-
tion Using a Cardiorespiratory Fitness Predicate. In Proceedings of the 7th International Confer-
ence on Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare (PervasiveHealth  13). ICST (Institute
for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering), ICST, Brus-
sels, Belgium, Belgium, 65 72. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.4108/icst.pervasivehealth.2013.252069
Oliver Amft, Holger Junker, and Gerhard Troster. 2005. Detection of Eating and Drinking Arm
Gestures Using Inertial Body-worn Sensors. In Proceedings of the Ninth IEEE International
Symposium on Wearable Computers (ISWC  05). IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA,
160 163. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ISWC.2005.17
Swamy Ananthanarayan, Nathan Lapinski, Katie Siek, and Michael Eisenberg. 2014.
To-
wards the Crafting of Personal Health Technologies. In Proceedings of the 2014 Confer-
ence on Designing Interactive Systems (DIS  14). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 587 596.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2598510.2598581
Swamy Ananthanarayan and Katie A. Siek. 2010. Health Sense: A Gedanken Experiment on
Persuasive Wearable Technology for Health Awareness. In Proceedings of the 1st ACM In-
ternational Health Informatics Symposium (IHI  10). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 400 404.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1882992.1883051
Swamy Ananthanarayan and Katie A Siek. 2012. Persuasive wearable technology design for health
and wellness. In Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on Pervasive Computing Tech-
nologies for Healthcare (PervasiveHealth  12). IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA,
236 240. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.4108/icst.pervasivehealth.2012.248694
Ian Anderson, Julie Maitland, Scott Sherwood, Louise Barkhuus, Matthew Chalmers, Malcolm
Hall, Barry Brown, and Henk Muller. 2007. Shakra: Tracking and Sharing Daily Activity Levels
with Unaugmented Mobile Phones. Mobile Networks and Applications 12, 2-3 (2007), 185 199.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11036-007-0011-7
Elliot Aronson, Timothy D Wilson, and Robin M Akert. 2009. Social Psychology. Pearson.
Sonia M. Arteaga, Mo Kudeki, and Adrienne Woodworth. 2009. Combating Obesity Trends in
Teenagers Through Persuasive Mobile Technology. SIGACCESS Access. Comput. 94 (2009), 17 
25. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1595061.1595064
Sonia M. Arteaga, Mo Kudeki, Adrienne Woodworth, and Sri Kurniawan. 2010. Mobile Sys-
tem to Motivate Teenagers  Physical Activity. In Proceedings of the 9th International Con-
ference on Interaction Design and Children (IDC  10). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 1 10.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1810543.1810545
Solomon E Asch. 1951. Effects of group pressure upon the modi cation and distortion of judgments.
In Groups, leadership and men; research in human relations, Harold Guetzkow (Ed.). Carnegie
Press, Oxford, 177 190.
Albert Bandura. 1977. Self-ef cacy: toward a unifying theory of behavioral change. Psychological
Review 84, 2 (1977), 191 215.
Albert Bandura. 2001. Social cognitive theory: An agentic perspective. Annual review of psychology
52, 1 (2001), 1 26.
Alan D Berkowitz. 2004. The Social Norms Approach: Theory, Research, and Annotated Bibliogra-
phy. Accessed: 15/01/2016. (2004). www.alanberkowitz.com/articles/social norms.pdf
Timothy Bickmore, Daniel Mauer, Francisco Crespo, and Thomas Brown. 2008. Negotiating Task
Interruptions with Virtual Agents for Health Behavior Change. In Proceedings of the 7th Inter-
national Joint Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems - Volume 3 (AAMAS
 08). International Foundation for Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems, Richland, SC,
1241 1244. http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1402821.1402841
Julian Bleecker, Mark Bolas, Will Carter, Perry Hoberman, and Aaron Meyers. 2007. MobZombies:
A Wearable Sensor For A Playground Style Electronic Game. In Proceedings of the 2007 11th
20
IEEE International Symposium on Wearable Computers (ISWC  07). IEEE Computer Society,
Washington, DC, USA, 1 4. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ISWC.2007.4373778
Meg Bruening, Marla Eisenberg, Richard MacLehose, Marilyn S Nanney, Mary Story, and Dianne
Neumark-Sztainer. 2012. Relationship Between Adolescents  and Their Friends  Eating Behav-
iors: Breakfast, Fruit, Vegetable, Whole-Grain, and Dairy Intake. Journal of the Academy of Nu-
trition and Dietetics 112, 10 (2012), 1608 1613. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jand.2012.07.008
Andreas Bulling, Ulf Blanke, and Bernt Schiele. 2014. A Tutorial on Human Activity Recognition
Using Body-worn Inertial Sensors. ACM Comput. Surv. 46, 3, Article 33 (Jan. 2014), 33 pages.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2499621
Patrick Burns, Christopher Lueg, and Shlomo Berkovsky. 2012. Activmon: Encouraging Phys-
ical Activity Through Ambient Social Awareness. In CHI  12 Extended Abstracts on Hu-
man Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA  12). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 2363 2368.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2212776.2223803
Fabio Buttussi and Luca Chittaro. 2008. MOPET: A Context-aware and User-adaptive
Artif. Intell. Med. 42, 2 (Feb. 2008), 153 163.
Wearable System for Fitness Training.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.artmed.2007.11.004
Erin A Carroll, Mary Czerwinski, Asta Roseway, Ashish Kapoor, Paul Johns, Kael Rowan, and MC
Schraefel. 2013. Food and mood: Just-in-time support for emotional eating. In Proceedings of the
Humaine Association Conference on Affective Computing and Intelligent Interaction (ACII  13).
IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA, 252 257.
Robert Cercos and Florian Floyd  Mueller. 2013.
Watch Your Steps: Designing a
Semi-Public Display to Promote Physical Activity.
In Proceedings of The 9th Aus-
tralasian Conference on Interactive Entertainment Matters of Life and Death (IE 13). 1 6.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2513002.2513016
Shu-Hao Chang, Wen-Hai Chih, Dah-Kwei Liou, and Lih-Ru Hwang. 2014. The in uence of
web aesthetics on customers  {PAD}. Computers in Human Behavior 36 (2014), 168 178.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.chb.2014.03.050
Tony Chang. 2012. Food Fight: A Social Diet Network Mobile Application. EECS Department,
University of California, Berkeley. (May 2012). Master Thesis.
Wei Chen, Sietse Dols, Sidarto Bambang Oetomo, and Loe Feijs. 2010. Monitoring Body Temper-
ature of Newborn Infants at Neonatal Intensive Care Units Using Wearable Sensors. In Pro-
ceedings of the Fifth International Conference on Body Area Networks (BodyNets  10). ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 188 194. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2221924.2221960
Yu Chen and Pearl Pu. 2014. HealthyTogether: Exploring Social Incentives for Mobile Fitness
Applications. In Proceedings of the Second International Symposium of Chinese CHI (Chinese
CHI  14). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 25 34. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2592235.2592240
Kendra Cherry. n.d. What Is Intrinsic Motivation? www.psychology.about.com/od/motivation/f/intrinsic-motivation.htm
(n.d.). Accessed: 14-04-2015.
Ed H. Chi, Jin Song, and Greg Corbin. 2004.  Killer App  of Wearable Computing: Wireless Force
Sensing Body Protectors for Martial Arts. In Proceedings of the 17th Annual ACM Symposium
on User Interface Software and Technology (UIST  04). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 277 285.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1029632.1029680
Eun Kyoung Choe, Nicole B. Lee, Bongshin Lee, Wanda Pratt, and Julie A. Kientz. 2014. Under-
standing Quanti ed-selfers  Practices in Collecting and Exploring Personal Data. In Proceedings
of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI  14). ACM, New York,
NY, USA, 1143 1152. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2556288.2557372
M. Chuah, G. Jakes, and Z. Qin. 2012. WiFiTreasureHunt: A Mobile Social Application for Staying
Active Physically. In Proceedings of the 2012 ACM Conference on Ubiquitous Computing (Ubi-
Comp  12). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 631 632. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2370216.2370339
Robert B Cialdini. 2006. In uence: The Psychology of Persuasion (2nd ed.). Harper Business, New
York, USA.
James Clawson, Nirmal Patel, and Thad Starner. 2010. Dancing in the Streets: The design
and evaluation of a wearable health game. In Proceedings of the 2010 International Sympo-
sium on Wearable Computers (ISWC  10). IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA, 1 4.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ISWC.2010.5665864
Sunny Consolvo, Predrag Klasnja, David W McDonald, and James A Landay. 2009. Goal-
Setting Considerations for Persuasive Technologies That Encourage Physical Activity. In
Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Persuasive Technology (Persuasive  09).
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1541948.1541960
Sunny Consolvo, David W. McDonald, Tammy Toscos, Mike Y. Chen, Jon Froehlich, Beverly Harri-
son, Predrag Klasnja, Anthony LaMarca, Louis LeGrand, Ryan Libby, Ian Smith, and James A.
21
Landay. 2008. Activity Sensing in the Wild: A Field Trial of Ubi t Garden. In Proceedings of the
SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI  08). ACM, New York, NY,
USA, 1797 1806. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1357054.1357335
Fred D Davis, Richard P Bagozzi, and Paul R Warshaw. 1989. User Acceptance of Computer Tech-
nology: a Comparison of Two Theoretical Models. Management Science 35, 8 (Aug 1989), 982 
1003. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.35.8.982
Rodrigo de Oliveira and Nuria Oliver. 2008. TripleBeat: Enhancing Exercise Performance with
Persuasion. In Proceedings of the 10th international conference on Human computer interac-
tion with mobile devices and services - MobileHCI  08 (Proceedings of the 10th international
conference on Human computer interaction with mobile devices and services - MobileHCI  08).
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1409240.1409268
Edward
Deci.
Health,
http://tedxtalks.ted.com/video.mason/Promoting-Motivation-Health-and?,
(2012). Accessed: 12.05.2015.
Promoting Motivation,
2012.
and
Excellence.
TEDxFlourCity.
Edward L Deci. 1975. Cognitive Evaluation Theory: Effects of Extrinsic Rewards on Intrinsic Moti-
vation. 129 159. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4613-4446-9 5
Edward L Deci and Richard M Ryan. 1985. Intrinsic Motivation and Self-Determination in Human
Behavior. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-1-4899-2271-7
Sebastian Deterding, Dan Dixon, Rilla Khaled, and Lennart Nacke. 2011. From Game Design Ele-
ments to Gamefulness: De ning  Gami cation . In Proceedings of the 15th International Aca-
demic MindTrek Conference: Envisioning Future Media Environments (MindTrek  11). ACM,
New York, NY, USA, 9 15. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2181037.2181040
Katelyn Doran, Shaun Pickford, Cory Austin, Tory Walker, and Tiffany Barnes. 2010. World of
Workout: Towards Pervasive, Intrinsically Motivated, Mobile Exergaming. In Meaningful Play.
Daniel Epstein, Felicia Cordeiro, Elizabeth Bales, James Fogarty, and Sean Munson. 2014. Taming
Data Complexity in Lifelogs: Exploring Visual Cuts of Personal Informatics Data. In Proceedings
of the 2014 Conference on Designing Interactive Systems (DIS  14). ACM, New York, NY, USA,
667 676. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2598510.2598558
Elena Fabrizi. 2014. Fiori in Aria: Air Quality Indicator. In Proceedings of the 2014 ACM Inter-
national Symposium on Wearable Computers: Adjunct Program (ISWC  14 Adjunct). ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 39 42. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2641248.2641282
Andrea Fanelli, Maria G Signorini, Paolo Perego, Giovanni Magenes, and Giuseppe Andreoni. 2013.
A smart wearable prototype for fetal monitoring. In Advances in Human Aspects fo Healthchare,
Vincent G. Duffy (Ed.). CRC Press, Boca Raton, FL, USA.
Leon Festinger. 1954. A theory of social comparison processes. Human relations 7, 2 (1954), 117 
140.
Leon Festinger. 1962. A theory of cognitive dissonance (1st ed.). Stanford university press, Stanford,
USA.
Rowanne Fleck and Geraldine Fitzpatrick. 2010. Re ecting on Re ection. In Proceedings of the
22nd Conference of the Computer-Human Interaction Special Interest Group of Australia on
Computer-Human Interaction - OZCHI  10 (Proceedings of the 22nd Conference of the Computer-
Human Interaction Special Interest Group of Australia on Computer-Human Interaction - OZCHI
 10). DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1952222.1952269
BJ Fogg. 2009. A Behavior Model for Persuasive Design. In Proceedings of the 4th International
Conference on Persuasive Technology (Persuasive  09). ACM, New York, NY, USA, Article 40, 7
pages. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1541948.1541999
B. J. Fogg. 2002. Persuasive Technology: Using Computers to Change What We Think and Do.
Ubiquity 2002, December, Article 5 (Dec. 2002). DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/764008.763957
Brian J Fogg. 2013. Why Tiny Habits Give Big Results. SXSW Talk. (2013).
Jutta Fortmann, Vanessa Cobus, Wilko Heuten, and Susanne Boll. 2014. WaterJewel: Design and
Evaluation of a Bracelet to Promote a Better Drinking Behaviour. In Proceedings of the 13th
International Conference on Mobile and Ubiquitous Multimedia (MUM  14). ACM, New York,
NY, USA, 58 67. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2677972.2677976
Derek Foster, Conor Linehan, Ben Kirman, Shaun Lawson, and Gary James. 2010. Motivating
Physical Activity at Work. In Proceedings of the 14th International Academic MindTrek Confer-
ence on Envisioning Future Media Environments - MindTrek  10 (Proceedings of the 14th Interna-
tional Academic MindTrek Conference on Envisioning Future Media Environments - MindTrek
 10). DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1930488.1930510
Dana L Frank, Lamees Khorshid, Jerome F Kiffer, Christine S Moravec, and Michael G McKee.
2010. Biofeedback in medicine: who, when, why and how? Mental Health in Family Medicine 7,
2 (June 2010), 85 91.
22
Jill Freyne, Emily Brindal, Gilly Hendrie, Shlomo Berkovsky, and Mac Coombe. 2012. Mobile
Applications to Support Dietary Change: Highlighting the Importance of Evaluation Context. In
CHI  12 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA  12). ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 1781 1786. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2212776.2223709
Miguel Garcia, Angel Catal  a, Jaime Lloret, and Joel J P C Rodrigues. 2011. A wireless sensor
network for soccer team monitoring. In Proceedings of the 2011 International Conference on Dis-
tributed Computing in Sensor Systems (DCOSS). IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA,
1 6. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/DCOSS.2011.5982204
Enrique Garcia-Ceja, Ramon F Brena, Jose C Carrasco-Jimenez, and Leonardo Garrido. 2014.
Long-term activity recognition from wristwatch accelerometer data. Sensors 14, 12 (Nov. 2014),
22500 22524. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/s141222500
Rachel Gockley, Michael Marotta, Carin Rogoff, and Adrian Tang. 2006.
Jim Gemmell, Gordon Bell, and Roger Lueder. 2006. MyLifeBits: A Personal Database for Every-
thing. Commun. ACM 49, 1 (Jan. 2006), 88 95. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1107458.1107460
AVIVA: A
Health and Fitness Monitor for Young Women. In CHI  06 Extended Abstracts on Hu-
man Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA  06). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 1819 1824.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1125451.1125796
Levent G org  u, Abraham G. Campbell, Kealan McCusker, Mauro Dragone, Michael J. O Grady,
Noel E. O Connor, and Gregory M. P. O Hare. 2010. FreeGaming: Mobile, Collaborative, Adaptive
and Augmented Exergaming. (2010). DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1971519.1971550
David Greene and Mark R Lepper. 1974.
dren s subsequent intrinsic interest.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.2307/1128110
rewards on chil-
Child development 45, 4 (Dec. 1974), 1141 1145.
Effects of extrinsic
Hamed Haddadi, Richard Mortier, Derek McAuley, and Jon Crowcroft. 2013. Human-data inter-
action. University of Cambridge (2013).
Jaap Ham and Cees Midden. 2010. Ambient Persuasive Technology Needs Little Cognitive Ef-
fort: The Differential Effects of Cognitive Load on Lighting Feedback Versus Factual Feedback.
In Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on Persuasive Technology. Springer-Verlag,
Berlin, Heidelberg, 132 142. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-13226-1 14
Juho Hamari, Jonna Koivisto, and Harri Sarsa. 2014. Does Gami cation Work?   A Literature
Review of Empirical Studies on Gami cation. In Proceedings of the 2014 47th Hawaii Interna-
tional Conference on System Sciences (HICSS  14). IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC,
USA, 3025 3034. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/HICSS.2014.377
Julianne Holt-Lunstad and Bert Uchino. 2015. Social Support and Health (5th ed.).
Tuck-Voon How, Justin Chee, Eric Wan, and Alex Mihailidis. 2013. MyWalk: A Mobile App for Gait
Asymmetry Rehabilitation in the Community. In Proceedings of the 7th International Conference
on Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare (PervasiveHealth  13). ICST (Institute for
Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering), ICST, Brussels,
Belgium, Belgium, 73 76. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.4108/icst.pervasivehealth.2013.252118
S. S.
Intille. 2004.
tivate Healthy Aging.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TITB.2004.835531
Trans.
A New Research Challenge: Persuasive Technology to Mo-
Info. Tech. Biomed. 8, 3 (Sept. 2004), 235 237.
Yamini Karanam, Leslie Filko, Lindsay Kaser, Hanan Alotaibi, Elham Makhsoom, and Stephen
Voida. 2014. Motivational Affordances and Personality Types in Personal Informatics. In
Proceedings of the 2014 ACM International Joint Conference on Pervasive and Ubiquitous
Computing: Adjunct Publication (UbiComp  14 Adjunct). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 79 82.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2638728.2638800
Steven J Karau and Kipling D Williams. 1993. Social loa ng: A meta-analytic review and
theoretical integration. Journal of personality and social psychology 65, 4 (Oct. 1993), 681.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/0022-3514.65.4.681
Rafal Kocielnik, Natalia Sidorova, Fabrizio Maria Maggi, Martin Ouwerkerk, and Joyce H D M
Westerink. 2013. Smart technologies for long-term stress monitoring at work.. In Proceedings
of the 26th International Symposium on Computer-Based Medical Systems (CBMS). IEEE Com-
puter Society, Washington, DC, USA, 53 58.
Matthias Kranz, Andreas M oller, Nils Hammerla, Stefan Diewald, Thomas Pl oTz, Patrick Olivier,
and Luis Roalter. 2013. The Mobile Fitness Coach: Towards Individualized Skill Assessment
Using Personalized Mobile Devices. Pervasive and Mobile Computing 9, 2 (Apr 2013), 203 215.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.pmcj.2012.06.002
Nicholas D Lane, Mu Lin, Mash qui Mohammod, Xiaochao Yang, Hong Lu, Giuseppe Cardone,
Shahid Ali, Afsaneh Doryab, Ethan Berke, Andrew T Campbell, and et al. 2014. BeWell: Sensing
Sleep, Physical Activities and Social Interactions to Promote Wellbeing. Mobile Networks and
23
Applications 19, 3 (2014), 345 359. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11036-013-0484-5
Dan Ledger and D McCaffrey. 2014. Inside wearables: how the science of human behavior change
offers the secret to long-term engagement. Technical Report. Endeavour Partners, Cambridge,
MA, USA.
Brian Y. Lim, Aubrey Shick, Chris Harrison, and Scott E. Hudson. 2011. Pediluma: Motivat-
ing Physical Activity Through Contextual Information and Social In uence. In Proceedings of
the Fifth International Conference on Tangible, Embedded, and Embodied Interaction (TEI  11).
ACM, New York, NY, USA, 173 180. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1935701.1935736
James J. Lin, Lena Mamykina, Silvia Lindtner, Gregory Delajoux, and Henry B. Strub. 2006.
Fish N Steps: Encouraging Physical Activity with an Interactive Computer Game. In Proceedings
of the 8th International Conference on Ubiquitous Computing. Springer-Verlag, Berlin, Heidel-
berg, 261 278. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/11853565 16
Mu Lin, Nicholas D. Lane, Mash qui Mohammod, Xiaochao Yang, Hong Lu, Giuseppe Cardone,
Shahid Ali, Afsaneh Doryab, Ethan Berke, Andrew T. Campbell, and Tanzeem Choudhury. 2012.
BeWell+: Multi-dimensional Wellbeing Monitoring with Community-guided User Feedback and
Energy Optimization. In Proceedings of the Conference on Wireless Health (WH  12). ACM, New
York, NY, USA, Article 10, 8 pages. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2448096.2448106
Yuzhong Lin, Joran Jessurun, Bauke De Vries, and Harry Timmermans. 2011. Motivate: Towards
Context-Aware Recommendation Mobile System for Healthy Living. In Proceedings of the 5th
International ICST Conference on Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare (Proceedings
of the 5th International ICST Conference on Pervasive Computing Technologies for Healthcare).
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.4108/icst.pervasivehealth.2011.246030
Edwin A Locke and Gary P Latham. 2002. Building a Practically Useful Theory of Goal Set-
ting and Task Motivation: a 35-Year Odyssey. American Psychologist 57, 9 (2002), 705 717.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/0003-066x.57.9.705
P Lopez-Meyer, S Tiffany, Y Patil, and E Sazonov. 2013. Monitoring of Cigarette Smoking Using
Wearable Sensors and Support Vector Machines. IEEE Transactions on Biomedical Engineering
60, 7 (July 2013), 1867 1872. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TBME.2013.2243729
Fletcher Lu and Manon Lemonde. 2014. Reducing adolescent obesity with a social networking
mobile  tness application. In e-Health Networking, Applications and Services (Healthcom), 2014
IEEE 16th International Conference on. IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC, USA, 429 
434.
Geke Ludden. 2013. Designing feedback: multimodality and speci city. In Proceedings of the 5th
International Congress of International Association of Societies of Design Research (IASDR  13).
Tokyo.
Sonja Lyubomirsky and Lee Ross. 1997. Hedonic consequences of social comparison: A contrast of
happy and unhappy people. Journal of personality and social psychology 73, 6 (1997), 1141 1157.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1037//0022-3514.73.6.1141
Diana MacLean, Asta Roseway, and Mary Czerwinski. 2013. MoodWings: A Wearable Biofeedback
Device for Real-time Stress Intervention. In Proceedings of the 6th International Conference on
Pervasive Technologies Related to Assistive Environments (PETRA  13). ACM, New York, NY,
USA, Article 66, 8 pages. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2504335.2504406
Andrew Macvean and Judy Robertson. 2012. iFitQuest: A School Based Study of a Mobile Location-
aware Exergame for Adolescents. In Proceedings of the 14th International Conference on Human-
computer Interaction with Mobile Devices and Services (MobileHCI  12). ACM, New York, NY,
USA, 359 368. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2371574.2371630
Anmol Madan, Manuel Cebrian, David Lazer, and Alex Pentland. 2010.
Social Sensing
for Epidemiological Behavior Change. In Proceedings of the 12th ACM International Con-
ference on Ubiquitous Computing (UbiComp  10). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 291 300.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1864349.1864394
D Marculescu, R Marculescu, N H Zamora, P Stanley-Marbell, P K Khosla, S Park, S Jayaraman,
S Jung, C Lauterbach, W Weber, T Kirstein, D Cottet, J Grzyb, G Troster, M Jones, T Martin,
and Z Nakad. 2003. Electronic textiles: A platform for pervasive computing. Proc. IEEE 91, 12
(2003), 1995 2018. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/JPROC.2003.819612
Matthew Mauriello, Michael Gubbels, and Jon E. Froehlich. 2014. Social Fabric Fitness: The De-
sign and Evaluation of Wearable E-textile Displays to Support Group Running. In Proceedings
of the 32Nd Annual ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI  14). ACM,
New York, NY, USA, 2833 2842. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2556288.2557299
Jane McGonigal. 2004.
Alternate Reality Gaming.
Accessed: 20/01/2016.
(2004).
www.avantgame.com/McGonigal%20ARG%20MacArthur%20Foundation%20NOV%2004.pdf
Susan Michie, Michelle Richardson, Marie Johnston, Charles Abraham, Jill Francis, Wendy Harde-
24
man, Martin P Eccles, James Cane, and Caroline E Wood. 2013. The Behavior Change Technique
Taxonomy (V1) of 93 Hierarchically Clustered Techniques: Building an International Consensus
for the Reporting of Behavior Change Interventions. Annals of Behavioral Medicine 46, 1 (Mar
2013), 81 95. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s12160-013-9486-6
Susan Michie, Maartje M van Stralen, and Robert West. 2011. The Behaviour Change Wheel: a
New Method for Characterising and Designing Behaviour Change Interventions. Implementa-
tion Science 6, 1 (2011), 42. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1748-5908-6-42
Susan Michie, Robert West, Rona Campbell, Jamie Brown, and Heather Gainforth. 2014. ABC of
Behaviour Change Theories.
Florian  Floyd  Mueller, Shannon O Brien, and Alex Thorogood. 2007. Jogging over a Distance: Sup-
porting a  Jogging Together  Experience Although Being Apart. In CHI  07 Extended Abstracts
on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA  07). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 2579 2584.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1240866.1241045
R. Nerino, L. Contin, W. J. Gonc alves da Silva Pinto, G. Massazza, M. Actis, P. Capac-
A BSN Based Service for Post-surgical
chione, A. Chimienti, and G. Pettiti. 2013.
Knee Rehabilitation at Home. In Proceedings of
the 8th International Conference on
Body Area Networks (BodyNets  13).
ICST (Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-
Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering), ICST, Brussels, Belgium, Belgium, 401 407.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.4108/icst.bodynets.2013.253679
Jeffrey Nevid. 2012. Psychology: Concepts and applications (4th ed.). Cengage Learning, California,
USA.
Per Nilsen, Kerstin Roback, Anders Brostr m, and Per-Erik Ellstr m. 2012. Creatures of Habit:
Accounting for the Role of Habit in Implementation Research on Clinical Behaviour Change.
Implementation Science 7, 1 (2012), 53. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1748-5908-7-53
Andrzej Nowak, Jacek Szamrej, and Bibb Latan e. 1990. From private attitude to public opinion: A
dynamic theory of social impact. Psychological Review 97, 3 (1990), 362.
Nuria Oliver and Fernando Flores-Mangas. 2006.
System for Monitoring and Analyzing Physiological Signals.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/BSN.2006.27
HealthGear: a Real-Time Wearable
BSN (2006), 61 64.
Orange. 2014. Wearable Technology Boom in Healthcare. http://healthcare.orange.com/eng/news/latests-news/2014/infographic-
(2014). Accessed: 14-04-2015.
Alexandros Pantelopoulos and Nikolaos G. Bourbakis. 2010. A Survey on Wearable Sensor-based
Systems for Health Monitoring and Prognosis. Trans. Sys. Man Cyber Part C 40, 1 (Jan. 2010),
1 12. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TSMCC.2009.2032660
Pablo Paredes and Matthew Chan. 2011. CalmMeNow. In Proceedings of the 2011 annual confer-
ence extended abstracts on Human factors in computing systems - CHI EA  11 (Proceedings of
the 2011 annual conference extended abstracts on Human factors in computing systems - CHI EA
 11). DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1979742.1979831
Mitesh S Patel, David A Asch, and Kevin G Volpp. 2015. Wearable Devices as Facilitators, Not
Drivers, of Health Behavior Change. Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) 313,
5 (Feb. 2015), 459 460.
Shyamal Patel, Chiara Mancinelli, Anthony Dalton, Ben Patritti, Trudy Pang, Steven Schachter,
and Paolo Bonato. 2009. Detecting epileptic seizures using wearable sensors. In Proceedings of
the 35th Annual Northeast Bioengineering Conference. IEEE Computer Society, Washington, DC,
USA, 1 2. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/NEBC.2009.4967771
Shyamal Patel, Hyung Park, Paolo Bonato, Leighton Chan, and Mary Rodgers. 2012. A review of
wearable sensors and systems with application in rehabilitation. Journal of NeuroEngineering
and Rehabilitation 9, 1 (2012), 21. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1186/1743-0003-9-21
Jamie Payton, Evie Powell, Andrea Nickel, Katelyn Doran, and Tiffany Barnes. 2011.
GameChanger: A Middleware for Social Exergames. In Proceedings of the 1st International
Workshop on Games and Software Engineering (GAS  11). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 36 39.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1984674.1984688
Nick
Pelling.
2011.
The
(Short)
Prehistory
of
https://nanodome.wordpress.com/2011/08/09/the-short-prehistory-of-gami cation/.
Accessed: 14-01-2016.
Gami cation. . . .
(2011).
Trevor Pels, Christina Kao, and Saguna Goel. 2014. FatBelt: Motivating Behavior Change Through
Isomorphic Feedback. In Proceedings of the Adjunct Publication of the 27th Annual ACM Sympo-
sium on User Interface Software and Technology (UIST 14 Adjunct). ACM, New York, NY, USA,
123 124. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2658779.2658807
Rosalind W. Picard. 1997. Affective Computing. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA, USA.
Martin Pielot, Tilman Dingler, Jose San Pedro, and Nuria Oliver. 2015. When Attention Is Not
25
Scarce - Detecting Boredom From Mobile Phone Usage. Proceedings of the 2015 annual confer-
ence on Ubiquitous Computing (2015), 825 836. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2750858.2804252
Ming-Zher Poh, Tobias Loddenkemper, Claus Reinsberger, Nicholas C Swenson, Shubhi Goyal,
Mangwe C Sabtala, Joseph R Madsen, and Rosalind W Picard. 2012. Convulsive seizure detec-
tion using a wrist-worn electrodermal activity and accelerometry biosensor. Epilepsia 53, 5 (May
2012), e93 e97. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1528-1167.2012.03444.x
Kristen M Polzien, John M Jakicic, Deborah F Tate, and Amy D Otto. 2007. The Ef cacy of a
Technology-based System in a Short-term Behavioral Weight Loss Intervention. Obesity 15, 4
(2007), 825 830.
James O Prochaska and Carlo C DiClemente. 1982. Transtheoretical Therapy: Toward a More
Integrative Model of Change. Psychotherapy: Theory, Research & Practice 19, 3 (1982), 276 288.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1037/h0088437
Waqas Qureshi, Li Guo, Joel Peterson, Lena Berglin, Adib Kalantar Mehrjerdi, and Mikael Skrif-
vars. 2011. Knitted Wearable Stretch Sensor for Breathing Monitoring Application. In Proceed-
ings of the scienti c conference for Smart and functional textiles, Well-Being, Thermal comfort in
clothing, Design, Thermal Manikins and Modelling (Ambience  11).
Pratyush Rai, Sechang Oh, Prashanth Shyamkumar, Mouli Ramasamy, Robert E Harbaugh, and
Vijay K Varadan. 2013. Nano- Bio- Textile Sensors with Mobile Wireless Platform for Wearable
Health Monitoring of Neurological and Cardiovascular Disorders. Journal of the Electrochemical
Society 161, 2 (Sept. 2013), B3116 B3150. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1149/2.012402jes
Vijay Rajanna, Raniero Lara-Garduno, Dev Jyoti Behera, Karthic Madanagopal, Daniel
Goldberg, and Tracy Hammond. 2014.
Step Up Life: A Context Aware Health As-
sistant. In Proceedings of the Third ACM SIGSPATIAL International Workshop on the
Use of GIS in Public Health (HealthGIS  14). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 21 30.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2676629.2676636
Lisa Rashotte. 2007. Social In uence. In The Blackwell Encyclopedia of Sociology, George Ritzer
and Michael J Ryan (Eds.). Vol. IX. Blackwell Publishing, Oxford, 4426 4429.
Wolfgang Reitberger, Wolfgang Spreicer, and Geraldine Fitzpatrick. 2014. Situated and Mobile Dis-
plays for Re ection on Shopping and Nutritional Choices. Personal and Ubiquitous Computing
18, 7 (2014), 1721 1735. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00779-014-0781-4
Karen Robson, Kirk Plangger, Jan H Kietzmann, Ian McCarthy, and Leyland Pitt. 2015. Is it
all a game? Understanding the principles of gami cation. Business Horizons 58, 4 (July 2015),
411 420. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.bushor.2015.03.006
Richard M Ryan and Edward L Deci. 2000.
Intrinsic and Extrinsic Motivations: Classic Def-
initions and New Directions. Contemporary Educational Psychology 25, 1 (2000), 54 67.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1006/ceps.1999.1020
Pedro Sanches, Kristina H o ok, Elsa Vaara, Claus Weymann, Markus Bylund, Pedro Ferreira,
Nathalie Peira, and Marie Sj olinder. 2010. Mind the Body!: Designing a Mobile Stress
Management Application Encouraging Personal Re ection. In Proceedings of the 8th ACM
Conference on Designing Interactive Systems (DIS  10). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 47 56.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1858171.1858182
Catherine Schaefer, James C Coyne, and Richard S Lazarus. 1981.
The Health-Related
Journal of Behavioral Medicine 4, 4 (1981), 381 406.
Functions of Social Support.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/bf00846149
Katie Seaborn and Deborah I Fels. 2015.
Gami cation in theory and action: A
International Journal of Human-Computer Studies 74 (Feb. 2015), 14 31.
survey.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.ijhcs.2014.09.006
Suzanne C Segerstrom and Lise Solberg Nes. 2007. Heart Rate Variability Re ects Self-
Regulatory Strength, Effort, and Fatigue. Psychological Science 18, 3 (Mar 2007), 275 281.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1467-9280.2007.01888.x
Tien-Wei Shyr, Jing-Wen Shie, Chang-Han Jiang, and Jung-Jen Li. 2014. A textile-based wearable
sensing device designed for monitoring the  exion angle of elbow and knee movements. Sensors
14, 3 (2014), 4050 4059. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/s140304050
Kirsten P Smith and Nicholas A Christakis. 2008. Social Networks and Health. Annual Review of
Sociology 34, 1 (2008), 405 429. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1146/annurev.soc.34.040507.134601
Andreas Sonderegger, Andreas Uebelbacher, Manuela Pugliese, and Juergen Sauer. 2014. The
In uence of Aesthetics in Usability Testing: The Case of Dual-domain Products. In Proceedings
of the SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI  14). ACM, New York,
NY, USA, 21 30. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2556288.2557419
Daniel Spelmezan, Adalbert Schanowski, and Jan Borchers. 2009. Wearable Automatic Feed-
back Devices for Physical Activities. In Proceedings of the Fourth International Conference on
26
Body Area Networks (BodyNets  09). ICST (Institute for Computer Sciences, Social-Informatics
and Telecommunications Engineering), ICST, Brussels, Belgium, Belgium, Article 1, 8 pages.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.4108/ICST.BODYNETS2009.6095
Anna St  ahl, Kristina H o ok, Martin Svensson, Alex S. Taylor, and Marco Combetto. 2009. Ex-
periencing the Affective Diary. Personal Ubiquitous Comput. 13, 5 (June 2009), 365 378.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00779-008-0202-7
Kevin G Stanley, Farjana Z Eishita, Eva Anderson, and Regan Mandryk. 2014. Gemini Redux:
Understanding Player Perception of Accumulated Context. In IEEE Games Media Entertainment
(GEM). 1 8. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/gem.2014.7048100
Matteo Stoppa and Alessandro Chiolerio. 2014. Wearable Electronics and Smart Textiles: a Critical
Review. Sensors 14, 7 (Jul 2014), 11957 11992. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.3390/s140711957
Fritz Strack and Roland Deutsch. 2004.
Re ective and Impulsive Determinants of So-
Personality and Social Psychology Review 8, 3 (Aug 2004), 220 247.
cial Behavior.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1207/s15327957pspr0803 1
Christina Strohrmann, Holger Harms, Gerhard Tr oster, Stefanie Hensler, and Roland M  uller.
2011. Out of the Lab and into the Woods: Kinematic Analysis in Running Using Wearable Sen-
sors. In Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Ubiquitous Computing (UbiComp
 11). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 119 122. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2030112.2030129
Jennifer Thom, David Millen, and Joan DiMicco. 2012.
Melanie Swan. 2013. The Quanti ed Self: Fundamental Disruption in Big Data Science and Bio-
logical Discovery. Big Data 1, 2 (June 2013), 58 99. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1089/big.2012.0002
Removing Gami cation from
an Enterprise SNS.
on Computer
Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW  12). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 1067 1070.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2145204.2145362
the ACM 2012 Conference
In Proceedings
of
Tammy Toscos, Anne Faber, Shunying An, and Mona Praful Gandhi. 2006. Chick Clique: Per-
suasive Technology to Motivate Teenage Girls to Exercise. In CHI  06 Extended Abstracts on
Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI EA  06). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 1873 1878.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1125451.1125805
Malavika Velayanikal. 2014. Can a  tness tracker which rewards users solve the problem of wear-
https://www.techinasia.com/mymo- tness-tracker-gives-rewards-to-users/. (2014).
able tech?
Accessed: 17-07-2015.
Viswanath Venkatesh and Hillol Bala. 2008.
Research Agenda on Interventions.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-5915.2008.00192.x
Technology Acceptance Model 3 and a
Decision Sciences 39, 2 (May 2008), 273 315.
Viswanath Venkatesh and Fred D Davis. 2000. A Theoretical Extension of the Technology Accep-
tance Model: Four Longitudinal Field Studies. Management Science 46, 2 (Feb 2000), 186 204.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1287/mnsc.46.2.186.11926
Judith B White, Ellen J Langer, Leeat Yariv, and John C Welch IV. 2006. Frequent Social Compar-
isons and Destructive Emotions and Behaviors: The Dark Side of Social Comparisons. Journal
of Adult Development 13, 1 (June 2006), 36 44. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10804-006-9005-0
Bin Yu, Jun Hu, and Loe Feijs. 2014. Design and Evaluation of an Ambient Lighting Interface of
HRV Biofeedback System in Home Setting. In Ubiquitous Computing and Ambient Intelligence.
Personalisation and User Adapted Services. Springer International Publishing, Cham, 88 91.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-13102-3 17
Robert Boleslaw Zajonc and others. 1965. Social facilitation (1st ed.). Research Center for Group
Dynamics, Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan, Michigan, USA.
Xiaoyi Zhang, Wenyao Xu, Ming-Chun Huang, Navid Amini, and Fengbo Ren. 2013. See UV on
Your Skin: An Ultraviolet Sensing and Visualization System. In Proceedings of the 8th Inter-
national Conference on Body Area Networks (BodyNets  13). ICST (Institute for Computer Sci-
ences, Social-Informatics and Telecommunications Engineering), ICST, Brussels, Belgium, Bel-
gium, 22 28. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.4108/icst.bodynets.2013.253701
Oren Zuckerman and Ayelet Gal-Oz. 2014. Deconstructing Gami cation: Evaluating the Effec-
tiveness of Continuous Measurement, Virtual Rewards, and Social Comparison for Promot-
ing Physical Activity. Personal and Ubiquitous Computing () 18, 7 (Oct 2014), 1705 1719.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s00779-014-0783-2
27
Online Appendix to:
Wearable Computing for Health and Fitness: Exploring the Relationship
between Data and Human Behaviour
KATRIN H  ANSEL, Queen Mary University of London
NATALIE WILDE, Queen Mary University of London
HAMED HADDADI, Queen Mary University of London
AKRAM ALOMAINY, Queen Mary University of London
Abbreviations of Behaviour Change Theories (BCT):
  SDT - Self Determination Theory [Deci and Ryan 1985]
  SCT - Social Cognitive Theory [Bandura 1977]
  TBP - Theory of Planned Behaviour [Ajzen 1991]
  TTM - Transtheoretical model [Prochaska and DiClemente 1982]
  FBC - Fogg s Behaviour Change Model [Fogg 2009]
  FP - Fogg Persuasive [Fogg 2002]
  SET - Self Ef cacy Theory [Bandura 1977]
c(cid:13) YYYY Copyright held by the owner/author(s). 0000-0000/YYYY/01-ARTA $15.00
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/0000000.0000000
ACM Journal Name, Vol. V, No. N, Article A, Publication date: January YYYY.
Paper
Summary
Sensors and Feedback
Feedback
Motivation through Gami cation
Accelerometer, GPS for movement data and
position
game points
N
-
Duration
Results
BCT
-
-
[Bleecker et al. 2007]
[Payton et al.
[Doran et al. 2010]
2011],
[Stanley et al. 2014]
[Clawson et al. 2010]
[Ali-Hasan et al. 2006]
[Ahtinen et al. 2010]
[Chen and Pu 2014]
[Chuah et al. 2012]
[Macvean and Robertson
2012]
[G org  u et al. 2010]
Game utilising movements from wearable in
a game where avatar runs from zombies and
player gets points
World of Workout exergame to motivate
physical activity with quests that the user
must complete by beating step count goals
set up either by them or the app.
Pervasive Accumulated Context Exergame
(PACE) which passively collects activity dur-
ing the day, and rewards the participant in
a later sedentary computer game
Mobile and wearable health game which
uses 2 wireless accelerometers worn around
the users ankles as input into a social danc-
ing game played by groups of users at the
same time. 49 people were satis ed with the
game but there was a lot of users  nding the
sensors dif cult to use or that they weren t
agreeing with what they were doing.
Game with an online dashboard showing
physical activity of the group members and
offer capability to challenge other members
of the group.
Designed and modelled a mobile phone
game that looked at using social and play
aspects to encourage physical activity called
 into . The game works on the analogy of the
user going on  virtual trips  using their dis-
tance traveled to win rewards. People can
combine and work together.
Developed a game to study and observe how
users interact in different group gami ca-
tion settings - competition, cooperation, or
hybrid. App included a messaging service to
allow a pair of people to talk to each other
and help or taunt each other.
A location based alternate reality game that
encourages users to stay physically active.
The app includes ways for the user to go on
tours to  nd hidden rewards on a real world
map and also on group tours and share to
social networks.
iFitQuest is a mobile location-aware, alter-
nate reality exergame using google maps.
Made up of mini games like  collect the coins 
and  escape the ghost  where the user must
physically move to avoid or collect things
shown on screen.
Freegaming is a location-based augmented
exergame. The player is navigated on a vir-
tual map by following augmented reality
clues. The status off each playerrs progress
can be seen on a map in the mobile phone
app.
A
C
M
J
o
u
r
n
a
l
N
a
m
e
,
V
o
l
.
V
,
N
o
.
N
,
A
r
t
i
c
l
e
A
,
P
u
b
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
d
a
t
e
:
J
a
n
u
a
r
y
Y
Y
Y
Y
.
iPhone shake sensor
new quests on a virtual quest map
10 students
2 quests
users liked the game and found it fun
phone accelerometer, location (if on campus
by looking at wi  SSID), bluetooth proximity
received game advantages in computer
game, and alerts during the day
players
24
(two
rounds
of 12 players
each)
Accelerometer for each leg
dancing game with encouraging mes-
sages
50
9 days
2 songs
found system fun and challenging, users
were satis ed with experience,
phone accelerometer for step data
online leaderboard
-
-
-
phone accelerometer for step data
challenges within the group, presentation
of the walked distance on a map
37 in groups of
2-6
1 week
users liked the app, found it understand-
able, and appreciated the similarity of game
world
Fitbit pedometer
mobile dashboard
in
36
pairs
(collaboration,
competition,
hybrid groups)
2
day warm-up,
1 week control 1
week experimental
session
signi cant increase of activity in all groups,
cooperation and hybrid effective in motiva-
tion more activity, competition lead to a neg-
ative correlation between increase of step
count between pair members
phone WiFi module to log into WiFi access
points
mobile phone all with a map, access
points and progress
-
-
-
mobile phone GPS and compass for location-
ing and navigation
Escape the Ghost: Map showing a virtual
ghost avatar the players must escape by
moving in the physical world; Collect the
Coins: The users must collect coins shown
on the virtual map while avoiding the
ghosts.
25
30 minutes
users found both games enjoyable, boys en-
joyed the game signi cantly more than girls
GPS for locationing; camea for augmented
reality clues
augmented reality clues, a game map
with the status of each player
-
-
-
A
p
p
 
2
K
.
H
 a
n
s
e
l
e
t
a
l
.
A
C
M
J
o
u
r
n
a
l
N
a
m
e
,
V
o
l
.
V
,
N
o
.
N
,
A
r
t
i
c
l
e
A
,
P
u
b
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
d
a
t
e
:
J
a
n
u
a
r
y
Y
Y
Y
Y
.
Paper
Summary
Sensors and Feedback
Feedback
[Zuckerman and Gal-Oz
2014]
[Zuckerman and Gal-Oz
2014]
StepByStep mobile application to promote
regular walking. Quanti ed version with
continuous measurement, daily goals and
feedback on daily progression for self-
motivated re ection. Gami ed version with
virtual rewards and social comparison.
StepByStep mobile application to promote
regular walking. Quanti ed version with
continuous measurement, daily goals and
feedback on daily progression for self-
motivated re ection. Gami ed version with
virtual rewards and social comparison.
accelerometer in phone for step count
1st study mobile app showed active min-
utes and progress towards goal
accelerometer in phone for step count
2nd study mobile app showed active min-
utes, progress towards goal and gami ca-
tion elements of points and a leaderboard
(in the leaderboard version)
N
40
59
Duration
Results
BCT
2 weeks
signi cant increase of walking minutes; app
raised the awareness for own activity
10 days
signi cant correlation between walking goal
and active minutes for QS and points ver-
sion, but not for leaderboards
[Buttussi and Chittaro
2008]
personal
a mobile
Generated
trainer
(MOPET), the MOPET takes in real time
data from sensors and knowledge from
professional trainers to provide motivation
and health and safety advice.   To interact
with the user there is a 3d embodied agent
that can talk
GPS for locationing, heart rate monitor with
a 3D accelerometer
exercise recommendations from proves-
sional
-
-
-
Social In uence
[Lin et al. 2006]
Fish n Steps is a social computer game
which links the players daily activity count
to the growth of animated  sh characters.
Accelerometer for step count data
animated  sh character in a bowl in the
phone app
19
Fish n Steps study indicates that partici-
pants either rose in the levels of the trans-
theoretical model or increased the number
of daily steps
[Anderson et al. 2007]
[Cercos and Floyd  Mueller
2013]
[Lim et al. 2011]
Looks at using a mobile phone as a
health promotion tool. The app tracks the
daily exercise levels of users by analysing
their movement. This data is then shared
amongst the users group of friends. A short
study found that this sharing of data encour-
aged the user to re ect upon the data more.
 ght sedentary through social play and
collective awareness, team data shown on
semi-public display, they utilise power of so-
cial relationships to change behaviour, pro-
mote shared re ective view of players, a  c-
tional player (10k guy) to promote shared
goal of 10.000 steps, utilises social compar-
ison and showed discrepancy between goal
and actual performance
Pediluma is a wearable device that is worn
on the user s foot, the more steps a user
takes, the more the device lights up. A study
was conducted and found that the use of the
device did encurage an increase in physical
activity but there are issues around discreet-
ness of the device.
GSM cell signal strength to detect cells and
movement
app shows current progress and peers
progress towards goal
9
10 days
application was perceived well by partici-
pants, no study on effect of behaviour change
Fitbit: accelerometer and altimeter
semi-public display with visualisation of
step data of all participants, 2D line
graph is shown
15
8 weeks
observational results of preliminary study:
when display was hanging, more and more
people were interested in participating, also
new conversation spaces through discus-
sions
SDT,
SCT,
TTM
shoe accessory with pedometer
LED in accessory lights up when wearer
moves, dims when wearer is stationary
18
2 weeks (1 week de-
tecting baseline, 1
week with wearable
feedback)
the device was able to increase the step
count and physical activity, but people felt
not too comfortable around strangers seeing
the device
FP
[Foster et al. 2010]
StepMatron is a Facebook application to pro-
vide social and competitive environment to
increase physical activity at the workplace
Pedometer
non-social version: participant can see
own step data in online dashboard, social:
participant can additionally see step data
from group members and can comment
on them.
10 nurses
3w
signi cant increased step count in social ver-
sion compared to non-social
[Toscos et al. 2006]
Chick Clique is a Mobile phone app that al-
lows girls to talk track their step count as
a group and talk about their progress. So-
cial element worked and encouraged girls to
talk to each other about health, something
they would not normally do.
accelerometer as pedometer
app with group activity overview
groups
of
2
friends
(one
4 (15-17), the
other
(13
years))
3
comparison just tracker - tracker and app for
group awareness: group one performed bet-
ter with app, group two without (no signi -
cance)
l
W
e
a
r
a
b
e
C
o
m
p
u
t
i
n
g
f
o
r
H
e
a
l
t
h
:
l
E
x
p
o
r
i
n
g
t
h
e
R
e
a
t
i
o
n
s
h
p
b
e
t
w
e
e
n
D
a
l
i
t
a
a
n
d
H
u
m
a
n
B
e
h
a
v
o
u
r
i
A
p
p
 
3
Paper
Summary
Sensors and Feedback
Feedback
accelerometer (determine pace and distance)
and heart rate
e-ink screen on back of the shirt show
progress to other runners
[Mauriello et al. 2014]
[Lu and Lemonde 2014]
[Lane et al. 2014]
[Burns et al. 2012]
[Oliver and Flores-Mangas
2006],
[de Oliveira and Oliver
2008]
[Carroll et al. 2013]
[Kranz et al. 2013]
Created a set of wearable devices to sup-
port group  tness, which displayed impor-
tant run data to every group member on e
int displays located on the back of the run-
ners t-shirts.
Designed an app called  UOIFit  aimed at in-
creasing physical activity levels in adoles-
cents. The app incorporated social aspects
into its design such as friending, sharing
progress and collaboratively exercising with
friends either in person or remotely, the  t-
feed tab of the app displaying all this data.
Studies were conducted with the app and
found social aspects to have a positive im-
pact on the amount of activity the user did
and their BMI.
Created a set of wearable devices to sup-
port group  tness, which displayed impor-
tant run data to every group member on e
int displays located on the back of the run-
ners t-shirts.
Developed a low-complexity low- engage-
ment interface to motivate physical activity.
Activimon is a wrist worn device that has a
light display that shows the user when other
members of their group are being active by
 ashing. In studies, users were divided in
their opinion about the device, some liked
it but others felt it didnt provide them with
enough information.
MPTrain app plays adaptive music to the
runners speed, TrippleBeat app in uences
music based on exercise performance, ad-
vancement over MPTrain: TippleBeat con-
siders optimal training zones, virtual com-
petition with others, motivation through
scores, glance-able interface showing
Looks at modifying the behaviour that peo-
ple have with regards to emotional eating.
Users used a mobile phone application to
track emotions and to receive interventions
- emotree. This helped them to  nd the emo-
tions most felt when eating occurred. Then
made a bra that could sense these emotions.
Looked into the feasibility of using a smart
as a personalised  tness trainer. The  Gym-
Skill  app involves exercise descriptions,
sensor data logging, activity recognition and
on-top skill assessment to present data as
valuable as that of a personal trainer, tai-
lored to the users ability. The gym skill app
was speci c to balance board training, as the
user was on the balance board, they would
simply place their Andriod smart phone in
the middle of the board. Testing of the sys-
tem showed its potential for ensuring long-
term retention in this type of application.
People particularly liked the personalised
feedback and suggestions more than other
features.
A
C
M
J
o
u
r
n
a
l
N
a
m
e
,
V
o
l
.
V
,
N
o
.
N
,
A
r
t
i
c
l
e
A
,
P
u
b
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
d
a
t
e
:
J
a
n
u
a
r
y
Y
Y
Y
Y
.
N
52
Duration
Results
BCT
1 run
display motivated to perform better; dis-
plays improve awareness of individual and
group performance, helps groups stay to-
gether, and improves in-situ motivation
A
p
p
 
4
accelerometer in phone for tracking exer-
cises
app shows  tness activity and offers so-
cial activity functions
35
6 weeks
all participants reduced their BMI to a
healthier range, strong correlation between
use of social activity features ad BMI reduc-
tion
phone s accelerometer and microphone to
detect sleep patterns and quality, physical
activity, and social activity to calculate well-
being score
baseline group: web-dashboard showing
wellbeing score: multidimensional-group:
ambient phone display with  sh swim-
ming in a bowl
27
19 days
liked the ambient display, positive be-
haviour change, but study short
Movement of users arm, step count
wristband shows light  ashing when
peers are active
5
2 weeks
usability study
Context-Aware Interfaces and Feedback
ecg, accelerometer
MPTrain: adaptive changes in music,
TrippleBeat: music changes, glancable
phone screen with information
10 runners
electrodermal
electrocardiogram sensor,
activity
accelerome-
ter, user s food and mood input to detect
emotional eating patterns
gyroscope,
sensor,
mobile phone accelerometer and gyroscope
Personalised feedback on exercises and
suggestions on the phone
-
6
-
-
compared MPTrain and TrippleBeat:
in-
creased time in trainings zone with Trip-
ple Beat (57.1% vs 82.8%), all participants
spend more time in optimal trainings zone,
competition was valued by users, partici-
pants clearly preferred trippleBeat
3 studies: 2 on interventions for snacking; 1
on feasibility of wearable emotion recogni-
tion
SCT
5 days
people especially liked the personal feed-
back and exercise suggestions.
SCT
K
.
H
 a
n
s
e
l
e
t
a
l
.
Paper
Summary
Sensors and Feedback
Feedback
manual input in phone app
progress is visualised as LEDs on the
wristband, progress also shown in mobile
app
N
6
Duration
Results
BCT
4 weeks (2 weeks in
each condition)
participants drank more and more regularly
with the wearable compared to the mobile
app alone
A
C
M
J
o
u
r
n
a
l
N
a
m
e
,
V
o
l
.
V
,
N
o
.
N
,
A
r
t
i
c
l
e
A
,
P
u
b
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
d
a
t
e
:
J
a
n
u
a
r
y
Y
Y
Y
Y
.
[Fortmann et al. 2014]
[Pels et al. 2014]
[Rajanna et al. 2014]
[Lin et al. 2011]
[Lin et al. 2012]
[Consolvo et al. 2008]
[Oliver and Flores-Mangas
2006]
Waterjewel
is a device to encourage its
wearer to drink more water daily. It has a
light up display which indicates how much
of their daily goal the user has achieved
but also acts as a reminder every two hours
to the user that they should drink more.
LEDs in bracelet would light up red or
green according to users drinking behaviour.
Made using Arduino lily pad and linked to
an android app called  Carbodroid . Studies
showed that people drank more when wear-
ing the bracelet than not. So the bracelet
was successful in promoting good drinking
behaviour.
The Fat belt is a wearable device that uses
physical feedback through in ating around
the stomach as a response to calorie overcon-
sumption, simulating the long-term weight-
gain associated with over-eating   isomor-
phism.
A context aware health assistant system  
A mobile application that encourages the
user to adopt a healthy life style by perform-
ing simple and contextually suitable physi-
cal exercises. The mobile app promotes brief
physical exercise after prolonged periods of
inactivity by sending  nudges  to the user.
Developed a context aware recommendation
system called  Motivate , which takes into
consideration an individuals location and
other features to offer personalised advice.
The user downloads the motivate app onto
their smartphone and sets up a pro le for
the app to base its advice around. The advice
has constraints such as weather and time
and models its response around these. the
user then tells the app whether they intend
take the advice.
mobile phone app BeWell+ to monitor sleep,
physical activity and social activity to gen-
erate wellbeing score, which is presented to
users. Compared two versions in their study:
baseline with web dashboard and version
with additional ambient display. Social fea-
ture allows to compare own wellbeing score
to peers and identify role models
UbiFit is an application that uses on-body
sensing and machine learning to infer peo-
ple s activities, using a personal, mobile dis-
play to encourage physical activity. The dis-
play uses the metaphor of a garden that
blooms throughout the week as the user per-
forms physical activities.
Health gear consists of physiological sensors
wirelessly connected to a mobile phone via
Bluetooth. The data from these sensors are
then manipulated and displayed to the user
in a relevant way. There was an 100% suc-
cess rate in recognising cases of sleep apnea.
Issues like security and privacy need to be
addressed.
input of calories in mobile app
in ating belt mimicking weight gain in
the stomach area
12
2 days
signi cant decrease in consumption over a
baseline period of the same length. Seen as
an extension of the users own body   gave
the wearable more emotional power over the
user.
accelerometer and GPS to determine activ-
ity
Nudges sent to user through their smart
phone to remind them to be more active.
Can be vibrations, visual or auditory.
GPS or GSM localisation; further informa-
tion from weather services,
App interface with recommendations for
activities based on weather, location and
personal preferences
-
6
-
-
FBC
5 weeks
Studys found the reception of this app to be
mixed, with only 50% of people replying yes
to advice given to them within the app.
Support for Self-Monitoring and Re ection
phone s accelerometer and microphone
group:
baseline
web-dashboard:
multidimensional-group: ambient phone
display with  sh swimming in a bowl
27
19 days
liked the ambient display, positive be-
haviour change, but study short
accelerometer and barometer to infer physi-
cal activity
glancable screen on phone with a bloom-
ing garden depending on activity levels
12
21-25 days
TTM
The technology worked reasonably well
within the  eld study, recognising most
activities correctly. Participants mentioned
that the garden was motivating, often sur-
prisingly so   worked as a constant repre-
sentation of their data. For others it helped
them focus on planning or simply  nding
time for physical activity.
wearable blood oximeter for heart rate and
blood oxygen levels
shows heart rate and oxygen on phone.
20
1 night
shows heart rate and oxygen on phone.
l
W
e
a
r
a
b
e
C
o
m
p
u
t
i
n
g
f
o
r
H
e
a
l
t
h
:
l
E
x
p
o
r
i
n
g
t
h
e
R
e
a
t
i
o
n
s
h
p
b
e
t
w
e
e
n
D
a
l
i
t
a
a
n
d
H
u
m
a
n
B
e
h
a
v
o
u
r
i
A
p
p
 
5
Duration
Results
BCT
Paper
Summary
Sensors and Feedback
Feedback
[How et al. 2013]
[Nerino et al. 2013]
[Zhang et al. 2013]
Android app to help people in rehabilita-
tion (eg. after stroke) to improve their step
symmetry. The app has three modes where
the user can train, capture regular walks
and compare his improvements in a history.
Data can be shared with therapist via email.
A wireless body sensor network for monitor-
ing the exercises of rehabilitation patients of
knee surgery. This supports unassisted re-
habilitation of motor functions.
Created a system that contains a wearable
UV sensor and a pair of AR glasses. The
glasses would change the colour of the users
skin to make it look more red dependant on
the amount of time the user spends out in
the UV rays.
Android phone accelerometer to detect step
pattern
Dashboard in app with scores for symme-
try of walk and stats like tome and rating
of the walk
accelerometer, gyroscope to determine leg
position and movement
GUI on a tablet for patients with feed-
back on correct positioning during exer-
cises
UV sensor
Augmented reality glasses showing a
change in skin colour after too much sun
exposure to simulate sunburn
N
-
-
6
[Madan et al. 2010]
They used mobile phone social sensing and
self-assessments to identify correlations be-
tween mobile data and illness symptoms.
Bluetooth proximity to other phone users,
WLAN for rough location, Call & SMS
records, daily symptoms self-assessment
no feedback
70 residents of
a dormitory
-
-
-
-
[Spelmezan et al. 2009]
Custom sensor and mobile phone applica-
tion (phone for hosting and computation) for
learning and training of physical activities.
Used snowboarding beginners as example.
force sensitive resistors in shoes, Shake sen-
sors to measure upper body rotation, Bend-
Short sensors to measure knee  exion,
vibro-tactile feedback through actuators
placed at different places
8
1 snowboarding ses-
sion
[Chi et al. 2004]
[Sanches et al. 2010]
[Kocielnik et al. 2013]
Study Looked at putting sensors into a mar-
tial art competition (taekwondo) to see when
a signi cant impact had been delivered to ei-
ther competitor.
Different sensors brought together with a
mobile app with different visualizations to
help users track their stress and re ect.
Framework for measuring stress in real-life
conditions continuously and unobtrusively
to help the users re ect their stress states
and develop relief patterns
[St ahl et al. 2009]
[Reitberger et al. 2014]
A digital diary for user-written notes as well
as body sensor data and mobile phone media
data to help people re ect their emotions.
The tablet app showed a timeline with pho-
tos and information on the current affective
state, the presence of others, and phone ac-
tivity like calls and SMS.
Nutri ect system with a ambient display in
kitchen, shows information on healthiness
of bought food
[Paredes and Chan
2011]
They measured stress levels of participants
and offered different type of intervention
to help participants relax: games, guided
breathing with haptic feedback and social
support from loved ones
A
C
M
J
o
u
r
n
a
l
N
a
m
e
,
V
o
l
.
V
,
N
o
.
N
,
A
r
t
i
c
l
e
A
,
P
u
b
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
d
a
t
e
:
J
a
n
u
a
r
y
Y
Y
Y
Y
.
Force sensors, Amount of force on competi-
tors body protector
Displays score to user on screen
national
in
4
champions
Taekwondo
2 hours
Accelerometer, GSR, ECG integrated into
clothing to detect movements and stress
Philips DTI-2 sensor (GSR, skin temper-
lightning,
ature, ambient
accelerometer),
self-
assessments
temperature,
calendar
entries,
mobile phone app, stress history view for
re ection and manual pattern detection
for the user
no feedback during the study, LifelogEx-
porer showed graphs of data at the end of
study
-
10
-
-
4 weeks
Bodymedia biosensor collecting skin con-
ductance data, mobile phone photos, mobile
phone usage data (SMS, calls), bluetooth
proximity to detect presence of others
a tablet app allows the presentation to
the collected data in a timeline. It shows
photos and symbolised data on detected
bluetooth device, phone calls and SMS,
and  gures with colour codes for current
emotional state
4
2 to 4 weeks
camera to scan EAN or NFC to identify foods
ambient display in form of tablet showing
family process of health eating
21
2 weeks pre, 4 weeks
study,
participants liked it and rated it positively
Social Support
Heart Rate sensor and GSR sensor to detect
stress
3 intervention types: gaming; haptic feed-
back for guided breathing; emotional, so-
cial support
20
experimental
1
setup
no signi cant difference between interven-
tions
-
-
Studies conducted found the visualisation to
have a positive effect on users.
it is possible to determine the health status
of individuals using information gathered by
mobile phones alone, without having actual
health measurements about the subject
identi ed movements accurately, partici-
pants perceived very well tactile instruc-
tions (87as compared to corresponding audio
instructions (97played back over earplugs
while snowboarding.
participants and jury agreed with the scor-
ing provided by the system; participants
gave positive feedback
data presented to the user after the 4
weeks, LifelogExplorer to generate overview
of all data semi-structured interviews on
the meaningfulness, usefulness, and trigger-
ing of healthier behaviour; the participants
were positive, that new unobtrusive sensors
for long-term data measurement can help
user to get feedback of their stress levels in
real work environments
Their qualitative study showed that partici-
pants used the diary in very different ways
to interpret and make sense of the data.
They also concluded, that the measurements
did not always represent the experienced
feelings.
A
p
p
 
6
K
.
H
 a
n
s
e
l
e
t
a
l
.
A
C
M
J
o
u
r
n
a
l
N
a
m
e
,
V
o
l
.
V
,
N
o
.
N
,
A
r
t
i
c
l
e
A
,
P
u
b
l
i
c
a
t
i
o
n
d
a
t
e
:
J
a
n
u
a
r
y
Y
Y
Y
Y
.
Paper
Summary
Sensors and Feedback
Feedback
[Polzien et al. 2007]
Studied whether using technology with per-
sonal counselling or using purely technol-
ogy will result in a bigger weight loss. Used
the Sensewear pro armband was used to de-
termine the energy expenditure. The group
that used solely technology lost the most
weight, followed by the people that used
solely counselling.
Sensewear pro armband for determining en-
ergy expenditure, self-monitored calorie in-
take
Inteructions on calorie intake and exer-
cise regime, the technology group also
had access to their energy expenditure
data from Sensewear
N
58
Duration
Results
12 weeks
participants using the Sensewear lost 2kg
more weight than group without technology
support (not signi cant)
BCT
SET
l
W
e
a
r
a
b
e
C
o
m
p
u
t
i
n
g
f
o
r
H
e
a
l
t
h
:
l
E
x
p
o
r
i
n
g
t
h
e
R
e
a
t
i
o
n
s
h
p
b
e
t
w
e
e
n
D
a
l
i
t
a
a
n
d
H
u
m
a
n
B
e
h
a
v
o
u
r
i
A
p
p
 
7
