Branch: An interactive, web-based tool for test-
ing hypotheses and developing predictive mod-
els 
Karthik Gangavarapu 1, Vyshakh Babji1, Tobias Mei ner1,2, Andrew I. Su1,* and Ben-
jamin M. Good1,* 
1Department of Molecular and Experimental Medicine, The Scripps Research Institute, 10550 North Torrey Pines 
Road, La Jolla, CA, 92037 ., 2Avera Health 
*To whom correspondence should be addressed. 
Abstract 
Summary: Branch is a web application that provides users with no programming with the ability to 
interact directly with large biomedical datasets.  The interaction is mediated through a collaborative 
graphical user interface for building and evaluating decision trees.  These trees can be used to com-
pose and test sophisticated hypotheses and to develop predictive models.  Decision trees are evalu-
ated based on a library of imported datasets and can be stored in a collective area for sharing and re-
use.  
 
Availability and Implementation: Branch is hosted at http://biobranch.org/ and the open source code 
is available at http://bitbucket.org/sulab/biobranch/.  
Contact: {gkarthik, asu, bgood}@scripps.edu  
 
 
 
1 
Introduction  
One central goal of large-scale molecular profiling is to identify con-
sistent patterns that can be used to advance understanding of and to make 
predictions about a particular condition. Given the large numbers of fea-
it can also be used to interactively construct and test a complex predic-
tive model. Such models may, because of the incorporation of the user s 
expertise, outperform models inferred from the data by strictly auto-
mated methods (Stumpf et al., 2009).  
tures typically measured, it is assumed that complex patterns involving 
2  Using Branch 
interactions between multiple variables exist and can be detected by 
modern statistical and machine learning approaches. Yet, despite the 
troves of data collected, the predictive and explanatory power of patterns 
extracted automatically from data remain weak for most conditions of in-
terest(Weigelt et al., 2012). Further, it ranges from challenging to impos-
sible for biomedical domain experts to directly engage with the data. 
Apart from researchers with advanced programming and statistical skills 
at their disposal, it is nearly impossible to answer even simple questions 
from a breast cancer data set like: 
1.   do the expression levels of VEGFA correlate with survival?  
2.   if AURKA expression is high and TOP2A expression is low, is 
the risk of recurrence lower or higher?  
3.   are the genes in the apoptosis pathway more or less predictive of 
survival than those involved in Mitochondrial complex I activity?  
Here we introduce an interactive Web application, called Branch, that 
makes it easy for anyone to answer questions like these. Branch can be 
used to test hypotheses and to construct and evaluate predictive models. 
It also provides a collaborative graphical interface for manual creation of 
decision trees that encapsulate the structure of sophisticated hypotheses. 
This tool not only allows users to answer questions of particular datasets, 
Users begin by selecting a dataset of interest from the Branch dataset li-
brary. Each dataset corresponds to a single table in which each row con-
tains the values for a set of features, e.g. gene expression levels or clini-
cal variables, and a binary class label for each sample, e.g. cancer/nor-
mal.  The library currently contains several datasets selected to demon-
strate the features of the application. Additional datasets may be loaded 
upon request. Branch may also be installed locally from its open source 
code.  
 
Once a dataset is selected, the user chooses an evaluation option to be 
used to measure the quality of the decision tree they will build in the sub-
sequent step. They may select from three options. First, selecting  train-
ing set  allows users to see exactly how a tree fits the particular dataset 
under study. This may lead to false conclusions about the generality of 
the constructed tree ( overfitting ). Second, users can select  test set  for 
cases where explicit training and test sets are provided. In this case, the 
user builds the tree with information from the training set but sees evalu-
ation results on the test set. Third, if no compatible datasets are available 
as independent test sets, the  percentage split  option simulates the pro-
cess by dividing the data randomly into a training and testing set   again 
Gangavarapu et al. 
Figure 1. A decision tree built using a node-negative, ER-positive, HER2-negative 
breast cancer dataset(Griffith et al., 2013).  (A) Evaluation of the tree on the testing 
set. The evaluation sidebar shows the accuracy, area under the curve and the confu-
sion matrix. (B) The percentage of samples with  low  expression of PSRC1 and 
the accuracy of the prediction at the concerned leaf node are shown in the dialogue 
box. (C) The decision tree as visualized in Branch. (D) The search bar used to add 
split nodes to the decision tree.  
large, high-dimensional datasets. In doing so, it should help them de-
velop and refine better, more informed hypotheses. In addition, the appli-
cation can be used to generate a crowdsourced collection of predictive 
models that captures the collective knowledge of the user community.  
This library of predictive models should prove useful to individual users 
and might also be applied computationally, for example, to generate an 
ensemble predictor.   
   Branch is available online at http://biobranch.org with open source 
code available at http://bitbucket.org/sulab/biobranch. It consists of a 
Java Spring server application that takes advantage of the Weka (Frank 
et al., 2004) machine learning library and a Web client application based 
on Backbone.js and d3.js.  
Acknowledgements 
We would like to thank Obi Griffith and Ryan Morin for discussions leading to 
the conceptualization of Branch and for testing early prototypes. 
Funding 
This work was supported by NIH grants GM114833 and TR001114. 
 
Conflict of Interest: none declared. 
References 
Frank,E. et al. (2004) Data mining in bioinformatics using Weka. Bioinformatics, 
20, 2479 81. 
giving more realistic assessments about the generalizability of decision 
Griffith,O.L. et al. (2013) A robust prognostic signature for hormone-positive 
tree structures developed using the tool.  
node-negative breast cancer. Genome Med., 5, 92. 
 
Paik,S. et al. (2004) A multigene assay to predict recurrence of tamoxifen-treated, 
Given a dataset and an evaluation method, the user can begin construct-
node-negative breast cancer. N. Engl. J. Med., 351, 2817 26. 
ing decision trees and measuring their quality (Figure 1). Building a tree 
Stumpf,S. et al. (2009) Interacting meaningfully with machine learning systems: 
corresponds to the process of iteratively adding split nodes. Branch sup-
Three experiments. Int. J. Hum. Comput. Stud., 67, 639 662. 
ports five different split node types. Most simply, single feature splits 
WARE,M. et al. (2001) Interactive machine learning: letting users build classifiers. 
may be created from individual features in the dataset such as the expres-
Int. J. Hum. Comput. Stud., 55, 281 292. 
sion values for a particular gene or the age of a patient.  Custom features 
Weigelt,B. et al. (2012) Challenges translating breast cancer gene signatures into 
may be created as linear combinations of other features. For example, the 
the clinic. Nat. Rev. Clin. Oncol., 9, 58 64. 
OncotypeDx (Paik et al., 2004) breast cancer recurrence score can be 
 
recreated and applied as a feature for use in single Branch split nodes 
(See supplementary data). The user may also choose to use built-in ma-
chine learning algorithms to infer a predictive model from a feature sub-
set and use the model for a decision node. Likewise, previously created 
trees can be used as individual decision nodes. Finally, the system pro-
vides a visual split creator that lets the user define decision boundaries 
graphically (Ware et al., 2001). A tree may incorporate mixtures of these 
different node types. 
    Users can begin building a tree from scratch or can select an existing 
tree that corresponds to their dataset from the community library or their 
personal collection. Once created, the user may save their tree to the pub-
lic collection or keep it private. 
3  Results 
Branch provides a new mechanism to connect a large pool of biologi-
cally savvy (but perhaps not computationally savvy) researchers with 
