7
1
0
2
 
r
a
 
M
5
1
 
 
]
Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
3
v
5
2
4
4
0
.
9
0
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
The Propensity to Cycle Tool: An open source
online system for sustainable transport
planning
Robin Lovelace (University of Leeds)
Anna Goodman (London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine)
Rachel Aldred (University of Westminster)
Nikolai Berko  (independent web developer)
Ali Abbas (University of Cambridge)
James Woodcock (University of Cambridge)
Abstract
Getting people cycling is an increasingly common objective in transport planning institutions
worldwide. A growing evidence base indicates that high quality infrastructure can boost
local cycling rates. Yet for infrastructure and other cycling measures to be e ective, it is
important to intervene in the right places, such as along  desire lines  of high latent demand.
This creates the need for tools and methods to help answer the question  where to build? .
Following a brief review of the policy and research context related to this question, this
paper describes the design, features and potential applications of such a tool. The Propensity
to Cycle Tool (PCT) is an online, interactive planning support system which was initially
developed to explore and map cycling potential across England (see www.pct.bike). Based
1
on origin-destination data, it models and visualises cycling levels at area, desire line, route
and route network levels, for current levels of cycling, and for scenario-based  cycling futures .
Four scenarios are presented, including  Go Dutch  and  Ebikes , which explore what would
happen if English people cycled as much as Dutch people and the potential impact of electric
cycles on cycling uptake. The cost e ectiveness of investment depends not only on the number
of additional trips cycled, but on wider impacts such as health and carbon bene ts. The PCT
reports these at area, desire line, and route level for each scenario. The PCT is open source,
facilitating the creation of additional scenarios and its deployment in new contexts. We
conclude that the PCT illustrates the potential of online tools to inform transport decisions
and raises the wider issue of how models should be used in transport planning.
1
Introduction
Cycling can play an important role in creating sustainable and equitable transport systems.
Cycling already provides reliable, healthy, a ordable, and convenient mobility to millions of
people each day (Komano , 2004) and is one of the fastest growing modes of transport in
cities such as London, New York and Barcelona (Fishman, 2016). There is mounting evidence
about the external costs of car-dominated transport systems (e.g. Han and Hayashi, 2008;
Shergold et al., 2012), and the bene ts of cycling (De Nazelle et al., 2011; Oja et al., 2011;
Tainio et al., 2016). In this context there is growing interest, and in some cases substantial
investment, in cycling infrastructure, including in countries with historically low rates of
cycling.
Providing high-quality infrastructure can play a key role in promoting cycling uptake (Parkin,
2012). O -road cycle paths, for example, have been found to be associated with an uptake
of cycling for commuting (Heinen et al., 2015). Overall there is growing evidence linking
cycling infrastructure to higher rates of cycling (Buehler and Dill, 2016). But where should
2
this infrastructure be built? The central purpose of this paper is highlight the potential of
online, interactive and publicly accessible tools to improve the provision of locally speci c
evidence about where cycling has the greatest potential to grow for transport planning. It
does so with reference to the Propensity to Cycle Tool (PCT), an online planning support
system funded by the UK s Department for Transport to map cycling potential (Department
for Transport, 2015). The PCT is open source. This di ers from other tools for assessing
cycling potential (see the next section) and has wider implications for how models can and
should be used in the transport decision making process (see the Discussion).
2 The Propensity to Cycle Tool in context
The PCT was developed alongside two branches of academic research: a) methodological
developments for estimating cycling potential and b) Planning Support Systems (PSS). The
subsequent overview of this policy and academic landscape places the PCT in its wider
context and explains its key features.
2.1 The policy context
A number of factors in uence the attractiveness of cycling for everyday trips (Parkin, 2015;
Pucher et al., 2010). However, the intervention that has received the most attention has
been the construction of new cycle paths. In the UK context, devolved transport budgets
mean that local authorities have some control over the design and implementation of cycling
networks. While much of the road network budget allocated centrally, through Highways
England, cycle paths tend to be commissioned and designed locally due to funding streams
such as the Local Sustainable Transport Fund, described in the context of modal shift to
cycling by Chatterjee et al. (2013). This, and the shorter distances and more  exible routes
(e.g. through parks and along disused railways) that cycle paths can take increases the
3
importance of high resolution map-based tools for cycling compared with motorised modes.
Local transport budgets also increase demand for local cycling targets that open source tools
such as the PCT could enable, as described in the Discussion.
Planning new cycle paths requires many decisions to be made, including in relation to the
width (Pikora et al., 2002; Wegman, 1979), quality (Heath et al., 2006), directness (CROW,
2007) and geographic location of the paths. Yet while much guidance has been produced
regarding physical design (e.g. Transport for London, 2015; Welsh Government, 2014), little
work has explicitly tackled the question of where high quality infrastructure should be built
(Aultman-Hall et al., 1997; Larsen et al., 2013; Minikel, 2012). Within this policy context, the
PCT focuses explicitly on the question of where to build rather than what to build, although
it does provide evidence on potential capacity requirements across the route network.
2.2 Research into cycling potential
There is an emerging literature exploring cycling rates and potential rates of growth. Much of
this work is practitioner-led, as detailed in an excellent overview of developments in the USA
(Kuzmyak et al., 2014). With the notable exceptions of Larsen et al. (2013) and Zhang et al.
(2014), the methods reviewed in this section are not simultaneously route-based, systematic,
quantitative and scalable, some of the key features of the PCT. The work can be classi ed in
a number of ways, including by the main mechanism of the tool (e.g. facility demand or mode
choice models), the format of its outputs (e.g. spreadsheet results, GIS-based map or on-line,
interactive map) or by the main level of the input data used. In these terms, the PCT is
based on a mode choice model (representing the shift to cycling from other modes) operating
primarily at the origin-destination level, which provides outputs in an online, interactive map.
For research into cycling potential (and the resulting models) to be useful for local transport
planners, their spatial scale must coincide with those over which the planning process has
some control. For this reason we focus on scale as the primary way of categorising research
4
into cycling potential, highlighting the following prominent levels (the PCT best  ts into the
third).
  Area-based measures are based primarily on data at the level of administrative zones,
which will vary depending on context. Outputs from these measures can assist with
the location of site-speci c transport infrastructure such as cycle parking.
  Individual-based measures are based on survey data, typically a household travel
survey. These are not always geographically speci c and tend to be used to identify
and categorise demographic groups in relation to cycling, such as near-market or as
warranting tailored interventions, such as targeted cycle training schemes.
  Route-based measures use origin-destination data which can be used to create  desire
lines  and (using route allocation) estimates of existing and potential demand at each
point on the road network.
This work is reviewed in relation to the PCT below and summarised in Table 1.
Parkin et al. (2008) presented an area-based measure of cycling potential using regression
model to estimate the proportion of commuter trips cycled across wards in England and
Wales. Factors associated with lower levels of cycling included road defects, high rainfall,
hills and a higher proportion of ethnic minority and low-income inhabitants. Parkin et al.
concluded that policy makers must engage with a mixture of physical and social barriers
to promote cycling e ectively, with the implication that some areas have lower barriers to
cycling   and hence higher propensity to cycle   than others.
Zhang et al. (2014) created an individual-based model of cycling potential to prioritise where
to build cycle paths to  achieve maximum impacts early on . The outputs of this model were
aggregated to the level of 67 statistical zones in the study area of Belo Horizonte, Brazil, and
used to generate a  usage intensity index  for potential cycle paths. This, combined with
survey data on cyclists  stated preferences on whether people would cycle were infrastructure
5
provided along particular routes and origin-destination data on travel to work, was used to
rank key routes in the city in terms of their cycling potential.
Larsen et al. (2013) created an area-based  prioritization index , for Montreal, Canada. This
was based on four variables: the area s current level of cycling, its cycling potential (estimated
based on the shortest path between the origin and destination of short car trips from a
travel survey), the number of injuries to cyclists, and locations prioritised by current cyclists
for improvement (Larsen et al., 2013). These four were aggregated to the level of evenly
spread cells covering the study area. The resulting heat map was used to recommend the
construction or upgrade of cycle paths on speci c roads.
Although the methods presented in preceding three paragraphs were developed in an academic
context, most of the usable tools for estimating cycling potential are practitioner-led. Many
of these may never have been documented in the academic literature, so the subsequent
overview should not be regarded as comprehensive (see Kuzmyak et al., 2014 and subsequent
documents that cite this report).
The Analysis of Cycling Potential (ACP) tool was developed by Transport for London (2010)
to produce heat maps of cycling potential across London, for all trip purposes. It is based a
mode choice model of likelihood of trips being cycled and uses the characteristics of observed
trips (e.g. time of day, characteristics of the traveller, distance) as the main input dataset.
The results of the ACP have informed local cycling schemes, such as where to build new
cycle hire stations but does not use origin-destination data so is less relevant for route-based
interventions.
A more localised approach is the Permeability Assessment Tool (PAT), which was developed
by a transport consultancy Payne (2014). The PAT is based on the concept of   ltered
permeability , which means providing a more direct route to people cycling than driving
(Melia, 2015). The PAT works by combining geographical data, including the location of
popular destinations and existing transport infrastructure, with on-site audit data of areas
6
that have been short-listed. Unlike the prioritisation index of Larsen et al. (2013), which is
primarily aimed at informing a city-wide strategic cycling network, the results of the PAT
are designed to guide smaller, site speci c interventions such as  contra ow  paths and cyclist
priority tra c signals.
The Santa Monica model is an example of a direct facility demand model, which are based on
 observed counts and context-driven regression models  (Kuzmyak et al., 2014). The model
uses environmental explanatory variables such as employment density and speed limits of
surrounding roads to estimate the dependent variable: walking and cycling activity (e.g. as
recorded by screenline count devices). By adjusting regression parameters (e.g. based on
areas that have experienced growth in cycling), such models can be used to  forecast demand
levels for walk or bike at a point or intersection level  and  evaluate and prioritize projects 
(ibid., p. 75).
Table 1: Summary of tools and methods to explore the geographical distribution of cycling
potential. Levels of analysis refer to whether data is analysed at point (P), area (A),
origin-destination (OD), route (R), route network (RN) or individual (I) levels.
Levels of
Tool
analysis
A, OD, R,
RN
P, A, R
Software
licence
Open
source
Proprietary
Public ac-
cess
Yes
Coverage
Montreal
No
National
England
Scale
City
Format of
output
Online
map
GIS-
based
GIS-
based
A, OD, R Proprietary
GIS-
based
Static
A, OD, R,
I
A, R
Proprietary
Unknown
Static
A, I
Unknown
Static
P, OD, A Unknown
Propensity to
Cycle Tool
Prioritization
Index
Permeability
Assessment
Tool
Usage
sity index
Bicycle share
model
Cycling Po-
tential Tool
Santa Monica
model
inten-
Local
City
National
City
City
Parts
Dublin
of
No
Belo Hori-
zonte
England,
Wales
London
Santa Mon-
ica
No
No
No
No
7
2.3 Planning support systems
The methods and tools for estimating cycling potential outlined in Table 1 were generally
created with only a single study region in mind. The bene t of this is that they can respond
context-speci c to practitioner and policy needs. However, the PCT aims to provide a
generalisable and scalable tool, in the tradition of Planning Support Systems (PSS).
PSS were developed to encourage evidence-based policy in land-use planning (Klosterman,
1999). The application of PSS to transport planning has been more recent, with a goal of
 systematically [introducing] relevant (spatial) information to a speci c process of related
planning actions  (Br mmelstroet and Bertolini, 2008). The PCT is systematic in its use of
national data for all parts of the study region (in this case England) and relates to a speci c
planning process   the creation of new and enhancement of existing cycle infrastructure.
PSS typically work by presenting evidence about the characteristics and needs of the study
region in an interactive map. A central objective is to visualise alternative scenarios of change,
and explore their potential impacts. The results of traditional scenario-based models are
usually not locally speci c (Lovelace et al., 2011; McCollum and Yang, 2009; Woodcock
et al., 2009). Online PSS can overcome this issue by using interactive maps (Pettit et al.,
2013). The emergence of libraries for web mapping (Haklay et al., 2008) has facilitated
online PSS, o ering the potential for public access to the planning process. Transparency
is further enhanced by making PSS open source, in-line with a growing trend in transport
modelling (Borning et al., 2008; Novosel et al., 2015; Tamminga et al., 2012). In these ways,
PSS can make evidence for transport planning more widely available, and tackle the issue
that transport models are often seen as  black boxes , closed to public scrutiny (Golub et al.,
2013).
With reference to a publicly accessible online map-based PSS for strategic land use (and
to a lesser extent transport) planning, Kahila-Tani et al. (2016) provide guidance on the
wider public participation process: it should be transparent, in uence real world decisions,
8
be representative of citizens and allow independent participation. Although these criteria
depend primarily on how the tool is deployed in practice (for example with regards to training
resources and workshops facilitated by planning authorities to ensure that the tool the tool
is used e ectively), which are outside the scope of the current paper, the PCT certainly
encourages transparency through its use of open data and open source software and allows
independent participation through its publicly accessible online interface.
2.4 National context and features of the Propensity to Cycle Tool
In addition to the international policy and academic context, the PCT was in uenced by the
national context. It was commissioned by the UK s Department for Transport to identify
 parts of [England] with the greatest propensity to cycle  (Department for Transport, 2015).
Thus the aim was not to produce a full transport demand or land use model, but to provide
an evidence base to prioritise where to create and improve cycling infrastructure based on
scenarios of change.
Local and national cycling targets are often based on a target mode share by a given date.1
However, there is little evidence about what this might mean for cycling volumes along
speci c routes. The PCT tackles this issue by estimating rate of cycling locally under di erent
scenarios and presenting the results on an interactive map. Its key features include:
  Estimation of cycling potential at area,  desire line  and route network levels.
  Route-allocation of OD (origin-destination) pairs by a routing algorithm speci cally
developed for cycling. This was done by CycleStreets.net, a routing service developed
by cyclists, for cyclists.
  Visualisation of outputs at multiple geographic levels. The interactive map enables
1The local target in Bristol, for example, is for 20% of commuter trips to be cycled by 2020. Manchester
(10% by 2025), Derbyshire (to double the number of people cycling by 2025) and London (to  double cycling 
by 2025) provide further examples of local ambitious time-bound cycling targets.
9
users to examine cycling potential at a very local level (e.g. just a few streets) or at a
more regional level (e.g. across a large metropolitan area).
  Public accessibility of results and code. The tool is freely available online and developers
are encouraged to modify the PCT (e.g. to create alternative scenarios) by provision of
the source code underlying the PCT under the open source AGP License.
  The presentation of estimated health economic and carbon impacts under future
scenarios, providing an evidence base that could be used in business cases for investment.
As with any tool, the PCT s utility depends on people knowing how to use it. For that reason
training materials and a user manual are being developed to show how the tool can be used
(see the  Manual  tab in Figure 3 and pct.bike/manual.html).
3 Data and methods
This section describes the data and methods that generate the scenario data for the PCT, as
summarised in Figure 1. The details of the model, which models the proportion of trips made
by cycling per OD pair as a function of hilliness and distance, are described the Appendix.
The scenario-generation method is not included in the main text of the paper because it
is the most context-speci c aspect of the PCT: as outlined in the Discussion, we envision
future uses of the PCT using di erent model parameters and even di erent functional forms
relating distance, hilliness and other variables to the level of cycling, to generate scenarios
of use for new contexts beyond the English case study described here. Central to the PCT
approach is origin-destination (OD) data recording the travel  ow between administrative
zones.2 Combined with geographical data on the coordinates of the population-weighted
2The size and uniformity of these depend on the country in question. In the UK the primary areal units
for statistical data are output areas (OA), lower layer super output areas (LSOA) and middle layer super
output areas (MSOA) (see webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk). The version of the PCT presented in this
paper operates at the MSOA level.
10
centroid of each zones, these can be represented as straight  desire lines  or as routes allocated
to the transport network.
## [1] FALSE
3.1 Processing OD data
The central input dataset was a table of origin-destination (OD) pairs from the 2011 Census.
This was loaded from open access  le wu03ew_v2.csv, provided by the UK Data Service.
This captures the number of commuters travelling between Middle Super Output Area zones
(MSOAs, average commuter population: 3300), by mode of travel (see Table 2). This dataset
was derived from responses to the following questions in the 2011 Census for England and
Wales:  In your main job, what is the address of your workplace?  (question 40) and  How
do you usually travel to work? (Tick one box only, for the longest part, by distance, of your
usual journey to work)  (Question 41). This dataset was enhanced by merging in information
on the gender composition of cyclists in each OD pair (Dataset 1 in Figure 1); data at the
area level on the background mortality rate (Dataset 2); and data at the OD pair-level on
route distance (km) and hilliness (average gradient, as a percentage) (Dataset 3). OD data
was assigned to the transport network using the R package stplanr (Lovelace et al., 2016).
See the Appendix for further details.
3.2 Modelling baseline propensity to cycle
The starting point for generating our scenario-based  cycling futures  was to model baseline
data on cycle commuting in England and Wales. We did this using OD data from the 2011
Census, and modelling cycling commuting as a function of route distance and route hilliness.
We did so using logistic regression applied at the individual level, including squared and
square-root terms to capture  distance decay    the non-linear impact of distance on the
11
Figure 1: Flow diagram illustrating the input data and processing steps used to create the
input data used by the PCT. The abbreviations are as follows: HEAT = Health Economic
Assessment Tool, OD pair = origin-destination pair, MSOA = Middle-Layer Super Output
Area
12
Table 2: Sample of the OD (origin-destination) input dataset, representing the number of
people who commute from locations within and between administrative zones (MSOAs).
Note  Car  refers to people who drive as their main mode of travel per OD pair, rather than
people who travel to work as a passenger in a car.
Number of commuters by main mode
Area of residence Area of workplace Total Cycle Walk Car Other
E02002361
E02002361
E02002361
E02002361
E02002361
E02002361
E02002362
E02002363
E02002364
E02002366
109
7
38
15
29
2
1
0
1
1
59
0
4
0
10
39
4
24
10
11
9
2
10
4
7
likelihood of cycling (Iacono et al., 2008)   and including terms to capture the interaction
between distance and hilliness. Model  t is illustrated in Figure 2; see the Appendix for details
and for the underlying equations. We also developed equations to estimate commuting mode
share among groups not represented in the between-zone ( interzonal ) OD data, e.g. those
commuting within a speci c MSOA (this is within-zone or  intrazonal  travel), or those with
no  xed workplace. This model of baseline propensity to cycle formed the basis of three of
the four scenarios (Government Target, Go Dutch and Ebikes), as described in more detail in
the next section.
## [1] FALSE
3.3 Scenarios of cycling uptake
Four scenarios were developed to a range of explore cycling futures. These can be framed
in terms of the removal of di erent infrastructural, cultural and technological barriers that
currently prevent cycling being the natural mode of choice for trips of short to medium
distances. They are not predictions of the future. They are snapshots indicating how the
spatial distribution of cycling may shift as cycling grows based on current travel patterns.
At a national level, the  rst two could be seen as shorter-term and the second two more
13
Figure 2: The relationship between distance (left) and hilliness (right) and cycling mode
share based on data from the 2011 Census for England and Wales. The plots show actual
(blue) vs predicted (red) prevalence of cycling to work among commuters travelling <30km
to work.
ambitious. The choice of scenarios was informed by a government target to double the
number of cycle trips and evidence from overseas about which trips could be made by cycling.
Summaries of the four scenarios are as follows (see the Appendix for full details):
  Government Target. This scenario represents a doubling of the level of cycling, in
line with the government s target to double the number of  stages  (trips of a single
mode) cycled by 2025 (Department for Transport, 2014). Although substantial in
relative terms, the rate of cycling under this scenario (rising from 3% to 6% of English
commuters) remains low compared with countries such as the Netherlands and Denmark.
This scenario was generated by adding together a) the observed number of cyclists in
each OD pair in the 2011 Census, and b) the modelled number of cyclists, as estimated
using the baseline propensity to cycle equations described in the previous section. The
result is that cycling overall doubles at the national level, but at the local level this
growth is not uniform, in absolute or relative terms. Areas with many short,  at
trips and a below-average current rate of cycling are projected to more than double.
14
Conversely, areas with above-average levels of cycling and many long-distance hilly
commuter routes will experience less than a doubling.
  Gender Equality. This scenario illustrates the increase in cycling that would result if
women were as likely as men to cycle a given trip. Speci cally, the scenario sets the
proportion of female cycle commuters to be equal to the current proportion of males in
each OD pair. The scenario is based on the observation that in places where cycling
accounts for a high proportion of personal travel, women cycle at least as much as men
(Aldred et al., 2016; Pucher et al., 2010). This scenario has the greatest relative impact
in areas where the rate of cycling is highly gender-unequal.
  Go Dutch. While the Government Target and Gender equality scenarios model relatively
modest increases in cycle commuting, Go Dutch represents what would happen if English
people were as likely as Dutch people to cycle a trip of a given distance and level of
hilliness. This scenario thereby captures the proportion of commuters that would be
expected to cycle if all areas of England had the same infrastructure and cycling culture
as the Netherlands (but retained their hilliness and commute distance patterns). This
scenario was generated by taking baseline propensity to cycle (see previous section),
and applying Dutch scaling factors   parameters which increase the proportion of
trips cycled above the baseline level of cycling per OD pair. These scaling factors were
calculated through analysis of the British and Dutch National Travel Surveys. We
parameterised the scaling factors as one  xed parameter (the main e ect) plus one
distance-dependent parameter (parametrised as an interaction between Dutch status
and trip distance), to take into account the fact that the  Dutch multiplier  is greater
for shorter trips compared to longer trips. Note that the scenario level of cycling
under Go Dutch is not a ected by the current level of cycling, but is instead purely a
function of the distance and hilliness of each OD pair   i.e. the two characteristics
that determine baseline propensity to cycle.
15
  Ebikes. This scenario models the additional increase in cycling that would be achieved
through the widespread uptake of electric cycles ( ebikes ). This scenario is generated
by taking baseline propensity to cycle, applying the Dutch scaling factors described
above, and then additionally applying Ebike scaling factors. The Ebikes scenario is thus
currently implemented as an extension of Go Dutch but could in future be implemented
as an extension of other scenarios. The Ebike scaling factors were generated through
analysis of the UK, Dutch and Swiss National Travel Surveys, in which we estimated
how much more likely it was that a given commute trip would be cycled by Ebike owners
versus cyclists in general. We parameterised the scaling factors as varying according
to trip distance and according to hilliness, by  tting interaction terms between these
two characteristics and ebike ownership (Appendix Equation 1B). We did this to take
account of the fact that electric cycles enable longer journeys and reduce the barrier of
hills
The Ebikes scenario is thus currently implemented as an extension of Go Dutch but could be
implemented as an extension of other scenarios. The Ebike scaling factors were generated
through analysis of the English, Dutch and Swiss National Travel Surveys, in which we
estimated how much more likely it was that a given commute trip would be cycled by Ebike
owners versus cyclists in general. We parameterised the Ebike scaling factors as interactions
with trip distance and with hilliness, to take account of the fact that electric cycles enable
longer journeys and reduce the barrier of hills.
Additional scenarios could be developed (see Discussion). If deployed in other settings, the
PCT will likely bene t from scenarios that relate to both the current policy context and
long-term aspirations.
16
3.4 Estimation of health and carbon impacts
Because the cost e ectiveness of cycling investments are in uenced by wider social impacts,
estimated health economic and emissions impacts are presented in the PCT.
An approach based on the World Health Organization s Health Economic Assessment Tool
(HEAT) was used to estimate the number of premature deaths avoided due to increased
physical activity (Kahlmeier et al., 2014). To allow for the fact that cycling would in some
cases replace walking trips, HEAT estimates of the increase in premature deaths due to the
reduction in walking were also included. The change in walking was estimated based on
the assumption that, within a given OD pair, all modes were equally likely to be replaced
by cycling. Thus all the non-cycling modes shown in Table 2 experienced the same relative
decrease.
Trip duration was estimated as a function of the  fast  route distance and average speed. For
walking and cycling we applied the standard HEAT approach. Ebikes are not speci cally
covered in HEAT Cycling but enable faster travel and require less energy from the rider than
traditional bikes. Thus we estimated new speeds and intensity values for this mode, giving
a smaller bene t for every minute spent using Ebikes than conventional cycles. For more
details see the Appendix.
The risk of death varies by gender and increases rapidly with age. This was accounted for
using age and sex-speci c mortality rates for each local authority in England. For the baseline
and Government Target scenario the age distribution of cyclists recorded in the 2011 Census
was used. New cyclists under Go Dutch and Ebikes were assumed to have the age-gender
pro le of commuter cyclists in the Netherlands. The inclusion of age speci c parameters and
mode shift from walking shows how the HEAT approach can generate nuanced health impact
estimates using publicly available data.
The net change in the number of deaths avoided for each OD pair was estimated as the
17
number of deaths avoided due to cycle commuting minus the number of additional deaths due
to reduced walking. Note that this approach means that for some OD pairs where walking
made up a high proportion of trips, additional deaths were incurred. The monetary value of
the mortality impact was calculated by drawing on the standard  value of a statistical life 
used by the Department for Transport.
We also estimated the reduction in transport carbon emissions resulting from decreased car
driving in each scenario. This again relied on the assumption that all modes were equally
likely to be replaced by cycling. The average CO2-equivalent emission per kilometre of car
driving was taken as 0.186 kg, the 2015 value of an  average  car (DEFRA, 2015).
3.5 Visualisation, route allocation and network generation
The data analysis and preparation stages described in the previous sections were conducted
using the national OD dataset for England as a whole. By contrast, the stages described in
this section were conducted using a region-by-region approach. Transport decisions tend to
be made at local and regional levels (Ga ron, 2003), hence the decision to display results on
a per region basis.
Figure 3 shows the output:  desire lines  lines with attributes for each OD pair aggregated in
both directions (Chan and Suja, 2003; Tobler, 1987), and visualised as centroid to centroid
  ows  (Rae, 2009; Wood et al., 2010).
## [1] FALSE
Desire lines allocated to the route network are illustrated in Figure 4. This shows two route
options: the  fast  route, which represents an estimate of the route taken by cyclists to
minimise travel time and the  quiet  route that preferentially selects smaller, quieter roads
and o  road paths.
## [1] FALSE
18
Figure 3: Overview of the PCT map interface, showing area and OD-level data. The zone
colour represents the number of residents who cycle to work. The lines represent the top
6 most cycled commuter routes in Leeds, with width proportional to the total number of
cycle trips. Population-weighted centroids are represented by circles, the diameter of which
is proportional to the rate of within-zone cycling.
19
Figure 4: Illustration of desire lines shown in Figure 3 after they have been allocated to the
road network by CycleStreets.net. Purple and green lines represent  fastest  and  quietest 
routes generated by CycleStreets.net, respectively.
20
Routes generated by CycleStreets.net do not necessarily represent the paths that cyclists
currently take; route choice models based on GPS data have been developed for this
purpose (Broach et al., 2012; Ehrgott et al., 2012). Of the available routes (see cy-
clestreets.net/journey/help for more information), the  fastest  option was used. This decision
was informed by recommendations from CROW (2007), building on evidence of cyclists 
preference direct routes.
The spatial distribution of cycling potential can be explored interactively by selecting the  top
n  routes with the highest estimated cycling demand (see the slider entitled  N. Lines (most
cycled)  in Figures 3 and 4). Information about the aggregate cycling potential on the road
network is shown in the Route Network layer. Because the layer is the result of aggregating
overlapping  fast  routes, and summing the level of cycling for each scenario (see Figure 5), it
relates to the capacity that infrastructure may need to handle. Cycling along Otley Road
(highlighted in Figure 5), under the Go Dutch scenario, rises from 73 to 296 commuters along
a single route, but from 546 to 1780 in the Route Network. Note that more con dence can
be placed in the relative rather than the absolute size of these numbers: the Route Network
layer excludes within-zone commuters, commuters with no  xed workplace, and commuters
working in a di erent region (see Figure 1). Route Network values also omit routes due to
the adjustable selection criteria: maximum distance and minimum total numbers of all-mode
commuters per OD pair. At the time of writing these were set to 20 km Euclidean distance
and 10 commuters respectively. Nationally, the Route Network layer under these settings
accounts for around two thirds of cycle commuters.
## [1] FALSE
## [1] FALSE
21
Figure 5: Illustration of Fast Routes map layer (left) compared with Route Network layer
(right). The Route Network was was produced by aggregating all overlapping lines in the
Fast Routes layer using the stplanr R package.
4 Outputs of the Propensity to Cycle Tool
This section describes and illustrates some outputs from the PCT, alongside discussion of how
these outputs could be used in transport planning. Note that some details of the graphics in
the online version may evolve as the PCT develops.
4.1 Model output tabs
Tabs are panels within the PCT that reveal new information when clicked (see the top of
Figure 3). Of these, the  rst four provide region-speci c information:
  Map: This interactive map is the main component of the PCT, and is the default
tab presented to users. It shows cycling potential at area, desire-line, route and route
network levels under di erent scenarios of change, as described throughout this paper.
 Popups  appear when zones, desire lines or segments on the Route Network are clicked,
presenting quantitative information about the selected element.
  Lines: When lines are displayed on the interactive map, this tab provides raw data on
22
a sample of the variables as a table at the OD pair level.
  Areas: This tab is the equivalent of the  Lines  tab, but with data at the area level.
  Model output: This tab provides key statistics, diagnostic plots and model results for
each region. The document is produced by a  dynamic document  which runs embedded
code for each regional dataset. Diagnostic plots include the distribution of cycling by
trip distance under each scenario (see Figure 6), providing insight into local travel
patterns and how they relate to cycling potential in the region overall.
4.2 Trip distance distributions
Figure 6 shows how the proportion of trips made by cycling varies as a function of distance
in two regions currently, and under the PCT s four scenarios of change. The frequency of all
mode trips by distance band (the red lines) illustrates the two regions have di erent spatial
structures. Oxfordshire has a high proportion short (under 5km) trips, helping to explain the
relatively high level of cycling there. West Yorkshire (Figure 6, left), by contrast, has a higher
proportion of longer distance commutes and a lower level of cycling than Oxford. Note that
under Go Dutch and Ebikes scenarios, regional di erences in the rate of cycling diminish,
however, illustrating that these scenarios are not in uenced by the current level of cycling.
## [1] FALSE
## [1] FALSE
4.3 The shifting spatial distribution of cycling and associated im-
pacts
The spatial distribution of cycling potential di ers markedly between scenarios, as illustrated
in Figure 7 for the city of Leeds, West Yorkshire. The top 50 OD pairs in Leeds under
23
Figure 6: Modal share of trips made by cycling in West Yorkshire (left) and Oxfordshire
(right) by distance, currently and under 4 scenarios of change.
Government Target are strongly in uenced by the current distribution of cycling trips,
concentrated in the North of the city (see Figure 3 for comparison with the baseline). Under
the Go Dutch scenario, by contrast, the pattern of cycling shifts substantially to the South.
The cycling patterns under the Go Dutch scenario are more representative of short-distance
trips across the city overall. In both cases the desire lines are focussed on Leeds city centre:
the region has a mono-centric regional economy, making commute trips beyond around 5 km
from the centre much less likely to be made by cycling.
## [1] FALSE
The same scenario is illustrated in Figure 8 with the Route Network layer. This shows how
the number of commuter cyclist using di erent road segments could be expected to change.
The number using York Road, highlighted in Figure 8, for example more than triples (from 88
to 318) under Government Target and increases more than 10 fold under Go Dutch (from 88
to 1426). This contrasts with Otley Road (highlighted in Figure 5), which  only  triples under
the Go Dutch scenario. These outputs suggest that the geographical distribution of cycling
24
Figure 7: Model output illustrating the top 50 most cycled OD pairs in Leeds under the
Government Target and Go Dutch scenarios.
25
may shift if the proportion of trips cycled increases in the city. The results also suggest that
cycle paths built to help achieve ambitious targets, as represented by the Go Dutch scenario,
should be of su cient width to accommodate the estimated  ows.
## [1] FALSE
Another output that can be highly policy relevant is the di erence between  fast  and  quiet 
routes. Figure 9 illustrates this by showing the Fast & Quiet Routes layer in Manchester
with the highest cycling potential under the Government Target scenario. The  quiet  route
is longer: 2.8 km (as shown by clicking on the line) compared with the more direct fast route
which is 2.3 km. However, the  fast  route may not currently be attractive for cycling as it
passes along a busy dual carriage way. The Euclidean distance associated with this OD pair
is 1.6 km (this can be seen by clicking on a line illustrated from the  Straight Lines  layer in
the PCT s interface), resulting in  circuity  (see Iacono et al., 2008), values of 1.6 and 1.4 for
 quiet  and  fast  routes respectively.
Dutch guidance suggests that circuity values  for cycle provision should be 1.2  (CROW,
2007). Evidence indicates that women and older people have a greater preference for o -road
and shorter routes (Garrard et al., 2008; Woodcock et al., 2016). This suggests the  fast
route  option, if built to a high standard, may be favourable from an equity perspective in
this context.
## [1] FALSE
Three basemap options are worth highlighting in addition to the grey default basemap. These
were selected to provide insight into how the geographical distribution of latent demand
for cycling relates to current cycle infrastructure and socio-demographics:  OpenCycleMap 
indicates where cycle provision is (and is not) currently;  Index of Deprivation  illustrates
the spatial distribution of social inequalities; and the  Satellite  basemap can help identify
opportunities for re-allocating space away from roads and other land uses for cycle and
walking paths by providing visual information on road widths and land uses along desire
26
Figure 8: The Route Network layer illustrating the shifting spatial distribution of cycling
 ows in Leeds under Government Target (top) and Go Dutch (bottom) scenarios.
27
Figure 9: Close-up of a  fast  and  quiet  route in the PCT under the Government Target
scenario in Manchester. This provides an indication of the local  quietness diversion factor .
lines. The  Satellite  basemap option is illustrated in Figure 10, which shows a section of
Trinity Way (as it crosses the River Irwell). This shows there are 4 lanes of tra c, a central
paved area and wide pavements on both sides of the road, suggesting there may be space for
a cycle path, especially if road space were re-allocated away from motorised tra c.
## [1] FALSE
Another feature of the user interface worth highlighting is addition of a dropdown menu to
enable the  top n  routes to be selected not only based on the level of cycling, but also based
on estimated health and carbon impacts, under each scenario. The reason for this addition
was the  nding that health bene ts do not always rise in simply in proportion to the number
of people cycling: longer trips lead to a greater health bene t than short ones do, and this is
now represented by shifting distribution of lines when the  HEAT Value  option is selected
from the  Order lines/ ows by  dropdown menu (this menu only appears when lines are
shown and a scenario other than the Census 2011 is selected).
28
Figure 10: Zoomed-in section of Trinity way (see Figure 9) using the Satellite basemap to
show road width and the number of lanes allocated to motorised tra c.
This feature is illustrated in Figure 5, economic value of health bene ts reported for the
4.1 km route in Figure 5 is estimated to be  70785. When health bene ts are the main
criteria for policy evaluation, OD pairs with low current rates of walking would be favoured
for intervention. When emissions are the main criteria, OD pairs with a high baseline level of
car use are also favoured. The exploration of these considerations is facilitated in the PCT
by allowing users to select the top routes ranked by health and carbon bene ts.
5 Discussion
We have outlined a method for modelling and visualising the spatial distribution of cycling
 ows, currently and under various scenarios of  cycling futures . Inspired by previous ap-
proaches to estimating cycling potential (Larsen et al., 2013; Zhang et al., 2014) and by
online, interactive planning support systems (PSS) (Pettit et al., 2013), the PCT tackles
the issue of how to generate an evidence base to decide where new cycle paths and other
29
localised pro-cycling interventions should be prioritised. By showing potential health-related
bene ts the tool provides various metrics for transport planners, going beyond the number of
additional trips. Illustrative uses of the PCT demonstrated the potential utility of the tool,
for example by showing settings in which the spatial distribution of cycling demand is likely
to shift as cycling grows.
In addition to creating an evidence base for planning speci c routes and area-based interven-
tions, the long-term Go Dutch and Ebikes scenarios could be used for envisioning di erent
transport futures (Hickman et al., 2011). The PCT could also: help translate national targets
into local aspirations (as illustrated by the Government Target scenario); inform local targets
(e.g. by indicating what the potential in one region is relative to neighbouring regions);
support business cases (by showing that there is high cycling potential along proposed routes);
and help plan for cycle capacity along the route network via the network analysis layer.
Ongoing case study work with stakeholders will be needed to establish and develop these
uses. Future developments will be facilitated by the open source code-base underlying the
PCT (see github.com/npct) (Lima et al., 2014).
As with any modelling tool, the approach presented in this paper has limitations: the reliance
on Census origin-destination (OD) data from 2011 means that the results are limited to
commuting and may not encapsulate recent shifts in travel behaviour, and the user interface
is constrained to a few, discrete, scenarios. These limitations suggest directions for future
work, most notably the use of new sources of OD data.
There is often a tension between transparency and complexity in the design of tools for
transport planning. Excessive complexity can result in tools that are  black boxes  (Saujot
et al., 2016). In a context of limited time, expertise, and resources, Saujot et al. caution
against investing in ever more complex models. Instead, they suggest models should be more
user focussed. The PCT s open source, freely available nature will, we believe, facilitate
the future development of the PCT organically to meet the needs of its various users. To
30
encourage others to use the outputs of the PCT project, we make the data underlying the
online map available to download (via the Zones and Lines tabs in the tool s online interface).
We envision stakeholders in local government modifying scenarios for their own purposes,
and that academics in relevant  elds may add new features and develop new use cases of the
PCT. Such enhancements could include:
  Additional scenarios to illustrate a wider range of  cycling futures , including medium-
term and local targets.
  Use of individual level data to estimate cycling potential and impacts. The use of
synthetic  spatial microdata , for example, could enable speci cation of scenarios and
analysis of outcomes by a much wider range of predictors (Lovelace et al., 2014).
  Additional purposes of trips in the model. An  education layer  would enable priori-
tisation of  safe routes to school , building on methods analysing  school commute 
data (Singleton, 2014). Other data sources to include more trip types include mobile
telephone providers (Alexander et al., 2015) and outputs from transport models.
  Deployment of the PCT for new cities, regions or countries. This will depend on the
availability of appropriate OD data, perhaps from sources mentioned in the previous
point, and routing services that can estimate cyclable routes based on globally available
data, e.g. using the function route_graphhopper from stplanr package. Such work
could also facilitate international comparisons of cycling potential.
Transport planning is a complex and contested  eld (Banister, 2008). When it comes to
sustainable mobility, policy, politics, leadership and vision are key ingredients that computer
models alone cannot supply (Melia, 2015). The approach described here can, however, assist
in this wider context by providing new tools for exploring the evidence at high geographical
resolution and envisioning transformational change in travel behaviours.
By providing transport authorities, campaign groups and the public with access to the same
31
evidence base, we hypothesise that tools such as the PCT can encourage informed and
rigorous debate, as advocated by Golub et al. (2013). In conclusion, the PCT provides an
accessible evidence base to inform the question of where to prioritise interventions for active
travel and raises more fundamental questions about how models should be used in transport
planning.
Author contribution statement
The PCT was built as a collaborative e ort. The Principal Investigator of the project was
JW, and the initial concept for the project came from JW and RL in response to a call from
the Department of Transport. AG led the creation of the model underlying the PCT, and the
generation of estimates of cycling levels, health gains and carbon impacts in each scenario.
JW and AG led the development of the methods for calculating health impacts. JW, RL, AG,
and RA contributed to the development of the cycling uptake rules. RL led the processing
of these modelled estimates for spatial visualisation in the online tool and coordinated the
development of the online tool. RA led the coordination of policy implementation and
collection of practitioner feedback. AA and NB led on the user interface, with contributions
from all authors. NB led the deployment of the PCT on a public facing server. AG led the
writing of the Appendix. RL led the writing of this manuscript, with input from all authors.
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank the following people for comments on earlier versions of the manuscript
and the development of the PCT: Roger Ge en (Cycling UK), Tom Gutowski (Sustrans),
Helen Bowkett (Welsh Government), John Parkin (University of the West of England), Nik e
Groot and Phil Tate. Thanks to Simon Nutall and Martin Lucas-Smith for access to and
32
instructions on the use of the CycleStreets.net API. Thanks to Barry Rowlingson from the
University of Lancaster for developing functionality in the stplanr package that enabled the
creation of the Route Network layer. We are grateful to Matthew Tranter at DfT for merging
additional geographic data into the UK National Travel Survey, and to Eva Heinen, Rick
Prins and Thomas G tschi for their help in analysing Dutch and Swiss Travel Survey data.
Thanks to Alvaro Ullrich for contributions to the code. Thanks to developers of open source
software we have been able to make the PCT free and open to the world. We would also like
to thank Brook Lyndhurst for assistance with the user testing, and all participants in the
user testing sessions. We would also like to thank Shane Snow and other sta  at the DfT for
specifying the project s aims and providing feedback on early versions of the tool.
Funding
The work presented was funded by the Department for Transport (contract no.
RM5019SO7766:
 Provision of Research Programme into Cycling: Propensity to
Cycle ), with contract facilitation and project management by Brook Lyndhurst in Phase 1,
and by Atkins in Phase 2. RL s contribution was supported by the Consumer Data Research
Centre (ESRC grant number ES/L011891/1). JW s contribution was supported by an MRC
Population Health Scientist Fellowship. JW s and AA s contributions were supported by the
Centre for Diet and Activity Research (CEDAR), a UKCRC Public Health Research Centre
of Excellence funded by the British Heart Foundation, Cancer Research UK, Economic
and Social Research Council, Medical Research Council, the National Institute for Health
Research (NIHR), and the Wellcome Trust. AG s contribution was supported by an NIHR
post-doctoral fellowship. The views reported in this paper are those of the authors and do
not necessarily represent those of the DfT, Brook Lyndhurst, Atkins the NIHR, the NHS or
the Department for Health.
33
References
Aldred, R., Woodcock, J., Goodman, A., 2016. Does More Cycling Mean More Diversity in
Cycling? Transport Reviews 36, 28 44. doi:10.1080/01441647.2015.1014451
Alexander, L., Jiang, S., Murga, M., Gonz, M.C., 2015. Validation of origin-destination trips
by purpose and time of day inferred from mobile phone data. Transportation Research Part
B: Methodological 1 20. doi:10.1016/j.trc.2015.02.018
Aultman-Hall, L., Hall, F., Baetz, B., 1997. Analysis of bicycle commuter routes using
geographic information systems: Implications for bicycle planning. Transportation Research
Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board 1578, 102 110. doi:10.3141/1578-13
Banister, D., 2008. The sustainable mobility paradigm. Transport Policy 15, 73 80. doi:DOI:
10.1016/j.tranpol.2007.10.005
Borning, A., Waddell, P., F rster, R., 2008. UrbanSim: Using simulation to inform public
deliberation and decision-making, in: Digital Government. Springer, pp. 439 464.
Broach, J., Dill, J., Gliebe, J., 2012. Where do cyclists ride? A route choice model developed
with revealed preference GPS data. Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice 46,
1730 1740. doi:10.1016/j.tra.2012.07.005
Br mmelstroet, M. te, Bertolini, L., 2008. Developing land use and transport PSS: Meaningful
information through a dialogue between modelers and planners. Transport Policy 15, 251 259.
doi:10.1016/j.tranpol.2008.06.001
Buehler, R., Dill, J., 2016. Bikeway Networks: A Review of E ects on Cycling. Transport
Reviews 36, 9 27. doi:10.1080/01441647.2015.1069908
Chan, W.-T., Suja, T., 2003. A Multi-Criteria Approach in Designing Bicycle Tracks, in:
Map Asia Conference.
Chatterjee, K., Sherwin, H., Jain, J., 2013. Triggers for changes in cycling: The role of life
34
events and modi cations to the external environment. Journal of Transport Geography 30,
183 193. doi:10.1016/j.jtrangeo.2013.02.007
CROW, 2007. Design manual for bicycle tra c. Kennisplatform, Amsterdam.
De Nazelle, A., Nieuwenhuijsen, M.J., Ant , J.M., Brauer, M., Briggs, D., Braun-Fahrlander,
C., Cavill, N., Cooper, A.R., Desqueyroux, H., Fruin, S., 2011. Improving health through
policies that promote active travel: A review of evidence to support integrated health impact
assessment. Environment international 37, 766 777.
DEFRA, 2015. DEFRA Carbon Factors: UK Government conversion factors for Company
Reporting, 2015, V2.0.
Department for Transport, 2015. Response to the consultation on the draft Cycling Delivery
Plan. Department for Transport, London.
Department for Transport, 2014. Cycling Delivery Plan: Draft. Department for Transport.
Ehrgott, M., Wang, J.Y.T., Raith, A., Houtte, C. van, 2012. A bi-objective cyclist
route choice model. Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice 46, 652 663.
doi:10.1016/j.tra.2011.11.015
Fishman, E., 2016. Cycling as transport. Transport Reviews 36, 1 8. doi:10.1080/01441647.2015.1114271
Ga ron, P., 2003. The implementation of walking and cycling policies in British local
authorities. Transport Policy 10, 235 244. doi:10.1016/S0967-070X(03)00024-6
Garrard, J., Rose, G., Lo, S.K., 2008. Promoting transportation cycling for women: The role
of bicycle infrastructure. Preventive Medicine 46, 55 59. doi:10.1016/j.ypmed.2007.07.010
Golub, A., Robinson, G., Nee, B., 2013. Making accessibility analyses accessible: A tool
to facilitate the public review of the e ects of regional transportation plans on accessibility.
Journal of Transport and Land Use 6, 17 28. doi:10.5198/jtlu.v6i3.352
Haklay, M., Singleton, A., Parker, C., 2008. Web Mapping 2.0: The Neogeography of the
35
GeoWeb. Geography Compass 2, 2011 2039. doi:10.1111/j.1749-8198.2008.00167.x
Han, J., Hayashi, Y., 2008. Assessment of private car stock and its environmental impacts in
China from 2000 to 2020. Transportation Research Part D: Transport and Environment 13,
471 478.
Heath, G.W., Brownson, R.C., Kruger, J., Miles, R., Powell, K.E., Ramsey, L.T., Services,
T.F. on C.P., 2006. The e ectiveness of urban design and land use and transport policies
and practices to increase physical activity: A systematic review. Journal of Physical Activity
& Health 3, S55.
Heinen, E., Panter, J., Mackett, R., Ogilvie, D., 2015. Changes in mode of travel to work:
A natural experimental study of new transport infrastructure.
International Journal of
Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity 12, 81. doi:10.1186/s12966-015-0239-8
Hickman, R., Ashiru, O., Banister, D., 2011. Transitions to low carbon transport futures:
Strategic conversations from London and Delhi. Journal of Transport Geography, Special
section on Alternative Travel futures 19, 1553 1562. doi:10.1016/j.jtrangeo.2011.03.013
Iacono, M., Krizek, K., El-Geneidy, A., 2008. Access to Destinations: How Close is Close
Enough? Estimating Accurate Distance Decay Functions for Multiple Modes and Di erent
Purposes 76.
Kahila-Tani, M., Broberg, A., Kytt , M., Tyger, T., 2016. Let the Citizens Map Public
Participation GIS as a Planning Support System in the Helsinki Master Plan Process.
Planning Practice & Research 31, 195 214. doi:10.1080/02697459.2015.1104203
Kahlmeier, S., Kelly, P., Foster, C., G tschi, T., Cavill, N., Dinsdale, H., Woodcock, J.,
Schweizer, C., Rutter, H., Lieb, C., 2014. Health economic assessment tools (HEAT) for
walking and for cycling, Methods and User Guide. World Health Organization Regional
O ce for Europe, Copenhagen, Denmark 2014.
Klosterman, R.E., 1999. The What If? Collaborative Planning Support System. Environment
36
and Planning B: Planning and Design 26, 393 408. doi:10.1068/b260393
Komano , C., 2004. Bicycling, in: Cleveland, C.J. (Ed.), Encyclopedia of Energy. Elsevier,
New York, pp. 141 150.
Kuzmyak, J.R., Walters, J., Bradley, M., Kockelman, K., 2014. Estimating bicycling and
walking for planning and project development, Nchrp national cooperative highway research
program report. Transportation Research Board of the National Academies, Washington,
DC.
Larsen, J., Patterson, Z., El-Geneidy, A., 2013. Build it. But where? The use of geographic
information systems in identifying locations for new cycling infrastructure. International
Journal of Sustainable Transportation 7, 299 317.
Lima, A., Rossi, L., Musolesi, M., 2014. Coding Together at Scale: GitHub as a Collaborative
Social Network. arXiv preprint arXiv:1407.2535.
Lovelace, R., Ballas, D., Watson, M., 2014. A spatial microsimulation approach for the
analysis of commuter patterns: From individual to regional levels. Journal of Transport
Geography 34, 282 296. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jtrangeo.2013.07.008
Lovelace, R., Beck, S., Watson, M., Wild, A., 2011. Assessing the energy implications
of replacing car trips with bicycle trips in She eld, UK. Energy Policy 39, 2075 2087.
doi:10.1016/j.enpol.2011.01.051
McCollum, D., Yang, C., 2009. Achieving deep reductions in US transport greenhouse
gas emissions: Scenario analysis and policy implications. Energy Policy 37, 5580 5596.
doi:10.1016/j.enpol.2009.08.038
Melia, S., 2015. Urban Transport Without the Hot Air, Volume 1: Sustainable Solutions for
UK cities.
Minikel, E., 2012. Cyclist safety on bicycle boulevards and parallel arterial routes in Berkeley,
37
California. Accident Analysis & Prevention 45, 241 247.
Novosel, T., Perkovi , L., Ban, M., Keko, H., Puk ec, T., Kraja i , G., Dui , N., 2015. Agent
based modelling and energy planning Utilization of MATSim for transport energy demand
modelling. Energy.
Oja, P., Titze, S., Bauman, A., DeGeus, B., Krenn, P., Reger-Nash, B., Kohlberger, T., 2011.
Health bene ts of cycling: A systematic review. Scandinavian journal of medicine & science
in sports 21, 496 509. doi:10.1111/j.1600-0838.2011.01299.x
Parkin, J., 2015. Planning and design approaches for cycling infrastructure.
Parkin, J. (Ed.), 2012. Cycling and sustainability, 1. ed. ed, Transport and sustainability.
Emerald, Bingley.
Parkin, J., Wardman, M., Page, M., 2008. Estimation of the determinants of bicycle
mode share for the journey to work using census data. Transportation 35, 93 109.
doi:10.1007/s11116-007-9137-5
Payne, S., 2014. Removing barriers to direct access. Get Britain Cycling 4, 6 8.
Pettit, C.J., Klosterman, R.E., Nino-Ruiz, M., Widjaja, I., Russo, P., Tomko, M., Sinnott,
R., Stimson, R., 2013. The online what if? Planning support system, in: Planning Support
Systems for Sustainable Urban Development. Springer, pp. 349 362.
Pikora, T.J., Bull, F.C.L., Jamrozik, K., Knuiman, M., Giles-Corti, B., Donovan, R.J.,
2002. Developing a reliable audit instrument to measure the physical environment for
physical activity. American Journal of Preventive Medicine 23, 187 194. doi:10.1016/S0749-
3797(02)00498-1
Pucher, J., Dill, J., Handy, S., 2010.
bicycling: An international review. Preventive Medicine 50, S106 S125.
Infrastructure, programs, and policies to increase
doi:DOI:
38
10.1016/j.ypmed.2009.07.028
Rae, A., 2009. From spatial interaction data to spatial interaction information? Geovisualisa-
tion and spatial structures of migration from the 2001 UK census. Computers, Environment
and Urban Systems 33, 161 178. doi:10.1016/j.compenvurbsys.2009.01.007
Saujot, M., Lapparent, M. de, Arnaud, E., Prados, E., 2016. Making land use   Transport
models operational tools for planning: From a top-down to an end-user approach. Transport
Policy 49, 20 29. doi:10.1016/j.tranpol.2016.03.005
Shergold, I., Parkhurst, G., Musselwhite, C., 2012. Rural car dependence: An emerging
barrier to community activity for older people. Transportation Planning and Technology 35,
69 85.
Singleton, A., 2014. A GIS approach to modelling CO2 emissions associated with the pupil-
school commute. International Journal of Geographical Information Science 28, 256 273.
doi:10.1080/13658816.2013.832765
Tainio, M., Nazelle, A.J. de, G tschi, T., Kahlmeier, S., Rojas-Rueda, D., Nieuwenhuijsen,
M.J., S , T.H. de, Kelly, P., Woodcock, J., 2016. Can air pollution negate the health bene ts
of cycling and walking? Preventive Medicine. doi:10.1016/j.ypmed.2016.02.002
Tamminga, G., Miska, M., Santos, E., Lint, H. van, Nakasone, A., Prendinger, H., Hoogen-
doorn, S., 2012. Design of Open Source Framework for Tra c and Travel Simulation.
Transportation Research Record: Journal of the Transportation Research Board 2291, 44 52.
doi:10.3141/2291-06
Tobler, W.R., 1987. Experiments in migration mapping by computer. The American
39
Cartographer 14, 155 163.
Transport for London, 2015. London Cycling Design Standards (LCDS).
Transport for London, 2010. Analysis of Cycling Potential. Transport for London.
Wegman, F.C.M., 1979. Urban planning, tra c planning and tra c safety of pedestrians and
cyclists, in: Contribution to the OECD-Symposium in Safety of Pedestrians and Cyclists,
Paris.
Welsh Government, 2014. Guidance Active Travel (Wales) Act. Welsh Government, Cardi .
Wood, J., Dykes, J., Slingsby, A., 2010. Visualisation of origins, destinations and  ows with
OD maps. The Cartographic Journal 47, 117 129.
Woodcock, J., Aldred, R., Goodman, A., Lovelace, R., Ullrich, A., Abbas, A., Berko ,
N., 2016. National Propensity to Cycle Tool Project: Summary Report. Department for
Transport.
Woodcock, J., Edwards, P., Tonne, C., Armstrong, B.G., Ashiru, O., Banister, D., Beevers,
S., Chalabi, Z., Chowdhury, Z., Cohen, A., Franco, O.H., Haines, A., Hickman, R., Lindsay,
G., Mittal, I., Mohan, D., Tiwari, G., Woodward, A., Roberts, I., 2009. Public health bene ts
of strategies to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions: Urban land transport. The Lancet 374,
1930 1943. doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(09)61714-1
Zhang, D., Magalhaes, D.J.A.V., Wang, X.(., 2014. Prioritizing bicycle paths in Belo
Horizonte City, Brazil: Analysis based on user preferences and willingness considering
individual heterogeneity. Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice 67, 268 278.
doi:10.1016/j.tra.2014.07.010
40
