Monitoring Potential Drug Interactions and Reactions via Network Analysis of
Instagram User Timelines
6
1
0
2
 
n
a
J
 
4
1
 
 
]
I
S
.
s
c
[
 
 
2
v
6
0
0
1
0
.
0
1
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Rion Brattig Correia1,2, Lang Li3 and Luis M. Rocha1,4, 
1School of Informatics & Computing, Indiana University,
Bloomington, IN 47408 USA
 rocha@indiana.edu
2CAPES Foundation, Ministry of Education of Brazil,
Bras  lia, DF 70040-020, Brazil
3Department of Medical and Molecular Genetics, Indiana University School of Medicine,
Indianapolis, IN 46202 USA
4Instituto Gulbenkian de Ci encia,
Oeiras 2780-156, Portugal
Much recent research aims to identify evidence for Drug-Drug Interactions (DDI) and Adverse Drug
reactions (ADR) from the biomedical scienti c literature. In addition to this  Bibliome , the universe
of social media provides a very promising source of large-scale data that can help identify DDI and
ADR in ways that have not been hitherto possible. Given the large number of users, analysis of
social media data may be useful to identify under-reported, population-level pathology associated
with DDI, thus further contributing to improvements in population health. Moreover, tapping into
this data allows us to infer drug interactions with natural products including cannabis which
constitute an array of DDI very poorly explored by biomedical research thus far.
Our goal is to determine the potential of Instagram for public health monitoring and surveillance
for DDI, ADR, and behavioral pathology at large. Most social media analysis focuses on Twitter
and Facebook, but Instagram is an increasingly important platform, especially among teens, with
unrestricted access of public posts, high availability of posts with geolocation coordinates, and images
to supplement textual analysis.
Using drug, symptom, and natural product dictionaries for identi cation of the various types of
DDI and ADR evidence, we have collected close to 7000 user timelines spanning from October 2010 to
June 2015. We report on 1) the development of a monitoring tool to easily observe user-level timelines
associated with drug and symptom terms of interest, and 2) population-level behavior via the analysis
of co-occurrence networks computed from user timelines at three di erent scales: monthly, weekly,
and daily occurrences. Analysis of these networks further reveals 3) drug and symptom direct and
indirect associations with greater support in user timelines, as well as 4) clusters of symptoms and
drugs revealed by the collective behavior of the observed population.
This demonstrates that Instagram contains much drug- and pathology speci c data for public
health monitoring of DDI and ADR, and that complex network analysis provides an important
toolbox to extract health-related associations and their support from large-scale social media data.
Keywords: Complex Network Analysis; Social Media; Drug Interaction; Public Health; Instagram;
relational inference
1. Introduction
The analysis of social media data has recently allowed unprecedented access to collective hu-
man behavior. The new  eld of Computational Social Science has brought together Informatics
and Complex Systems methods to study society via social media and online data in a quanti-
tative manner not previously possible. From studying social protest1 to predicting the Stock
Market,2 most of the work has focused on Twitter  though Facebook 3 and Instagram 4 have
also received some attention lately. This approach shows great promise in monitoring public
health, given the ability to measure the behavior of a very large number of human subjects.5
For instance, several studies have shown that social media analysis is useful to track and pre-
dict in uenza spread,5 7 as well as the measurement of depression.8 In particular, the potential
for adverse drug reaction (ADR) extraction from Twitter has been recently demonstrated.9,10
There is still, however, much work to be done in order to ful ll the potential of social
media in the monitoring of public health. For instance, analysis of social media data may be
useful to identify under-reported pathology, particularly in the case of conditions associated
with a perceived social stigma, such as mental disorders.11 Given access to an extremely large
population, it is reasonable to expect that social media data may provide early warnings
about potential drug-drug interactions (DDI) and ADR.9 These unprecedented windows into
collective human behavior may also be useful to study the use and potential interactions and
e ects of natural products including cannabis. The pharmacology of such products constitute
an array of DDI and ADR very poorly explored by biomedical research so far, and thus an
arena where social media mining could provide important novel discoveries and insight.
Most work on social media pertaining to public health monitoring that we are aware of
has relied on data from Twitter or Facebook. However, Instagram is an increasingly important
platform, with unrestricted access of public posts, high availability of posts with geolocation
coordinates, and images to supplement textual analysis. While Instagram has been used to
qualitatively observe the type of content people post regarding health situations such as Ebola
outbreaks,12 its potential for large-scale quantitative analysis in public health has not been
established. Instagram currently has more than 300 million users.13 It surpasses Twitter and
Facebook for preferred social network among teens (12-24) in the US. In 2014 there were
approximately more than 64 million active users in the US and this number is to surpass
111 million in 2019.14 Therefore, our goal here is to explore the potential of this very im-
portant social media platform for public health monitoring and surveillance of DDI, ADR,
and behavioral pathology at large. Speci cally, we use literature mining and network science
methods to automatically characterize and extract temporal signals for DDI and ADR from
a sub-population of Instagram users.
We focused on posts and users with mentions of drugs known to treat depression (e.g.
fluoxetine). The methodology developed can be easily replicated for di erent clinical inter-
ests (e.g. epilepsy drugs). The goal is to show that Instagram is a very rich source of data to
study drug interactions and reactions that may arise in a clinical context of choice, and not
depression per se. Using four di erent multi-word dictionaries (drug and pharmacology, natu-
ral products, cannabis, and ADR terminology), we have collected close to 7000 user timelines
spanning from October 2010 to June 2015. We analyzed co-mentions in three distinct time-
windows: monthly, weekly and daily. This allows the potential extraction of ADR and DDI
that manifest at di erent time scales. From this data, we demonstrate that Instagram user
timelines contain substantial data of interest to characterize DDI, ADR, and natural product
use. To explore this data we have developed a monitoring tool to easily observe user-level
timelines associated with drug and symptom terms of interest, which we describe below. To
explore population-level associations at the di erent temporal scales, we compute knowledge
networks that our previous work has shown to be useful for automated fact-checking,15 protein-
protein interaction extraction,16 and recommender systems.17,18 To illustrate the potential of
data-driven, population-level associations, we use spectral methods to reveal network mod-
ules of symptoms and drugs, for instance those involved in psoriasis pathology. Our Instagram
analysis relies on the distance closure of complex networks18 built at distinct time resolutions,
which is a novel development from related approaches to uncover ADR in Twitter .9
2. Data and Methods
We harvested from Instagram all posts containing hashtags that matched 7 drugs known
to be used in the treatment of depression (# posts): fluoxetine (8,143), sertraline
(574), paroxetine (470), citalopram (426), trazodone (227), escitalopram (117), and
fluvoxamine (22). Synonyms were resolved to the same drug name according to DrugBank ;19
for instance, Prozac is resolved to fluoxetine, see supporting information (SI) for table of
synonyms used. This resulted in a total of 9,975 posts from 6,927 users, whose complete time-
lines, spanning the period from October 2010 to June 2015, were collected. In total, these
timelines contain 5, 329, 720 posts, which is the depression timeline dataset we analyze below.
A subset of a previously developed pharmacokinetics ontology20 was used to obtain a drug
dictionary. The full ontology contains more than 100k drugs, proteins and pharmacokinetic
terms. Here we used only names of FDA-approved drugs, along with their generic name and
synonyms, resulting in 17,335 drug terms. The natural product (NP) dictionary was built
using terms from the list of herbal medicines and their synonyms provided by MedlinePlus.21
It contains 179 terms (see SI). The Cannabis dictionary was assembled by searching the web
for terms known to be used as synonyms for cannabis, resulting in 26 terms (see SI) optimized
for precision and recall on a subset of posts (data not shown). The symptom dictionary was
extracted from BICEPP22 by collecting all entities de ned as an Adverse E ect, with a few
manual edits to include more synonyms; it is comprised of 250 terms.
Timeline posts were tagged with all dictionary terms (n-grams) for a total of 299,312
matches. Uppercase characters were converted to lowercase, and hashtag terms were treated
like all other harvested text for the purpose of dictionary matches. We found matches for
414 drugs, 133 of which with more than 10 matches. These numbers are 148/99 and 74/46
for symptoms and NP, respectively, for a total of 636 terms. This is a substantial number
of dictionary terms, given that only 7 drugs prescribed for depression were used to harvest
the set of timelines. The top 25 matches for each dictionary are provided in SI. Notice that
the term  depression  was removed because of its expected high appearance. Matches in the
cannabis dictionary (e.g. 420, marijuana, hashish) were aggregated into the term cannabis to
be treated as a NP. The top 10 mentions are (counts shown): cannabis (66,540), anorexia
(26,872), anxiety (26,309), pain (15,677), suicide (11,616), mood (11,532), fluoxetine
(9,961), suicidal (8,909), ginger (7,289), insomnia (5,917).
Given the set X of all matched terms (|X| = 636), we  rst compute a symmetric co-
occurrence graph Rw(X) for time-window resolutions w = 1 month, 1 week and 1 day. These
graphs are easily represented by adjacency matrices Rw, where entries rij denote the number of
time-windows where terms xi and xj co-occur, in all user timelines. A matrix Rw is computed
for each time-window resolution independently. To obtain a normalized strength of association
among the set of terms X, we computed proximity graphs,18 Pw(X) for each time-window
resolution w. Thus, the entries of the adjacency matrix Pw of a proximity graph are given by:
pij =
rij
rii + rjj   rij
,
 xi,xj X
(1)
where pij   [0, 1] and pii = 1; pij = 0 for terms xi and xj that never co-occur in the same
time-window in any timeline, and pij = 1 when they always co-occur. This measure is the
probability that two terms are mentioned in the same time window, given that one of them
was mentioned.17,18 To ensure enough support exists in the data for proximity associations,
we computed proximity weights only when rii + rjj   rij   10; if rii + rjj   rij < 10, we set
pij = 0.
Proximity graphs are associative knowledge networks. As in any other co-occurrence
method, the assumption is that items that frequently co-occur are associated with a com-
mon phenomenon. These knowledge networks have been used successfully for automated fact-
checking,15 protein-protein interaction extraction,16 and recommender systems.17,18 Here we
use them to reveal strong associations of DDI-related terms for public health monitoring. We
also compute distance graphs Dw(X) for the same time-window resolutions, using the map:
dij =
  1
1
pij
(2)
In some of our analysis below, we compute the metric closure DC
w (X) of the distance
graphs, which is isomorphic to a speci c transitive closure of the proximity graph.18 The
metric closure is equivalent to computing the shortest paths between every pair of nodes in
the distance graph. Thus, dC
ij is the length (sum of distance edge weights) of the shortest path
between terms xi and xj in the original distance graph Dw(X), and is known to scale well.15
Fig. 1. Sample of images from collected posts related to fluoxetine.
3. A Monitoring tool for user-level behavior
From the analysis of user timelines, it is clear that Instagram is a social media platform with
much data relevant for public-health monitoring. Users often discuss personal health-related
information such as diagnoses and drugs prescribed. Photos posted (e.g. Figure 1) often depict
pills and packaging, along with discussions of intake schedules, expectations and feelings.
  User A on May 25, 2014:
 #notmypic .. Say hello to my new friend! Fluoxetina! Side e ects by now are a bit of nausea and inquietude.. Better than zoloft!
Yesterday night i started to cry while i was with my 2 friends because my ex, bulimia s stress.. I m sure they thought i m crazy
so i felt like i had to explain my reasons with one of those friends.. Now i m terri ed of his reaction, he is even a friend of my
ex.. Don t know what to expect.. It s so hard telling someone about ED and bulimia . I m also thinking about a b/p session
today after 2 days clean, maybe it s not the right solution. Idk. #bulimia #bulimic #mia #ed #edfamily #eatingdisorder
#prorecovery #bingepurge #purge #binge #fat #prozac # uoxetine #depression #meds 
  User B on May 13, 2015:
 I start  uoxetine tomorrow, the doctor switched me from citalopram to this so let s hope it goes better this time #anxietymeds
#depressionmeds #citalopram # uoxetine #anxiety #depression 
  User B on May 14, 2015 (one day later):
 ok so I don t know if it s the tablets that are doing this but I feel the lowest I ve ever felt and I m hoping it s not the tablets.
Hopefully it s just a bad day, not that there are many good days I hope tomorrow is a better day for everyone, especially if
you are feeling the same way I am. # uoxetine #depression #anxiety #depressionmeds #anxietymeds 
  User C on Feb 05 2014:
 i survived another trip to the clinic, saw a specialist, did a test that explained i m an INFJ (introvert) which is apperently only
1% of the population. Added risperidone and upped ritalin as well as prozac. considering this keeps me  sane  and able to
assimilate into the chaos of everyday life i think this counts as my #100happydays today # ndhappinessineachday #bipolar
#borderlinepersonalitydisorder #INFJ #manicdepression #goinggovernment #prozac #lamotragine #ritalin #risperidone 
Fig. 2.
Instagram Drug Explorer. See text for explanation.
Given the rich data users post on Instagram, from the perspective of public-health monitor-
ing, it is useful to be able to quickly navigate and extract posts and user timelines associated
with drugs and symptoms of interest. For that purpose, we developed the Instagram Drug
Explorer a, a web application to explore, tag, and visualize the data. This tool also allows
downstream improvement of our dictionaries by observing important discourse features not
tagged. Figure 2 shows four screenshots with some of the current features: A) the possibility of
de ning multiple drugs of interest per project; B) a user timeline view that tags class-speci c
dictionary matches and displays post frequency in time and where individual posts can be
quickly selected to be C) visualized separately; D) a summary of posts from user timelines of
interest. Another feature (not shown) is the display of geo-located posts using overlay maps,
which can be useful, for instance, to monitor users in places of interest, such as schools, clinics,
and hospitals. Using this tool to inspect and select timelines with high number of matches, we
were able to identify particularly relevant user timelines such as the one depicted in Figure 3,
which contains matches from all four dictionaries, and varying post frequency.
Fig. 3. User timeline showing daily frequency of posts in time; dictionary terms from are tagged in time.
4. Network analysis of associations in population-level behavior
Using the proximity or the isomorphic distance graphs ( 2), we can explore strong pairwise
term associations that arise from the collection of 5, 329, 720 posts from the population of 6, 927
users in the study. The assumption is that dictionary terms that tend to co-occur in a sub-
stantial number of user timelines may reveal important interactions among drugs, symptoms,
and natural products. Moreover, because we computed these knowledge networks at di erent
time resolutions, we can explore term associations at di erent time scales: day, week, and
month. Naturally, a statistical term correlation is not necessarily a causal interaction; also a
drug-symptom association may reveal a condition treated by the drug, rather than an adverse
reaction. But large-scale analysis of social media data for relational inference must start with
the identi cation of multivariate correlations, which can be subsequently re ned, namely with
supervised classi cation and NLP methods. Here, as a  rst step in the analysis of Instagram
data for public health monitoring, we use unsupervised network science methods to extract
term associations of potential interest.
ahttp://informatics.indiana.edu/rocha/IDE.
Consider the proximity networks Pw(X) for time resolution w = 1 week. The full network
contains |X| = 636 terms (see Figure 5A for its largest connected component); Figure 4 (left)
lists the top 25 drug/NP vs symptom associations, as well as the adjacency matrix of the
distance subgraph Dw(X) for these drug/NP and symptom pairs (right). The proximity and
distance graphs are isomorphic ( 2), but proximity edge weights (left) are directly interpretable
as a co-occurrence probability (eq. 1), while the isomorphic nonlinear map to distance (eq. 2)
provides greater discrimination in the visualization of the adjacency matrix (right).
Fig. 4. drug/NP vs symptom subnetwork: (left) Top 25 pairs with largest proximity correlation. (right)
adjacency matrix of distance subnetwork; nearest (furthest) term pairs in red (black).
Of the 25 to associations listed in Figure 4 (left), 12 are known or very likely ADR, 7 do not
have conclusive studies but are deemed possible ADR from patient reports, 4 refer to associa-
tions between drugs/NP and symptoms they are indicated to treat, 1 has been shown to not
be ADR, and 1 is unknown (evidence in SI). Thus, the strongest edges in the 1 week resolution
network are relevant drug/NP-symptom associations. Furthermore, our methodology allows
an analyst to collect (via the Drug Explorer tool  3) all the individual timelines and posts that
support every association (edge) in the proximity networks, supporting a much more detailed
study of the a ected population including for the purpose of  ne-tuning dictionaries and
mining techniques to better capture the semantics of speci c populations.
The proximity networks Pw(X) also allow us to visualize, explore and search the  concep-
tual space  of drugs, symptoms, and NP as they co-occur in the depression timeline dataset.
The largest connected component of the proximity network for w = 1 week is shown in Figure
5A. The network representation allows us to  nd clusters of associations, beyond term pairs,
which may be related via the same underlying phenomenon. Many multivariate and network
analysis methods can be used to uncover modular organization.23 To exemplify, here we use
the Principal Component Analysis (PCA)24 of the proximity network adjacency matrix, which
reveals potential phenomena of interest.
For instance, Figure 5, depicts a set of terms correlated with principal component (PC)
Fig. 5. A. Largest connected component of the proximity network for 1 week time resolution; weights shown
only for pij   0.05 with unconnected terms removed. Edges are colored according to correlation with PC 4. B.
Spectrum of the PCA of the proximity network adjacency matrix. C. Biplot of correlation of terms with PC
3 and 4; red (green) terms are most (anti-) correlated with PC4. D. Subgraph depicting the network of terms
most correlated with PC4, which is related to Psoriasis; blue nodes depict conditions linked to this complex
disease (see text for details); weights shown only for pij   0.05.
4 (red) others could be chosen (see SI). The subnetwork of these terms is depicted in Fig-
ure 5D. and it reveals a set of terms denoting a complex interaction of conditions which
are coherent with what is becoming known about Psoriasis. Several of the edges associate
terms related to heart disease, stroke, hypertension, hypotension, and diabetes which are high
risks for Psoriasis patients,25 including potential drug interactions (Metformin for Diabetes,
Verapimil for high blood pressure and Stroke). This subnetwork also reveals associations with
Psoriasis which are currently receiving some attention, such as with viral hepatitis26 and
seizure disorder.27 Naturally, the network also includes many terms associated with skin infec-
tions and immune reactions. The Psoriasis subnetwork is just an example of a multi-term
phenomenon of interest that is represented in the whole network; other PCA components are
shown in SI, including additional analysis of the Psoriasis subnetwork. Importantly, we can
identify users who may be experiencing this cluster of symptoms by following the posts and
timelines behind the weights in the subnetwork, which is useful for public health monitoring.
While the Psoriasis subnetwork was discovered purely by data-driven analysis, another
way to use these networks is to to query them for speci c terms most associated with a set
of drugs or symptoms of interest. This problem of  nding which other items A   X are near
a set of query items Q   X (including a subnetwork of interest) is common in recommender
systems and information retrieval.17 The answer set A can be computed as:
(cid:40)
xj :  xi Q
A  
(cid:41)
 
(pij)    
xj X Q
(3)
where   is an operator of choice, pij is the proximity weight between terms xi and xj ( 2),
and   is a desired threshold. If we are interested in a set of terms A which are strongly related
to every term in query set Q, then we use   = min. If we are interested in terms strongly
related to at least one term in Q, then   = max. For a compromise between the two, we
can use   = avg (average). Consider the query Q = {fluoxetine, anorexia} on the network
of Figure 5A (w = 1 week). Using   = min, we obtain an answer set with terms strongly
related to both query terms (ordered by relevance): A = {suicidal, suicide, anxiety, pain,
mood, cinnamon, insomnia, soy, headache, mania, chia, cannabis }. For the query Q =
{psoriasis, heart failure, stroke } using   = avg, we obtain (ordered by relevance): A =
{infections, diarrhea, hypertension, seizures, hepatitis, constipation, dermatitis,
glaucoma, vomiting }, which relates to the discussion above. Additional query examples and
details of the network search interface are shown in SI.
Proximity Pw(X) networks are useful to discover associations between terms which co-
occur in time windows w of user timelines ( 4). But they are also useful to infer indirect
associations between terms. In other words, terms that do not co-occur much in user timelines,
but which tend to co-occur with the same other terms. In network science indirect associations
are typically obtained via the computation of shortest path algorithms on the isomorphic
distance graphs Dw(X).18 Terms which are very strongly connected via indirect paths, but
weakly connected via direct edges, break transitivity criteria.18 We have previously shown
that such indirect paths are useful to predict novel trends in recommender systems,18 and are
also instrumental to infer factual associations in knowledge networks.15 In this context, the
hypothesis is that strongly indirectly associated terms may reveal unknown DDI and ADR.
Fig. 6. drug/NP vs symptom subnetwork after shortest path calculation. (left) Top 25 non-transitive term
pairs. (right) adjacency matrix of distance subnetwork after shortest path calculation.
To  nd the term pairs that most break transitivity we compute all shortest paths in
the networks (via Dijkstra s algorithm): the metric closure DC
w (X). Figure 6 lists the top 25
drug/NP vs symptom associations which most break transitivity. In other words, these are
term pairs which are very strongly associated via indirect paths, but very weakly associated
directly. Of the extracted associations listed in the table of Figure 6, 6 are known or likely
ADR, 3 are possible ADR from patient reports but no conclusive study, 2 refer to associations
between drugs/NP and symptoms they are indicated to treat, and all other 14 are unknown
(evidence provided in SI). Thus, unlike the case of direct associations (Figure 4), there is
less evidence for the indirect associations in the literature. This could be because they are
false associations, or because they have not been discovered yet. Validating these associations
empirically is left for forthcoming work; here the goal is to show how network analysis methods
can be used to select such latent associations which are highly implied by indirect paths
(transitivity) but are not directly observed in user post co-mentions.
Similarly to what was done with direct associations above, we can also query the proximity
network obtained after shortest path computation P C
w (X) (the isomorphic proximity graph to
DC
w (X) via eq. 2). For instance, if we query the original w = 1 week proximity network P C
w (X)
(the one depicted in Figure 5A) with Q = {psoriasis, metformin} (a type 2 diabetes drug),
using   = min, we obtain A = {montelukast , hypertension, dermatitis, hypotension,
hepatitis} as the top 5 terms montelukast is a drug used to treat allergies. If we now
use the same query Q on the metric closure network P C
w (X) instead, the top 5 answer set
becomes AC = {montelukast, hypotension, naloxone, allopurinol, hypertension} (full
query results in SI). In other words, after computing shortest paths,naloxone (a synthetic
opiate antagonist used to reverse the e ects, including addiction, caused by narcorics) and
allopurinol (a drug used to treat gout, kidney stones, and decrease levels of uric acid in
cancer patients), become more strongly associated with the query terms. These indirect as-
sociations to do not occur very strongly in the observed Instagram timeline data, but are
strongly implied by indirect paths in the network of term proximity. In this case, the latent
associations may provide additional evidence supporting recent observations that psoriasis (an
autoimmune condition) is linked to heart disease, cancer, diabetes and depression.25
5. Discussion and Future Directions
Our preliminary analysis demonstrates that there exists a substantial health-related user com-
munity in Instagram who posts about their health conditions and medications. The drug, NP
and symptom dictionaries we employed extracted a large number of posts with such data,
enough to build knowledge networks of hundreds of terms representing the pharmacology and
symptomatic  conceptual space  of Instagram users posting about depression. Our results
and software further demonstrate that such space can be navigated for public health moni-
toring, whereby analysts can search and visualize user timelines of interest. Furthermore, the
network representation of this space allows us to extract population-level term associations
and subnetworks of terms arising from underlying (modular) phenomena of interest such as
the Psoriasis network involving various related conditions. Thus, Instagram data shows great
potential for public health monitoring and surveillance for DDI and ADR.
Direct associations in the knowledge networks are substantiated by actual co-mentions in
posts from user timelines, which can subsequently be retrieved by public health analysts using
our drug explorer application. In our preliminary work, the top extracted direct associations
are shown to be backed by the literature, but we intend to pursue the systematic validation
of such associations in future work. Network methods also allow us to uncover indirect asso-
ciations among terms. These may reveal latent, yet unknown, associations, and as such, very
relevant for public health monitoring. Studying the network of indirect associations can be
further used to understand community structure as well as redundancy in the data, which we
intend to study next.
We have analyzed posts and user timelines related to depression only. Adding additional
conditions of interest (e.g. epilepsy or psoriasis) to extract additional posts would monitor
di erent communities, and would likely improve the overall extraction of associations, which we
intend to test in the near future. While the drug dictionary is quite well developed already, the
NP and symptoms dictionaries need to be further developed, especially towards increasing the
terminology associated with symptoms as well as on catching particular linguistic expressions
of symptoms in Instagram. The development of named entity recognition tailored to Instagram
is another avenue we intend to pursue, starting from and expanding what has already been
done for Twitter.10
The methodology we describe here allows us to discern drug, NP and symptom associations
derived from user timeline co-mentions at di erent timescales. All the results displayed pertain
to a one week window, however we also computed day and month windows. The comparison
of results at di erent timescales would allow, in principle, the discovery of more immediate as
well as more delayed interactions. Such a comparison is also something we intend to pursue
in forthcoming work. Finally, the timeseries analysis of user timelines can be used to detect
discernible changes in behavior for users and groups of users. One could track, for instance,
critical changes in mood associated with the onset of depression,28 which constitutes yet
another exciting avenue to pursue with this line of research.
Our preliminary analysis demonstrates that Instagram is a very powerful source of data
of potential bene t to monitor and uncover DDI and ADR. Moreover, our work shows that
complex network analysis provides an important toolbox to extract health-related associations
and their support from large-scale social media data.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported by a grant from the National Institutes of Health, National Library of
Medicine Program, grant 01LM011945-01 BLR: Evidence-based Drug-Interaction Discovery:
In-Vivo, In-Vitro and Clinical,  and a grant from Persistent Systems. RBC is supported by
CAPES Foundation Grant No. 18668127. The funders had no role in study design, data
collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript.
References
1. O. Varol, E. Ferrara, C. L. Ogan, F. Menczer and A. Flammini, Evolution of online user behavior
during a social upheaval, in Proc. 2014 ACM Conference on Web Science, WebSci  142014.
2. J. Bollen, H. Mao and X. Zeng, Journal of Computational Science 2, 1 (2011).
3. E. Bakshy, S. Messing and L. A. Adamic, Science 348, 1130 (May 2015).
4. E. Ferrara, R. Interdonato and A. Tagarelli, Online popularity and topical interests through the
lens of instagram, in Proc. 25th ACM Conf. on Hypertext and Social Media, HT  142014.
5. H. Kautz, Data mining social media for public health applications., in 23rd Int. Joint Conf. on
Arti cial Intelligence (IJCAI 2013), (AAAI Press, 2013).
6. A. Signorini, A. M. Segre and P. M. Polgreen, PLoS ONE 6, p. e19467 (2011).
7. A. Sadilek, H. Kautz and V. Silenzio, Modeling spread of disease from social interactions, in
Sixth AAAI Int. Conf, on Weblogs and Social Media (ICWSM), (AAAI Press, 2012).
8. M. D. Choudhury, S. Counts and E. Horvitz, Social media as a measurement tool of depression
in populations, in Proc. 5th Annual ACM Web Science Conf., WebSci 13 (ACM, 2013).
9. A. A. Hamed, X. Wu, R. Erickson and T. Fandy, J. of biomedical informatics 56, 157 (2015).
10. A. Sarker and G. Gonzalez, Journal of biomedical informatics 53, 196 (2015).
11. B. A. Pescosolido, Annual Review of Sociology (2015).
12. E. Seltzer, N. Jean, E. Kramer-Golinko , D. Asch and R. Merchant, Public Health 129, 1273
(September 2015).
13. Instagram Blog, 300 million. http://blog.instagram.com/post/104847837897.
14. Statista, Number of monthly active instagram users from january 2013 to december 2014 (in
millions). http://www.statista.com/statistics/253577/.
15. G. L. Ciampaglia, P. Shiralkar, L. M. Rocha, J. Bollen, F. Menczer and A. Flammini, PLoS ONE
10, p. e0128193 (2015).
16. A. Abi-Haidar, J. Kaur, A. Maguitman, P. Radivojac, A. Rechtsteiner, K. Verspoor, Z. Wang
and L. M. Rocha, Genome Biology 9, p. S:11 (September 2008).
17. L. M. Rocha, T. Simas, A. Rechtsteiner, M. D. Giacomo and R. Luce, Mylibrary@lanl: Prox-
imity and semi-metric networks for a collaborative and recommender web service, in 2005
IEEE/WIC/ACM International Conference on Web Intelligente (WI 05), (IEEE Press, 2005).
18. T. Simas and L. M. Rocha, Network Science 3, 227 (6 2015).
19. D. Wishart, C. Knox, A. Guo, D. Cheng, S. Shrivastava, D. Tzur, B. Gautam and M. Hassanali,
Nucleic Acids Res 36, D901 (January 2008).
20. H.-Y. Wu, S. Karnik, A. Subhadarshini, Z. Wang, S. Philips, X. Han, C. Chiang, L. Liu, M. Bous-
tani, L. M. Rocha, S. K. Quinney, D. Flockhart and L. Li, BMC Bioinformatics 14, 1 (2013).
21. MedlinePlus, Herbal medicine. http://1.usa.gov/1IF33ng.
22. F. P.-Y. Lin, S. Anthony, T. M. Polasek, G. Tsafnat and M. P. Doogue, BMC Bioinformatics
12, p. 112 (April 2011).
23. S. Fortunato, Physics Reports 486, 75 (2010).
24. M. E. Wall, A. Rechtsteiner and L. M. Rocha, Singular value decomposition and principal compo-
nent analysis, in A practical approach to microarray data analysis, (Springer, 2003) pp. 91 109.
25. WebMD, Psoriasis linked to heart disease, cancer. studies also show link to increased risk of
diabetes and depression. http://wb.md/1IF3hL3.
26. A. D. Cohen, D. Weitzman, S. Birkenfeld and J. Dreiher, Dermatology 220, 218 (2010).
27. O. M, K. IS, C. T, G. MP and M. KD, JAMA Neurology 71, 569 (2014).
28. I. A. van de Leemput, M. Wichers, A. O. Cramer, D. Borsboom, F. Tuerlinckx, P. Kuppens,
E. H. van Nes, W. Viechtbauer, E. J. Giltay, S. H. Aggen et al., PNAS 111, 87 (2014).
