Ideal Composition of a Group for Maximal Knowledge Building in Crowdsourced
Environments
Anamika Chhabra, S. R. S. Iyengar and Jaspal S. Saini
anamika.chhabra@iitrpr.ac.in, sudarshan@iitrpr.ac.in, jaspal.singh@iitrpr.ac.in
Department of Computer Science and Engineering
Indian Institute of Technology Ropar, India
6
1
0
2
 
y
a
M
1
1
 
 
 
]
C
H
.
s
c
[
 
 
2
v
2
8
2
8
0
.
0
1
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Abstract
Crowdsourcing has revolutionized the process of knowledge
building on the web. Wikipedia and StackOver ow are wit-
ness to this uprising development. However, the dynamics be-
hind the process of crowdsourcing in the domain of knowl-
edge building is an area relatively unexplored.
It has been
observed that an ecosystem exists in the collaborative knowl-
edge building environments (KBE)(Chhabra, Iyengar, Saini, &
Bhat, 2015), which puts users of a KBE into various categories
based on their expertise. Classical cognitive theories indicate
triggering among the knowledge units to be one of the most
important reasons behind accelerated knowledge building in
collaborative KBEs. We use the concept of ecosystem and the
triggering phenomenon to highlight the necessity for the right
mix of users in a KBE. We provide a hill climbing based algo-
rithm which gives the ideal mixture of users in a KBE, given
the amount of triggering that takes place among the users of
various categories. The study will help the portal designers to
accordingly build suitable crowdsourced environments.
Keywords: Crowdsourcing; knowledge building; ecosystem;
triggering
Introduction
Due to the introduction of Web 2.0 and Web 3.0 (Lassila
& Hendler, 2007; Hendler, 2009), a collection of tools for
collaboration, integration and interaction have become avail-
able on the internet (Bryant, 2006). Accessing knowledge on
any given topic is not a dif cult task nowadays. The online
knowledge building systems have become successful largely
because of crowdsourcing. It is a technique provided by Web
2.0 which is used to gather information from the people in
the crowd.
In a crowdsourced knowledge building system,
the knowledge-generation process is outsourced to a commu-
nity of users (Doan, Ramakrishnan, & Halevy, 2011). Some
of the knowledge building systems effectively exploiting the
bene ts of crowdsourcing are Wikipedia, StackOver ow and
Quora. These systems aggregate the human knowledge on
various topics and have been successful in making use of
the immense potential of the masses. Many of these sys-
tems also make use of various incentivizing mechanisms to
motivate users to participate more in the knowledge building
process (Anderson, Huttenlocher, Kleinberg, & Leskovec,
2013). Due to the ease of access of internet, the process
of knowledge building has further evolved (Saxton, Oh, &
Kishore, 2013). Even knowledge seekers are participating in
the knowledge building process by for example, asking ques-
tions (Wang, Gill, Mohanlal, Zheng, & Zhao, 2013; Hanra-
han, Convertino, & Nelson, 2012). These questions then trig-
ger other users to add their knowledge to the system (Dierkes,
Child, & Nonaka, 2003; Anderson, Huttenlocher, Kleinberg,
& Leskovec, 2014). Prime examples include StackOver ow
and Quora. Also, group knowledge building by a mixture
of experts and non-experts has mostly replaced individual
knowledge building by experts (Kittur & Kraut, 2008; Gal-
ton, 1907; Surowiecki, Silverman, et al., 2007). All this has
inspired us to look into the dynamics of group knowledge
building. We begin by addressing the following set of ques-
tions: Why is it that groups perform better than individuals in
knowledge building? In order to have the best knowledge
building experience, should we take care of certain things
while forming groups? In general, does the composition of
the group matter?
Figure 1: The Triggering Phenomenon (a) A knowledge
building system consisting of three categories getting trig-
gered by each other (b) The triggering matrix T
To investigate these questions, our analysis is based on the
existence of ecosystem (Chhabra, Iyengar, Saini, Bhat, & Ku-
mar, 2015) in crowdsourced KBEs, Luhmann s theory of au-
topoietic systems (Seidl, 2004; Luhmann, 1995) and Piaget s
theory of equilibration (Piaget, 1977, 1976). We also follow
on the classical literature on the triggering phenomenon oc-
curring among the knowledge frames. In (Chhabra, Iyengar,
Saini, & Bhat, 2015), the authors observed the existence of
ecosystem among the users of a knowledge building system,
and based on that, divided them into various categories. Each
of these categories possesses a different skill set and partic-
ipates in the knowledge building process in a different man-
ner. Following Luhmann s theory, we propose that groups in
a knowledge building system perform better, because these
categories create an enormous amount of perturbation among
each other. This perturbation leads to triggering of more ideas
into the KBE. The theory when applied to modern knowledge
building systems gives an insight into why people participate
in these crowdsourced systems. The perturbation that is cre-
ated on seeing some content on these systems inspires them
to contribute more. According to Piaget s theory, this phe-
nomenon of triggering will go on until the state of equili-
bration, after which the triggering reduces. This theory ex-
plains the reasons behind the slowing growth of content on
Wikipedia with time (Suh, Convertino, Chi, & Pirolli, 2009;
Lam & Riedl, 2011).
The paper provides a thorough investigation of the crowd-
sourced knowledge building process in terms of ecosystem
and triggering. We differentiate between the knowledge that
the users add to the system without looking at each others 
ideas and the knowledge that they add when they come across
the content posted by others. We see that the latter constitutes
a considerable part of the knowledge built by a crowdsourced
system. The proposed model helps in understanding the rea-
son behind the bene ts that a group provides, as compared to
individual knowledge building. We further show that it is im-
portant to have the right mix of users in a knowledge building
portal for it to be more effective. For example, even the users
who have good knowledge of the subject matter, might not
add their knowledge to the system unless they are instigated.
Hence, it is equally important to have a good number of users
in the system who can ask meaningful questions. This way,
even people having less knowledge about the subject partici-
pate in the knowledge building process.
Outline. The remainder of the paper is organized as fol-
lows: In section 2, we discuss related work on knowledge
building. Section 3  rst explains certain classical theories
which have inspired the development of the current model
along with the model and then gives an algorithm to  nd the
ideal distribution of users given the triggering matrix. In sec-
tion 4, we conclude and discuss directions for future work.
Related Work
In the past, most of the models on knowledge building have
focused on various characteristics that a KBE should possess.
However, the characteristics of users that are participating in
the knowledge building process have not been well under-
stood.
Nonaka (1994) explains that the knowledge creation hap-
pens through a constant dialogue between tacit knowledge1
and explicit knowledge2. The author developed a theoretical
framework which provides an analytical perspective on vari-
ous dimensions of knowledge creation. Gerry Stahl (2000)
provides a conceptual framework for collaborative KBEs
which consists of important phases that should be supported
by any computer-based KBE. The model given by the au-
thor explains the relationship of collaborative group processes
to individual cognitive processes. Scardamlia and Brieter
1It is codi ed knowledge which is transmittable in some formal
language
2It is the knowledge that human beings possess and acquire
4Internalization is the process of taking the information from the
through their experience over time
(1994) in their work consider learners also as the members of
knowledge building community. They emphasized the impor-
tance of a community effort rather than individual effort for
accelerated knowledge building. Cress et al. (2008) provide
a theoretical framework for describing the process of learn-
ing and knowledge building and the way these two processes
in uence each other. They make use of Luhmann theory and
Piaget s theory of equilibration and propose two processes
externalization3 and internalization4 as the basis of interac-
tion between the social and the cognitive system. Minsky
(1977) and Rumelhart (1991) consider the knowledge units as
frames. Norman (1981) and Just et. al (1980) assert that the
frames are linked together and one frame may trigger other
frames. When a frame is triggered, all the frames linked to it
are triggered. Fisher and Lipson (1985) state that for a given
frame to come into the system, suitable triggering conditions
are required.
A study which is conducted in the context of a right mix of
users in the domain of problem solving has been performed
by Scott (2004; 2008). The author states that a group of ran-
domly selected people outperforms a group of best perform-
ing people. This is due to the fact that these random people
bring diverse knowledge into the system and hence are able to
perform better while solving a problem. On contrary, the best
performing agents bring in similar type of knowledge to the
system and hence might not be able to solve the problem that
well. However, Thompson (2014) came up with a counter pa-
per to Scott s work recently claiming that his paper does not
provide any foundation for the argument that diversity actu-
ally trumps ability. Krause et al. (2011) argue that adding
diversity to a group can be more advantageous than adding
expertise to the group. Erickson et. al (2012) provide a frame-
work to select the crowd matching organizational needs. The
authors state that different tasks require different crowds with
different skills and knowledge. Kobern et. al (Kobren, Tan,
Ipeirotis, & Gabrilovich, 2015) observe in their recent work
that intelligently assigning tasks to the users signi cantly in-
creases the value of a crowdsourced system.
The Triggering Model
This section  rst introduces the motivation behind the model
by presenting classical
theories which explain the phe-
nomenon of triggering among the knowledge units and a brief
of the existence of ecosystem in crowdsourced environments.
It then describes the types of KUs followed by the problem
statement. The Triggering Model and the algorithm are ex-
plained afterwards.
Motivation
This subsection introduces Luhmann theory, Piaget s theory
of equilibration and the previous work on ecosystem.
3Externalization is a process by which users add their knowledge
to the system
system
Elementary Theories on Cognition and Triggering Luh-
manns theory describes a knowledge building system as an
autopoietic system 5. It states that once started, further ideas
(or cognitions) are produced by existing ideas of the same
system. The existing ideas create perturbations in the cogni-
tive system of users, which then trigger more ideas.The the-
ory clearly distinguishes cognitive systems from the KBE. We
apply the same concept to the knowledge building process,
where users are the cognitive systems who build knowledge
in the KBE. The changes in the environment lead to irritations
in the cognitive systems. The theory further talks about the
concept of structural coupling, which is the relation between
cognitive systems and the environment. It states that although
environment can create irritations in all the cognitive systems
(users here), it might not be able to trigger all of them. The ac-
tual systems that can get triggered due to these perturbations
are determined by the structural coupling of these systems to
the environment. Also, different cognitive systems may have
different structural coupling.
The question arises whether this phenomenon of triggering
goes on inde nitely, or does it reach some threshold point.
Piagets Model of equilibration states that people contribute
to the knowledge building process because of cognitive con-
 icts (perturbations as per Luhmann Model), which means
that when they see some information that is incongruent to
their existing knowledge, it creates a disturbance in their
mind. This disturbance leads them to add their knowledge
to the system. This knowledge addition then leads to the
equilibration between the systems knowledge and the users
knowledge. We further build on this theory explaining that
initially, there is a huge need for equilibration, hence enor-
mous amount of knowledge gets added to the system. How-
ever, as time passes, users knowledge starts matching with the
knowledge of the system, and hence, there is less disturbance.
This provides some support for slowing growth of knowledge
building in the KBEs with time.
Lateral thinking and triggering process (Rumelhart, 1991)
are the main reasons for generation of ideas in a collaborative
KBE. Triggering is a procedure by which an idea or a com-
ment spearheads the generation of another idea or a thought
(Just & Carpenter, 1980). It is associated with how an idea
or a comment becomes an impetus for the generation of other
ideas. The generation of knowledge units in terms of trig-
gering has also been explained in the information processing
theory (Norman, 1981; Seidl, 2004). This theory character-
izes human knowledge as a series of Knowledge Frames. The
frames are related to each other by various conditions. When
a frame is triggered by stimuli, other frames, which are linked
to this frame, may also be triggered. The frames play an im-
portant role in guiding the way for creating and retrieving
more knowledge.
Ecosystem and Formation of Categories
In (Chhabra,
Iyengar, Saini, & Bhat, 2015), the authors conducted exper-
5Autopoietic system refers to a system which once started, keeps
recreating and maintaining itself.
iments on a custom-made annotation system CAS and ob-
served that people showed expertise in performing mainly
one kind of activity while participating in the knowledge
building process.
The existence of ecosystem was ob-
served in Wikipedia and StackOver ow as well. This phe-
nomenon divides all the users into various categories based
on their expertise. For example, the categories observed in
CAS (Crowdsourced Annotation System) were Articulators,
Probers, Solvers and Explorers. There were different cate-
gories observed in the case of Wikipedia and StackOver ow.
These observations led to the conclusion that ecosystem is a
characteristic of crowdsourced KBEs. The categories formed
in the ecosystem trigger each other with different triggering
factors. Figure 1 shows the triggering phenomenon occurring
in a three category system.  i j is the triggering factor, which
quantizes the number of knowledge units of category i that
will be generated per user of category i due to one knowledge
unit of category j. This gives rise to a triggering matrix stor-
ing the triggering factors for all the categories. The triggering
matrix for a three category scenario is shown in  g. 1(b). We
intuitively believe that some values in this matrix will be low,
high or some will even be zero, depending on whether one
category is a prerequisite for the generation of KUs of another
category or not. For example, in CAS, a question triggers
users in  Solver  category more than it may trigger the users
in  Pointer  category. We call triggering within categories
 Intra-triggering  and across categories as  Inter-triggering .
The values of intra-triggering are perceived to be less than
those of inter-triggering due to the similarity of traits among
the users of same category. The self loops of categories in the
diagram represent intra-triggering.
A collaborative knowledge building system, due to the
presence of ecosystem, provides an ideal environment for the
triggering process to take place. The users in one category
trigger the users in all other categories. Due to this triggering
process only, these collaborative environments are able to re-
alize  the whole is greater than sum of its parts  phenomenon.
Sources of Knowledge Units in a Knowledge
Building System
We can classify all the knowledge generated in the system on
the basis of whether it is an outcome of group dynamics or
not. The total generated knowledge can be divided into two
categories: (i) Internal Knowledge and (ii) Triggered Knowl-
edge.
Internal Knowledge
Internal knowledge is a subset of the
user s knowledge which is added to the system independent
of the effect of group dynamics. This is precisely the knowl-
edge that the user would have added to the system if she had
been participating in the knowledge building process individ-
ually (and not in a group). Hence, addition of internal knowl-
edge to the system consists of only the process of externaliza-
tion. As an example, consider the following experiment: If a
user is asked to name all the countries in the world (which
are more than 190 in total), assume, she is able to come up
with 40-50 of these countries. These generated knowledge
units are what we consider as her internal knowledge. Please
note that in this case, it may so happen that the user knows
some more countries  names, but currently she does not re-
call them. These names are not a part of internal knowledge
since they never got added to the system.
Please note that different users may have overlapping in-
ternal knowledge. This hints us towards the fact that there
exits an upper bound on the internal knowledge contribution
of a particular category, i.e. after a certain threshold number
of users of category i, adding more users to this category will
not lead to more internal knowledge contribution of the cate-
gory. This shows that the  law of diminishing bene ts  holds
here rather than the  law of large numbers . This information
may help us to  nd an upper bound on the maximum number
of users in a particular category.
Triggered Knowledge This is the kind of knowledge that
gets added to the system as a result of the group dynamics.
When people participate in the knowledge building process as
a group, they get triggered on seeing each others  ideas and
hence, generate more knowledge. This knowledge is called
triggered knowledge. Addition of triggered knowledge to the
system is a process, in which  rst internalization and then
externalization takes place. The users  rst internalize the
knowledge from the system, and then externalize their own
knowledge to thee system. This externalized knowledge can
further be of two types:
1. First type consists of the knowledge that the user had in
her cognitive system already, but she gets reminded of it
only after getting triggered by some other user s idea. In
our previous example on countries  names, for example, it
may so happen that on hearing about some country of Eu-
rope, she gets reminded of some other countries  names
from Europe. This type of knowledge is called  Recol-
lected Knowledge .
2. The other type consists of the new knowledge which was
not in users  cognitive system already. This type of knowl-
edge has also been referred to as Emergent Knowledge
(Cress & Kimmerle, 2008). For example, consider the sce-
nario where a user knows these two facts: (a) There are in-
 nite Fermat Numbers. (b) Every number can be uniquely
decomposed into a product of prime numbers (Fundamen-
tal Theorem of Arithmetic). Now consider that she comes
across another fact which was added to the system by some
other user, which is, (c) Every two Fermat Numbers are co-
prime to each other. The user combines her existing knowl-
edge ((a) and (b)) and the knowledge internalized from the
system ((c)) and comes up with a new knowledge, for ex-
ample, that there are in nite prime numbers. This new
deduced knowledge when added to the system, also falls
under the category of triggered knowledge.
Problem Statement
Problem: Given the number of users, the number of cat-
egories, the total internal knowledge of the users and the
amount of triggering taking place among the categories, can
we output an ideal number of users for each category that
leads to the maximum knowledge building and hence accel-
erates the knowledge building process?
To motivate the discussion of the problem, let us assume
a simplistic two-category scenario as shown in the  gure 2.
As we can see that when the users of category B add a KU
to the system, the users of category A are triggered to a very
less extent (i.e. 0.1). So does this mean that we should keep
as less as possible number of users in category A However,
we also see that whenever users of category A add a KU to
the system, it triggers the users of category B to a great ex-
tent (i.e. 0.9). Now, if it is given that we can take only 100
total users in the system, how many users should we assign
to both the categories so that the total knowledge generated
is maximum. Surprisingly, in this case, 50 users in each of
the categories will lead to the maximum knowledge building
if it is given that all the users have same amount of internal
knowledge. In general if we are given the amount by which
various categories trigger each other, can we  nd out an ideal
number of users that should be assigned to each category for
maximum knowledge building?
Figure 2: A Simplistic two-category Case
To get an answer to the problem explained above, we
will  rst build a model of crowdsourced knowledge building
which makes use of the triggering phenomenon, ecosystem
and the two types of knowledge units (internal and triggered).
With the help of this model, we will show that different distri-
butions of users across categories gives rise to varying amount
of total knowledge produced. We will then develop an algo-
rithm that takes the triggering matrix as input and gives the
ideal distribution of users leading to the maximal knowledge
building.
The Model
Consider a knowledge building system (KBS) consisting of n
users. We assume that ecosystem exists in the KBS i.e. each
users tends to be an expert mainly in one particular type of
activity. Further we consider a stricter version of the above
scenario where each user belongs to only one category i.e. a
user will generate only one type of knowledge units, although
it can trigger users to generate varied types of knowledge
units. This assumption has been made to reduce the com-
plexity of the model. In practice, it may happen that the users
contribute to rest of the categories to a small extent. Given
that the current model mainly concentrates on the triggering
phenomenon in KBS, incorporation of this small amount of
contribution of knowledge to the other categories will make
the model extremely complex, and may be considered in the
next version of the model. We assume that all the n users
enter the knowledge building system at time t = 0. For exam-
ple, in settings like NB (Zyto, Karger, Ackerman, & Mahajan,
2012) and CAS (Chhabra, Iyengar, Saini, & Bhat, 2015), all
the users are usually present in the system at the start of the
knowledge building process. Throughout the text, we will be
using the words  type  and  category  interchangeably.
Let ni be the number of users in category i and m be the
number of categories such that,
m
 
i=1
ni = n
Let ri be the internal knowledge contribution of a user of cat-
egory i. For simplicity, we assume that all the users of a
category add same amount of internal knowledge to the sys-
tem. This assumption has been taken so that the model can
concentrate on explaining the most important feature which
is triggering among the categories. This assumption, how-
ever, can be easily relaxed without signi cant changes to the
model. The users of a category will add their internal knowl-
edge to the system in discrete time stamps depending on the
type of knowledge building system under consideration. In
some cases, they may add it in the beginning. In other cases,
they may keep adding it gradually to the system as some func-
tion of time. Let ri(t) be the internal knowledge contribution
of a user of category i at time t such that,
 
 
t=0
ri(t) = ri
Let  i j be the number of knowledge units (KUs) of type i
that get triggered due to one KU of type j. Now, our aim is
to calculate the total number of KUs of type i that get added
to the KBS at time t. Let ki(t) represent that number. We
consider that the number of KUs of a category that get added
at time t are directly dependent on the following parameters:
1. The number of KUs of all the categories6 that get added to
the system at time t   1. This is because of the fact that all
the categories  KUs will trigger new KUs of the considered
category at the next time step.
2. The triggering factors from all other categories to the con-
sidered category.
3. The number of users in the considered category. More the
number of users, more the KUs generated7.
6Including the category under consideration, due to some amount
of intra-triggering
7Upto a certain threshold, after which diminishing bene ts ap-
pear due to overlap of knowledge of users of the same category
4. The internal knowledge of the users of the considered cat-
egory.
These parameters give rise to the following expression for
ki(t),
ki(t) = ni( i1k1(t 1)+ i2k2(t 1)+   + imkm(t 1))+niri(t)
(cid:32) m
 
j=1
i.e.,
 0 (cid:54) i (cid:54) m
ki(t) = ni
(cid:33)
 i jk j(t   1) + ri(t)
(1)
The above expression gives us the number of KUs of cate-
gory i that get added to the system. We are now interested to
similarly compute the KUs of all the categories that get added
to the system at time t.
Let K(t) represent the column vector consisting of the knowl-
edge generated by various categories at time t as its elements.
     
     
k1(t)
k2(t)
...
km(t)
k(t) =
Let T be the triggering matrix, N be a diagonal matrix stor-
ing the number of users in each category and R(t) be the col-
umn matrix storing the function by which each category users
add their internal knowledge to the system. The matrices T ,
N and R(t) are shown as below:
T =
        
N =
     
        
     
 11
 21
...
 m1
 12
 22
   
   
   
   
 1m
 2m
...
 mm
n1
n2
0
R(t) =
0
...
1
     
     
r1(t)
r2(t)
...
rm(t)
nm
Given the above notations, we can write equation 1 as:
K(t) = N(T K(t   1) + R(t))
(2)
where K(t), N, T and R(t) are the matrices as de ned above.
The above equation gives us a recursive formula for  nding
the total number of KUs added to the system at time t. Our
aim now is to calculate the total KUs of each category added
to the system, when N, T and R are given, where R is de ned
as below:
Theorem 1 Given the matrices N, T and R, the net knowl-
edge in the system at the end of the Knowledge building pro-
cess is given by,
     
     
r1
r2
...
rm
R =
where ris represent total internal knowledge of category i. We
will soon show that the total knowledge generated in the sys-
tem is independent of the function r(t) for any category, i.e.
in whichever way the users may add their internal knowledge
to the system, the total knowledge generated in the system
over a suf ciently long period of time in all cases comes out
to be equal.
Lemma 1 The total knowledge generated in the system at
time t is given by:
K(t) =
(NT )iNR(t   i)
t
 
i=0
Proof. Substituting the value of K(t   1) in equation 2, we
get,
K(t) = N(T (NT K(t   2) + NR(t   1)) + R(t))
K(t) = (NT )2K(t   2) + (NT )NR(t   1) + NR(t)
Continuing like this, we get,
K(t) = (NT )tK(0) + (NT )t 1NR(1)+
(NT )t 2NR(2) +    + (NT )0NR(t)
Since at time t = 0, no triggering happens, and the total
knowledge of the system is given by the internal knowledge
of all the users, we take K(0) = NR(0), which gives us,
K(t) = (NT )tNR(0) +    + (NT )0NR(t)
K(t) =
(NT )NR(t   i)
t
 
i=0
In order to get the total KUs ever generated in the KBS, we
consider another matrix K as follows:
     
     
k1
k2
...
km
K =
where kis are scalar values storing the total number of KUs of
category t ever generated in the KBS.
(3)
assuming
K = (I   NT ) 1NR
 (NT ) < 1
where I is an Identity Matrix of the order m  m.
Proof. Lemma2 gives the KUs generated at time t for all the
categories. Summation of K(t) over the time period from 0 to
  gives,
(cid:33)
(NT )iNR(t   i)
 
i=0
(NT )iNR(t   i)
(cid:32) t
 
 
t=0
K =
K =
K =
 
 
t=0
t
 
i=0
t
 
i=0
(NT )iNR, where R is as de ned in (3)
If the spectral radius of (NT ) is less than 1,  t
verges to (I   NT ) 1, i.e.
i=0(NT )i con-
K = (I   NT ) 1NR,
where I is an Identity matrix.
In the above proof,  (NT ) has been taken to be less than
1. This is because we are assuming a bounded system.
If
we take   to be greater than or equal to 1, then the term
 t
i=0(NT )i becomes increases exponentially, which is not a
practical scenario.
The above theorem shows that the total knowledge in the
system is independent of the distribution of R(t) i.e. whether
the entire internal knowledge of users enters the system at t =
0 or it enters in discrete time, the net knowledge in the system
remains unchanged. The theorem also helps computing the
triggered knowledge contribution in the knowledge building,
as shown by the corollary that follows.
Corollary 1 The contribution of triggered knowledge to the
total knowledge of the system is given by N.T.K
Proof. From Theorem 1,
K = (I   NT ) 1NR
=  (I   NT )K = NR
The contribution of triggered knowledge in K is equal to K  
NR, where NR is the total internal knowledge added to the
system.
=  K   NT K = NR
=  K   NR = NT K
Algorithm 1 Hill Climbing Algorithm For Ideal Distribution
of Users across Categories
Input: Number of users n, Number of categories m, Trigger-
ing Matrix T and Internal Knowledge matrix R.
Output: Ideal Distribution Matrix N
across different categories, such that  m
1. Pick a random distribution N = [n1,n2, . . . ,nm] of users
2. Consider all the 2 (cid:0)m
(cid:1) = m(m  1) neighbouring distribu-
i=1 ni = n
2
tions (Nb) of D, de ned as:
Nb = [ ]
f or i = 1 : m
f or j = 1 : m
I f i (cid:54)= j :
D = (n1,n2, . . . ,ni   1, . . . ,n j + 1, . . . ,nm)
Nb.append(D)
3. Calculate KNb[ j]   1 (cid:54) j (cid:54) m(m 1) based on the following
formula:
K = (I   NT ) 1NR
where KNb[ j] represents the net knowledge in the system
with the distribution Nb[ j]
Choose i such that KNb[i] = max
KNb[ j]
j
4. If KNb[i] > KN then N = Nb[i] and we repeat steps 2 to 4
else:
return N //The ideal skill set distribution
Figure 4: The execution of Hill Climbing Algorithm: mov-
ing from one distribution to another neighboring distribution,
leading to the perfect one
Figure 3: The convex plot of net knowledge (K) generated
across all the possible distributions
The corollary indicates that the ratio of triggered knowledge
to the total knowledge is directly proportional to the trigger-
ing matrix T . This means that the total knowledge that a sys-
tem is able to produce depends on how much the users of the
system are able to trigger each other.
In order to know the shape of the surface curve when we
change the number of users across the categories, we simu-
lated the results of Theorem 1 by taking the following pa-
rameters:
n = 100
  0.001 0.003
0.001
0.008
0.03
0.03
m = 3
T =
  
0.0004
0.005
0.003
For simplicity, the internal knowledge (R) for all the cate-
gories was taken to be equal. It was observed that the sur-
face plot comes out to be a convex plot which exhibits a
peak corresponding to a particular distribution of users. Fig-
ure 3 shows the plot where the axes for the represent n1, n2
and K (n3 is taken as (n   n1   n2)). The maxima of the
curve was found at K = 3081.40849516 with the distribution
[39,30,31].
Hill Climbing Algorithm For Ideal Skillset
Distribution
Since we obtained a convex surface plot with respect to the
distributions, we can develop a hill climbing algorithm which
starts from any random distribution and gradually moves to-
wards the ideal distribution of users which leads to an accel-
erated knowledge building. We now provide a  Hill Climbing
Algorithm  (See Algorithm 1) for  nding the ideal skill set
distribution across categories.
For veri cation, we simulated the proposed algorithm on
the same speci cations as de ned above. Figure 4 shows how
the algorithm moves from an initial distribution (which is in-
put to the algorithm) to ideal distribution i.e. the distribution
which produces maximum knowledge in the given KBE. The
 nal output of the algorithm ([39,30,31]) is coherent with re-
sults obtained from the previous simulation, supporting the
correctness of the proposed algorithm.
Conclusion and Future Work
This paper is a step towards understanding the dynamics of
knowledge building in a crowdsourced environment. We con-
sider the variance of expertise present in the crowd and divide
them into categories.
In line with the previous research in
cognitive sciences, we consider triggering among the knowl-
edge frames to be the reason behind better performance of
the groups than individuals. Through a model, we explain the
interplay of these categories taking into account the varied
amount of triggering that takes place among them. We then
compare this triggered knowledge with the knowledge that
would have been added to the system in the absence of inter-
action among the users. We  nd that triggered knowledge is
a signi cant part of the total knowledge produced.
We emphasize the importance of a right mix of skill set
present across the categories in order to accelerate the knowl-
edge building process. We observe that as we keep changing
the distribution of users across categories, we get different
amount of knowledge produced with respect to time. In that
context, we try to  nd the ideal distribution which acceler-
ates the knowledge building process to the best possible ex-
tent. We computationally observe that the knowledge curve
with respect to the distribution of users is a convex curve, the
peak of which gives the ideal distribution. We further de-
velop a Hill Climbing Algorithm which starts from any ran-
dom distribution and outputs the ideal distribution for the best
knowledge building experience. We believe that this study
will inform the portal designers to take better decisions while
developing a KBE. For example, knowing the number of cat-
egories in the system and the triggering among them, they
can use various incentivizing mechanisms to encourage the
participation of users in different categories. This theory can
also help explain why some KBEs like Wikipedia have  our-
ished while some others like could not proliferate.
In future, the proposed model may be veri ed for various
KBEs like Wikipedia, Quora, StackOver ow etc. The model
could also be tested by changing the existing distribution of
users in a KBE, and observing the impact of this change to-
wards the acceleration/deceleration in the knowledge build-
ing process. In the model, all the users were assumed to be
present in the system at the start of the knowledge building
process, which may not always be the case. Therefore the
model may be further improvised to account for this parame-
ter.
References
Anderson, A., Huttenlocher, D., Kleinberg, J., & Leskovec, J.
(2013). Steering user behavior with badges. In Proceedings
of the 22nd international conference on world wide web
(pp. 95 106).
Anderson, A., Huttenlocher, D., Kleinberg, J., & Leskovec, J.
(2014). Engaging with massive online courses. In Proceed-
ings of the 23rd international conference on world wide
web (pp. 687 698).
Bryant, T. (2006). Social software in academia. Educause
quarterly, 29(2), 61.
Chhabra, A., Iyengar, S., Saini, P., & Bhat, R. S. (2015). Pres-
ence of an ecosystem: a catalyst in the knowledge building
process in crowdsourced annotation environments. Pro-
ceedings of the 2015 International Conference on Ad-
vances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining (ASONAM
2015).
Chhabra, A., Iyengar, S., Saini, P., Bhat, R. S., & Kumar,
V. (2015). Ecosystem: A characteristic of crowdsourced
environments. arXiv preprint arXiv:1502.06719.
Cress, U., & Kimmerle, J. (2008). A systemic and cognitive
view on collaborative knowledge building with wikis. In-
ternational Journal of Computer-Supported Collaborative
Learning, 3(2), 105 122.
Dierkes, M., Child, J., & Nonaka, I. (2003). Handbook of
organizational learning and knowledge. Oxford University
Press.
Doan, A., Ramakrishnan, R., & Halevy, A. Y. (2011). Crowd-
sourcing systems on the world-wide web. Communications
of the ACM, 54(4), 86 96.
Erickson, L., Petrick, I., & Trauth, E. (2012). Hanging with
the right crowd: Matching crowdsourcing need to crowd
characteristics.
Fisher, K., & Lipson, J. I.
Information processing
interpretation of errors in college science learning. Instruc-
tional Science, 14(1), 49 74.
(1985).
Galton, F. (1907). Vox populi (the wisdom of crowds). Na-
ture, 75, 450 451.
Hanrahan, B. V., Convertino, G., & Nelson, L. (2012). Mod-
eling problem dif culty and expertise in stackover ow. In
Proceedings of the acm 2012 conference on computer sup-
ported cooperative work companion (pp. 91 94).
Hendler, J.
111 113.
(2009). Web 3.0 emerging. Computer, 42(1),
Hong, L., & Page, S. E.
(2004). Groups of diverse prob-
lem solvers can outperform groups of high-ability problem
solvers. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
of the United States of America, 101(46), 16385 16389.
Just, M. A., & Carpenter, P. A. (1980). A theory of read-
ing: from eye  xations to comprehension. Psychological
review, 87(4), 329.
Kittur, A., & Kraut, R. E. (2008). Harnessing the wisdom
of crowds in wikipedia: quality through coordination. In
Proceedings of the 2008 acm conference on computer sup-
ported cooperative work (pp. 37 46).
Kobren, A., Tan, C. H., Ipeirotis, P., & Gabrilovich, E.
(2015). Getting more for less: Optimized crowdsourc-
ing with dynamic tasks and goals. In Proceedings of the
24th international conference on world wide web (pp. 592 
602).
Krause, S., James, R., Faria, J. J., Ruxton, G. D., & Krause, J.
(2011). Swarm intelligence in humans: diversity can trump
ability. Animal Behaviour, 81(5), 941 948.
Lam, S. K., & Riedl, J. (2011). The past, present, and future
of wikipedia. Computer, 44(3), 87 90.
Lassila, O., & Hendler, J.
(2007). Embracing  web 3.0 .
Internet Computing, IEEE, 11(3), 90 93.
Luhmann, N. (1995). Social systems. Stanford University
Press.
Minsky, M. (1977). Frame-system theory. Thinking: Read-
ings in cognitive science, 355 376.
Nonaka, I.
(1994). A dynamic theory of organizational
knowledge creation. Organization science, 5(1), 14 37.
Norman, D. A. (1981). Categorization of action slips. Psy-
chological review, 88(1), 1.
Page, S. E.
(2008). The difference: How the power of di-
versity creates better groups,  rms, schools, and societies.
Princeton University Press.
Piaget, J. (1976). Piagets theory. Springer.
Piaget, J. (1977). The development of thought: Equilibration
of cognitive structures.(trans a. rosin). Viking.
Rumelhart, D. E.
(1991). Understanding understanding.
Memories, thoughts and emotions: Essays in honor of
George Mandler, 257 275.
Saxton, G. D., Oh, O., & Kishore, R. (2013). Rules of crowd-
sourcing: Models, issues, and systems of control. Informa-
tion Systems Management, 30(1), 2 20.
Scardamalia, M., & Bereiter, C. (1994). Computer support
for knowledge-building communities. The journal of the
learning sciences, 3(3), 265 283.
Seidl, D. (2004). Luhmanns theory of autopoietic social sys-
tems.
Stahl, G.
(2000). A model of collaborative knowledge-
building. In Fourth international conference of the learning
sciences (Vol. 10, pp. 70 77).
Suh, B., Convertino, G., Chi, E. H., & Pirolli, P. (2009). The
singularity is not near: slowing growth of wikipedia.
In
Proceedings of the 5th international symposium on wikis
and open collaboration (p. 8).
Surowiecki, J., Silverman, M. P., et al. (2007). The wisdom
of crowds. American Journal of Physics, 75(2), 190 192.
Thompson, A. (2014). Does diversity trump ability? Notices
of the AMS, 61(9).
Wang, G., Gill, K., Mohanlal, M., Zheng, H., & Zhao, B. Y.
(2013). Wisdom in the social crowd: an analysis of quora.
In Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on
world wide web (pp. 1341 1352).
Zyto, S., Karger, D., Ackerman, M., & Mahajan, S. (2012).
Successful classroom deployment of a social document an-
notation system. In Proceedings of the sigchi conference
on human factors in computing systems (pp. 1883 1892).
