Cross-Device Tracking:
Matching Devices and Cookies
Roberto D  az-Moralesl  
 IDI Department,Treelogic
Parque Tecnol ogico de Asturias, parcela 30, 33428, Spain
Email: roberto.diaz@treelogic.com
 DTSC, University Carlos III de Madrid, Spain
Email: rdiazm@tsc.uc3m.es
5
1
0
2
 
t
c
O
5
 
 
 
]
G
L
.
s
c
[
 
 
1
v
5
7
1
1
0
.
0
1
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Abstract The number of computers, tablets and smartphones
is increasing rapidly, which entails the ownership and use
of multiple devices to perform online tasks. As people move
across devices to complete these tasks, their identities becomes
fragmented.
Understanding the usage and transition between those devices
is essential to develop ef cient applications in a multi-device
world. In this paper we present a solution to deal with the
cross-device identi cation of users based on semi-supervised
machine learning methods to identify which cookies belong to
an individual using a device. The method proposed in this
paper scored third in the ICDM 2015 Drawbridge Cross-Device
Connections challenge proving its good performance.
I. INTRODUCTION
With the rapid adoption of multiple devices (such as desktop
computers, laptops, smartphones and tablets) the consumptions
habits have changed [1]. People have access to different de-
vices almost anytime anywhere [2], and they employ multiple
devices to complete their online objectives. For these reasons,
the data used to understand their behaviors are fragmented and
the identi cation of users becomes challenging.
Some works [3][4][5][6][7][8] have been dedicated to study
and understand the behavior of the users and how they perform
different tasks through different devices.
The goal of cross-device targeting or tracking is to know
if the person using computer X is the same one that uses
mobile phone Y and tablet Z. This is an important emerging
technology challenge and a hot topic right now because this
information could be especially valuable for marketers, due to
the possibility of serving targeted advertising to consumers
regardless of the device that
they are using. Empirically,
marketing campaigns tailored for a particular user have proved
themselves to be much more effective than general strategies
based on the device that is being used.
Currently, some big companies like Facebook or Google
offer this kind of services [9][10], but they need the user to
be signed in to their websites and apps. This requirement is
not met in several cases.
The usual way to tackle this problem is by using de-
terministic information and exact match rules [11] (credit
cards numbers, email addresses, mobile phone numbers, home
addresses,...). These solutions can not be used for all users or
platforms.
In this paper,
Without personal information about the users, cross-device
tracking is a complicated process that involves the building of
predictive models that have to process many different signals.
to deal with this problem, we make use
of relational information about cookies, devices, as well as
other information like IP addresses to build a model able to
predict which cookies belong to a user handling a device by
employing semi-supervised machine learning techniques.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. In Section
2, we talk about
the dataset and we brie y describe the
problem. Section 3 presents the algorithm and the training
procedure. The experimental results are presented in section
4. In section 5, we provide some conclusions and further
work. Finally, we have included two appendices, the  rst one
contains information about the features used for this task and
in the second a detailed description of the database schema
provided for the challenge.
II. THE CHALLENGE
A. The competition
This challenge, organized by Drawbridge [12] and hosted
by Kaggle [13], took place from June 1st 2015 to August 24th
2015 and it brought together 340 teams.
B. The goal
including mobile phones,
Users are likely to have multiple identi ers across different
domains,
tablets and computing
devices. Those identi ers can illustrate common behaviors, to
a greater or lesser extent, because they often belong to the
same user. Usually deterministic identi ers like names, phone
numbers or email addresses are used to group these identi ers.
In this challenge the goal was to infer the identi ers
belonging to the same user by learning which cookies belong
to an individual using a device. Relational information about
users, devices, and cookies was provided, as well as other in-
formation on IP addresses and behavior. See appendix Dataset
and the of cial challenge webpage [14] for more information
about the dataset provided in this challenge.
C. Evaluation metric
The objective of the challenge was to get the classi er with
the highest F0.5 score. This score, commonly used in infor-
mation retrieval, measures the accuracy using the precision p
and recall r.
Precision is the ratio of true positives (tp) to all predicted
positives, true positives and false positives (tp + f p). Recall is
the ratio of true positives to all actual positives, true positives
and false negatives (tp + f n).
F  = (1 +  2)
pr
 2p + r
,
p =
r =
,
tp
tp + f p
tp
tp + f n
(1)
By using   = 0.5 the score weighs precision higher than
recall. The score is formed by averaging the individual F0.5
scores for each device in the test set.
III. THE ALGORITHM
A. Preprocessing
At the initial stage, we iterate over the list of cookies looking
for other cookies with the same handle.
Then, for every pair of cookies with the same handle, if one
of them doesn t appear in an IP address that the other cookie
appears, we include all the information about this IP address
in the cookie.
B. Initial selection of candidates
It is not possible to create a training set containing every
combination of devices and cookies due to the high number of
them. In order to reduce the initial complexity of the problem
and to create a more manageable dataset, some basic rules
have been created to obtain an initial reduced set of eligible
cookies for every device.
The rules are based on the IP addresses that both device
and cookie have in common and how frequent they are in
other devices and cookies. Table I summarizes the list of rules
created to select the initial candidates.
This selection of candidates is very effective in an initial
stage, as it reduces the size of the training set to a number of
3664022 device/cookie and to a number 1505453 pairs in the
test set. In 98.3% of the devices, the set of candidates contains
the device s cookies.
C. The features
Every sample in the training and test set represents a
device/eligible cookie pair obtained by the previous step and is
composed by a total of 67 features that contains information
about the device (Operating System (OS), Country, ...), the
cookie (Cookie Browser Version, Cookie Computer OS,...) and
the relation between them (number of IP addresses shared by
both device and cookie, number of other cookies with the same
handle than this cookie,...).
Appendix dataset shows a detailed description of every
feature contained in a training sample.
RULES TO SELECT THE INITIAL TRAINING AND TEST SET INSTANCES
TABLE I
For every device in the training set we apply the following rules
to select the eligible cookies:
Rule 1:
We create a set that contains the device s IP addresses that
appear in less than ten devices and less than twenty cookies.
The initial list of candidates is every cookie with known handle
that appears in any of these IP addresses.
Rule 2:
If the previous rule returned an empty set of candidates:
We create a set that contains the device s IP addresses that
appear in less than twenty  ve devices and less than  fty
cookies. The initial list of candidates is every with known handle
cookie that appears in any of these IP addresses.
Rule 3:
If the previous rule returned an empty set of candidates:
We create a set that contains the device s IP addresses. The
initial list of candidates is every cookie with known handle that
appears in any of these IP addresses.
Rule 4:
If the previous rule returned an empty set of candidates:
We create a set that contains the device s IP addresses. The
initial list of candidates is every cookie that appears in any of
these IP addresses.
Rule 5:
If a cookie has the same handle than any of the candidates then
this cookie is a candidate too.
D. Supervised Learning
To create the classi er, we have selected a Regularized
Boosted Trees algorithm. Boosting techniques build models
using the information of weak predictors, typically decision
trees.
We have used logistic regression for binary classi cation
as the learning objective in order to obtain a probabilistic
classi cation that models the probability of the eligible cookie
belonging to the device.
This algorithm partitions the data into clusters and uses the
cluster index as new features to further minimize the objective
function. To create these clusters the algorithm recursively
partitions data instances by growing a binary tree. The soft-
ware that we used was XGBoost [15], an open source C++
implementation that utilizes OpenMP to perform automatic
parallel computation on a multi-threaded CPU to speedup
the training procedure. It has proven its ef ciency in many
challenges [16][17][18].
The parameters of the algorithm have been obtained using
a 10 fold cross validation approach:
  Round for boosting: 200
  Maximum depth: 10
  Subsampling ratio: 1.0
  Minimum loss reduction for leave partition: 4.0
  Step Size: 0.1
  Gamma: 5.0
E. Bagging
Bootstrap aggregating [19], also called bagging, is a tech-
nique that allows us to improve the stability of machine
learning algorithms. It reduces the variance, and it helps avoid
over tting, resulting in an accuracy improvement.
Having a training set X with n samples it is possible to
generate different training sets sampling from X, then a model
for every dataset can be built and all of them can be combined
by averaging the output. Experimental and theoretical results
suggest
this technique can push unstable procedures
towards optimality.
that
For this problem, we have used eight baggers in the training
procedure.
F. Semi-Supervised Learning
Semi-supervised learning is a class of supervised learning
that also makes use of unlabeled data. In our case we make
use of the data contained in the test set. After scoring the
eligible cookies, if the highest score is close to 1 and the
second highest score is close to 0, is very likely that the  rst
cookie belongs to the device.
Figure 1 shows the F0.5 score and the percentage of devices
that we are using in its evaluation when we take into account
only the devices whose second candidate scores less than
a certain threshold. For devices where the second candidate
scores less than 0.1 the average F0.5 score is higher than 0.99
and 62% of the devices satisfy that condition.
In our case, we have taken the devices of the test set
where the  rst candidate scores higher than 0.4 and the second
candidate scores less than 0.05 and we have considered them
to recalculate some features of the training set and retrain the
algorithm again (see the sets O, IO and PO in the appendix
Features).
G. Post-processing
Fig. 1.
second candidate scores less than a certain level are taken into account
F0.5 score and percentage of devices when only devices whose
Using just the initial selection of candidates described in
section III-B the F0.5 score is 0.5.
When we use the supervised learning procedure described
in section III-D and we select the cookie with the highest score
and other cookies with the same handle than this one, the F0.5
is 0.875.
Including the bagging procedure the F0.5 score increases to
0.876.
The full procedure,
(Selection of candidates + Semi-
Supervised Learning + Bagging + Post Processing) reached
an F0.5 score of 0.88 in the private leaderboard  nishing in
third position.
V. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper we have presented the design, implementation
and evaluation of a way to match devices and cookies to deal
with the Cross-Device tracking problem.
The
publicly
https://github.com/RobeDM/ICDM2015/ .
source
code
is
available
at
After obtaining the predictions of the Regularized Boosted
Trees, we select the device s cookies using the procedure
described in table II.
IV. RESULTS
The score of this competition was evaluated using a test
set of 61156 devices. During the challenge, the leaderboard
was calculated on 30% of the test devices (called public
leaderboard). After the competition ended, the  nal result was
known and was based on the other 70% of the test data (called
private leaderboard).
Table III shows the scores in both public and private
leaderboard of the different procedures described in section
III.
This procedure has proved its good performance in the
ICDM 2015 Drawbridge Cross-Device Challenge  nishing in
third place among the solutions of 340 teams and reaching an
F0.5 score of 0.88.
After these initial results, we can suggest some future
research lines:
  The dataset contained information about the device, cook-
ies and IP addresses. As a  rst research line we propose to
explore other features (for example temporal information)
that could be useful for this task.
  In our solution we have used one single algorithm. An
ensemble of different algorithms could be an interesting
option because these techniques obtain better results if
there is diversity among the classi ers.
TABLE II
SELECTING THE COOKIES
SCORES IN PUBLIC AND PRIVATE LEADERBOARD
TABLE III
For every Device we have a set of n eligible cookies, every
candidate has a score  y obtained by the Regularized Boosted
Trees:
{( y1, C1), .., ( yn, Cn)}
Step 1:
We take the winning candidate:
( yk, Ck), where k = argmax
( yi)
i
If  yk > T heshold   Jump to Step 3
Step 2:
The initial selection of candidates described in section III-B did
not  nd a candidate with enough likelihood. We choose a new
set of eligible cookies selecting every cookie that shares an IP
address with the device and we score them using the classi er:
{( y1, C1), .., ( ym, Cm)}
After that, we select the cookie that achieves the highest score:
( yk, Ck), where k = argmax
( yi)
i
Step 3:
We label Ck as one of the device s cookies. If there are other
cookies with the same handle than Ck we label them too.
Step 4:
We sort the candidates in descending order by the score they
have reached and we iterate over them.
If  yi >  yk   AccessP arameter We label Ci as one of the
device s cookies. If there are other cookies with the same handle
than Ci we label them too.
There are different values of AccessP arameter attending to:
  The number of cookies already labeled as device s cookies.
  The number of other cookies with the same handle than
Ci
  The handle of Ck is known or not.
  The handle of Ci is known or not.
The value of the threshold in step 1 and the different values
of AccessP arameter in step 4 have been obtained using 10
fold cross validation technique.
It must be taken into account that the training of the training
of the Regularized Boosted Trees has been done in a previous
step and it is not necessary to retrain it to validate every value
of these parameters.
APPENDIX
DATASET
Sel = Initial selection of candidates (III-B)
SL = Supervised Learning (III-D)
B = Bagging (III-E)
SSL = Semi-Supervised Learning (III-F)
PP = Post Processing (III-G)
Procedures
Sel
IL + SL
Sel + SL + B
Sel + SSL +B + PP
Public Leaderboard
0.498
0.872
0.874
0.878
Private Leaderboard
0.5
0.875
0.876
0.88
information about users (drawbridge handle column), devices,
cookies, as well as other information on IP addresses and
behavior. The dataset contains fabricated non personally iden-
ti able IDs and is detailed in this section.
A. Device information tables
This table contains basic information about the devices. It
is divided into train and test parts. This is the schema:
Feature
Drawbridge
Handle
Device ID
Device type
Device Os
Device Country
Annonymous c0
Annonymous c1
Annonymous c2
Annonymous 5
Annonymous 6
Annonymous 7
Description
Identi es the person behind a device. If device and
cookie belong to the same person, they will have the
same handle. It is unknown for the test subset.
Identi er of each device.
Categorical feature that indicates the kind of mobile
phone, tablet or computer.
The version of the operating system.
Which country the device belongs to.
Anonymous boolean feature.
Anonymous categorical feature.
Anonymous categorical feature.
Anonymous feature to describe device.
Anonymous feature to describe device.
Anonymous feature to describe device.
B. Cookie information tables
A high-level summary information regarding the cookie:
Description
Identi es the person behind a cookie.
Identi er of each cookie.
Cookie computer operation system.
Cookie browser version.
Which country the cookie belongs to.
Anonymous boolean feature.
Anonymous categorical feature.
Anonymous categorical feature.
Anonymous feature to describe device.
Anonymous feature to describe device.
Anonymous feature to describe device.
Feature
Drawbridge
Handle
Cookie ID
Computer OS
Browser Version
Device Country
Annonymous c0
Annonymous c1
Annonymous c2
Annonymous 5
Annonymous 6
Annonymous 7
C. IP table
This table describes the joint behavior of device or cookie
on IP address. One device or cookie may appear on multiple
IPs.
D. IP Aggregation
The goal was to determine which cookies belong to an
individual using a device. You were provided with relational
It provides information that describe each IP across all the
devices or cookies seen on that IP.
Feature
ID
Device/Cookie
IP
Freq count
Count 1
Count 2
Count 3
Count 4
Count 5
Feature
IP
Is cell
Total Freq.
Count C0
Count C1
Count C2
Description
ID of the device or cookie.
Boolean. If it is a device or cookie.
IP Address.
How many times have we seen the device or cookie
in hte IP.
Anonymous counter.
Anonymous counter.
Anonymous counter.
Anonymous counter.
Anonymous counter.
Description
IP Address.
Boolean, if IP is cellular IP or not.
Total number of observations seen on this IP.
Anonymous counter.
Anonymous counter.
Anonymous counter.
E. Property Observation and Property Category
These tables provide the information regarding websites and
mobile applications that a user has visited before. Property
Observation lists the speci c name of the website or mobile
application and Property Category table lists the categorical
information.
Feature
ID
Device/Cookiel
Property ID
Count
Description
ID of device or cookie.
Boolean, if it is a device or cookie.
Website name for cookie and mobile app name for
device.
How many times have we seen the cookie/device on
this property.
Feature
Property ID
Property Category
Description
Website or mobile app identi er.
Category of the website or mobile app.
APPENDIX
FEATURES
This section contains the description of every feature con-
tained in the training and test sets created in section III-C.
1) Device Features:
  Feature 1: Device Type
  Feature 2: Device OS
  Feature 3: Device Country
  Feature 4: Device Annonymous c0
  Feature 5: Device Annonymous c1
  Feature 6: Device Annonymous c2
  Feature 7: Device Annonymous 5
  Feature 8: Device Annonymous 6
  Feature 9: Device Annonymous 7
  Feature 10: Number of IP addresses associated to the
  Feature 11: Number of Properties associated to the De-
Device
vice
2) Cookie Features:
  Feature 12: Cookie Computer OS
  Feature 13: Cookie Browser Version
  Feature 14: Cookie Country
  Feature 15: Device Annonymous c0
  Feature 16: Device Annonymous c1
  Feature 17: Device Annonymous c2
  Feature 18: Device Annonymous 5
  Feature 19: Device Annonymous 6
  Feature 20: Device Annonymous 7
  Feature 21: Number of IP addresses visited by the Cookie
3) Relational Features: :
We have extracted the following variables:
...
xa5
      N5 1
   xa1
   zab1
      N6 1
...
zab6
  xa =
  zab =
Contains the aggregated information (Is Cell, Total Fre-
quency, Count C0, Count C1 and Count C2) of the IP
address a.
Contains the joint behaviour (Freq Countl, Count 1,
Count 2, Count 3, Count 4 and Count C5) of the device
or cookie b on the IP address a.
We have also created these sets in order to extract features
that represents the relation between the device and the cookie:
  ID1: It contains IP addresses visited by the device.
  ID2: It contains IP addresses visited by the device that
appear in less than ten devices and twenty cookies.
  IC1: It contains IP addresses visited by the cookie.
  IC2: It contains IP addresses visited by the cookie that
appear in less than ten devices and twenty cookies.
(cid:40)ID1   IC1, if |ID2   IC2| = 0
  PD: It contains the device s properties.
  I =
  O: This set contains the remaining devices with the same
ID2   IC2, if |ID2   IC2| > 0
cookie s handle.
  IO: It contains the IP addresses visited by any device in
O.
  PO: It contains the properties visited by any device in O.
To create the following relational features:
  Feature 22: |ID1   IC1|
  Feature 23: |ID2   IC2|
  Feature 24: |O|
[13] Kaggle Website,  Platform form predictive modeling competitions, 
2010. [Online]. Available: http://www.kaggle.com/
[14] ICDM 2015 Challenge,  ICDM 2015: Drawbridge Cross-Device
[Online]. Available: https://www.kaggle.com/c/
Connections,  2015.
icdm-2015-drawbridge-cross-device-connections
[15] T. Chen,  A general purpose parallel gradient boosting (tree) library, 
2014. [Online]. Available: https://github.com/tqchen/xgboost
[16] T. Chen and H. Tong,  Higgs boson discovery with boosted trees,  JMLR
W&CP, vol. 42, pp. 69 80, 2015.
[17] R. D  az-Morales and A. Navia-V azquez,  Optimization of AMS using
weighted AUC optimized models,  JMLR W&CP, vol. 42, pp. 109 127,
2015.
[18] R. D  az-Morales, A. Omari, J. J. Choquehuanca-Zevallos, and O. Garc  a-
Hinde,  Exploring capacities of SDAs and GBMs in BCI environments, 
in 7th Intl. IEEE EMBS Conf. on Neural Engineering, 2015.
[19] L. Breiman,  Bagging predictors,  Machine learning, vol. 24, no. 2, pp.
123 140, 1996.
i I
  Feature 25: |ID1   IO|
  Feature 26: |PD   PO|
xi
  Features 28-32:(cid:88)
  Features 33-37:(cid:88)
  Features 38-43:(cid:88)
  Features 44-49:(cid:88)
  Features 50-55:(cid:88)
  Features 56-61:(cid:88)
a I
a I
a I
i I
a I
xi|I|
zab , where b is the device.
, where b is the device.
zab|I|
zab , where b is the cookie.
zab|I|
, where b is the cookie.
  Features 62-67: Features 38-43 minus features 50-55.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The author would like to thank, in the  rst place, the ICDM
2015: Drawbridge Cross-Device Connections Challenge orga-
nizers for their hard work, and in the second place, to everyone
who participated in the challenge making it interesting and
competitive.
REFERENCES
are
[1]  ComScore. Digital omnivores: how tablets, smartphones and connected
consumption habits. 
devices
http://www.comscore.com/Insights/Presentations-and-Whitepapers/
2011/Digital-Omnivores, 2011.
changing U.S. digital media
[2]  Mobile Mindset Study.  https://www.lookout.com/resources/reports/
mobile-mindset, 2012.
[3] M. Kamvar, M. Kellar, R. Patel, and Y. Xu,  Computers and iphones
and mobile phones, oh my!: a logs-based comparison of search users on
different devices,  in Proceedings of the 18th international conference
on World wide web. ACM, 2009, pp. 801 810.
[4] M. Levene, An introduction to search engines and web navigation. John
Wiley & Sons, 2011.
[5] J. Teevan, D. Ramage, and M. R. Morris,  # twittersearch: a comparison
of microblog search and web search,  in Proceedings of the fourth ACM
international conference on Web search and data mining. ACM, 2011,
pp. 35 44.
[6] C. Tossell, P. Kortum, A. Rahmati, C. Shepard, and L. Zhong,  Char-
acterizing web use on smartphones,  in Proceedings of the SIGCHI
Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2012,
pp. 2769 2778.
[7] H. M uller, J. Gove, and J. Webb,  Understanding tablet use: a multi-
method exploration,  in Proceedings of the 14th international conference
on Human-computer interaction with mobile devices and services.
ACM, 2012, pp. 1 10.
[8] T. J. Gerpott and S. Thomas,  Empirical research on mobile internet
usage: A meta-analysis of the literature,  Telecommunications Policy,
vol. 38, no. 3, pp. 291 310, 2014.
[9] Facebook,  Measuring Conversions on Facebook, Across Devices and
in Mobile Apps,  2015. [Online]. Available: https://www.facebook.com/
business/news/cross-device-measurement
[10] Google,  Limits of User ID views Cross Device reports,  2015. [Online].
Available: https://support.google.com/analytics/answer/3223194?hl=en
[11] J. Buss,  Cross-device advertising: How to navigate mobile marketings
next big opportunity,  Journal of Digital & Social Media Marketing,
vol. 3, no. 1, pp. 73 79, 2015.
[12] Drawbridge,  Drawbridge,  2015.
[Online]. Available: http://www.
drawbrid.ge/
