User Attitudes Toward the Inspection of Encrypted Traf c
  
  
 
, Daniel Zappala
 
, Kent Seamons
Scott Ruoti
, Mark O Neill
Brigham Young University , Sandia National Laboratories 
ruoti@isrl.byu.edu, mto@byu.edu, {zappala, seamons}@cs.byu.edu
6
1
0
2
 
n
u
J
 
0
1
 
 
]
R
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
4
v
1
2
9
4
0
.
0
1
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
that
technique
ABSTRACT
This paper reports the results of a survey of 1,976
individuals regarding their opinions on TLS inspection, a
controversial
can be used for both
benevolent and malicious purposes. Responses indicate
that participants hold nuanced opinions on security and
privacy trade-o s, with most recognizing legitimate uses
for the practice, but also concerned about threats from
hackers or government surveillance.
There is strong
support for noti cation and consent when a system is
intercepting their encrypted tra c, although this support
varies depending on the situation. A signi cant concern
about malicious uses of TLS inspection is identity theft,
and many would react negatively and some would change
their behavior if
they discovered inspection occurring
without their knowledge. We also  nd that a small but
signi cant number of participants are jaded by the current
state of a airs and have lost any expectation of privacy.
1.
In early 2013, one of the authors received an email from a
former
student who expressed serious concerns after
becoming aware that his employer was inspecting its
employees  encrypted Internet tra c in order to protect the
network from attackers. Though he was himself employed
in the computer security industry, he expressed surprise
and anger that this could happen, and also mentioned his
serious concerns about the potential
for employees to
disclose personal
information without being aware that
their data was visible to their employer. He questioned
whether this practice was legal and whether it was ethical
INTRODUCTION
This work was supported by Sandia National Laboratories, a
2014 Google Faculty Research Award, and the National Science
Foundation under Grant No.
Any opinions,
 ndings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this
material are those of the author(s) and do not necessarily re ect
the views of the National Science Foundation.
Sandia National
Laboratories is a multi-program laboratory managed and operated by
Sandia Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lockheed Martin
Corporation, for the U.S. Department of Energy s National Nuclear
Security Administration under contract DE-AC04-94AL85000.
CNS-1528022.
to do this without notifying employees in advance.
25,
20].
[2,
This
it is common practice for companies to inspect
In fact,
employees  encrypted tra c to  lter malware and viruses,
prevent the leak of intellectual property, and block harmful
websites
inspection is usually
accomplished with a network device that acts as a
TLS/SSL
the
communication between a browser and web server where it
can intercept, decrypt,
then re-encrypt and
forward on the user s tra c to its original destination.
This is all accomplished without any visible noti cation to
the user that their encrypted tra c is being inspected.
the middle
inspect,
sitting
proxy,
in
of
While security experts overwhelmingly view the inspection
of encrypted tra c by attackers and governments as
undesirable, the practice of businesses and organizations
inspecting their own encrypted tra c in order to secure
their own network and intellectual property is more
controversial. Many experts are alarmed by any use of a
TLS proxy because it is deceptive; users  browsers continue
to inform them they have a secure connection to the server,
even though this is not the case. Most research in the
literature treats all TLS proxies as undesirable and actively
tries to prevent their use [4]. Still, a smaller number of
researchers are investigating how the malicious uses can be
prevented while still allowing for benevolent use of
encrypted
and
organizations [17, 14].
inspection
businesses
tra c
by
toward the
and preferences
While the opinions of businesses and security experts
regarding the inspection of encrypted tra c are known, no
prior work has measured general (i.e., non-expert) user
attitudes
inspection of
encrypted tra c. To better understand users  perspectives
on this issue, we surveyed 1,976 people across two surveys
regarding their opinions of TLS proxies and their use in
inspecting encrypted tra c.1 The results of the  rst survey
of 1,049 individuals showed a surprising willingness by
participants to accept the inspection of encrypted tra c,
provided they are  rst noti ed. Based on the results of the
 rst
survey, we conducted a second survey of 927
individuals
towards
inspection of encrypted tra c in speci c situations.
to further explore user attitudes
Copyright is held by the author/owner. Permission to make digital or hard
copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted
without fee.
Symposium on Usable Privacy and Security (SOUPS) 2016, June 22 24,
2016, Denver, Colorado.
Our contributions from these surveys include the following
insights:
1The full data from both surveys is available at https://
soups2016.isrl.byu.edu/.
1
  User opinions toward TLS proxies and the inspection
of encrypted tra c are nuanced. Many express
concerns about privacy and identity theft
from
hackers (75.8%) or government surveillance (70.9%).
Yet there is broad, general acceptance of TLS proxies
when used by employers, schools, etc (71.7%).
  Most participants indicated support for the inspection
of encrypted tra c as long as they were  rst noti ed
of it (90.7%). Likewise, participants indicated strong
support for legislation requiring noti cation or consent
(83.2%).
  When asked about speci c situations in which TLS
proxies might be used (e.g., at work, at school, at a
caf e, or at home), support for TLS proxies ranges
from 65% to 90% of participants (including those
who want noti cation or consent).
Support for
inspection of encrypted tra c without noti cation or
consent is strongest at elementary schools (45.9%)
and at businesses when employees
are using
company-provided computers (47.9%). Participants
generally favor consent in cases when they feel
in
control (at home,
free WiFi, their own device at
work) versus noti cation when an organization is in
control (public library, school, company computer).
In nearly all the scenarios we posed, only a small
minority of the participants indicated that using TLS
proxies is not acceptable.
The one exception is
government surveillance,
in which case 47.5% say
that this is not acceptable.
  Many users would have a negative opinion if they
discovered that the owner of their network used a
TLS proxy without prior noti cation and/or consent
(60.8%), though for some (34.2%) it would depend on
who the owner was and how they were using the
technology. Some would change their behavior on the
network, either discontinuing to use it (17.2%) or
changing which sites they visited (6%).
jaded
(5.0%),
(17.0%),
Jaded participants
  We identify personas based on participants  responses
regarding TLS proxies: pragmatic (76.5%), privacy
and
fundamentalist
unconcerned (1.0%).
are
interesting in that their opinions regarding privacy
and security align with the privacy fundamentalist
persona,
the
unconcerned persona. This dichotomy stems from the
fact that these users feel that regardless of what steps
they take, they are powerless to prevent compromise
of their online information, and so choose to not do
anything to protect themselves.
align with
but
their
practices
While several of our  ndings might seem intuitive,
it is
important to ground intuitions in data, and this paper
provides the  rst survey of user opinions on this topic. In
addition, participants showed a high level of engagement in
the survey, notwithstanding the complexity of the topic.
Many users shared in-depth analysis of trade-o s in open
responses, demonstrating that they care deeply about this
issue. User attitudes toward TLS proxies provide an
important data point along the spectrum of discussion that
is currently taking place regarding who should have access
to encrypted information.
2
2. BACKGROUND
The focus of our surveys is on user attitudes towards the
inspection of encrypted tra c (i.e., HTTPS), speci cally
with the use of TLS proxies.
In this section we provide
technical details regarding TLS proxies. We also discuss
real-world examples of how TLS proxies are used. Finally,
we present related work on measuring user sentiment
towards online privacy.
2.1 TLS Proxies
When a web browser attempts to validate the identity of a
website,
it relies on certi cate authorities (CAs) that
digitally sign certi cates vouching for the identity of
servers. Web browsers authenticate a site by validating a
chain of trust from the site s certi cate back to one of a set
of trusted root certi cates. These certi cates comprise the
root store and are typically bundled with the operating
system or browser.
This validation system is currently being co-opted by the
use of TLS proxies that act as a man-in-the-middle (MitM)
for TLS connections. A TLS proxy can issue a substitute
certi cate for any site the user visits, so that the user
establishes an encrypted connection to the proxy rather
than the desired web site. The proxy can then decrypt and
monitor or modify all user tra c, before passing it along
via a second encrypted channel to the desired web site. For
example, when a user attempts
to create a secure
connection to Amazon by requesting Amazon s certi cate,
the proxy intercepts this request, generates a certi cate for
Amazon, and sends this substitute certi cate back to the
user s machine. The user s machine will then create a
secure connection to the proxy (instead of Amazon) and
send all of its data to the proxy, which has full access to it
before forwarding it on to Amazon s servers.
TLS proxies can be used for both benevolent and malicious
purposes.
Some companies use TLS proxies to  lter
malware and viruses, prevent the leak of company secrets
and intellectual property, block harmful websites, or catch
malicious insiders. However,
less scrupulous companies,
government agencies, crime organizations, and others may
also use proxies to steal a user s sensitive data, conduct
surveillance, or commit identity theft. Currently, browsers
and users have no method for distinguishing between
benevolent and malicious TLS proxies, and the user is
entirely unaware that an organization or attacker
is
intercepting encrypted tra c. Even when a TLS proxy is
present, the browsers displays a reassuring lock icon that
could mislead users to assume they are communicating
securely with the website.
To avoid browser warnings that self-signed substitute
certi cates would trigger, TLS proxies generate substitute
certi cates signed by a CA that the user s machine trusts.
This can be done in several ways:
  Purchasing an intermediate
certi cate authority
certi cate.
  Installing a new trusted root certi cate on the user s
machine. This can be done either by businesses (e.g.,
custom system image, manual installation, enterprise
PKI system) or by malware.
  Including the certi cate on a device s root store when
it is manufactured. Nokia was recently found to be
using TLS proxies on mobile devices [18] and Lenovo
has pre-installed software using a TLS proxy on its
laptops [21].
  Controlling a root certi cate authority.
Some
governments are in this position, and evidence
suggests that even when governments do not own the
root they can coerce authorities into granting them
certi cates for domains they do not own [15, 23].
  Stealing existing root and intermediate certi cate
authority certi cates [15, 7].
2.2 Real-world Examples
There are a variety of real-world scenarios, ranging from
suspicious to malicious, where inspection of encrypted tra c
is documented as having occurred.
cell
phone
to decrypt customer
Reports have noti ed the public that both Nokia and
Lenovo used TLS proxies
(not
employee) tra c for reasons other than security. Nokia
decrypted
improve
performance on their cellular network [18]. Some Lenovo
laptops came with third party software that inserted ads
into encrypted data [21]. Weaknesses in the adware
implementation left users vulnerable
to attack from
malicious outsiders. Public outcry caused both companies
to stop accessing encrypted tra c.
allegedly
data,
to
Government surveillance has been reported to use similar
methods [24]. A report from 2011 showed that Iran
monitored 300,000 citizens online using a stolen certi cate
from Diginotar, a company that is trusted to certify
legitimate websites [7].
Two recent measurement studies show that TLS proxies
account for about 1 in 250 encrypted connections on the
web [10, 19].
The vast majority of these monitored
connections are for benevolent purposes, but a small
percentage appear to be adware, grayware, and otherwise
suspicious activity.
The TLS proxy capability is essentially a backdoor into the
current web authentication system. This backdoor has
benevolent uses to strengthen the security of users and
organizations, and a majority of users support their use.
As with any backdoor,
it s very existence increases the
attack surface that can be exploited by attackers. For
example, a recent study of client-side TLS proxies used in
personal
discovered
implementation  aws in a number of products that open
the user to attack and weaken their security [5].
2.3 Related Work
There have been prior studies that survey user s attitudes
about their online security and privacy.
Still, no prior
study has looked speci cally at user attitudes toward the
inspection of encrypted tra c.
parental
 rewalls
 lters
and
McDonald and Cranor [16] used interviews and a survey to
explore user s knowledge and perception of online behavioral
advertising practices. They discuss the potential chilling
e ect of these practices based on 40% of the users that self-
reported they would change their behavior if they learned
3
advertisers were collecting data. Similarly, users reported
in our survey that they would change their behavior if they
learned that their encrypted data was being inspected.
Ur et al.
[27] also studied user opinions about online
behavioral advertising by conducting 48 semi-structured
interviews with non-technical users. Similar to our work,
they found users had nuanced opinions about the trade-o s
for a technology that was both useful and privacy invasive.
They determined that users were not receiving e ective
notice and choice mechanisms. Our surveys reveal a strong
desire for noti cation and choice regarding the inspection
of encrypted tra c.
and
their
about
attitudes
[22] surveyed users via Amazon Mechanical
Shay et al.
Turk
experiences with
compromised email or social networking sites. They found
that many respondents gave high quality responses to open
response questions and discussed implications for security
mechanism designers. Likewise, our work has signi cance
for the designers of mechanisms to inspect encrypted
tra c.
Anton et al.
[1] surveyed users in 2008 to see if their
attitudes on privacy concerns had changed from the same
survey administered in 2002. They found that the top
three concerns of U.S. users were information transfer,
notice/awareness, and information storage. While the top
three concerns had not changed, their level of concern had
risen. The top three concerns for European users were the
same but in a di erent order; notice/awareness came in
third place. Concerns for notice/awareness are important
to both groups, and was a prominent factor in our surveys.
the
Amazon Mechanical
Woodru  et al. [29] examined how well users  classi cation
by the Westin Privacy Segmentation Index predicted their
actual behavior.
They found that although many
participants were classi ed as privacy fundamentalists,
their actions in hypothetical situations were not consistent
with this classi cation.
Similarly, while we group
participants into personas with names similar to the
Westin categories, we do so by looking at how participants
indicate they would react to hypothetical situations and
not using any of Westin s several privacy indexes.
3. FIRST SURVEY   METHODOLOGY
In February 2014, we conducted the  rst online survey
using
(MTurk)
crowdsourcing service.
We gathered responses on
Wednesday, February 12, 2014 between 7:50 AM and 5:22
PM (PST). Each participant could take the survey once
and received $1 USD as compensation upon completing the
survey. In total 1,262 people completed the online survey.
The survey was approved by our Institutional Review
Board and is contained in Appendix A.
3.1
Before conducting this survey, we felt it was unlikely that
most people would be aware of TLS proxies (an assumption
that was upheld by our results). This presented a dilemma:
either we would need to only survey individuals who were
already aware of TLS proxies or we would need to instruct
participants about TLS proxies. Both of these options have
signi cant drawbacks. Limiting the survey to individuals
with pre-existing knowledge regarding TLS proxies would
Instructing Participants
Turk
to participants with highly technical
likely limit us
backgrounds,
thus failing to gather information about
broader opinions related to the inspection of encrypted
tra c. On the other hand, instructing participants on TLS
proxies has the risk of unintentionally biasing them one
way or another, and requires them to answer questions
about a subject they potentially just learned about.
Because our research goal was to survey broad opinions
regarding the inspection of encrypted tra c, we preferred
not to limit our population to the small fraction of users
who are already aware of this issue. Instead, we chose to
accept the limitations related to instructing participants
about TLS proxies and survey as many participants as
possible. For our goals, this was preferable to ignoring the
opinions of a large portion of users.
To address the risks related to instructing participants on
an issue and then surveying them, we spent considerable
e ort and time crafting our description of TLS proxies. Our
goals were to (1) give a simple and concise overview of how
TLS proxies are used to inspect encrypted tra c, and (2)
present participants with a fair and unbiased description of
how the inspection of encrypted tra c could be used for
both benevolent and malicious purposes.
In preparation for writing the description of TLS proxies,
we examined the literature and observed that existing
descriptions of TLS proxies were not neutral in tone and
would unduly bias participants. We talked with businesses
that sell proxies (i.e., Blue Coat, Symantec) and read
opinions from privacy advocates to better understand both
sides  opinions. Based on the information in these sources,
we composed a draft of our description of TLS proxies,
focusing on using language that was informative and
neutral in tone, allowing participants to form their own
opinions.
researchers, which included
members who are fundamentally opposed to TLS proxies
and members who accept their benevolent uses, iterated on
this description until all members were satis ed with its
wording.
team of
Our
We then tested this description using a convenience sample
of six individuals from our university who were not a part
of our research group to ensure it was balanced and
understandable. Based on feedback from the convenience
sample, we made minor edits to the description.
Finally, we tested this revised description using MTurk to
ensure that participants felt that the description was
su ciently understandable. Of the 80 participants in this
pilot survey, nearly all participants (73; 91%) indicated
that
the description of TLS proxies helped them
understand what TLS proxies are and how they are used (2
participants indicated the description was not helpful (2;
3%), with the remainder being undecided (5; 6%)). We
also examined participant
to free response
questions and found that, as reported, most participants 
re ected an accurate understanding of TLS
answers
proxies.
the
description in both surveys, as shown in Figure 1.
such, we included this version of
responses
As
3.2 Survey Contents
The survey begins by gathering demographic information.
It then instructs participants about TLS proxies and their
4
When you connect to the Internet you do so through
some organization s network. For example, at home
you connect to your Internet service provider s (ISP)
network, while at work you connect to your employer s
network. To protect your information from others on
the network you can create secure connections to the
websites you use (HTTPS). This is done automatically
for you when you log into a website. The secure
connection encrypts your Internet tra c so that no one
else can view or modify your communication with the
website (see Figure A).
Figure A
The network you use to connect to the Internet can
also be set up to use a system called a TLS proxy. TLS
proxies sit in the middle of your secure connection to
the websites you view (see Figure B). At the TLS proxy
your Internet tra c is decrypted and the web proxy
can view and modify it. Afterwards, the TLS proxy
will then re-encrypt your tra c and forward it along.
This is done silently and without the knowledge of you
or the website you connect to.
Figure B
TLS proxies can be set up by the organization that
controls your Internet (for example, your ISP, school,
or employer) and also by malicious attackers. TLS
proxies have many di erent uses:
Protective
Blocking malware and viruses
Protecting company secrets
Blocking harmful websites
Catching malicious individuals
Malicious
Stealing passwords
Identity theft
Tracking government dissidents
Spying (for example the NSA)
Censorship
Figure 1: TLS Proxy Description
in the
inspection of
encrypted tra c.
use
Next,
participants are asked to share their opinions regarding the
use of TLS proxies and the inspection of encrypted tra c.
These questions survey participant opinions as to whether
TLS proxies are a breach of their privacy and whether
there are acceptable uses for TLS proxies. Participants are
also asked their reasoning for why TLS proxies should or
should not be allowed. Also, participants are asked which
parties they are concerned about using TLS proxies and
what, if any, measures should be used to regulate their use.
The survey then asks participants about how they would
personally react to having a TLS proxy on a network they
use to connect to the Internet. This section includes two
open-ended questions, the  rst asking them what concerns
they might have and the second asking them how it would
a ect their opinion of the organization running the TLS
proxy. Finally, participants are given a chance to express
any remaining comments they might have.2
3.3 Survey Development
Before running our survey, we conducted a pilot survey
using MTurk to ensure that we would get meaningful and
thoughtful results. This pilot survey was IRB approved
and included 80 participants. Based on our analysis of
participants  answers in this pilot survey, it was clear that
participants generally understood the description of TLS
proxies presented to them, and so we proceeded to launch
the full survey. Responses from the pilot survey are not
included in our results.
3.4 Qualitative Data Analysis
To better understand participants  opinions regarding TLS
proxies and to avoid biasing their responses, we included
several open-ended questions in the survey.
For each
question, we created a codebook to categorize participant
responses. One researcher reviewed all the participant
responses and created the
The
codebooks were then modi ed through discussion with the
coders.
codebooks.
initial
After coding was completed, all of the coders met together
to discuss the data. As part of this discussion they were
encouraged to identify themes that they had seen in the
data. Particular attention was paid to the themes that they
felt the codebook did not adequately cover. Coders also
shared responses that they felt best represented the various
viewpoints expressed by participants.
In total, there were seven coders that analyzed the data. We
validated the consistency of the coders using Fleiss  Kappa
[6]. Coders  agreement ranged from  substantial agreement 
to  almost perfect agreement  (with kappa values ranging
from .687 to 1, mean of .865 and median of .833).
3.5 Amazon Mechanical Turk
We used Amazon Mechanical Turk (MTurk) to recruit
survey participants. MTurk has become an increasingly
popular method for gathering participant data for usability
studies and user surveys. Buhrmester et al.
found that
MTurk participants are signi cantly more diverse than
typical American College samples and that data obtained
from MTurk studies is at least as reliable as those obtained
via more traditional methods [3]. Kittur et al. used MTurk
participants to classify Wikipedia entries and found that
that they could produce results equivalent to expert raters
[13]. While MTurk has known limitations,
it is still a
rapidly obtaining results
mostly reliable platform for
2As shown in the Appendix, questions are grouped onto
several pages. After questions on one page are answered
and the user continues with the survey, they are unable to
return and modify their answers.
related to user sentiment [26, 12].
3.6 Quality Control
To ensure participants provided valid data, we accepted
only participants that had previously completed 1,000
tasks on MTurk with an overall task approval rate of 95%
or higher. Second, the seven coders examined participants 
responses to open-ended questions in order to ensure that
participants had both understood the description of TLS
proxies and remained on topic. We validated the
consistency of the coders  choice to exclude participants 
responses using Fleiss  Kappa [6] and found that coders
were in perfect agreement (kappa value of 1). During the
coding process, a participant s responses were discarded if
their answers were clearly spam (i.e., copying the text of a
Wikipedia page), or they did not understand the questions
being asked (i.e., their answers discussed HTTP proxies).
In total, we excluded 153 participants  responses (12.1%)
as spam and 60 participants (4.8%) as misunderstandings.
The remaining 1,049 participants  responses constitute the
results of our  rst survey.
3.7 Demographics
The demographics for the participants are shown in Table 1.
Most participants were from the United States (87%), with
the rest primarily from India (11.5%). Although results from
a previous paper suggested that MTurk participants from
India are less concerned with privacy [11], the results from
our  rst survey found that they were more likely to report
privacy concerns than their counterparts from the United
States of America ( 2[2, N = 1049] = 12.35, p < 0.01).
Participants were skewed towards males (61%), and ages
were centered around 25 32 (46%). Most participants were
single (60%) and had no children (62%).
Nearly all
participants had completed high school, with the majority
having completed some level of higher education (57%).
of
their
level of
Participants were asked to self-report
knowledge
rating
somewhere between somewhat knowledgeable and mildly
knowledgeable (78%).
security, with most
Internet
After reading the description of TLS proxies, participants
were asked whether they had prior knowledge of TLS
proxies. Most participants reported having little to no
awareness of TLS proxies before the survey:
unaware
(66.5%), unsure (8.1%), aware (25.4%). We speculate that
due to the e ects of illusory superiority, the number of
participants that were unaware of TLS proxies before the
survey was even higher than reported [8, 9]. Additionally,
participants may have con ated knowledge of traditional
web proxies with knowledge of TLS proxies.
3.8 Limitations
In our survey, participant demographics were slightly
skewed towards a younger male population and nearly all
participants were from the US and India. Additional work
could be done to replicate our results with di erent
populations. Cross-cultural, international surveys would be
especially interesting, but these should be conducted by
researchers that can engage participants in their native
language and have an understanding of participants 
cultural perceptions.
5
Survey 1
(N=1,049)
Survey 2
(N=927)
United States
India
Other
Male
Female
Prefer not to answer
18 24 years old
25 34 years old
35 44 years old
45 54 years old
55+ years old
Prefer not to answer
Single
Married
Other
Prefer not to answer
Yes
No
Prefer not to answer
Country
Gender
Age
Relationship
Children
Education
No diploma
High school
Some college or university credit
College or university degree
Post-Secondary Education
Prefer Not To Answer
Knowledge
No Knowledge
Somewhat Knowledgeable
Mildly Knowledgeable
Highly Knowledgeable
Expert
Prefer Not To Answer
86.9%
11.5%
0.3%
61.1%
38.6%
0.3%
18.7%
47.0%
19.6%
8.6%
5.8%
0.3%
59.5%
35.5%
4.7%
0.6%
36.6%
62.3%
0.9%
1.0%
12.4%
28.9%
49.9%
7.6%
0.2%
4.6%
35.7%
42.4%
14.4%
2.4%
0.2%
94.3%
5.7%
N/A
60.6%
38.9%
0.4%
17.8%
45.8%
21.8%
7.9%
6.3%
0.4%
60.9%
35.6%
2.7%
0.8%
32.5%
67.2%
0.3%
0.6%
11.0%
29.3%
50.5%
8.4%
0.1%
2.6%
32.4%
47.8%
15.2%
1.8%
0.2%
Table 1: Participant Demographics
As shown in prior work, participants  reported security
preferences and desires do not always align with their
actual behaviors [29]. Often users will report being more
privacy minded than they are in practice. Interestingly, in
our survey participants indicated a high level of acceptance
for TLS proxies, which could suggest that real-world
acceptance of TLS proxies
than we
measured. On the other hand, many participants reported
wanting to have their consent obtained, or at least be
noti ed of, the inspection of encrypted tra c; in practice,
it is possible that fewer participants would actually be
is even higher
interested in being noti ed.
Finally, while we spent considerable e ort to craft a fair
and unbiased description of TLS proxies and the inspection
of encrypted tra c, there is still the possibility that it had
a signi cant e ect on some participants  responses. For
example, in the real world, users often learn about security
issues from the news, which is often sensational and biased.
In contrast, our description strove for neutrality, and as
such may have led to users taking a more rational view of
the inspection of encrypted tra c than would occur in the
wild. While we chose to accept these limitations in order
to obtain opinions from as many participants as possible,
an open avenue for future research is to  nd a way to
gather equally widespread opinions in a way that has fewer
limitations.
4. FIRST SURVEY   RESULTS
In this section we discuss the results of our survey in three
areas: acceptable uses for TLS proxies, general concerns
toward their use, and the reaction participants would have
if they discovered a network they use employed a TLS
proxy.
4.1 Acceptable Uses of TLS Proxies
Figure 2 shows participant attitudes toward proxies. A
somewhat surprising result is that participants largely
(752; 71.7%) felt that there were acceptable uses for TLS
proxies. This feeling prevailed even though nearly half of
the participants (522; 49.8%) indicated that TLS proxies
are an invasion of privacy,
and only one-eighth of
participants (185; 17.6%) felt they presented no invasion of
privacy. There is a strong correlation between thinking
TLS proxies were an invasion of privacy and believing that
there
them
( 2[4, N = 1049] = 141.50, p < 0.001). Nevertheless, over a
quarter of participants (297; 28.0%) felt that TLS proxies
were an invasion of privacy, but still had acceptable uses.
acceptable
uses
were
not
for
To better understand what uses might be acceptable, we
asked participants who felt there were acceptable uses to
enumerate those uses in an open-ended question. The
results from our coded responses are shown in the top part
of Table 2. The acceptable uses are largely concentrated on
three use cases:
1. Protecting organizations (493; 65.6%). Many
participants felt that organizations (e.g., businesses,
government agencies, schools, libraries) had a right to
protect their own intellectual property and security.
This included protecting the company from viruses
and hackers,  ltering inappropriate or potentially
malicious websites,
and preventing the leak of
sensitive information. Participants mentioned that
since these organizations provide the Internet for
their employees or constituents they had a right to
use TLS proxies on their own networks.
individuals
45.1%).
2. Protecting
Participants
saw value in businesses using TLS
proxies to protect their customers. This protection
came in one of two forms:
(339;
  Direct. Antivirus applications and  rewalls
could use TLS proxies to  lter malware and
6
Figure 2: Participant Attitudes Toward TLS Proxies (N=1,049)
Opinion
Participants
Acceptable Uses
Protect organizations
Protect individuals
Law enforcement and surveillance
Censor content
Never censor content
Acceptable at work, not at home
Concerns
51.4% (n=539)
34.8% (n=365)
8.9% (n=93)
7.1% (n=75)
3.1% (n=32)
2.9% (n=30)
Hackers and spying
Privacy and identity theft
Done without knowledge or consent
60.5% (n=635)
55.4% (n=581)
13.2% (n=138)
Reactions
Negative
Positive
Depends
Suspicious
Discontinue use
Change behavior (besides discontinue)
60.8% (n=638)
5.0% (n=52)
34.2% (n=359)
25.8% (n=271)
17.2% (n=180)
6.2% (n=65)
Table 2: Qualitative Response Categorization (N=1,049)
  Indirect.
viruses. Similarly, ISPs could use TLS proxies to
detect and prevent phishing attackers and block
other inappropriate or malicious websites.
Participants recognized that they
have a signi cant amount of private information
stored externally on the web (e.g., at Amazon or
Google).
this data,
participants hoped that the companies storing
their private data would employ TLS proxies
internally to ensure the safety of the customer s
data.
to protect
In order
valid warrant or if there was an imminent threat to
national security.
4.2 Concerns
Even though many participants in the  rst survey saw
acceptable uses for TLS proxies, they were not without
concerns or reservations. Based on our coding, we grouped
these concerns into the categories shown in the middle part
of Table 2. Three-quarters of the participants (795; 75.8%)
mentioned they worried about hackers and nearly as many
were concerned about the possibility for governmental
spying (743; 70.9%). There was also a strong correlation
between the concern that hackers could use TLS proxies
and
them
( 2[4, N = 1049] = 194.57, p < 0.001).
government
could
that
the
use
to list what possible concerns
The most visceral concerns were related to the breach of
One of the open response questions asked
privacy.
participants
they had
regarding the use of TLS proxies. Over half of participants
(581; 55.4%) mentioned they were concerned with a loss of
privacy and personal
Nearly a tenth of
participants (104; 9.91%) mentioned having their identity
stolen, and even more participants had answers that
addressed the issue of identity theft generally.
information.
A non-negligible number of the participants freely shared
that either they, a family member, or other acquaintance
had been the victim of account compromise. Similar to the
 nding of Shay et al.
[22] this was a traumatic experience
and it left participants especially concerned that TLS
proxies could be used to perpetrate identity theft. R208
shared,
 A major concern that I would have would be
the security of my personal and  nancial
information. I have many friends who have been
victims of identity theft and fraud, and would
hate to have to go through what they did. 
3. Law enforcement and surveillance (65; 8.6%).
Nearly a tenth of participants expressed that law
enforcement agencies should also be allowed to use
TLS proxies. This includes use by local or federal
agencies
terrorist activity.
Several participants also expressed that while this
was a legitimate use it should only be done with a
to track criminal or
Participants were also concerned that TLS proxies could be
used without their knowledge. One-eighth of participants
(138; 13.2%) mentioned in the open response question that
they were concerned with privacy. Furthermore, when
directly
an overwhelming
majority of participants (951; 90.7%) asserted they wanted
asked about noti cation,
7
to
(782;
legislation
74.5%) wanted
to be noti ed by their browsers of the presence of TLS
proxies. Similarly, participants largely (942; 89.8%) felt
that there should be legislation concerning TLS proxies.
Most
require
noti cation, and nearly as many (701; 66.8%) wanted
legislation to require consent.
4.3 Reactions
Participants in the  rst survey had varied responses on
how they would react to learning that they currently use a
network that employs TLS proxies. Based on our coding,
we grouped these concerns into the categories shown in the
bottom part of Table 2. Over half of participants (638;
60.8%) mentioned that it would negatively a ect their
opinion of the owner of that network. For example, R77
stated,
be
feel
angry
and would
 I would
that
organization violated my trust. I would wonder
what
information that organization had been
collecting on me and what they planned to do
with it.
If it was my employer, I also would
think that organization did not trust me and
would consider working somewhere else. 
Still, a third of participants (359; 34.2%) said that their
reaction would depend on who the owner of the network
was and how they were using the proxy. For example, if
the owner of the network was their employer they would
not have a negative reaction, but if it was their ISP or
government they would be very unhappy. Participants also
mentioned that their approval would rest on whether or
not any personal information was collected and/or sold and
whether their consent had  rst been obtained. R960
explained,
 It would be on a case by case basis. I can see
some instances where it would be understandable,
but if it was going on without my consent, I would
be wary of dealing with them in the future. 
Participants also mentioned ways in which their behavior
would change if they learned a network was employing a
TLS proxy. A quarter of participants (271; 25.8%) said
that it would make them suspicious of the owner of that
network. A quarter of participants (245; 23.4%) also
mentioned that they would change their behavior on that
network. For some participants (180; 17.2%) this included
discontinuing use of the network and its services, while
others (65; 6.2%) mentioned they would change the content
they looked at on the Internet or be more careful about
entering personal information, including but not limited to
e-commerce
some
participants mentioned they would quit their job if they
found that their employer s network used a TLS proxy. For
example, R127 expressed,
transactions.
extreme,
the
At
 If my employers were secretly spying on my
private data,
legally
possible, and quit the job regardless. 
I would sue them if
Persona
Number Percent
Pragmatic majority
Privacy fundamentalist
Jaded
Unconcerned
Unclassi ed
802
178
48
11
10
76.5%
17.0%
4.6%
1.0%
1.0%
Table 3: Participant Persona Categorization (N=1,049)
4.4 Personas
As our research group discussed the answers to open
response questions in the  rst survey, it became clear that
the participants could generally be classi ed into one of
four personas: pragmatic, privacy fundamentalist,
jaded,
and unconcerned. After recognizing this, two members of
the research group re-evaluated 90 participant responses
and categorized participants
four
personas. The Fleiss  Kappa for this classi cation was 1
(i.e., perfect agreement). One researcher then classi ed the
rest of the responses. The breakdown of participants into
these categories is given in Table 3.3
into one of
these
Even though three of these personas have similar names to
personas formulated by Westin [28], our categories are in
no way based on the research of Westin.
Instead, our
methodology for creating personas more closely relates to
that of Woodru  et al. [29], i.e., analyzing how participants
indicate
in various privacy-related
situations in order to determine their persona. Moreover,
we do not intend these personas to be a de nitive list of
privacy personas, but rather view them as a helpful way to
identify trends within our data.
they would act
4.4.1 Pragmatic Majority, N=802
The pragmatic majority weighed consumer bene ts and
protections of public safety against costs of
intrusive
practices, believed that organizations should earn the
public s trust, and wanted to have the opportunity to
opt-out of intrusive practices. This group was strongly
correlated with being more likely to feel that there were
acceptable uses for TLS proxies ( 2[4, N = 1028] = 230.48,
p < 0.001). R93 stated,
is
think
schools,
perfectly
acceptable
(companies,
In addition,
for
it
 I
libraries,
organizations
to use TLS proxies because it protects
etc.)
their computers.
It keeps hackers from getting
to sensitive or con dential information of the
organization.
it blocks harmful
viruses that can cause a lot of damage and
expense in repair.
It can also keep individuals
from accessing websites (employees from playing
online
from accessing
pornography).
is perfectly reasonable for
companies to employee[sic] this device for these
purposes when an individual
is using their
computer. We should not expect privacy when
we are using someone else s computer. 
or minors
It
games
3There were ten participants whose answers were vague
enough that we did not feel comfortable classifying them
as any of the personas.
8
Though the pragmatic majority all weighed consumer
bene ts versus intrusive practices, they were not uniform
in their conclusions about where and how TLS proxies
should be used. Some recognized the right of employers to
use them, while others believed they should only be
allowed in narrow cases such as with a warrant.
4.4.2 Privacy Fundamentalist, N=178
The privacy fundamentalist was generally distrustful of
organizations that ask for personal information, in favor of
legislation enhancing privacy, and chose privacy controls
over consumer bene ts when a trade-o  existed between
the two. These participants were strongly correlated with
being more likely to feel TLS proxies were an invasion of
privacy ( 2[4, N = 1028] = 114.81, p < 0.001). These
participants were also more likely to support legislation of
TLS proxies ( 2[2, N = 1028] = 14.40, p < 0.001).
The de ning feature of the privacy fundamentalist was
that they viewed privacy as so important that it could not
be traded for any bene t, no matter how great. As
emphatically stated by R1119,  I believe privacy is
sacrosanct and one could argue that it s a Constitutional
right. 
They were also likely to relate the use of TLS proxies to more
traditional methods of surveillance such as wiretapping and
intercepting mail.
Jaded, N=48
4.4.3
Jaded individuals were aware that violations of privacy
happen regularly, believed that governments conduct
surveillance on the general public, and had lost hope that
they can have privacy online. These participants felt that
 the system  was rigged to remove any real chance of them
having privacy. For example, R713 expressed,
 I know that it is my choice to use the internet;
however, since I live in a remote area with no
transportation to the nearest city (30 miles
away) I am  stuck  working and banking and
doing business on the internet. I feel it is unfair
to be made to choose between being  safe  and
having privacy freedom.
I am especially
disgusted by our government s spying behaviors
and the rhetoric about it being necessary for
national defense. 
Likewise, when asked about concerns regarding the use of
TLS proxies, R831 shared,
 None. The government (via the NSA) is already
reading everything we do and share online. So no
surprises there. 
Other jaded participants felt they had no choice in the
matter because in the United States Internet service
providers often have a monopoly.
4.4.4 Unconcerned, N=11
Unconcerned participants were
of
organizations that ask for personal information, willing to
sacri ce personal privacy to obtain consumer bene ts, and
not in favor of legislation to protect or enhance privacy. In
generally trustful
our survey, we found very few unconcerned participants
(1%).
It is possible that the recent news regarding
widespread government surveillance caused participants to
be more privacy aware and sensitive. In addition, our use
of qualitative data to classify participants allowed us to
recognize that participants were part of the pragmatic
majority even when their Likert responses might seem to
indicate otherwise.
5. SECOND SURVEY   METHODOLOGY
Our  rst survey revealed that participants  opinions related
to TLS proxies were closely tied to the situation in which
TLS proxies were being used. To better clarify user feelings
in this area, we formulated a second survey in which we
ask participants about a series of speci c scenarios where
inspection of encrypted tra c could be used. This second
survey serves to give quantitative backing to the qualitative
data gathered in the  rst survey.
We collected data for our second survey on Tuesday,
February 24, 2015 between 11:02 AM and 1:06 PM (PST).
Each participant could take the survey once and received
$1 USD as compensation upon completing the survey. The
survey begins exactly as the  rst survey by gathering
demographic information and then instructing participants
about TLS proxies and their uses, both benevolent and
malicious.
Participants are then asked their opinions
regarding the use of TLS proxies in various circumstances.
In total 1,005 people completed the online survey. The
survey was also approved by our Institutional Review
Board and is contained in Appendix B.
5.1 Survey Description
The  rst portion of the second survey includes the same
description of TLS proxies as the  rst one.
It then asks
several questions repeated from the  rst survey: whether
TLS proxies are an invasion of privacy and whether there
are acceptable uses for TLS proxies.
The main portion of this survey asks participants their
opinion regarding di erent situations where TLS proxies
may be used to inspect encrypted tra c, such as by an
employer, at a school, or a caf e with free WiFi. The full
list of scenarios is given in Figure 4. For each situation,
participants are asked whether the organization should be
allowed to run a TLS proxy, with responses taken from (1)
No, (2) Only if I consent, (3) Only if I am noti ed (consent
not required), (4) Yes (neither noti cation nor consent
required), or (5) Unsure. To choose the situations, we used
responses from open-ended questions in the  rst survey,
along with suggestions from our research team to  ll out
the list. Finally, we had a single open-ended question
where participants could share any opinions they still had
remaining at the end of the survey.
We note that this survey had the same limitations as our
 rst survey.
5.2 Quality Control
To ensure participants provided valid data, we accepted
only participants that had previously completed 1,000
tasks on MTurk with an overall task approval rate of 95%
or higher. Second, we limited participants to the United
States and India. This was done because with the  rst
survey coders struggled to understand answers to free
9
Figure 3: Participant Attitudes Toward TLS Proxies (Survey 1   N=1,049, Survey 2   N=927)
Survey 1
(N=1,049)
Survey 2
(N=927)
Prior Knowledge of TLS Proxies
Strongly Agree
Agree
Neither Agree nor Disagree
Disagree
Strongly Disagree
4.1%
21.3%
8.1%
48.1%
18.4%
8.4%
27.9%
13.2%
34.3%
16.2%
Table 4: Participants  Knowledge of TLS Proxies
response questions from outside the United States and
India.4 Third, we looked at the single open-ended question
to determine if participants had entered spam (e.g., copied
an answer
Finally, we used two
validation questions in the second survey because there
were not enough open responses to always distinguish
spam entries.
from Wikipedia).
In total, we excluded 78 participant s responses (7.8%). The
remaining 927 participant s responses constitute the results
of our second survey.
5.3 Demographics
The demographics for the participants were summarized
earlier in Table 1. There were no signi cant di erences in
the demographics of the  rst and second surveys.
6. SECOND SURVEY   RESULTS
In this section we discuss results from our second survey.
First we compare results from the three questions that
were the same between both surveys. We then discuss the
quantitative
opinions
regarding di erent deployment scenarios for TLS proxies.
6.1 Comparison
In both surveys, after reading the description of TLS
proxies, participants were asked whether they had prior
knowledge of TLS proxies. These are shown in Table 4. In
the  rst survey, most participants reported having little to
no awareness of TLS proxies before the survey: aware
(25.4%), unsure (8.1%), unaware (66.5%).
In the second
survey, more participants reported being aware of proxies
beforehand (the di erence
statistically signi cant,
 2[4, N = 1976] = 60.003, p < 0.001), though over half still
participants 
regarding
data
is
4Moreover,
these represent a small enough portion of
participants that their responses had no signi cant e ect
on the data.
10
reported having little to no awareness of TLS proxies
before the survey: unaware (50.5%), unsure (13.2%), aware
(36.3%).5
also
responses
relating
compared
We
to whether
participants in both surveys felt that TLS proxies were an
invasion of privacy,
and whether TLS proxies had
acceptable uses (see Figure 3). Participants in the second
survey were less likely to view TLS proxies as an invasion
of privacy ( rst survey   50%, second survey   35%), with
signi cant
the
( 2[4, N = 1976] = 54.228, p < 0.001).
Similarly,
participants in the second survey were also more likely to
feel that there were acceptable uses for TLS proxies ( rst
survey   72%, second survey   85%), with this di erence
also
statistically
signi cant
( 2[4, N = 1976] = 140.654, p < 0.001).
statistically
di erence
being
being
is important
to note that
in both surveys, after
It
participants answered each group of questions
(see
Appendix) participants were unable to return to earlier
groups of questions and alter their answers. As such, the
above reported di erences are not due to di erences in the
survey, as up to this point the surveys were identical.
6.2 Scenarios
We asked participants regarding their opinions towards the
inspection of encrypted tra c in speci c scenarios. For
each scenario, participants indicate whether they were
comfortable with the tra c being intercepted ( Yes ),
whether they wanted to be noti ed ( Noti ed ), whether
they wanted their consent to be obtained ( Consent ), or
whether they were uncomfortable with it. The results for
these questions are summarized in Figure 4.
Participants in our second survey are generally willing to
accept the use of TLS proxies in most situations, with
acceptance ranging from 65% to 90% of participants, when
summing together those who accept it, those who desire
noti cation, and those who desire both noti cation and
consent. For both employers (when you use your own
computer) and elementary schools, the support for using
TLS proxies without noti cation or consent from users is
surprisingly strong (455; 49.1% and 434; 46.8%). This may
be due to a belief in employer rights in the  rst case and a
desire to protect children in the second case. In both cases
there is still strong support for either noti cation or
5As before, we speculate that due to the e ects of illusory
superiority, the number of participants that were unaware of
TLS proxies before the survey was even higher than reported
[8, 9].
Figure 4: Participant Responses on Scenarios Should the Organization Be Allowed To Run a TLS Proxy? (N=927)
consent (419; 45.2% and 377; 40.7%).
The strongest objections to any kind of TLS proxy are for
government monitoring (437; 47.1%), using your own device
at work (297; 32.0%), or using your own ISP (271; 29.2%).
Note these latter two map to situations where the user has
paid for the device or for network access. Users have stronger
objections to TLS proxies when they pay for network access
through a home ISP than when they pay for WiFi when they
are away from home.
elementary school,
When examining the di erences among opinions
for
noti cation versus consent, we see that the preference for
consent is higher for personal  rewalls (software you
installed to protect your computer), your ISP, free WiFi,
paid WiFi, and using your own device at work. The
preference is higher for noti cation for a public library,
university,
and using a company
computer at work. This seems to be a clear split that
favors consent in cases where the user feels in control
versus noti cation when an organization is in control. The
strongest support for consent is with a personal  rewall
(385; 41.5%), your ISP (375; 40.5%), and paid WiFi (358;
38.6%).
7. DISCUSSION
In this section we discuss interesting themes we saw as we
analyzed participants 
open-ended
questions.
7.1
Most of the participants showed a high level of engagement
in the survey. At the end of the survey when asked if they
had any additional
a large number of
participants mentioned that they were thankful that we
had informed them of this information. Some even asked
where they could get more information on the topic of TLS
proxies. Additionally, we were impressed with the in-depth
analysis of trade-o s that many users shared, which often
went far beyond the scope of any information provided to
them in the survey.
Informed Participants
comments,
responses
the
to
Participants clearly understood that there were trade-o s
involved with the use of TLS proxies and the inspection of
encrypted tra c, weighing the benevolent uses for schools
or workplaces and the danger of misuse by insiders or by
11
hackers. As they struggled with this trade-o , participant
responses indicated confusion, doubt, worry, equivocation,
and reasoned conclusions. Confusion regarding how to
resolve the con ict was evident when participants labeled
it a  grey area.  R988 considered both good and bad uses
and worried,  How are you supposed to know which is
happening? 
Some participants weighed the trade-o s and resolved the
dilemma by deciding that proxies should only be used by
consent. For example, R827 expressed:
else s
someone
you are using
 I believe that TLS proxies are an invasion of
privacy, as
is anything that monitors my
internet usage without my permission. However
if
(like a
company s) network, they have every right to
make the rules of use... This is one of those
doubled-edged swords   it can be used for your
good and security and it can be used to harm
the distinct
and spy on you.
possibility of
this type of proxy
should [not be] used, except by your agreement,
not by anyone else. 
lost privacy,
Because of
Others wanted companies or schools to be able to use TLS
proxies for security purposes, but also wanted to prevent
them from being used for government surveillance or by
hackers. Still others felt TLS proxies should only be used
by the government to catch terrorists or criminals.
Similarly, of the participants who were against the use of
TLS proxies, the reasons for opposing TLS proxies were not
amorphous, but concrete and rational. For example, R666
stated:
think organizations
 I think TLS proxies don t sound very safe
because it sounds like an invasion of privacy. I
don t
should be able to
decrypt your internet tra c and modify it and
re-encrypt it. Perhaps they are just trying to
protect against viruses and the like but it doesn t
sound safe for the person using the internet.
What if this technology was misused? Someone
could get [h]old of your  nancial information
It sounds to[o] risky.
for example.
I wouldn t
want to buy something online and risk someone
having access to my credit card number. 
7.2 Noti cation and Consent
Numerous participants expressed a desire for noti cation
and consent when TLS proxies were being used on a
network. A typical response as given by R413 was,
 Well for some things it would be understandable,
I d just like to be informed so I know the risk I m
taking. 
R313 expressed,
 If I encrypt something no one has the right to
unencrypt it unless I give them the right to -
simple as that. 
Participants expressed extreme distrust for those who would
use TLS proxies without informing users, going so far as to
say they  would hate them,   would wonder what they are
looking for,  and  would assume they were up to no good. 
Others stated they would change their behavior if noti ed
about a proxy, such as avoiding commercial transactions,
using a VPN to circumvent a proxy, or self-censorship of
their Google searches and other online communication.
7.3 Jaded Participants
We were surprised to  nd that 4.5% of participants were
 jaded  towards the current state of privacy online. They
felt that currently it is largely impossible to have any
expectation of privacy or security. Many felt that the
government was already spying on the population at large,
and that even without TLS proxies the government could
 nd a way to gain access to their private information.
Others felt that even if they discovered that their tra c
was being intercepted, they would have no recourse as their
access to the Internet is controlled by a monopoly.
We  nd this group concerning, as this is not a group of
individuals unconcerned with security and privacy. Rather
they are a group that still cares about privacy, but has lost
all hope that they can actually achieve digital privacy. This
is a troubling trend, as such individuals are unlikely to adopt
solutions that could actually bene t them. As such, work
needs to be done to determine how this type of user s trust
can be regained.
7.4 Changing Opinions
Between our two surveys, we noticed di erences in the way
participants viewed TLS proxies. This demonstrates that
users  perceptions towards security and privacy are not
static. As such, it is important that work such as this be
done on a regular basis, helping the security community
stay abreast of current opinions and attitudes.
One interesting di erence is that in the second survey
fewer participants viewed inspection of encrypted tra c as
an invasion of privacy, and more participants felt that
there were acceptable uses for this practice. One possible
explanation for this di erence is that news stories have
been discussing how encryption and other privacy
technologies
preserving
could be used by terrorist
organizations. Still, additional research is needed to better
understand this shift in attitudes towards security and
privacy.
8. CONCLUSION
This paper presents the  rst survey of general (i.e.,
non-expert) user attitudes toward TLS proxies. Responses
indicate
that participants hold nuanced opinions on
security and privacy trade-o s, with most recognizing
legitimate uses for the proxies, but concerned about
threats from hackers or government surveillance.
A
signi cant concern about malicious uses of TLS inspection
is identity theft, and many would react negatively and
some would change their behavior if
they discovered
inspection occurring without their knowledge. We also  nd
that a small but signi cant number of participants are
jaded by the current state of a airs and have lost any
expectation of privacy.
The
results of our
User attitudes toward TLS proxies provide an important
data point along the spectrum of discussion that
is
currently taking place regarding who should have access to
encrypted information.
survey
demonstrate that participants were generally aware of the
trade-o s between privacy and security, and that most
participants were willing to sacri ce some privacy for
additional security. Nevertheless, participants strongly
supported noti cation and consent for when encrypted
tra c is being inspected.
9. ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors thank Rich Shay for providing feedback on the
wording of questions in our  rst survey. We also thank
Alexander Lemon, JJ Lowe, Brent Roberts, and Justin Wu
for help with coding the data. Finally, we thank the
anonymous reviewers for their helpful comments.
10. REFERENCES
[1] A. I. Ant on, J. B. Earp, and J. D. Young. How
Internet users  privacy concerns have evolved since
2002. IEEE Security & Privacy, 8(1):21 27, 2010.
[2] Blue Coat. Proxysg.
http://www.bluecoat.com/products/proxysg.
Accessed: 9 January, 2014.
[3] M. Buhrmester, T. Kwang, and S. D. Gosling.
Amazon s Mechanical Turk a new source of
inexpensive, yet high-quality, data? Perspectives on
Psychological Science, 6(1):3 5, 2011.
[4] J. Clark and P. C. van Oorschot. SoK: SSL and
HTTPS: Revisiting past challenges and evaluating
certi cate trust model enhancements. In IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages
511 525. IEEE, 2013.
[5] X. d. C. de Carnavalet and M. Mannan. Killed by
proxy: Analyzing client-end TLS interception
software. In Network and Distributed System Security
Symposium (NDSS 2016). Internet Society, 2016.
[6] J. L. Fleiss. Measuring nominal scale agreement among
many raters. Psychological Bulletin, 76(5):378, 1971.
[7] E. Galperin, S. Schoen, and P. Eckersley. A post
mortem on the iranian diginotar attack.
https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2011/09/post-
mortem-iranian-diginotar-attack, 2015.
12
[8] A. M. Glenberg, A. C. Wilkinson, and W. Epstein.
ssl. http://cryptome.org/ssl-mitm.pdf.
[24] C. Soghoian and S. Stamm. Certi ed lies: Detecting
and defeating government interception attacks against
SSL (short paper). In Financial Cryptography and
Data Security, pages 250 259. Springer, 2012.
[25] Symantec. Web gateway.
http://www.symantec.com/web-gateway. Accessed: 9
January, 2014.
[26] B. Ur, P. G. Kelley, S. Komanduri, J. Lee, M. Maass,
M. L. Mazurek, T. Passaro, R. Shay, T. Vidas,
L. Bauer, et al. How does your password measure up?
The e ect of strength meters on password creation. In
USENIX Security Symposium, 2012.
[27] B. Ur, P. G. Leon, L. F. Cranor, R. Shay, and
Y. Wang. Smart, useful, scary, creepy: Perceptions of
online behavioral advertising. In Proceedings of the
Eighth Symposium on Usable Privacy and Security,
SOUPS  12, pages 4:1 4:15, New York, NY, USA,
2012. ACM.
[28] A. F. Westin. Harris-Equifax consumer privacy survey.
Atlanta, GA: Equifax Inc, 1991.
[29] A. Woodru , V. Pihur, S. Consolvo, L. Schmidt,
L. Brandimarte, and A. Acquisti. Would a privacy
fundamentalist sell their DNA for $1000... if nothing
bad happened as a result? The Westin categories,
behavioral intentions, and consequences. In
Symposium on Usable Privacy and Security (SOUPS),
2014.
The illusion of knowing: Failure in the self-assessment
of comprehension. Memory & Cognition,
10(6):597 602, 1982.
[9] V. Hoorens. Self-favoring biases, self-presentation, and
the self-other asymmetry in social comparison.
Journal of Personality, 63(4):793 817, 1995.
[10] L.-S. Huang, A. Rice, E. Ellingsen, and C. Jackson.
Analyzing forged SSL certi cates in the wild. In IEEE
Symposium on Security and Privacy, 2014.
[11] R. Kang, S. Brown, L. Dabbish, and S. Kiesler.
Privacy attitudes of Mechanical Turk workers and the
US public. In Symposium on Usable Privacy and
Security (SOUPS), 2014.
[12] P. G. Kelley. Conducting usable privacy & security
studies with Amazon s Mechanical Turk. In
Symposium on Usable Privacy and Security (SOUPS),
2010.
[13] A. Kittur, E. H. Chi, and B. Suh. Crowdsourcing user
studies with Mechanical Turk. In Proceedings of the
SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems, pages 453 456. ACM, 2008.
[14] S. Loreto, J. Mattsson, R. Skog, H. Spaak, G. Gus,
and M. Hafeez. Explicit trusted proxy in HTTP/2.0,
Internet Draft. http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-
loreto-httpbis-trusted-proxy20-01, February
2014.
[15] M. Marlinspike. SSL and the future of authenticity.
Black Hat USA, 2011.
[16] A. M. McDonald and L. F. Cranor. Americans 
attitudes about internet behavioral advertising
practices. In Proceedings of the 9th Annual ACM
Workshop on Privacy in the Electronic Society, WPES
 10, pages 63 72, New York, NY, USA, 2010. ACM.
[17] D. McGrew, D. Wing, Y. Nir, and P. Gladstone. TLS
proxy server extension, Internet-Draft, TLS Working
Group. http://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-mcgrew-
tls-proxy-server-01, July 2012.
[18] D. Meyer. Nokia: Yes, we decrypt your HTTPS data,
but don t worry about it. http:
//gigaom.com/2013/01/10/nokia-yes-we-decrypt-
your-https-data-but-dont-worry-about-it/, 2013.
[19] M. O Neill, S. Ruoti, K. Seamons, and D. Zappala.
TLS proxies: Friend or foe? arXiv preprint
arXiv:1407.7146, 2014.
[20] Palo Alto Networks. Decryption.
https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/products/
features/decryption.html. Accessed: 27 February,
2014.
[21] T. J. Seppala. New Lenovo PCs shipped with
factory-installed adware.
http://www.engadget.com/2015/02/19/lenovo-
superfish-adware-
preinstalled/?ncid=rss_truncated, 2015.
[22] R. Shay, I. Ion, R. W. Reeder, and S. Consolvo. My
religious aunt asked why I was trying to sell her
Viagra: experiences with account hijacking. In
Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human
Factors in Computing Systems, pages 2657 2666.
ACM, 2014.
[23] C. Soghoian and S. Stamm. Certi ed lies: Detecting
and defeating government interception attacks against
13
APPENDIX
A. FIRST SURVEY
A.1 Page 1
We are conducting an academic research survey about
public opinions on Internet security. The survey will take
approximately 5 minutes.
We will not collect any personally identifying information. If
you do not complete the survey we will not store any of your
responses. If you have any questions or concerns about the
information collected, please contact us at [email redacted].
A.2 Page 2
What is your gender?
  Male
  Female
  I prefer not to answer
  Retail (co ee shop, internet cafe, etc.)
  Other
  I prefer not to answer
What type of Internet connection are you using?
  Wired
  WiFi
  Cellular (3G, 4G, etc.)
  Other
  I don t know
  I prefer not to answer
How knowledgeable are you about Internet security?
  Expert
  Highly knowledgeable
  Mildly knowledgeable
  Somewhat knowledgeable
  No Knowledge
  I prefer not to answer
What is your age?
  18   24 years old
  25   34 years old
  35   44 years old
  45   54 years old
  55 years or older
  I prefer not to answer
What is the highest degree or level of school you
have completed?
  Some school, no high school diploma
  High school graduate, diploma or the equivalent (for
  Some college or university credit, no degree
  College or university degree
  Post-secondary education
  I prefer not to answer
example: GED)
What is your marital status?
  Married
  Single
  Other
  I prefer not to answer
Do you have children?
  Yes
  No
  I prefer not to answer
In which country do you reside?
A.3 Page 3
Where are taking this survey?
  Home
  Work
  School
  Library
When connecting to a website securely, for example
when doing online shopping or banking, who should
be able to see the contents of your Internet tra c?
(Choose all that apply)
  Me
  My Internet provider
  The website
  Malicious individuals
  Everyone
A.4 Page 4
When you connect to the Internet you do so through some
organization s network. For example, at home you connect
to your Internet service provider s (ISP) network, while at
work you connect to your employer s network. To protect
your information from others on the network you can
create
to the websites you use
(HTTPS). This is done automatically for you when you log
into a website.
The secure connection encrypts your
Internet tra c so that no one else can view or modify your
communication with the website (see Figure A).
connections
secure
Figure A
The network you use to connect to the Internet can also be
set up to use a system called a TLS proxy. TLS proxies sit
in the middle of your secure connection to the websites you
view (see Figure B). At the TLS proxy your Internet tra c
is decrypted and the web proxy can view and modify it.
Afterwards, the TLS proxy will then re-encrypt your tra c
and forward it along. This is done silently and without the
14
knowledge of you or the website you connect to.
Figure B
TLS proxies can be set up by the organization that
controls your Internet (for example, your ISP, school, or
employer) and also by malicious attackers. TLS proxies
have many di erent uses:
Protective
Blocking malware and viruses
Protecting company secrets
Blocking harmful websites
Catching malicious individuals
Malicious
Stealing passwords
Identity theft
Tracking government dissidents
Spying (for example the NSA)
Censorship
Strongly Disagree, Disagree, Neither Agree nor
Disagree, Agree, Strongly Agree
  The above description of TLS proxies helped me to clearly
understand what TLS proxies are and how they are used.
A.5 Page 5
Strongly Disagree, Disagree, Neither Agree nor
Disagree, Agree, Strongly Agree
  Prior to taking this survey, I was aware that organizations
  TLS proxies are an invasion of privacy.
  There are acceptable uses for TLS proxies.
were using TLS proxies.
Only seen if selected "Agree" or "Strongly Agree"
to acceptable uses for TLS proxies.
Please explain which organizations
should be
allowed to use TLS proxies and for what purpose.
(only shown on an Agree or Strongly Agree answer from
above)
Only seen if selected "Disagree" or "Strongly
Disagree" to acceptable uses for TLS proxies.
Please explain why TLS proxies should never be
allowed.
A.6 Page 6
Strongly Disagree, Disagree, Neither Agree nor
Disagree, Agree, Strongly Agree
  I am concerned that TLS proxies could be used by hackers
  I am concerned that TLS proxies could be used by the
  Browsers should notify users if there is a TLS proxy
  There should be legislation that addresses TLS proxies.
intercepting and decrypting their Internet tra c.
government to collect my personal information.
to compromise my Internet security.
Only seen if selected "Agree" or "Strongly Agree"
to legislation that addresses proxies.
15
TLS proxy
is being used
What should legislation that addresses TLS proxies
do? (Choose all that apply)
  Prevent their use
  Require organizations to obtain consent before using a
  Require organizations to inform users when a TLS proxy
  I don t believe that legislation is required
  Other
A.7 Page 7
The following statements and questions are about how you
would personally react to having a TLS proxy on a
network you use to connect to the Internet.
Strongly Disagree, Disagree, Neither Agree nor
Disagree, Agree, Strongly Agree
  I believe TLS proxies are in use on a network I use to
connect to the Internet.
Please explain what concerns you have about a
TLS proxy being used on a network you personally
use to connect to the Internet.
Please explain how it would change your opinion of
an organization if you discovered that they were
using a TLS proxy.
If you have any other thoughts, please share them
with us below:
B. SECOND SURVEY
B.1 Page One
What is your gender?
  Male
  Female
  I prefer not to answer
What is your age?
  18   24 years old
  25   34 years old
  35   44 years old
  45   54 years old
  55 years or older
  I prefer not to answer
What is the highest degree or level of school you
have completed?
  Some school, no high school diploma
  High school graduate, diploma or the equivalent (for
  Some college or university credit, no degree
  College or university degree
  Post-secondary education
  I prefer not to answer
example: GED)
What is your marital status?
  Married
  Single
  Other
  I prefer not to answer
Do you have children?
  Yes
  No
  I prefer not to answer
In which country do you reside?
  United States
  India
  Other
How knowledgeable are you about Internet security?
  Expert
  Highly knowledgeable
  Mildly knowledgeable
  Somewhat knowledgeable
  No Knowledge
  I prefer not to answer
B.2 Page 2
When you connect to the Internet you do so through some
organization s network. For example, at home you connect
to your Internet service provider s (ISP) network, while at
work you connect to your employer s network. To protect
your information from others on the network you can
create
to the websites you use
(HTTPS). This is done automatically for you when you log
into a website.
The secure connection encrypts your
Internet tra c so that no one else can view or modify your
communication with the website (see Figure A).
connections
secure
Figure A
The network you use to connect to the Internet can also be
set up to use a system called a TLS proxy. TLS proxies sit
in the middle of your secure connection to the websites you
view (see Figure B). At the TLS proxy your Internet tra c
is decrypted and the web proxy can view and modify it.
Afterwards, the TLS proxy will then re-encrypt your tra c
and forward it along. This is done silently and without the
knowledge of you or the website you connect to.
16
Figure B
TLS proxies can be set up by the organization that
controls your Internet (for example, your ISP, school, or
employer) and also by malicious attackers. TLS proxies
have many di erent uses:
Protective
Blocking malware and viruses
Protecting company secrets
Blocking harmful websites
Catching malicious individuals
Malicious
Stealing passwords
Identity theft
Tracking government dissidents
Spying (for example the NSA)
Censorship
Ordering of questions randomized.
Strongly Disagree, Disagree, Neither Agree nor
Disagree, Agree, Strongly Agree
  The above description of TLS proxies helped me to clearly
understand what TLS proxies are and how they are used.
  Stealing passwords and identity theft are in the list of
  Blocking malware and viruses are in the list of malicious
  Prior to taking this survey, I was aware that organizations
  TLS proxies are an invasion of privacy.
  There are acceptable uses for TLS proxies.
malicious uses shown above.
were using TLS proxies.
uses shown above.
B.3 Page 3
For each scenario listed below, provide your opinion on
whether or not the organization should be allowed to run a
TLS proxy.
Ordering of questions randomized.
No, Only if I consent, Only if I am notified
(consent not required), Yes (Neither notification
nor consent required), Unsure
  Your employer when you use a company computer
  Your employer when using your own device (cell phone,
tablet, laptop)
  Elementary school
  Public Library
  University
  Paid WiFi   Airport, Hotel, Cafe, etc.
  Free WiFi   Airport, Hotel, Cafe, etc.
  The company that provides Internet access at your home
  Personal  rewall   software that you have installed to
  Your government monitoring your Internet tra c
B.4 Page 4
Please feel free to write any thoughts you have on
the subject of TLS proxies. We will use this
information
research.
(Optional)
protect your computer
future
to
help
guide
