HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How Do Global Audiences Take Shape? The Role of Institutions and Culture in Patterns 
of Web Use 
Harsh Taneja1 
James Webster2  
 
Suggested Citation:  
 
Taneja. H & Webster. J.G. (In Press). How Do Global Audiences Take Shape? The 
Role of Institutions and Culture in Shaping Patterns of Web Use. Journal of 
Communication  
 
 
Acknowledgements 
The authors thank James Ettema, Edward Malthouse, Noshir Contractor, Robert Ackland, 
Angela Xiao Wu, Brian Keegan and Pablo Bockzkowski for their contributions to this research. 
We also thank Rufus Weston (then at BBC Global News) for facilitating access to comScore 
data. Finally we acknowledge the terrific editorial guidance by Silvio Waisbord.  
This study is part of the first author s doctoral dissertation work and was partially supported by a 
Graduate Research Grant from The Graduate School at Northwestern University. 
 
                                                 
1 School of Journalism, University of Missouri School of Journalism, Columbia, MO 65211 
 
2 Department of Communication Studies, Northwestern University, Evanston, IL, 60208 
 
Corresponding Author: Harsh Taneja; email: harsh.taneja@gmail.com 
 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Abstract 
This study investigates the role of both cultural and technological factors in determining 
audience formation on a global scale. It integrates theories of media choice with theories of 
global cultural consumption and tests them by analyzing shared audience traffic between the 
world s 1000 most popular Websites. We find that language and geographic similarities are more 
powerful predictors of audience overlap than hyperlinks and genre similarity, highlighting the 
role of cultural structures in shaping global media use.  
Keywords: Globalization, WWW Use, Media Choice, Audience Behavior, Network 
Analysis 
 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
How Do Global Audiences Take Shape? The Role of Institutions and Culture in 
Patterns of Web Use 
Through the power of technology, age-old obstacles to human interaction, like 
geography, language and limited information, are falling and a new wave of human 
creativity and potential is rising (Schmidt & Cohen, 2013, p. 4). 
 This quote, from a book by the long-time CEO of Google, reflects an optimistic yet 
curiously deterministic prophecy about the revolutionary potential of the Internet. Such 
prophecies, common in popular discourse, predict that technologies and institutional structures 
will shape patterns of global cultural consumption, sweeping away old allegiances based on 
cultural traits such as language and geography. Scholars of global culture expect something quite 
different. They believe in the power of  cultural proximity,  and the continued ability of cultural 
structures like language and geography to shape audiences (Consalvo, M. 2011). They argue that 
people prefer media closer to their own culture (Straubhaar, 1991 ) and, empirical studies show 
that as Internet use has deepened and broadened, users take on its topography heterogeneously 
(e.g., Burrell, 2012 Miller & Slater, 2000).  
How does each of these factors shape global audiences? How relevant are cultural factors 
such as language and geography in determining global patterns of media consumption in an age 
when technologies and powerful institutions increasingly facilitate cross-border flow of content? 
Will technological infrastructures trump cultural differences or will they work in tandem to 
shape the patterns of global cultural consumption? This study is an attempt to answer those 
questions. It offers an empirical investigation of the role these factors play in determining 
audience formation on a global scale. It does so within a theoretical framework that integrates 
theories of media choice with the theories of global cultural consumption and extends extant 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
empirical work on global Internet use with a large global sample of Websites, which includes a 
wide variety of Web domains. 
The top 1000 Websites around the world account for about 99% of all traffic on the 
World Wide Web. We analyze data on audience duplication (the extent to which users who 
access site A also access site B) across these sites to identify patterns of global Web use. To 
explain the level of audience duplication, we use cultural factors such as similarity of language 
and geography, and institutional factors such as hyperlinks between each pair of Websites. We 
find that global Web usage largely clusters according to language and geography of these 
Websites, and not according to their content genres. Further, we find a very low correlation 
between hyperlinks and audience traffic, suggesting that hyperlinks are not as powerful a 
determinant of Web use as they are commonly thought to be. These findings contribute to 
existing research on media choice as well as the literature on global media flows.  
Theory 
 We draw on two distinct bodies of theory to frame this research. The first is the literature 
on media choice. In particular, we make use of newer  integrated  theories of choice. These 
consider the roles of both individual predispositions and structures in shaping media use. The 
second is the literature on media globalization. Broadly speaking, it adopts one of the two 
theoretical frameworks to explain global cultural consumption: one privileges institutional 
structures like hyperlink architecture; the other emphasizes cultural structures like language. We 
recast the literature on media globalization into the integrated theories of media choice, and 
hypothesize that audiences on the World Wide Web enact their preferences within both 
institutional and cultural structures when consuming online content.  
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
 
 
Integrated theories of media choice. Historically, theorists have relied heavily on 
 
 
 
5 
 
individual predispositions (e.g., attitudes, tastes, gratifications sought, program types 
preferences, etc.) to explain media choice. Most of these expect audiences to evidence some sort 
of content loyalties. The abundance of options now available to audiences has given rise to a 
pervasive rhetoric of individual empowerment (e.g., Jenkins, Ford, & Green, 2013; Napoli, 
2011). In theory, this should manifest itself in genre loyalties reflecting individual tastes or 
attitudes or program type preferences. Hence, we might expect that fans of news would consume 
all of the best available news sites, or that partisans would be attuned to ideologically consistent 
sites no matter their geographic origin, and so forth. In a world of anytime, anywhere media, it is 
especially tempting to think that individual preferences are all that matter in determining 
audience behavior. But structural factors have a powerful influence on patterns of media use in 
the new digital environment (Webster, 2014). Recent studies find that social and technical 
structures, such as routines and access to platforms, are more influential than individual traits in 
explaining television viewing and digital media consumption (Cooper & Tang, 2009; Perusko, 
Vozab, &  uvalo, 2015; Taneja, Webster, Malthouse, & Ksiazek, 2012; Webster & Ksiazek, 
2012; Wonneberger, Schoenbach, & van Meurs, 2009, 2011).  
Integrated theories that consider both individual and structural factors, are sometimes 
grounded in a structurational framework (Giddens, 1984; Webster, 2011). In a nutshell, 
structuration sees agents (media users) drawing on the resources of the media to achieve their 
own ends. These resources include the available technologies, programs and services. As agents 
use media, they reproduce and alter the structural features of the environment. In this view, 
agency and structure are mutually constituted, something Giddens called a  duality  (1984, p. 
25).  
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
6 
 
 
 
 
Despite its conceptual elegance, structuration has only been used to study audience 
 
 
behavior in single markets or to make limited cross-country comparisons (e.g., Perusko, et al., 
2015; Yuan & Ksiazek, 2011). However, we believe that this theoretical framework can be 
especially useful in studying audience formation on a global scale where one would expect to 
find greater variation in structural factors. In particular, our study focuses on understanding how 
a variety of technological and social structures shape large-scale patterns of traffic across 
Websites. What follows is a brief review of the theories that explain the flow and consumption of 
media products across national boundaries. 
Theories of global media consumption. 
Cultural objects, including images, languages, and hairstyles, now move ever more 
swiftly across regional and national boundaries. The acceleration is a consequence of the 
speed and spread of the Internet and the simultaneous comparative growth in travel, 
cross-cultural media and global advertisement (Appadurai, 2013, p. 61). 
Cultural products were exchanged between civilizations even in ancient times, often 
facilitated by the movement of people. In the last two decades of the twentieth century, the 
growths of satellite and cable television followed by the Internet have made such flows nearly 
ubiquitous. So, how do audiences make choices between media products from abroad and those 
from their home country? Broadly, there are two schools of thought. 
Illustrative of the first school is the thesis of  cultural imperialism  (Schiller, 1969), 
which states that global media flows are heavily imbalanced, with the majority of audiovisual 
content exported by the developed world (mainly the US) to the developing world. Such 
imbalances have given rise to fears that global cultural consumption will become homogenized. 
Neoclassical economists have also noted this imbalance in global flows of media and attribute 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
7 
 
 
 
 
 
 
this to the superior production values and distribution muscle of large and wealthy countries. 
These arguments are buttressed by newer studies of Internet structure, often mapping the WWW 
using hyperlink analysis, which find that the Western world (especially the US) is at the center of 
global information flows (e.g., Park, Barnett & Chung, 2011; Barnett & Park, 2014).  
In opposition, the cultural proximity thesis asserts that given a choice, audiences around 
the world will tend to choose culturally proximate content (e.g., Straubhaar, 1991) and that 
foreign products are more successful if the cultural distance between importing and exporting 
countries is low (Fu & Govindarau, 2010). Moreover, audiences across cultures interpret the 
same content in very different ways (Liebes & Katz, 1990), which is a reflection on their own 
cultural identity (Kraidy, 2002). These predispositions shape the global media landscape as a 
mosaic of  culturally defined markets  along geo-linguistic lines, based on factors such as shared 
geographies, languages, colonial history, ethnicity, etc. (Straubhaar, 2007; Sinclair, 1999). 
Integrated theories of media choice offer a way to test these seemingly opposing bodies 
of literature. Essentially, the  imperialism school  privileges the role of institutions such as 
media industries and government regulators in structuring global cultural consumption. In the 
case of the Internet these structures manifest both as enablers, such as hyperlinksi and search 
engines, and censors such as Internet firewalls. Henceforth, we ll call these  institutional 
structures.  On the other hand, the  cultural proximity  thesis posits that cultural factors, such as 
the languages people speak or their national and regional identities, are more powerful drivers of 
media consumption. Henceforth, we refer to these as  cultural structures.   
We argue that both types of structures, institutional and cultural, should contribute to 
audience formation on a global scale, although the explanatory power of each remains to be 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
8 
 
 
 
 
 
 
determined. We also believe that studying people s use of the World Wide Web offers a way to 
test how each set of structures contributes to global cultural consumption.  
Global cultural consumption on the World Wide Web. It is not just the sheer size but 
also the structure of the World Wide Web that makes it a truly global medium. The Web is 
essentially billions of documents (or pages) that are connected to each other by hyperlinks. 
Studies of hyperlinked structures reveal that even as the Web has grown, its diameter or the 
average degrees of separation between pages has remained relatively small (Barab si, 2009). 
These features suggest that Internet users can easily access content anywhere on the Web with 
the use of hyperlinks, so long as it is not censored or concealed behind pay walls. Search engines 
make it even easier for people to access whatever is out there. Further, automatic machine 
translation tools such as Google Translate allow people to consume foreign language content in a 
language of their choice. These features have tempted many scholars and public intellectuals to 
envision a completely connected, globalized world of Web users. Relatively few, however, have 
noted that audiences continue to pay  disproportionate attention to phenomena that unfold 
nearby and directly affect ourselves, our friends and our families  (Zuckerman, 2013, p. 19). For 
instance, people form ties on Twitter with users in close geographic proximity or who share the 
same language, or when there is direct air connectivity between their locations (Takhteyev, 
Gruzd, & Wellman, 2012). Likewise, people are more likely to email someone who belongs to 
the same culture (State, Park, Weber, Mejova, & Macy, 2015). Even Wikipedia, the so-called 
global online encyclopedia, is quite  local  if one closely analyzes differences between its many 
language versions (Hecht & Gergle, 2010).  
It is clear that, faced with an abundance of Websites, people wouldn t access all available 
content but create repertoires containing a small number of Websites they visit regularly. What is 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
9 
 
 
 
 
 
 
not as clear is the basis on which they would create these repertoires. More specifically, are these 
repertoires likely to be based on genre preferences, without regard to cultural affinities or are 
they driven by cultural proximity? Our theories of global consumption suggest two possibilities.  
First, since users who have access are free to consume what they want from any part of 
the world, we may indeed find that audiences gravitate towards the  best  content of a type. For 
instance, someone who is fluent in English and interested in news and current affairs could go to 
the New York Times or the Guardian provided this user considered these the best sources. If this 
were the case, online content produced in the Western markets that have traditionally dominated 
much of global media marketplace would be more popular than locally produced content. This 
outcome would be consistent with the picture painted by the structure of hyperlinks, where sites 
from most countries appear to link generally to Websites from the US and Western world 
(Barnett & Park, 2014) and  the economy rather than culture is the primary determinant of the 
structure of international hyperlink flows  (Barnett & Sung, 2005, p. 230). 
Alternatively, provided enough local content is available online, audiences are likely to 
consume culturally proximate Websites, ones that are in languages they prefer. They need not 
pay attention to Websites that they don t consider relevant or that are in foreign languages. In 
fact the relative ease of access to content online compared to TV and films is likely to enhance 
this tendency. Besides, barring a few expectations, institutional regulators do not control the 
supply of content online to the extent they do in traditional media. These distinct possibilities 
motivate the following, rather broad, research question. 
RQ1. What patterns of consumption are evident when audiences around the world 
navigate on the World Wide Web? 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
10 
 
 
 
 
We know that, with a few exceptions, audiences in any part of the world have access to 
 
 
both domestic and foreign products on the WWW. In such a scenario one may expect most 
people to consume both domestic and foreign products, in varying proportions. Therefore, to 
capture all such behaviors in the aggregate, we need to analyze audiences to a media outlet in 
relation to all the other media outlets they use. One way to do that is through the analyses of 
 audience duplication,  or the extent of audience overlap between pairs of media outlets (such as 
Websites.) Audience duplication, measured across all pairs of media outlets, can easily be 
conceptualized in network analytic terms, with media outlets being the nodes connected to each 
other based on the extent of audience duplication (see Webster & Ksiazek, 2012; Taneja &Wu, 
2014).  
First, it seems likely that audiences prefer to consume content in a language they are most 
comfortable with. Therefore, audiences who visit a Website in a given language would also visit 
other Websites that are available in the same language. Hence, we expect Websites in the same 
language to have higher duplicated audiences than Websites in different languages. Other than 
language, it may be that audiences prefer content that focuses on their own geographies 
(countries). That is, when domestic (national) content is available audiences will prefer it to 
content from abroad. Therefore, audiences who visit a Website that focuses on a country would 
most likely access other Websites that also focus on the same country 
In most cases, countries have a majority language. However, many countries share 
languages, as well as audiences within a country can speak different languages. Hence, we would 
expect audience duplication between two Websites to be higher when they both share the same 
language and focus on the same geography than when they share either language or geographical 
focus alone. As an example, the duplication between two Swiss German sites would be higher 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
11 
 
 
 
 
 
 
than duplication between two Swiss sites that are in French and German languages. Further, 
duplication would also be higher than that between a German site that focuses on Switzerland 
and a German site that focuses on Germany. This leads to the following hypothesis.  
H1: Similarity of geographical focus combined with language similarity results in higher 
audience duplication between Websites than language similarity or geographical focus 
alone. 
Second, since hyperlinks are thought to help users navigate between two Websites, it is 
conceivable that they impact the extent of audience duplication between them. Studies of global 
hyperlink structures show that, although most language sites generally link to sites in the same 
language, sites in English tend to be more central than sites in other languages (Daniel & Josh, 
2011). The same is true for developed countries in comparison to the developing World (e.g., 
Barnett & Park, 2014). But it is unclear whether people actually follow those links. That is, to 
what extent will non-English speakers click on the many hyperlinks to English Websites? A few 
recent studies using data from Alexa.com have correlated hyperlink structure with shared 
Website usage between countries (Barnett & Park, 2014) or with clickstreams (Wu & Ackland, 
2014) and these show that usage and hyperlink networks need not correlate. This motivates the 
following research question:  
RQ2: Do hyperlinks between Websites explain (and if so to what extent) the level of 
audience duplication between them? 
Finally, genres have been a popular way to explain audience loyalties in older media. 
Given the relative ease of access on the Web, it is conceivable that certain types of Websites may 
be more popular across linguistic and geographic regions, whereas certain others may be more 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
12 
 
 
 
 
 
 
restricted in their appeal, as they focus on a specific geography and/or have content in one 
language. These possibilities motivate the final research question: 
RQ3: Does genre similarity between Websites explain audience duplication between 
them? 
Method 
Data. We obtained the  audience network  using data from a global Internet audience 
measurement panel described below. In addition, we  crawled  the same set of domains for 
which we had Web traffic data, to obtain a parallel network, where we considered individual 
Websites as nodes tied to one another on the basis of hyperlinks between them. The latter, we 
refer to as the  hyperlink network.  
Audience Network. We used data from comScoreii, a panel based service that provides 
Internet audience measurement data once a month. With approximately 2 million panelists in 170 
countries under continuous measurement, the comScore panel utilizes a meter that captures 
behavioral information through a panelist s computer. Data are collected from both work and 
home computers of the panel members, who are recruited based on a telephonic enumeration 
survey to establish the Internet universe in each country. comScore organizes Websites by Web 
domains and subdomains. Our sample included the top 1000 Web domains (ranked by monthly 
unique users). This sample accounts for 99% of Web user visits, and ensures an adequate 
representation of sites in different languages and different geographies. For many large Websites 
such as Google, the different geo-linguistic variants are classified as separate domains (e.g., 
www.google.es, www.google.de etc.). For certain large domains such as Wikipedia, language 
versions are sub-domains of the main domain (e.g., es.wikipedia.org). In such cases, these sub-
domains have been considered in the final sample instead of restricting to Web domains. These 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
13 
 
 
 
 
 
 
data reflect traffic during June 2012, and 973 Websites of the top 1000 were included in the final 
sample. Together these sites provided content in 50 languages (many sites were in multiple 
languages) and between them focused on 43 countries (some sites had an explicit global focus, 
see next section). For each one of the 973 Websites, we obtained its audience duplication with all 
other 972 sites. Thus the final dataset has 472,878 (= (973 *972)/2) pairs of audience duplication 
numbers. 
FIGURES 1 AND 2 ABOUT HERE 
Hyperlinks Network. In addition to the traffic data, we obtained data on hyperlinks 
(during August 2012) between Websites using a crawler called VOSON. This crawler allows the 
user to specify all the Website addresses for which one needs information on inbound hyperlinks 
and downloads them systematically. Later it analyzes all the links present on the downloaded 
pages to provide hyperlinks between all pairs of initially specified Websites. Further, for this 
study, the creators of VOSON also queried a search engine, Blekko, to provide indexed 
information on incoming links to Websites. Popular search engines such as Google and Bing no 
longer provide an API for this. This helps capture any links missed in the original downloads 
done by VOSON. This resulted in a matrix that contained the number of hyperlinks between all 
possible pairs of 961 sites drawn from the same sample of 1000 most popular domains as the 
audience duplication. Some sites do not allow crawling and hence had to be dropped. The two 
matrices provided largely comparable data on hyperlinks and audience duplication between the 
same pair of most popular Websites. 950 domains in both networks were identical and hence 
yielded networks with identical nodes. 
Analysis.  
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
14 
 
 
 
 
Descriptive Network Analysis. The nodes in our audience network are Web Domains 
 
 
(such as www.google.com and www.google.co.uk, two separate Web domains), which are 
connected to each other based on audience duplication. However, popular domains are likely to 
have audiences in common due to random chance. Therefore, in order to declare a tie, we have 
set the bar above the level of duplication expected by chance alone. Ksiazek (2011) describes 
this procedure. In essence, if the observed level of shared audiences (observed frequency) was 
greater than the expected level based on random chance, we regarded the two outlets as tied. 
Conversely, if the level of observed duplication was less than or equal to that expected by 
random chance, we disregarded the tie. This procedure is quite similar to how residuals are 
calculated in chi-square analysis.  
To identify and describe the resulting patterns from the ways in which Web audiences 
navigate around the World Wide Web, we perform descriptive network analysis of the  audience 
network  using dichotomous ties. Specifically, two measures, network centralization and 
clustering coefficient, which indicate the overall shape of the network, answer RQ1. Network 
centralization indicates to what extents are the ties concentrated on a small set of nodes or more 
uniformly distributed. A high centralization score would indicate that a few nodes receive the 
lion s share of ties and these would be highly central in the network. In a network with low 
centralization score, however, the ties are more evenly distributed, and it is hard to identify a set 
of few central nodes that receive most of the links. Network centralization for a media audience 
network such as this one can be considered analogous to the Herfindhal-Hirschman index, a 
well-established measure of market concentration (Webster & Ksiazek, 2012). Likewise 
clustering coefficient indicates if nodes in a graph tend to cluster together. This is calculated by 
considering sets of three nodes or triplets that occur in the network. Any triplet of nodes can 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
15 
 
 
 
 
 
 
form either three open triangles or one closed triangle. The clustering coefficient for each node is 
the ratio of the number of closed triangles that exist in the network to the total number of 
triangles (both closed and open) theoretically possible (Watts & Strogatz, 1998). It varies 
between 0 and 1, with 1 indicating a fully clustered network and 0 indicating no clustering. 
Regression Analysis. Although descriptive network analysis and identification of clusters 
does provide a detailed description of patterns of audience flow, it does not help explain the 
variance in audience duplication. Therefore to confirm Hypotheses H1 as well as to answer RQ2 
and RQ3, we employ multiple linear regression analysis. The dependent variable is the audience 
duplication between sites. The independent variables are language similarity, geographic 
similarity, genre similarity and number of hyperlinks between all pairs of Websites. As already 
noted, for 950 sites (out of 973), we had data both on audience duplication with all other sites, as 
well as hyperlinks between all possible pairsiii iv. We use these 950 sites in the regression model. 
Dependent Variable. Audience Duplication: For the 950 sites we include in the 
regression models, which amounts to 450,775 (approx. one-half million) duplicated pairs. We 
take the natural logarithm of this variable to symmetrize its right skewed distribution, as is a 
common practice with amount and count variables. 
Independent Variables. Language Similarity: We use Jaccard s similarity coefficient to 
compute the extent of language similarity between Websites (Gower, 1985). The Jaccard 
coefficient for any pair of Websites is the ratio of languages in common between the pair to the 
total number of languages between them. For instance, if site A is in English and Spanish and 
site B is in Spanish and French, the Jaccard coefficient would be 1/3 since Spanish is the 
common language and these Websites between them have three languages in all (English, 
Spanish and French).  
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
16 
 
 
 
 
Same Geographical Focus: We identified the focal geography of every Website in the 
 
 
sample. In the majority of the cases (2 out of 3) they could be assigned to a single country. 
Triangulating various sources of information arrived at this assignment? First, many Websites 
have country-specific domain names, which signal their foci on a specific country. Second, the 
language of a Website is often a good indicator of the geography it focuses on. For instance, a 
site in Russian focuses on Russia or former Soviet countries such as Ukraine and sites 
exclusively in Spanish focus on Spain or Latin American countries. Third, we studied the  about 
us  pages to read the site s mission statements where they often declare their geographical focus. 
Finally, we relied on third party sources such as Alexa.com (a Web information company) that 
maintains ownership, content, marketing and traffic information about most Websites. Overall, 
we were able to assign a focal geography to about 650 sites. The remaining 300 sites had 
versions in multiple languages that catered to multiple geographies. We coded such sites as 
 Global . Examples of such sites would be platforms that rely on user-generated content such as 
Youtube.com, Facebook.com, Blogger.com and Twitter.com and corporate Websites of 
multinational corporations that had multiple languages/countries such as Microsoft.com and 
Nokia.com. To use in the regression model, we coded each pair of sites that focused on the same 
country, or with at least one  global  site as 1 . All other pairs were coded  0 . 
Same Genre: In addition to language and geography, we categorized each Website by its 
content genre. There is no universally accepted categorization scheme in the literature and hence 
we relied on the genre categorization comScore uses in its traffic reports. comScore uses a total 
of 27 basic genre categories and further categorizes sites into subgenres within each of these 
genres. For the regression analysis, we coded the genre similarity for each pair of Websites as  1  
if they belonged to the same genre or  0  if they were assigned a different genre by comScore. 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
17 
 
 
 
 
 
 
One can quibble with the way comScore categorizes sites, but the most important consideration 
in this analysis is whether or not the two sites belong to the same genre. 
Hyperlinks: Using the results returned by VOSON, we computed the total number of 
links that existed between any pair of Websites as the sum of links in either direction. In other 
words, for any Website pair, say, A and B, we considered the number of hyperlinks between A 
and B as the sum of the number of hyperlinks from B to A as well as those from A to B. This 
being a count variable, we took a natural logarithm to symmetrize its distribution. 
Audience Size: To control for the effect of size (as popular Websites may have high 
audience duplication with other sites), we include the size of either outlet in each Website pair in 
the regression model. We operationalized this variable as the product of the size of the two 
outlets and took its logarithm to symmetrize the distribution. This method of handling data on 
audience duplication is described in Webster (2006). 
Results 
The Shape of Online Audience flows. First, we use some global measures (for the entire 
network) to describe the shape of audience flows. The network centralization score for the 
audience network is 52%, a moderately high score (centralization ranges between 0% and 100% 
where 100% indicates a perfect star structure with all nodes connected to one central node and 
not to any other node). In terms of audience flows, this suggests that there are a relatively small 
number of sites that do get links from most sites and these are quite central to the network. This 
is not surprising given that the top Websites (even within the relatively small sample of 973) get 
a disproportionately high amount of traffic and, consequently, have audience overlaps with large 
number of sites.  
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
18 
 
 
 
 
Network centralization alone does not reveal the complete shape of the network. As 
 
 
noted, the clustering coefficient indicates the average tendency of any three nodes in the graph to 
form a triangle (i.e., a connected triad). The local clustering coefficient for the audience network 
is .846 (weighted .752), which is a very high score (clustering coefficient varies between 0 and 1 
and 1 indicates a completely clustered network.) This high clustering coefficient suggests that 
Websites cluster into groups in a manner where all sites belonging to the same group have high 
audience duplication between them and Websites belonging to different groups have relatively 
low duplication between them. 
It is important to consider the high values of clustering coefficient and the network 
centralization together. In combination they suggest that while the network ties are concentrated 
on a small number of nodes (as suggested by the high centralization scores), the network has a 
high tendency to break into subgroups. These highly central nodes (with the largest share of ties) 
are most likely distributed across these clusters. Thus, the overall audience flows are quite 
concentrated, but all concentrated nodes probably lie in separate clusters within this network. 
This is confirmed by a visual inspection of the network diagram shown in Fig 3.  
FIGURE 3 ABOUT HERE 
Figure 3 shows a visualization of the audience network. The dots are the nodes 
(Websites) and the lines the ties (based on audience duplication) between them. This 
visualization based on the algorithm of Fruchterman and Reingold (1991) belongs to a class of 
visualization techniques known in graph theory as force directed graphs. The basic mechanism is 
that there are repulsive forces between all nodes; however, nodes that are adjacent to each other 
also have attractive forces. Corresponding to this description, in the final visualization, groups of 
nodes can be seen adjacent to each other (i.e., tend to have ties with one another) group to form 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
19 
 
 
 
 
 
 
tightly knit clusters with relative separation from other groups of nodes that are adjacent to each 
other. Broadly speaking, the visualization explains that global usage of Websites is clustered 
according to geography and language. The regression models, reported as follows, confirm this.  
Explaining Global Online Audience Flows. The second component of the analysis is 
aimed at testing the power of both cultural structures as well as institutional structures in an 
integrated model to explain global online audience flows. We know from literature as well as the 
analysis above that both cultural factors such as language, focal geography and institutional 
factors such as hyperlinks could explain the patterns we just described in section 1. The 
regression analysis tests H1, and answers RQ2 and RQ3. 
To recap, the dependent variable in the regression analysis is the audience duplication 
between all possible pairs of Websites (obtained from the audience network). The independent 
variables are language similarity, geographic similarity, genre similarity and number of 
hyperlinks between each of these pairs of Websites. Our sample is the 950 domains common to 
the hyperlinks network and the audience network, resulting in N = 450,775 cases with no missing 
values. We logged all amount/count variables to symmetrize their distributions. 
Further, while specific countries generally speak a specific language, often a given 
language is spoken in more than one country. Therefore, Website pairs that share both language 
and a geographical focus may be likely to have more audience overlap than Website pairs that 
share either language or geographical focus alone. Hence, to test this difference, we included an 
interaction term of language similarity * geographic similarity in the model, which tests H1. 
Before reporting the regression models, we report pairwise correlations between all pairs 
of independent variables (Table 1). The table clearly reveals that are no large correlations 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
20 
 
 
 
 
 
 
between any of the predictors that can pose issues of multicollinearity or of masking the total 
amount of variance explained by each. 
TABLES 1 AND 2 ABOUT HERE 
In Table 2(a), we report the results of the models. Instead of including all variables in one 
go, we decided to include each variable one by one, in the order of our theoretical build up, and 
build a series of models, in each of which we control for the fixed effects of Website size. 
Consequently, the first model (column 1), we include only the language similarity as the 
independent variable along with controlling for size. Unsurprisingly, language similarity has a 
large and significant positive coefficient. Next, we introduce geographic similarity and although 
the magnitude of the language similarity coefficient reduces, it still remains large and highly 
significant. Geographic similarity, too, has a large and positive significant coefficient. In the next 
two models (models (3) and (4)) we introduce genre similarity followed by hyperlinks. They 
have significant positive coefficients but these do little to reduce the magnitude or significance of 
the coefficients associated with either language or geography. Language and geography each 
have a significant as well as sizeable effect. 
Finally, to test Hypothesis H1, we included an interaction term as a product of language 
and geography. In itself it has a significant negative coefficient, suggesting that having the same 
geography reduces the impact of language alone on levels of audience duplication. Hence, here 
we computed the net effect (including the main and interaction effect) for language by varying 
the levels of geography. In the first case, we consider when the two Websites have the same 
geographical focus, and hence the term  geographic similarity  in the equation takes the value 
 1.  Therefore, the net effect of language is   (language) +   (language * geography) = 2.882 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
 
 
 
 
21 
 
 
(4.662- 1.78* 1). However, when the geography is dissimilar (i.e., it takes the value 0), the net 
effect of language will be   (language) +   (language * geography) = 4.662 (4.662 -1.78*0). 
Corresponding to the explanation offered above, in order to compute the effect of the 
regressor on the dependent variable, we estimated the values of the dependent variable for 
various levels of language similarity using two specifications: one when the two sites have 
matched geographies (geographic similarity = 1), and another when they focus on dissimilar 
geographies (geographic similarity = 0). In doing so, we held all other variables at their mean 
values. Figure 4 shows the result. It is evident that for all levels of language similarity, focusing 
on the same geography makes it more likely for two Websites to have duplicated audiences than 
focusing on dissimilar geographies. Hence, H1 is supported. 
FIGURE 4 ABOUT HERE 
As a final step, we report the standardized coefficients corresponding to the final model 
in Table 2(b). Since the independent variables are in different units and some are logged, 
whereas others are not, standardized coefficients provide a comparable metric to examine the 
effect sizes of different variables. These basically represent the change in the dependent variable 
due to a change in one standard deviation of the independent variable. These again confirm that 
similarities in language and geographical focus have much greater effects than either number of 
hyperlinks or genre similarity alone. 
Discussion 
The technologies used to create, store and distribute media have made the content 
produced in one country readily available to people in other countries. While this has been true 
of films and television for some time, the World Wide Web has dramatically increased the 
amount of cross border content available to anyone with Internet access. The options available to 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
22 
 
 
 
 
 
 
the average Internet user are mind-boggling. However, there has been real debate about what 
factors will govern the choices people make. Will high production values and technical 
advantages win users over, or will the drawing power of cultural proximity trump those 
institutional structures? This study contributes to that debate by explaining how Web audiences 
around the world make choices between domestic and foreign content. In doing so, it is one of 
the first studies to test the relative power of both cultural and institutional structures. It also 
demonstrates how structuration can be used to study global audience formation, an important 
contribution to the literature on media choice. Further, the study enhances our understanding of 
cultural proximity by parsing the relative contribution of geography versus language (two well 
recognized but often conflated factors) in shaping global Web use.  
Our analysis provides convincing evidence that global audiences cluster based on 
language and geography. Specifically, we find that similarity of languages and a common 
geographical focus of any two Websites offer the best explanations of audience overlap between 
sites. Conversely, we find the number of hyperlinks between Websites explains very little 
audience overlap, suggesting that Web users don t necessarily follow hyperlinks. In other words, 
cultural structures like language and geography are far more potent determinants of global 
audience formation than institutional structures like the presence of hyperlinks or firewalls. 
Below, we discuss each of these findings in some detail with an eye toward their theoretical 
contributions. Finally, we discuss the larger implications of this study and speculate on the future 
of global cultural consumption. 
Parsing the Contributions of Language and Geography. Consistent with the cultural 
proximity thesis, this study finds language to be a major factor associated with well-defined 
communities or clusters of Websites consumed by the same set of users. While research has 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
23 
 
 
 
 
 
 
shown that  minority language  offerings within larger countries spawn  small but loyal  
audiences (e.g., Ksiazek &Webster, 2008), we find language to be an instrumental force in 
creating communities of  large and loyal  audiences. In other words, users who consume 
Websites in one language, will consume other Websites in the same language, and are less likely 
to consume Websites outside that language. Hence, language acts as glue that binds WWW users 
who speak the same language into a large community.  
However, geography is clearly confounded with the role that language plays in 
explaining audience formation. Often people in geographically contiguous regions speak the 
same language and that makes it difficult to isolate which of these two factors is more effective 
in creating an affinity for local or culturally proximate content. Our research takes advantage of 
very large datasets to disentangle these factors, and in doing so, adds to the literature on cultural 
proximity, which has separately highlighted the importance of language or geography in 
audience formation (e.g., Straubhaar, 2007). The regression model used in this study, in 
particular the interaction term between language and geography, helps isolate the role of each. It 
clearly suggests (see Figure 4) that when two sites are similar in language and geographical 
focus, they will have more duplicated audiences than when they have language similarity or 
geographic similarity alone. The result indicates that while language is an enabler, a tool that 
facilitates audiences to consume content, it is the relevance of the content that matters more. And 
relevance is often a matter of geography. As Ethan Zuckerman noted, 
It makes sense that linguistically isolated nations   nations that don t share a language 
with any other countries   like Japan or South Korea would read few international 
sources. It s more surprising that despite a long colonial legacy, and shared language, 
Indians and Brits don t read more of each other s content. Nor do they visit US news 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
24 
 
 
 
 
sites. As it turns out shared language offers no guarantee of interest in each other s media 
 
 
(2013, p. 59). 
Why not Genres? The study finds that  genre similarity  between Websites has a rather 
small, almost negligible, effect on audience duplication. This is a curious finding. There is very 
little evidence of these individual appetites and predispositions in our results. It could be that our 
data, which does not allow us to track individual users or their declared preferences, are too 
insensitive to individual differences to detect genre loyalties. It could also be that our genre 
classifications are too broad to reveal subtle but meaningful patterns of audience loyalty. Given 
the theoretical importance of genre preferences in media research, testing a more nuanced 
categorization scheme may worth the effort. But if we take the results at face value   that genre 
effects are basically non-existent   we should also consider why. 
The first and most obvious explanation is that despite our theoretical expectations, genre 
preferences are not all that powerful. There is some evidence that genre preferences, far from 
being fixed, are constructed on the fly or that people are simply  omnivorous  in their 
preferences. Second, it may also be that the sheer abundance of choices creates problems of 
 bounded rationality,  making it hard for people to connect their desires with their actions. 
Third, even if we assume that clear, enduring, genre preferences always guide media choice, it 
may be that one Website of a sort is enough to gratify whatever needs are being acted out (see 
Webster, 2014 for a discussion of these factors). For now, it appears that people seek variety in 
their daily media diets and that users who speak a particular language are accessing all manner of 
content in the language that focuses on their geography. Broadly speaking, this finding highlights 
that social structures moderate the role of individual predispositions and contributes to the 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
literature on how structures shape audience choices in digital media (e.g., Taneja et al. 2012, 
State et al, 2015) 
Why Don t Audiences Follow Hyperlinks? This study confirms that WWW structure 
based on hyperlinks is not indicative of the navigation patterns of online audiences, measured 
through pair wise audience duplication between Websites. In doing so, it lends external validly to 
recent studies that found various measures of usage such as clickstream (Wu & Ackland, 2014) 
and site popularity in a country (Barnett & Park, 2014) to be uncorrelated with hyperlink 
analysis. This lack of correlation between hyperlinks and audience highlights a glaring limitation 
of hyperlink analysis: In counting links alone, researchers have very limited information about 
the inherent motivations of the link provider, and these may differ across Websites. The simplest 
dichotomy being that a link could signal either praise or criticism (De Maeyer, 2013). Further, 
the intention of the link provider may be contained in either the link itself or in the linked 
resource. Finally, Websites in different genres may have different linking strategies. A news 
Website may link to an influential Website to signal legitimacy whereas a personal homepage 
may have links representing pages and organizations personally relevant to the author. In our 
dataset we find a large number of hyperlinks between the Spanish and English subdomains of 
CNN Websites, but little audience overlap between two. Likewise, Wikipedia generally has 
hyperlinks between all articles that cover the same concept across languages, however people on 
average don t appear to access the same information in multiple languages. 
Hence, the differing purposes and motivations for providing hyperlinks make it difficult 
to say with any reliability whether the structure of links would predict the structure of online 
traffic patterns. Alternatively, this study highlights the value of using audience duplication as an 
alternate analytical tool in conceptualizing the WWW structure. Such a conceptualization has the 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
26 
 
 
 
 
 
 
potential to explain mechanisms driving behavior of online audiences that hyperlink analysis 
cannot reveal. It allows for examining the role of hyperlinks alongside other site-specific 
attributes such as language, geography and genre.  
The Future of Global Cultural Consumption 
We conclude by speculating on factors, which will shape patterns of global media use, as 
digital media become even more ubiquitous and the global communication infrastructures 
become even more interconnected. Many continue to believe that institutional factors will rule 
the day.  
 [I]nformation flowing from the global north to the global south will have the greatest 
impact on converging values in cosmopolitan societies characterized by integration into 
world markets, freedom of the press, and widespread access to media. Parochial societies 
lacking these conditions are less likely to be affected by these developments (Norris & 
Inglehart, 2009). 
We argue that both institutional and cultural structures will work in tandem to shape 
global cultural consumption. Norris and Inglehart (2009), like Schmidt and Cohen (2013), seem 
to believe that global cultural diversity will persist because these institutional factors, or 
 firewalls  prevent parochial nations from becoming cosmopolitan. In doing so, they seem to 
ignore the power of cultural factors in shaping patterns of global cultural consumption. This 
study suggests otherwise. 
Based on the findings here, it appears that cultural factors, such as language and 
geography, are extremely powerful forces in shaping global patterns of cultural consumption. 
And these factors are at work irrespective of the nature of these so-called institutional firewalls. 
For instance, consistent with Taneja and Wu (2014), our visualization also suggests that Chinese 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
27 
 
 
 
 
 
 
sites are no more or less  isolated  into a cluster of their own as the ones from Japan. The former 
has a huge Internet firewall; the latter is an exemplar of an open democracy. In other words, 
restrictions imposed by institutions are not the only barriers that will help maintain culturally 
proximate consumption. Conversely, removal of all institutional restrictions and achieving a 
completely connected world where information can flow freely will not homogenize cultural 
consumption, either. The relative roles of different factors may shift, and so are worth tracking in 
subsequent research.  
Ideally, future studies will be able to exploit individual level data. This would give 
investigators a clearer view of agents and how they operate within the institutional and social 
structures that surround them. It would also allow for a more complete test of fully integrated 
models such as those developed and tested for television viewing (e.g., Cooper, 1993; Taneja & 
Viswanthan, 2014; Webster & Wakshlag, 1983; Wonnebeger et al 2009). Our best chance of 
understanding global cultural consumption will come only when we include the full array of 
individual and structural factors that shape our actions. 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
28 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
References 
Appadurai, A. (2013). The future as cultural fact: Essays on the global condition. London: New 
York:  Verso Books. 
Barab si, A.-L. (2009). Scale-free networks: a decade and beyond. Science, 325(5939), 412 3. 
doi:10.1126/science.1173299 
Barnett, G., & Park, H. (2014). Examining the international internet using multiple measures: 
new methods for measuring the communication base of globalized cyberspace. Quality & 
Quantity, 48(1), 563 575. doi:10.1007/s11135-012-9787-z 
Barnett, G. A., & Sung, E. (2005). Culture and the structure of the international hyperlink 
network. Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 11, 217 238. doi:10.1111/j.1083-
6101.2006.00011.x 
Burrell, J. (2012). Invisible users: Youth in the Internet caf s of urban Ghana. Cambridge, MA: 
MIT Press. 
Consalvo, M. (2011). Part Introduction. In The Handbook of Internet Studies (pp. 109 115). 
Wiley-Blackwell. doi:10.1002/9781444314861.part2 
Cooper, R. (1993). An expanded, integrated model for determining audience exposure to 
television. Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media, 37(4), 401 418. 
doi:10.1080/08838159309364232 
Cooper, R., & Tang, T. (2009). Predicting audience exposure to television in today s media 
environment: An empirical integration of active-audience and structural theories. Journal of 
Broadcasting & Electronic Media, 53(3), 400 418. doi:10.1080/08838150903102204 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
29 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Daniel, F., & Josh, B. (2011). Languages of the World (Wide Web). Research Blog, Google. 
Retrieved from http://googleresearch.blogspot.com/2011/07/languages-of-world-wide-
web.html 
De Maeyer, J. (2013). Towards a hyperlinked society: A critical review of link studies. New 
Media & Society, 15 (5), 737-751.. doi:10.1177/1461444812462851 
Fruchterman, T. M. J., & Reingold, E. M. (1991). Graph drawing by force-directed placement. 
Software: Practice and Experience, 21(11), 1129 1164. doi:10.1002/spe.4380211102 
Fu, W. W., & Govindaraju, A. (2010). Explaining global box-office tastes in Hollywood films: 
Homogenization of national audiences  movie selections. Communication Research, 37(2), 
215 238. doi:10.1177/0093650209356396 
Giddens, A. (1984). The constitution of society  : outline of the theory of structuration. Berkeley: 
University of California Press. 
Gower, J. C. (1985). Measures of similarity, dissimilarity, and distance. Encyclopedia of 
statistical sciences, 5, 397 405. 
Hecht, B., & Gergle, D. (2010). The tower of Babel meets web 2.0: user-generated content and 
its applications in a multilingual context. In Proceedings of the 28th international 
conference on   (pp. 291 300). Retrieved from http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1753370 
Jenkins, H., Ford, S., & Green, J. (2013). Spreadable media: Creating value and meaning in a 
networked culture. New York: New York University Press. 
Kraidy, M. M. (2002). Hybridity in cultural globalization. Communication Theory, 12(3), 316 
339. doi:10.1111/j.1468-2885.2002.tb00272.x 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
30 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ksiazek, T. B., & Webster, J. G. (2008). Cultural proximity and audience behavior: the role of 
language in patterns of polarization and multicultural fluency. Journal of Broadcasting & 
Electronic Media, 52(3), 485 503. doi:10.1080/08838150802205876 
Ksiazek, T. B. (2011). A network analytic approach to understanding cross-platform audience 
behavior. Journal of Media Economics, 24(4), 237-251. 
doi:10.1080/08997764.2011.626985 
Liebes, T., & Katz, E. (1990). The export of meaning  : cross-cultural readings of Dallas. New 
York: Oxford University Press. 
Miller, D., & Slater, D. (2000). The Internet: An ethnographic approach. Oxford: Berg. 
Napoli, P. M. (2011). Audience evolution  : New technologies and the transformation of media 
audiences. New York: Columbia University Press. 
Norris, P., & Inglehart, R. (2009). Cosmopolitan communications: Cultural diversity in a 
globalized world. Cambridge University Press.Cambridge:MA 
Park, H., Barnett, G.A., & Chung, C. (2011). Structural changes in the 2003 2009 global 
hyperlink network. Global Networks, 11(4), 522 542. doi:10.1111/j.1471-
0374.2011.00336.x 
Perusko, Z., Vozab, D., &  uvalo, A. (2015). Media audiences| digital mediascapes, institutional 
frameworks, and audience practices across Europe. International Journal of 
Communication, 9. http://ijoc.org/index.php/ijoc/article/view/3447/1307 
Schiller, H. I. (1969). Mass communications and American empire. New York: A.M. Kelley. 
Schmidt, E., & Cohen, J. (2013). New digital age. [S.l.]: Random House. 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
31 
 
 
 
 
 
 
State, B., Park, P., Weber, I., & Macy, M. (2015). The Mesh of Civilizations in the Global 
Network of Digital Communication. PLoS ONE, 10(5), e0122543. 
doi:10.1371%2Fjournal.pone.0122543  
Sinclair, J. (1999). Latin American Television: A Global View. Oxford: Oxford University Press. 
Straubhaar, J. (1991). Beyond media imperialism: Assymetrical interdependence and cultural 
proximity. Critical Studies in Media Communication, 8, 39 59. 
doi:10.1080/15295039109366779 
Straubhaar, J. (2007). World television : from global to local. Los Angeles [u.a.]: Sage. 
Takhteyev, Y., Gruzd, A., & Wellman, B. (2012). Geography of Twitter networks. Social 
Networks, 34(1), 73 81. doi:http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.socnet.2011.05.006 
Taneja, H., Webster, J. G., Malthouse, E. C., & Ksiazek, T. B. (2012). Media consumption 
across platforms: Identifying user-defined repertoires. New Media & Society, 14(6), 951 
968. doi:10.1177/1461444811436146 
Taneja, H., & Viswanathan, V. (2014). Still Glued to the Box? Television Viewing Explained in 
a Multi-Platform Age Integrating Individual and Situational Predictors. International 
Journal Of Communication, 8, 26. Retrieved 
from http://ijoc.org/index.php/ijoc/article/view/2841 
Taneja, H., & Wu, A. X. (2014). Does the great firewall really isolate the Chinese? Integrating 
access blockage with cultural factors to explain web user behavior. The Information Society, 
30(5), 297 309. doi:10.1080/01972243.2014.944728 
Watts, D. J., & Strogatz, S. H. (1998). Collective dynamics of  small-world networks. Nature, 
393(6684), 440 442. 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
32 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Weber MS, Chung CJ and Park H (2012). Editors  Introduction. Journal of Computer-Mediated 
Communication, 17(2), 117 119. doi:10.1111/j.1083-6101.2011.01570.x. 
Webster, J. G. (2006). Audience flow past and present: Television inheritance effects 
reconsidered. Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic Media, 50(2), 323-337. doi: 
10.1207/s15506878jobem5002_9 
Webster, J. G. (2011). The duality of media: A structurational theory of public attention. 
Communication Theory, 21(1), 43 66. doi:10.1111/j.1468-2885.2010.01375.x 
Webster, J. G. (2014). The marketplace of attention: How audiences take shape in an age of 
digital media. Cambridge, MA; London, England: MIT Press. 
Webster, J. G., & Ksiazek, T. B. (2012). The Dynamics of audience fragmentation: Public 
attention in an age of digital media. Journal of Communication, 62(1), 39 56. 
doi:10.1111/j.1460-2466.2011.01616.x 
Webster, J. G., & Wakshlag, J. J. (1983). A theory of television program choice. Communication 
Research, 10(4), 430 446. doi:/10.1177/009365083010004002 
Wonneberger, A., Schoenbach, K., & van Meurs, L. (2009). Dynamics of individual television 
viewing behavior: Models, empirical evidence, and a research program. Communication 
Studies, 60(3), 235-252. doi: 10.1080/10510970902955992 
Wonneberger, A., Schoenbach, K., & van Meurs, L. (2011). Interest in news and politics or 
situational determinants? Why people watch the news. Journal of Broadcasting & 
Electronic Media, 55(3), 325 343. doi:10.1080/08838151.2011.597466 
Wu, L., & Ackland, R. (2014). How Web 1.0 fails: the mismatch between hyperlinks and 
clickstreams. Social Network Analysis and Mining, 4(1), 1 7. doi:10.1007/s13278-014-
0202-8 
HOW DO GLOBAL AUDIENCES TAKE SHAPE? 
 
 
 
 
Yuan, E. J., & Ksiazek, T. B. (2011). The duality of structure in China's national television 
33 
 
 
market: A network analysis of audience behavior. Journal of Broadcasting & Electronic 
Media, 55(2), 180-197. doi:10.1080/08838151.2011.570825 
Zuckerman, E. (2013). Rewire  : digital cosmopolitans in the age of connection. New York: 
Norton and Company
                                                 
Endnotes  
i Hyperlinks, although a technical feature, are often used by media organizations as a strategy to 
drive traffic to their own and affiliated online properties. Such strategies have been effective for 
many media organizations and serve as proxies for  partnerships and alliances between 
organizations, and even international flow of information  (Weber, Chung & Park, 2012 p. 117) 
iiThis information has been taken from comScore's own documentation on methodology. 
iii It is conceivable that these pair-wise duplication values may not be completely independent. 
Violating this assumption of independence of observations could alter the standard errors, 
affecting the p-values, anyways likely to be significant here given the large number of cases. 
This wouldn t alter the effect sizes, as measured by the magnitude of the Beta coefficients, which 
our analysis anyway focuses on. 
iv An alternative to regression is to use  exponential random graph modeling  that predicts 
whether an observed network tie has a greater or lower chance of forming compared to that tie 
forming in a random graph. This helps explain the presence of many endogenous network 
effects, which are conceived as an outcome of network structures rather than the node attributes. 
However in the present case, most anticipated structural effects can be explained by employing 
node attributes, some of which may not have been included in the study.  
Table 1: Correlation Matrix between Independent Variables 
 
 
Genre 
Hyperlinks 
Language 
Geographic 
 
Similarity 
Similarity 
Similarity 
(Log) 
Size(Log) 
Language Similarity 
1 
Geographic 
Similarity 
Genre Similarity 
Hyperlinks (Log) 
Size (Log) 
.325** 
.008** 
.137** 
-.025** 
** correlation significant at p <0.01 
 
1 
.016** 
.106** 
.055** 
 
 
1 
.033* 
-.001 
 
 
 
1 
 
 
 
 
.194** 
1 
 
	  
	  
Language	  Similarity	  
Geographic	  Similarity	  
Genre	  Similarity	  
Hyperlinks	  (Log)	  
Language	  *	  Geography	  
Size	  (Log)	  
Intercept	  
Control	  
Beta	  
(1)	  
4.136	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
1.329	  
-  16.287	  
 
T	  
	  
344.0	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
314.8	  
-  199.6	  
Beta	  
(2)	  
3.248	  
2.573	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
1.258	  
-  16.213	  
T	  
	  
-  214.7	  
261.5	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
321.0	  
-  214.7	  
Beta	  
(3)	  
3.247	  
2.570	  
0.358	  
	  
	  
	  
1.258	  
-  16.243	  
Beta	  
(4)	  
3.187	  
2.551	  
0.336	  
0.479	  
	  
	  
1.227	  
-  15.652	  
T	  
	  
261	  
274.5	  
22.3	  
	  
	  
	  
321.3	  
-  215.2	  
34 
 
T	  
	  
156.6	  
273.9	  
21.7	  
.40.4	  
-  54.5	  
	  
308.2	  
-  205.2	  
	  
Beta	  
(5)	  
4.662	  
2.756	  
0.346	  
0.484	  
-  1.78	  
	  
1.224	  
-  15.717	  
T	  
	  
255.5	  
272.5	  
21.0	  
39.9	  
	  
	  
307.8	  
-  203.8	  
	  
 
 
 
 
 
Table 2 (a): OLS Regression Models to Explain Website Audience Duplication 
R-  Square	  
N=450775. The dependent variable is the log of audience duplication between all website pairs. 
.33	  
.42	  
.42	  
.42	  
	  
	  
.42	  
	  
Size	  
(Log) 
0.356 
 
Table 2(b): Standardized Coefficients corresponding to model (5) in Table 2(a) 
Language	  Similarity  Geographic	  Similarity  Genre	  Similarity 
Hyperlinks	  
(Log) 
Language	  *	  
Geography 
0.452 
0.354 
0.025 
0.047 
-0.173 
 
35 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Languages in the Sample. 
Figure 2: Countries in the Sample. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
36 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3: Visualization of the Audience Network. 
Dots indicate nodes (Web domains). The colors indicate the focal geography of the Web 
domain. 
 
 
Figure 4: Interaction of Language and Geography on Audience Duplication 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
37 
 
 
