Understanding Human-Machine Networks: A Cross-Disciplinary
Survey
MILENA TSVETKOVA, Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford
TAHA YASSERI, Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford
ERIC T. MEYER, Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford
J. BRIAN PICKERING, IT Innovation Center, University of Southampton
VEGARD ENGEN, IT Innovation Center, University of Southampton
PAUL WALLAND, IT Innovation Center, University of Southampton
MARIKA L  UDERS, SINTEF
ASBJ RN F LSTAD, SINTEF
GEORGE BRAVOS, Athens Technology Center
In the current hyper-connected era, modern Information and Communication Technology systems form so-
phisticated networks where not only do people interact with other people, but also machines take an in-
creasingly visible and participatory role. Such human-machine networks (HMNs) are embedded in the daily
lives of people, both for personal and professional use. They can have a signi cant impact by producing
synergy and innovations. The challenge in designing successful HMNs is that they cannot be developed
and implemented in the same manner as networks of machines nodes alone, nor following a wholly human-
centric view of the network. The problem requires an interdisciplinary approach. Here, we review current
research of relevance to HMNs across many disciplines. Extending the previous theoretical concepts of socio-
technical systems, actor-network theory, cyber-physical-social systems, and social machines, we concentrate
on the interactions among humans and between humans and machines. We identify eight types of HMNs:
public-resource computing, crowdsourcing, web search engines, crowdsensing, online markets, social media,
multiplayer online games and virtual worlds, and mass collaboration. We systematically select literature on
each of these types and review it with a focus on implications for designing HMNs. Moreover, we discuss
risks associated with HMNs and identify emerging design and development trends.
CCS Concepts:  General and reference   Surveys and overviews;  Information systems   Web
applications;  Social and professional topics   Management of computing and information sys-
tems;  Applied computing   Law, social and behavioral sciences;
Additional Key Words and Phrases: Crowdsourcing, mass collaboration, crowdsensing, social media, peer-
to-peer, complex networks, human-machine networks
1. INTRODUCTION
Since the invention of the Gutenberg press, machines have had a transformative im-
pact on human interaction. As a result of the Industrial Revolution, machine in uence
on how we communicate, exchange, and cooperate with each other has become more
immediate and pervasive. Today, with the ever increasing proliferation of networked
technology in support of human and machine interaction, human actions and interac-
tions have become so interrelated with technology that it is dif cult to know whether
society changes because of technology or the other way around.
Increasingly, the interactions of humans and machines form interdependent net-
works. We conceptualize these networks as human-machine networks (HMNs), that
is, assemblages of humans and machines that interact to produce synergistic effects.
Ever more activities in work and private life are conducted within HMNs. For exam-
ple, actions to address environmental problems are executed in networks involving
This project has received funding from the European Union s Horizon 2020 research and innovation program
under grant agreement No 645043.
Author s addresses: M. Tsvetkova, T. Yasseri, and E.T. Meyer, Oxford Internet Institute, University of Ox-
ford, Oxford OX1 3JS, UK; J.B. Pickering, V. Engen, and P. Walland, IT Innovation Center, University of
Southampton, Southampton SO16 7NP, UK; M. L  uders and A. F lstad, SINTEF, 0373 Oslo, Norway; G.
Bravos, Athens Technology Center, Chalandri 152 33, Greece.
7
1
0
2
 
n
a
J
 
8
1
 
 
]
I
S
.
s
c
[
 
 
2
v
4
2
3
5
0
.
1
1
5
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
2
M. Tsvetkova et al.
government, interest organizations, citizens, smart devices, and sensor networks. Sys-
tems for emergency response and rescue involve complex interactions between sensors,
smart machines, victims, volunteers, and emergency response organizations. Scienti c
research is increasingly conducted in networks of scientists, crowdsourced volunteers
and amateurs, and networked machine resources, and many more examples.
In consequence, HMNs increasingly in uence our society. For the individual worker
and citizen, the form, experience, and outcome of life may sometimes depend less on
the characteristics of the individual and more on the characteristics of the online and
of ine networks in which they are embedded. For companies, the public sector, and or-
ganizations, productivity, innovativeness, and civic participation depend on the char-
acteristics of the networks of which workers and citizens are part. Hence, an advanced
understanding of HMNs, and how to bene t from their characteristics, is important to
strengthen productivity and innovation, as well as citizen participation and quality of
life.
The challenge is that HMNs cannot be developed and implemented in the same
manner as networks of machine nodes alone. Creating successful solutions for HMNs
requires awareness concerning the kind of network to be established, the actors that
are involved, the interactions and the capabilities and behaviors emerging within the
network. By establishing such awareness, we may bene t from the existing knowledge
and experience when designing the HMNs of the future.
There are four major  elds of research of relevance to our understanding of HMNs:
Socio-Technical Systems (STS) theory, Actor-Network Theory (ANT), Cyber-Physical-
Social Systems (CPSS) theory, and the emerging theory on social machines. STS theory
provides insight into the dual shaping of technology and the social (work) context in
which it is implemented [Leonardi 2012], recognizing organizations as complex sys-
tems of humans and technology that aim to reach given goals in the context of a given
organizational environment [Emery and Trist 1965]. ANT aims at fundamentally re-
vising what should be considered part of the social, and argues that we explicitly need
to take into account that any social system is an association of heterogeneous ele-
ments such as humans, norms, texts, devices, machines, and technology [Latour 2005;
Law 1992], granting equal weight to humans and non-human (machine) entities in the
analysis of the social. Hence, whereas STS theory considers the social as part of tech-
nology, ANT considers technology (and other non-human entities) as part of the social.
More recently, CPSS theory has extended the STS approach and called attention to the
human and social dimensions present in systems that use computational algorithms
to control or monitor physical devices [Wang 2010; Sheth et al. 2013]. Representing
a fourth perspective, the emerging theory on social machines refers to systems that
combine social participation with machine-based computation [Bur egio et al. 2013;
Shadbolt et al. 2013; Smart et al. 2014], connecting with Berners-Lee s original vision
of the Web more as a social creation than a technical one,  to support and improve our
Web-like existence in the world  [Berners-Lee 2000, p. 123].
However, even if these theories conceptualize humans and machines as forming a
single system, as opposed to perspectives where social structures are seen as merely
mediated in machine networks (e.g. social network theory), they do not provide the
insight and guidance needed to support the design of contemporary and future HMNs.
Furthermore, these theories do not contribute to a uni ed framework for understand-
ing HMNs, as is seen from the plethora of theoretical positions in which current stud-
ies of such networks are based. As will be seen in Section 3, the volume of publica-
tions concerning HMNs is rapidly increasing across a wide range of academic  elds.
Such breadth in academic attention is bene cial for the development of knowledge on
HMNs. However, this breadth also implies a potential risk for fragmentation, barring
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
3
opportunities for the transfer of knowledge and experiences across academic, as well
as practical  elds of study.
To initiate the broad theoretical basis needed to bridge the rapidly evolving  eld of
HMNs, we have conducted a cross-disciplinary literature survey of key studies that
concern different types of HMNs. Multiple surveys of particular types of HMNs exist
[Crowston et al. 2012; Guo et al. 2013; Yahyavi and Kemme 2013; Guo et al. 2015;
Pejovic and Musolesi 2015] but we are the  rst to present a comprehensive overview of
the  eld within a unifying framework. The objective of our paper is to systematically
review the existing literature, with a speci c focus on the human and machine actors
and the interactions between them. This analysis provides a  rst step towards inte-
grating current academic efforts to understand the emerging phenomenon of HMNs.
Furthermore, the analysis demonstrates how the identi cation of key characteristics
in different HMNs may serve to expose issues related to design of HMNs, as well as
to support the transfer of knowledge and experience across academic disciplines and
types of HMNs.
In Section 2 we discuss the scope and approach to the systematic literature review
we have conducted. In Section 3 we present real-world examples and insights from the
literature on different types of human machine networks. We discuss common chal-
lenges, emergent behavior, and trends in Section 4. We conclude in Section 5.
2. BACKGROUND AND SCOPE
In this section, we provide a de nition of an HMN, discuss background literature on
the actors that make up HMNs and their interactions, and establish the scope and
approach taken to conduct this survey.
2.1. De nition
HMNs are assemblages of humans and machines whose interactions have synergistic
effects. This means that the effects generated by the HMN should exceed the combined
effort of the individual actors involved. In particular, the HMN should serve a purpose
which would not have been achieved merely by the effects of the individual actors. Typ-
ically, the synergistic effect is achieved by combining human strengths and machine
strengths. Interactions in the HMNs are expected to result in outputs that neither a
pure social network, nor a computer network could achieve independently.
The concept of HMNs is to be understood as a perspective for analysis or conceptu-
alization. Given our concern for synergistic effects, the networks of main interest are
those where the synergistic effects between humans and machines are immediately
evident such as in systems for mass collaboration (see Section 3.8). Networks of lesser
interest include, for example, simple communication and broadcasting networks such
as telephone, telegraph, e-mail, or TV networks, as the medium here may be said to
hold more the role of a non-interfering intermediary. In other words, for a network
to be considered an HMN, the machines need to transform and/or in uence, not just
transmit. In the parlance of actor-network theory, we focus on networks where ma-
chines serve as mediators, by affecting and transforming the interaction that takes
place.
2.2. Actors
The two types of actors in HMNs are the human and the machine. By  human  we
mean an entity that behaves like a single person (even if the entity is an organization).
In contrast to machines, humans have the capacity for emotions, attitudes, sociality,
meaning-making, creativity, and intent. Compared with machines, human behavior is
typically more unpredictable, yet susceptible to in uence.
4
M. Tsvetkova et al.
In most cases, any person can participate in an HMN. Participation is more often
determined by the bene ts and costs the individual perceives than the individual s so-
cial status or geographic location. The bene ts can be divided into economic, intrinsic,
and social [Ardichvili 2008; Chiu et al. 2006; Yee 2006]. Individuals pro t economically
when they receive payments (in money, goods, or services) or obtain skills and quali-
 cations for their paid career. They gain intrinsically when they contribute to a good
cause, share knowledge, or help others. Some are also intrinsically motivated to gain or
create knowledge for its own sake. Individuals may also bene t socially if participation
in the HMN allows them to create, build, and maintain reputation and social capital,
or simply enjoy social interaction. In general, people often have complex motivations
to participate and contribute and motivation strategies such as competition and gam-
i cation make use of this by offering a combination of economic, intrinsic, and social
bene ts. Time and effort are the two obvious costs that people incur when they partici-
pate in HMNs. Another signi cant cost is the risk of breached privacy [Krasnova et al.
2010; Sheehan 2002]. Leaking private information to the public and stealing a user s
identity can entail signi cant  nancial losses, family distress, and social embarrass-
ment.
Regarding machines, any device with connectivity can be part of an HMN: per-
sonal computers, smartphones, tablets, wearable technology, sensors, embedded chips,
servers running algorithms, and so on. These machines take input in the form of text,
media, or sensor data, such as vital signs or environmental measures, printed or coded
instructions and software, signals and alerts from multiple sources, including other
machines as well as humans. This input can be entered by the user or collected au-
tomatically. A machine with computational capabilities can aggregate, clean, or other-
wise transform the input data in order to output something else or even fuse data from
different sources to make complex decisions to be interpreted by other machines or by
human experts [Atzori et al. 2010; Castells 2011; Lee et al. 2015].
To facilitate the functioning of the HMN, the machines need to be available, con-
nected, and secure. Compared to humans, the machines do not have motivation, do not
experience trust or reliance, and do not behave altruistically or irrationally of their
own volition: they have no agency in that sense [Jia et al. 2012; Rose et al. 2005]. With
autonomic computing, however, there may be a promise of some level of self-regulation
and  healing  [Huebscher and McCann 2008; Kephart and Chess 2003; White et al.
2004]. Moreover, machines are increasingly capable of solving complex data analysis
problems which humans would struggle to tackle not least at such speed, although af-
fective responses and the subtlety of nuanced behaviors remain elusive [Norman et al.
2003; Pantic and Rothkrantz 2003; Picard et al. 2001]. Further, machine learning and
data mining crucially depend on large data sets generated and annotated by humans.
In such cases, a quasi-balanced collaboration is required. Machines are therefore now
becoming increasingly signi cant contributors to HMNs, and no longer simply commu-
nication channels or facilitators of highly-distributed human-to-human connectivity.
2.3. Interactions
Machines enable new forms of interaction between humans. Different HMNs allow
participants to interact with different levels of intensity and involvement. In some net-
works (for example, crowdsourcing platforms such as Amazon Mechanical Turk), par-
ticipants do not have the opportunity to directly interact. In others, they can observe
each other s contributions. Depending on the application, they can browse all contribu-
tions (as in an online market such as eBay), see algorithmically selected contributions
(as in Reddit, which is a content site), see algorithmically customized contributions
(for example, via the Newsfeed algorithm on Facebook), or only view aggregate results
(as in prediction markets). Once being able to observe contributions, participants can
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
5
then evaluate them by approving them (for example,  likes  on Facebook), approving
or disapproving them ( upvotes  and  downvotes  on Reddit), rating them (Amazon
product  stars ), or commenting on them. Finally, participants can sometimes modify
others  contributions by editing or deleting them. For example, Wikipedia editors can
revert edits and Linux developers can  x code contributed by others. Human-human
interactions largely depend on trust [Dwyer et al. 2007; Jones and Leonard 2008]. Phe-
nomena such as trolling, cyber-bullying, and cyber-stalking signify the erosion of trust.
Human-human interactions also involve social in uence [Bond et al. 2012; Muchnik
et al. 2013; Onnela and Reed-Tsochas 2010]. Social in uence can lead to large-scale
behavioral or emotional contagion. This can be both positive, if it results in the spread
of pro-social or health-conscious behavior, and negative, if it leads to dangerous herd
behavior or unproductive groupthink.
When the role of the machine in an HMN may be seen as that of a mediator (that is,
its output does not equal the input from the other nodes in the HMN), it is relevant to
analyze the human-machine interaction. To some degree, human-machine interactions
are gated only by the communication protocol used. Input can be provided via different
channels including keyboards, data channels, speech, and movement and gesture, ac-
tively or even passively. Interactions in HMNs are therefore increasingly multi-modal,
with different HMNs allowing individuals to contribute or interact in different ways
sometimes dictated only by ease of use [Lin 2003; Lin et al. 2003]. Similarly, the output
channel may depend on the service or application (signage, broadcasting, experimen-
tation, web searches, and so forth) or on the preferences of the recipient (a recorded
message, a printout, or a visual display).
In respect of what humans input, individuals make contributions to different ex-
tents. In some networks, users do not have to do anything to contribute data beyond
interacting with the service or even simply turning on the service. In these cases, par-
ticipants contribute passively. Their social interactions, personal characteristics, and
site behavior are automatically collected by the service. These data are then analyzed
and often used to recommend actions (as some crowdsensing applications do), social
contacts (as in LinkedIn), or products (as in Net ix). In other HMNs, contributors need
to make the effort and take the time to contribute actively. They contribute by  lling
out surveys, composing and editing text, writing code, sending sensor measurements,
or uploading videos, photos, and news links. In more extreme cases, participants can
also modify the content on the HMN or the rules by which the content is collected,
managed, and distributed. Consumers then become  prosumers,  and can still switch
between the two modes as suits the service or their own needs.
In respect of what machines output, different HMNs may introduce different levels
of control over the content. Machines may simply list or show the contributions, as
is common in online marketplaces and in direct response to a speci c query. Alterna-
tively, they may employ complex algorithms to  lter and select contributions, as Web
search engines do, for example, personalising or customising results to re ect previous
user behaviors. Or they may even use bots and human intelligence to modify contri-
butions. For example, Wikipedia uses vandalism-detection algorithms and forums em-
ploy censorship algorithms, while content sites like Digg maintain centralized content
management.
2.4. Scope and approach
To narrow the scope of this survey, we simplify the analysis of machine-machine in-
teractions. In particular, when the underlying or enabling machine networks are per-
ceived as one and the same unit by all the relevant nodes of the HMN, we analyze and
represent the machine sub-network as a single node. This is not to say that machine-
6
M. Tsvetkova et al.
machine interactions will not be considered; rather, they will be considered only to the
extent that is valuable to the analysis at hand.
Thus, our discussion focuses on the human-human and human-machine interactions
in the context of contemporary HMNs. There are clearly differences in the relative
roles and status of machines and human actors across the different types of network.
For instance, there will be cases where the machines act as a  human proxy  to facil-
itate what is essentially human-to-human relationships. In other cases, they become
semi-autonomous agents that act alongside and in collaboration with human agents in
the network. We base our analysis on the existence and intensity of these interactions
and the extent to which they are essential for the functioning of the HMN.
Based on different possible permutations of interaction types, we identify and differ-
entiate between eight types of HMNs: public resource computing, crowdsourcing, Web
search engines, crowdsensing, online markets, social media, multiplayer online games
and virtual worlds, and mass collaboration (Figure 1). These types are to be seen as
an organizing framework for the survey, not as a complete taxonomy of HMNs. We
used keywords associated with these types to systematically select relevant literature,
with a focus on recent and high-impact articles. Details of our selection procedure are
described in the online appendix.
3. ANALYSIS OF HUMAN-MACHINE NETWORKS
The number of publications on HMNs, as measured by the number of articles retrieved
by our keywords from the Scopus bibliographical database (www.scopus.com), has in-
creased over the last 20 years (Figure 2). More importantly, the pattern of publications
has changed over time. During the late 1990s, relatively few publications used the
particular terms in their title, keywords, or abstract. The earliest increase was in the
eCommerce area (part of the online markets type), where publications increased from
192 in 1999 to 772 in 2000, and remained near or above 1000 publications per year
after that. The second area to gain prominence is  le sharing, which increased from
less than 50 publications annually in 2000 to approximately 2000 per year by 2005.
The pattern for social media is particularly striking in the chart, showing a steep
rise starting in 2008 (n=708) and accelerating by 2010 (n=2560) to a high of 8991
publications by 2014. Mass collaboration as a topic, on the other hand, shows a more
steady rise over the last ten years, peaking at 5165 publications in 2014.
We next look at the extent to which ideas relating to human-machine interaction
have penetrated various disciplines as indicated by the journals where these publica-
tions appear. In Figure 3, we use the methods described in Leydesdorff et al. [2013] and
Leydesdorff et al. [2015] to create an overlay map of the journals in the data extracted
from Scopus. The method involves extracting the journal names and processing them
with Leydesdorff s tools. 1 These tools match our Scopus data with a standardized map
of science generated using journal-journal citations to discover the closeness of jour-
nals to each other, and thus the relative location of disciplines. The underlying map
thus represents  all of science,  or at least as much of it as is represented in the 19,600
journals indexed by Scopus.
We observe that HMNs, as de ned by our keywords, spread across all areas of sci-
ence. There is a concentration one might expect in the upper left portion of the  gure in
the computer science-related journals, but there is nearly as much publication activity
in the physical sciences at the upper right, the medical sciences at the lower right, and
in the social sciences and (to a lesser extent) the humanities in the lower left.
1The tools are available at http://www.leydesdorff.net/scopus ovl/.
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
7
Fig. 1. Types of human-machine networks.
In what follows, we present the most prominent articles from this interdisciplinary
literature, related to human participation and to human-human and human-machine
interactions.
3.1. Public resource computing
Public resource computing (PRC) projects are distributed computing networks, where
each processing unit is a personal computer voluntarily embedded in the network to
collaboratively solve computational problems. The majority of PRC projects are ded-
icated to scienti c projects in  elds as diverse as astrophysics, mathematics, molec-
8
M. Tsvetkova et al.
Fig. 2. Publications related to human-machine networks.
ular biology, and seismology, where extremely computation-intensive tasks are com-
mon. PRC networks are the simplest HMNs as far as the human-human and human-
machine interactions are concerned (Figure 1A). Once volunteers sign up for a PRC
project, they are no longer required to actively contribute time or effort apart from
what their CPU is contributing. At the same time, they will not receive any substan-
tial feedback from the project either. The  rst PRC systems were launched in 1996-
1997: GIMPS (The Great Internet Mersenne Prime Search) and Distributed.net [An-
derson et al. 2002]. SETI@home is another early instance of a PRC network. It was
launched in 1999 with the goal to analyze radio signals from space in search of extra-
terrestrial intelligent life. Further examples include the World Community Grid, in-
tended to tackle scienti c research projects in any  eld [Hachmann et al. 2011] and
GPUGRID, designated to molecular dynamics simulation methods [Buch et al. 2010].
The design of PRC systems crucially depends on building the machine-machine in-
teraction infrastructure. Nevertheless, considerations regarding the recruitment and
motivation of contributors remain important. To attract participants, successful PRC
platforms have emphasized the social value of their scienti c projects and let mass
media news coverage and word-of-mouth do the rest [Anderson et al. 2002]. To retain
participants and increase contributions, they have built reputation systems based on
numeric measures of contributed computation and allowed the ability to view others 
pro les, participate in message boards, and form and join teams [Anderson 2004; Be-
berg et al. 2009]. Such an infrastructure stimulates individual and group competition.
Empirical research suggests that team competition is particularly important. Being af-
 liated with a team signi cantly increases one s contribution. More importantly, being
part of a team maintains high levels of contribution over time [Nov et al. 2010].
As PRC systems have grown in popularity and sophistication, new design challenges
have emerged. These have been re ected in the structure of the machine-machine sub-
network. One of the major issues in PRC is managing the expected high rates of ma-
chine node unavailability. In current PRC implementations, this has led to redundant
computing [Anderson 2004; Mayer et al. 2015]. Redundancy also helps resolve erro-
neous computational results due to malevolent users or, more often, malfunctioning
machines. Alternative solutions to node unavailability include designing a framework
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
9
Fig. 3. Journals publishing articles related to human-machine networks. The colored dots are Scopus jour-
nals that include articles with the key terms we identi ed; the background uncolored dots do not include
such articles. The colors represent broad  community  groupings distinguished by the visualization soft-
ware. Larger dots with corresponding larger labels have more published articles, and smaller dots/labels
have fewer.
core architecture that contains an extra layer that monitors, manages, and brokers
resources [Cuomo et al. 2012] and designing a hybrid resource architecture by supple-
menting volunteer computers with a small set of dedicated, reliable computers [Lin
et al. 2010].
Another major problem in current PRC systems is the back-end bottleneck due to
the centralized storage of results. This problem can be resolved by combining PRC
with public resource storage, thus limiting the volume of data transfer as well [Beberg
et al. 2009]. Additional issues of unique authentication, authorization, resource access,
and resource discovery can be resolved by borrowing ready-made solutions from grid
computing [Foster et al. 2001].
Finally, current implementations of PRC are limited to tasks with independent par-
allelism, meaning that participating machines are not required to communicate with
each other [Anderson et al. 2002]. Newer projects, however, take the form of peer-to-
peer networks. For example, Marozzo et al. [2012] develop a MapReduce-based peer-
to-peer PRC system in which autonomous nodes are dynamically assigned slave roles,
master roles, or backup master roles. In another example, Mayer et al. [2015] imple-
10
M. Tsvetkova et al.
ment a Cloud system of a loose set of voluntarily provided heterogeneous machine
nodes that uses a gossip-style protocol for communication.
3.2. Crowdsourcing
Jeff Howe originally coined the term crowdsourcing in the June 2006 issue of Wired
magazine to denote situations where a company or institution take a function once
performed by employees, and outsource it to an unde ned network of people in the
form of an open call [Howe 2006]. The term  crowdsourcing  has since been used in
a very broad sense to denote a range of HMNs [Doan et al. 2011; Geiger et al. 2011].
Here, we use it to denote systems that are based on open calls for the voluntary under-
taking of tasks [Estelles-Arolas and Gonz alez-Ladr on-de Guevara 2012], hence closely
aligned with Howe s original de nition. Crowdsourcing (CSO) is, as such, a top-down
initiated process, and usually distinctly different from mass collaboration as in, for
example, open software development (see Section 3.8). The de ning characteristics of
these HMNs are that humans actively select tasks and contribute to them but do not
generally interact and collaborate with each other directly. More importantly, humans
rarely receive any feedback from the machine   they do not obtain any information
on or direct bene ts from the project they contribute to (Figure 1B). In a sense, CSO
platforms are similar to distributed computing systems: each user is equivalent to a
processor that needs to solve a task requiring human intelligence [Kittur et al. 2013].
Prominent examples of CSO HMNs include online microwork platforms such as
Amazon Mechanical Turk and Crowd ower, voluntary mapping websites such as
Ushahidi and OpenStreetMap, and citizen science projects such as Zooniverse and
FoldIt. Companies and organizations may also crowdsource innovation tasks to the
general public (as with Threadless) or experts beyond the organization s boundaries
(such as InnoCentive) [Brabham 2008], a practice which is often utilized within the
 eld of open innovation. Perhaps the CSO project that is most familiar to the general
public is reCAPTCHA. Web users contribute to reCAPTCHA when they take a Turing
test on a website in order to con rm that they are human and not a computer. As part
of the test, they transcribe scanned words that optical character recognition programs
failed to recognize and thus help digitize large volumes of old text.
The successful functioning of CSO HMNs requires recruiting and maintaining a pool
of intelligent, diverse, and capable contributors [Saxton et al. 2013] and managing and
processing their contributions. Various approaches can be undertaken to successfully
recruit and keep contributors. One way is to make the contributions implicit, as in
reCAPTCHA. Most individuals complete the task unbeknownst to them   they are
simply trying to register for an online service or make a purchase, for example. Impor-
tantly, reCAPTCHA is neither more dif cult nor more time-consuming than a regular
CAPTCHA test [von Ahn et al. 2008].
Another method to motivate contributors is to remunerate them. Payments can be
 xed or success-based. They can come in the form of a piece rate, a piece rate with a
bonus, a quota rate, or a contest prize. Experimental research has shown that higher
piece rates increase the quantity but not the quality of contributions; further, quota
rates result in higher quality work for a smaller budget than piece rates [Mason and
Watts 2010]. Prize-based contests are optimal for highly uncertain innovation prob-
lems as they involve high number of entrants who execute multiple independent trials,
which increases the probability for a maximally performing solution [Lakhani et al.
2013]. The effect of payment is not always straightforward, however, as it may reduce
social motivation [Frey and Jegen 1999].
Much participation in CSO projects is voluntary and indeed driven by intrinsic and
social motivation. To attract more volunteers, CSO platforms can emphasize the con-
nection between people s contributions and the project outcomes. For example, citizen
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
11
science projects can keep participants updated on the articles published as a result of
their contributions [Cooper et al. 2010]. Volunteer-mapping sites can successfully rally
on social media around natural disasters [Zook et al. 2010].
Gami cation is another strategy to recruit volunteers and encourage their prolonged
engagement in a CSO project. A game offers the players a varied motivation set that
leverages ambition, competition, and cooperation. Thus, a gami ed CSO project should
allow for short-term and long-term rewards through tracking game score and player
rank, social praise by allowing comments on chats and forums, and collaboration by
enabling the formation of teams [Cooper et al. 2010]. These strategies have been suc-
cessfully implemented in biology projects for discovering protein structures [Cooper
et al. 2010], aligning multiple sequences of DNA [Kawrykow et al. 2012], and solving
in vitro RNA design problems [Lee et al. 2014].
Managing the contributors  work poses the second major challenge in designing CSO
platforms. Contributions need to be collected, processed, and aggregated. Although the
quantity of contributions is what makes CSO work [Surowiecki 2005], the quality of
contributions remains of paramount importance.
One major challenge with CSO is dealing with biases and errors in contributors  sub-
mitted work, whether malevolent or accidental. Quinn and Bederson [2011] propose
multiple techniques to do this: output agreement, input agreement, economic incen-
tives, defensive task design, reputation systems, redundancy (combined with majority
consensus), ground truth seeding, statistical  ltering, multilevel review, expert review,
and automatic check. Allahbakhsh et al. [2013] add to the list run-time support, work-
 ow management, worker selection, and contributor evaluation. The latter two have
been implemented in sophisticated algorithms that assign weights to workers based
on the quality of their contributions in order to account for biased responses [Ipeirotis
et al. 2010; Raykar et al. 2010] and eliminate responses by spammers [Raykar and Yu
2011].
Beyond correcting for intentional or unintentional errors that have already occurred,
one could implement more foresighted strategies to improve the quality of contribu-
tions. These strategies usually involve creating and structuring interactions between
contributors. For example, Kittur et al. [2011] and Bernstein et al. [2010] implemented
frameworks that manage the coordination between users to let them complete com-
plex tasks such as writing and editing articles. Silvertown et al. [2015] purposefully
connected participants with experts in a hybrid learning-CSO platform for the identi-
 cation of biological species. Khatib et al. [2011] introduced tools for free collaboration
between contributors that lead to the discovery of new algorithms for the folding of
proteins. Bayus [2013] suggests that encouraging contributors to comment on diverse
sets of ideas proposed by others could prevent creativity stagnation due to the   xa-
tion effect  and help maintain an on-going supply of good new ideas in idea-generating
CSO platforms.
3.3. Web search engines
A Web search engine (WSE) is a system that searches and returns content from the
Web. Apart from formulating queries, users do not actively contribute to the system.
Their contribution is passive: the WSE observes and analyzes their search behavior to
improve and customize search results. Additionally, the search results are  ltered and
ranked, which is the most important function of these HMNs (Figure 1C).
The greatest challenge that WSEs need to address is keeping up with the scale of
content on the Web [Arasu et al. 2001; Brin and Page 2012]. Since this problem entails
complex technical solutions at the level of machine-machine interactions, it is out of
the scope of the present survey. Instead, we here focus on design solutions related to
the motivation of users to participate in the improvement of the output of WSEs. These
12
M. Tsvetkova et al.
design solutions are typically aimed at making user participation an implicit part of
their search task as well as their linking behavior, which is reminiscent of the user
motivation strategies of crowdsourcing HMNs such as reCAPTCHA discussed above.
Another key challenge of WSEs is providing users with relevant search results,
quickly. Query assistance is one mechanism introduced to help with this, which is
addressing the direct interaction between the users and the WSE interface. One ap-
proach is to do this based on the user s own input of a query and subsequent query
reformulations [Huang and Efthimiadis 2009]. Alternatively, other users  inputs can
be used by mining query associations from multiple users [Carpineto and Romano
2012], which utilizes the HMN further.
To improve the search results,  ltering and ranking can also use information about
users  behavior. For example, the links between Web pages imply recommendations
from users (owners of the respective Web pages) [Arasu et al. 2001]. This implicit
notion is encapsulated in Google s PageRank algorithm, for example, as it determines
the importance of a page based on the importance of the pages that link to it [Page
et al. 1999]. Another well-known ranking algorithm, HITS, also uses recursive logic to
differentiate two types of important Web pages, hubs and authorities: hubs are pages
that point to many authorities and authorities are pages that are pointed to by many
hubs [Kleinberg 1999]. Newer ranking algorithms tend to use even more information
about the linking structure. For example, ClusterRank takes into account not only a
page s number of linked neighbors and the neighbors  in uence scores but also the
neighbors  links with each other [Chen et al. 2013].
Gollapudi and Sharma [2009] suggest that WSEs need to intentionally diversify re-
sults to improve user satisfaction; simply providing users with the highest ranked
pages is not considered suf cient. To personalize search results and improve their rel-
evance, WSEs can also analyze individual behavior [Steichen et al. 2012]. For example,
Collins-Thompson et al. [2011] propose algorithms to re-rank search results based on
an estimation of the user s reading pro ciency. Jansen et al. [2008] suggest that WSEs
can use knowledge of user intent (whether informational, navigational, or transac-
tional) to provide more relevant results.
Finally, WSEs can also use peers  behavior to improve the results from individual
searches. This relatively recent model is known as social search. First, WSEs can po-
tentially incorporate search data from social bookmarking [Heymann et al. 2008]. Sec-
ond, WSEs can mine the pro les of a user s online social network friends and return
results based on their recommendations [Morris et al. 2010]. WSEs can also be adapted
to support collaborative search in real time [Morris and Horvitz 2007; Morris 2013].
3.4. Crowdsensing
In crowdsensing (CSE) applications, users with computing and sensing devices (for
example, smartphones or  tness trackers) share data and the application uses the
data to measure and map certain phenomena [Ganti et al. 2011]. The contributions by
users can be active, as well as passive. The contributions are then analyzed and action
and behavior recommendations are sent back to the user (Figure 1D).
CSE has been employed in many different areas, including traf c, health, and envi-
ronmental monitoring [Khan et al. 2013]. Applications have been developed to create
real-time awareness of earthquakes [Faulkner et al. 2014], track and encourage phys-
ical activity and healthy lifestyle [Consolvo et al. 2008], track personal transportation
patterns to encourage  green  transportation behavior [Froehlich et al. 2009], and pre-
dict bus arrival times [Zhou et al. 2012], among many others.
Participating in CSE incurs real costs: increased consumption of energy and band-
width, as well as increased risk of leaked personal information [Ra et al. 2012]. As a
result, most research on CSE has focused on designing monetary incentives for par-
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
13
ticipation, reducing participation load, improving energy ef ciency, and guaranteeing
privacy.
To guarantee an adequate number of participants, some researchers have proposed
monetary incentives through reverse auctions, whereby users claim bid prices for their
sensing data [Koutsopoulos 2013; Lee and Hoh 2010]. Others have suggested that this
could be achieved through opportunistic sensing, that is, sensing that is fully auto-
mated and does not require the user s active involvement [Lane et al. 2010]. Full au-
tomation, however, is dif cult to achieve technically, as the application needs to com-
bine data from multiple sensors to infer the context. Instead, others have focused on
improving the energy ef ciency of the CSE applications. Lu et al. [2010] present meth-
ods to turn sensing on and off depending on the quality of input data and the user s
long-term behavior and mobility patterns. Sheng et al. [2012] propose a collaborative
sensing approach, whereby data collected from mobile phones is analyzed in real time
on servers in a Cloud in order to calculate the best sensing schedule and inform the
phones when and where to sense.
Guaranteeing privacy is a more challenging problem to solve. CSE applications are
in danger of leaking personal data such as users  location, speech, potentially sensitive
images, or biometric data [Christin et al. 2011]. Even if sensing data look safe, they
may be reverse-engineered to reveal invasive information. Last but not least, there
is also the  second hand smoke  problem: a person with a sensor can undermine the
privacy of nearby third parties [Lane et al. 2010].
Effective privacy-protection measures can be implemented at every stage of the path
of the data, from collection to consumption [Christin et al. 2011]. When reporting data,
spatial cloaking techniques can be combined with data perturbation to improve user
anonymity without affecting aggregate data estimates [Huang et al. 2010]. During
that stage, phones can also combine their data with data from their neighbors before
transmitting it to the application server [Li et al. 2014]. Techniques like this can be ef-
fectively combined to allow even for anonymity-preserving reputation systems [Wang
et al. 2013]. However, it has been shown that even if the collected temporally and geo-
graphically tagged data are anonymized, only few data points can be uniquely linked
to individuals in large crowds [de Montjoye et al. 2013].
Processing and analyzing the collected data presents the second substantial design
challenge for CSE systems. Due to user mobility, density, and privacy preferences, the
data delivered often have many measurement gaps in both time and space [Ganti et al.
2010]. To be able to generalize from a sparse sampling of high-dimensional spaces, CSE
systems can employ sophisticated data interpolation techniques [Mendez et al. 2013].
Further, to make best use of the data a user reports, they can infer the context with
the help of machine learning techniques [Pejovic and Musolesi 2015]. Finally, they can
combine context-rich data from multiple users to predict models of future behavior and
offer action recommendations [Pejovic and Musolesi 2015].
3.5. Online markets
Under the type  online markets  we group a number of HMNs that involve the ex-
change of goods and services. The things that are exchanged differ but what unites
these HMNs is the common relational structure. In particular, users can view each
other s contributions and, in some cases, evaluate them, but cannot modify them. More
importantly, while users actively make contributions, the service does not  lter or rank
them but simply lists them, either individually or in an aggregate form (Figure 1E). In
other words, the service usually does not bias the content a user is exposed to.
Online markets are very familiar to most Web users. First, there are consumer-to-
consumer markets such as Craigslist, eBay, Uber, and Airbnb, which connect users
who offer material goods and services with users who seek those goods and services.
14
M. Tsvetkova et al.
File sharing networks such as Gnutella and BitTorrent are similar with the exception
that the exchanged goods are digital. Finally, prediction markets, such as the Iowa
Electronic Markets and TradeSports, where users trade  stocks  tied to future events,
are another prominent example of online markets.
Peer-to-peer (P2P) and  le sharing markets involve unregulated direct inter-user
transactions and as a result, their functioning crucially depends on trust. The prob-
lem of trust online is most commonly addressed by designing and implementing rep-
utation systems [J sang et al. 2007]. In a reputation system, users rate each other
after a transaction and the aggregated ratings inform other users in their own trans-
action decisions. When designing reputation systems, it is important to take certain
well-established empirical facts about social in uence in consideration. Previous re-
search has shown that when users deal with unknown sellers or providers, positive
reputation matters but negative reputation is much more decisive [Standi rd 2001].
The opposite appears to be true when users interact with well-known brands: positive
information has a stronger effect on purchasing decisions than negative information
[Adjei et al. 2010]. High reputation means high trust by others but who those others
are also matters [Baek et al. 2012]. For example, recognition by a well-known other,
such as an institution, affects one s trust positively to a higher extent than recogni-
tion by one s peers [Jones and Leonard 2008]. The idea to weigh reputation by the
trustee s importance in the trusting network has been implemented in two recent rep-
utation algorithms. The EigenTrust algorithm [Kamvar et al. 2003] is based on the
rule of transitive trust: if I trust a user I am also likely to trust the people that that
user trusts. The PowerTrust algorithm [Zhou and Hwang 2007] relies on the idea of
identifying the few power users who can indisputably serve as authorities.
Individuals  estimated trust and reliability could also inform structural re-designs
of the online market. For example, Saroiu et al. [2001] propose to use this information
to delegate different responsibilities to different users in P2P  le sharing applications.
Such intervention is intended to mitigate free riding, where most users consume with-
out paying back to the community in return [Hughes et al. 2005].
Information on existing social structure can be used to improve not only trust and
cooperation in online markets but also content search. Sripanidkulchai et al. [2003]
proposes to preserve the anonymity of the system but group users by interests (not
externally visible). Since users who already share interests are likely to have more
interests in common, a content location algorithm that exploits the interest overlay
network results in faster content queries, lower system load, and improved scalability.
Such implicit grouping by similarity in interests and behavior has already been imple-
mented in  collaborative  ltering  recommender systems, which are common in online
markets [Schafer et al. 1999; Schafer et al. 2001]. In contrast, Pouwelse et al. [2008]
propose de-anonymizing the P2P system by introducing social-network capabilities in
order to improve content discovery and recommendation.
Prediction markets differ from P2P and  le sharing markets because the exchanges
in them are centrally regulated. Consequently, they are less affected by the problem
of trust. Instead, the major problem they face is how to improve predictions. Once
again, the solution has to do with careful design of the underlying user-to-user inter-
action structure. Prediction markets work because of the diversity of users [Surowiecki
2005]. This makes them robust to manipulation by a small group of individuals [Han-
son et al. 2006; Wolfers and Zitzewitz 2004]. However, social in uence can undermine
diversity: it both shifts the average estimate and increases the users  con dence in it
[Lorenz et al. 2011]. Hence, prediction markets should reduce possibilities for inter-
actions between users, such as observing users  current prediction, past performance,
or formal expertise. Nevertheless, to improve the prediction market performance, it is
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
15
possible to combine the predictions by the crowd with predictions by a panel of experts
[Prokesch et al. 2015].
3.6. Social media
In one of the most cited de nitions, social media (SM) is de ned as  a group of Internet-
based applications that build on the ideological and technological foundations of Web
2.0, and that allow the creation and exchange of User Generated Content  [Kaplan
and Haenlein 2010, p. 61]. Kaplan and Heinlein s de nition is very broad, with the
consequence that they include virtual worlds such as Second Life and mass collabo-
ration projects such as Wikipedia as examples of social media. We use a more subtle
de nition and understanding, focusing on the typical interactions among the nodes in
the network. In SM, human nodes assess each other s contributions (rather than mod-
ify them) (see Figure 1F). SM is intended to enable users to form online communities
and interact and share information in them [Kim et al. 2010]. In SM, users can con-
tribute content actively. They are also actively involved in observing and evaluating
each other s contributions. The applications use these evaluations to  lter the content
that users receive. This  ltering can be site-wide or user-speci c.
SM includes social network applications such as Facebook and LinkedIn. In these
applications, users maintain a pro le and a list of users with whom they are connected,
both of which can be viewed by others [boyd and Ellison 2007; Donath and Boyd 2004].
SM also includes content communities such as Reddit and Tumblr, where users share
news and media and vote and comment on each other s contributions. Some SM ap-
plications have the properties of both social network and news-sharing applications,
e.g. Twitter [Kwak et al. 2010]. Additional examples include review and rating appli-
cations such as Yelp and TripAdvisor and discussion forums and question-and-answer
sites such as Yahoo Answers and College Con dential.
Participation in SM highly depends on users  motivation and concern for privacy.
Based on data from Facebook users, Lin and Lu [2011] found that enjoyment is the
strongest motivator to use SM. Still, utilitarian considerations play a role: users of-
ten use SM to organize social events and disperse news in an effective way [Xu et al.
2012]. Further, SM is self-af rming, in the sense of satisfying the users  need for self-
worth by allowing them to exhibit a successful, attractive, and well-connected version
of themselves [Toma and Hancock 2013]. More interestingly, there is a network ex-
ternality effect on motivation: high levels of adoption of SM among one s peers not
only increases the perceived enjoyment of the SM [Lin and Lu 2011] but also directly
increases one s likelihood of adoption [Sledgianowski and Kulviwat 2009].
Protecting personal data and privacy is a complex problem in SM. Even if users
keep their pro les private, their friendships and group af liations sometimes remain
visible. In addition, some of their friends may have public pro les. Previous research
has shown that friendships, group memberships, and rating behavior can be used
to infer sensitive personal attributes and information [Kosinski et al. 2013; Zheleva
and Getoor 2009]. Users  privacy is threatened by other untrustworthy users, ill-
intentioned third parties, as well as the SM providers themselves. To protect users
from other users, SM developers can analyze the SM network structure to infer users 
trust [Mislove et al. 2007]. Further, they can develop machine learning models to de-
scribe a user s privacy preferences towards each of his network contacts; these models
can then be used to con gure that user s privacy settings automatically [Fang and
LeFevre 2010; Gilbert and Karahalios 2009]. For even more strict privacy, the archi-
tecture of the SM application can be decentralized so that users store their private
data on other users  machines, such as individuals whom they trust in real life [Cutillo
et al. 2009].
16
M. Tsvetkova et al.
One of the most signi cant functions of SM is user-speci c  ltering and customiza-
tion of content due to the sheer volume of data. While this addresses a practical issue
from the users  perspective, it inevitably introduces bias (intended or not) that in u-
ences the users. SM employs complex algorithms to predict the news that users would
like to read, the media they would like to see, the people they would like to befriend,
and the ads they are likely to succumb to. For example, SM applications can analyze
user relationships to select high-quality content [Agichtein et al. 2008]. They can also
incorporate various behavioral information, such as locational co-occurrences, to rec-
ommend new links [Scellato et al. 2011]. SM applications can take even more proactive
roles. They can implement algorithms using the political valence of contributions to
in uence a user s opinion [Bakshy et al. 2015]. They can  lter content based on their
emotional valence to sway a user s affect [Kramer et al. 2014]. They can also encour-
age links that cut across traditional age and gender homophily in order to expose users
to more diverse sources of information and in uence [Centola and van de Rijt 2015].
These strategies can help alleviate one of the major downsides of SM   the potential
for knowledge bubbles and misinformation epidemics due to selective interaction.
3.7. Multiplayer online games and virtual worlds
Multiplayer online games (MOGs) and virtual worlds (VWs) are simulated environ-
ments in which users participate and interact with each other and the environment
via avatars that represent their identity. Users  actions and contributions impact other
users  experiences both directly and indirectly, by affecting the game world as a whole.
In fact, in VWs, it is users who create the game world [Ondrejka 2004]. Apart from
providing the interaction rules and settings, the MOG/VW service does not usually
modify user contributions (Figure 1G).
The question as to why users repeatedly participate in MOGs and VWs has attracted
much research attention. As with SM, survey studies have shown that providing op-
timal personal and social interactions improves users  experience and increases their
loyalty [Choi and Kim 2004]. For MOGs, grati cation from achievement and social in-
teraction together with game incentives and fairness have been shown to make users
more likely to continue playing [Wu et al. 2010]. For VWs, perceived usefulness has
been found to additionally increase the likelihood to participate [Verhagen et al. 2012].
Moreover, the functional, experiential, and social motivations appear to be roughly
equally important [Zhou et al. 2011]. What is particularly unique for MOGs and VWs,
however, is the sense of immersion or   ow  [Yee 2006]. Flow experience is the men-
tal state of being fully absorbed and losing track of time [Goel et al. 2013]. Providing
optimal personal experiences and meaningful social interactions cause individuals to
experience  ow, which in turn increases their likelihood to continue interacting and
playing [Choi and Kim 2004; Goel et al. 2013]. Customization (e.g., of one s avatar)
further increases loyalty [Teng 2010].
How does one design for meaningful social interactions in MOGs and VWs? Users
may be involved in both negative interactions, such as attacks, and positive interac-
tions, such as communication and exchange [Szell et al. 2010]. Overall, however, obser-
vational research has shown that MOG users do not interact directly with other users
as much as expected [Ducheneaut et al. 2007]. This may be considered suboptimal be-
cause, in theory, MOGs and VWs can serve as a venue for informal sociability that
fosters bridging social relations, which are relations that improve access to diverse in-
formation [Steinkuehler and Williams 2006]. Ducheneaut and Moore [2004] propose
to force social interaction among users through the game design. For example, MOG
developers can design interdependencies among characters and then design locations
where these interdependencies can play out. Another solution to socially engage users
is to design for indirect interactions. Ducheneaut et al. [2006] argue that MOG users
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
17
do not interact directly and collaborate with other users as much as use them as an
audience, a source of entertainment, and a source of information and chatter.
Designing a MOG/VW to keep users playing is a different problem from designing
it to keep attracting new users. The more users there are, the more interactive and
complex the virtual environment is. In order to guarantee continuous growth of the
MOG/VW, one can reduce the learning and personalization costs in the short term
[Zhang et al. 2014]. In the long term, however, the problem of scalability looms large.
A successful MOG/VW should provide consistent and secure service with fast response
times for thousands of users simultaneously [Claypool and Claypool 2006; Yahyavi and
Kemme 2013]. Traditional client-server architectures, however, have inherent scal-
ability limitations. In contrast, P2P architectures can achieve high scalability at low
infrastructure cost [Hu et al. 2006; Yahyavi and Kemme 2013]. In the context of MOGs
and VWs, a P2P architecture means that each user s machine may hold master copies
of some of the game objects and be responsible for propagating updates to other nodes.
While improving scalability, such an architecture is vulnerable to cheating, security at-
tacks and churn, problems that remain outstanding design challenges today [Yahyavi
and Kemme 2013].
3.8. Mass collaboration
Compared to the other HMNs, mass collaboration networks involve highly intense in-
teractions among humans and machines in the context of a  project  set up for a speci c
purpose (Figure 1H). They require the highest level of involvement from users in terms
of time and effort. Users can modify and reject each other s contributions and affect the
project as a whole. Their contributions and the project content are often monitored and
adjusted by the project leaders. This centralized oversight can happen automatically,
for example, through vandalism-detection algorithms. Nevertheless, often, the organi-
zation of these HMNs is bottom-up.
Wikis and open-source software (OSS) projects present two of the most prominent ex-
amples of mass collaboration HMNs. Wikis enable the simultaneous collaborative cre-
ation, modi cation, and deletion of content [Tapscott and Williams 2011]. Wikipedia,
the online encyclopedia is the largest, most successful, and most popular wiki project.
OSS projects allow the collaborative development and free distribution of computer
software. Examples include the Firefox web browser, the Apache HTTP Server, and
the Linux operating system.
Mass collaboration projects are developed by geographically and organizationally
dispersed contributors, most of whom are volunteers. As a result, recruiting and re-
taining contributors is a critical design issue for OSS and wiki communities. Von Krogh
et al. [2003] suggest that  joining scripts  are important if users want to gain access
to the collaboration community. These  scripts  are implicit constructs that determine
the typical level and type of activity a joiner needs to go through before becoming a con-
tributor. Users often decide to join and participate in a collaboration project because
they have pragmatic considerations or expect external rewards. Survey results have
shown that external rewards have greater weight for participation than internal fac-
tors, such as intrinsic motivation, altruism, and community identi cation [Hars and
Ou 2001]. In fact, a high number of developers are paid for their OSS development ef-
forts; others use their participation to improve their own software; still others receive
bene ts in terms of reputation and self-development. Contributors are able to learn
even from mundane tasks such as reading and answering users  questions [Lakhani
and von Hippel 2003]. In addition, contributors can bene t by exchanging valuable
work with each other. A theoretical model has shown that since more modular code-
bases with more option value foster such exchanges, they increase recruitment and
retention and decrease free riding [Baldwin and Clark 2006].
18
M. Tsvetkova et al.
Still, external rewards are not the sole motivator. First, they appear to be less impor-
tant to wiki contributors, compared to OSS contributors [Oreg and Nov 2008]. Second,
they appear to be only driving the decision to join but not the decision to stay [Shah
2006]. Sustained participation appears to be better predicted by group identity and
community belonging. For example, Hertel et al. [2003] show that self-identi cation
as a Linux developer is one of the factors that determine engagement in the Linux
project. Fang and Neufeld [2009] similarly  nd that situated learning and identity
construction are positively linked to sustained participation, at least in the phpMyAd-
min OSS community. Bagozzi and Dholakia [2006] con rm that active participation is
associated with group-referent intentional actions.
In addition to recruiting and retaining contributors, mass collaboration platforms
need to organize the leadership, coordination, and collaboration among the contrib-
utors [Crowston et al. 2012]. Analyses of the e-mail communication network of con-
tributors to several OSS projects reveal that sub-communities emerge naturally to
mirror collaboration relations [Bird et al. 2008]. The community further subdivides
into a core of usually 10-15 developers who create about 80% of the code functional-
ity, a much larger group around the core who repair defects in the code, and an even
larger periphery of users who report problems [Mockus et al. 2002]. Members of the
core usually know and trust each other and communicate intensely to manage the
dependencies among the contributed code.
How do these naturally emerging structures affect the growth and the success of the
OSS/wiki project? Crowston and Howison [2005] analyzed 230 project teams on Source-
Forge to  nd that larger projects tend to have more decentralized communication net-
works. Based on a longitudinal analysis of an-order-of-magnitude larger SourceForge
sample, Singh et al. [2011] conclude that internal cohesion, as de ned by repeat ties,
third-party ties, and structural equivalence among contributors, is also associated with
project success. Similarly, Hahn et al. [2008]  nd that a project is likely to attract more
developers if prior collaborative relations in the OSS developer network exist. How-
ever, contributors  external embeddedness has more complex effects on success. While
a high number of external contacts increases success, only moderate technological di-
versity of the external network and moderate external cohesion are bene cial [Singh
et al. 2011]. Further, contributors  participation in multiple projects can both improve
and aggravate the project s chances for technical success [Grewal et al. 2006].
4. DISCUSSION
Based on the HMNs reviewed above, here we provide further discussion on the emerg-
ing trends, common challenges, design implications, and future considerations.
4.1. Emerging trends
Our survey suggests  ve major trends that concern most of the HMNs.
First, human-human interactions appear to be intensifying in HMNs. Many sys-
tems are starting to allow for social interactions among their users. In addition, many
of them are looking for ways to make the social interactions more immediate and in-
tense. In a sense, everything can now become a social network; everything can be
 shared.  Social events and meet-ups have been shown to be effective in recruiting
new users as well as stabilizing the commitment of pre-existing users [Hristova et al.
2013]. Social trading, based on text-based chats among the traders in a company, has
also been introduced recently [Saavedra et al. 2011]. Both of these cases are examples
of machine mediated collective behaviors in which social interactions are not included
in the original design.
Efforts towards strengthening social interactions have been evident in numerous
other research areas as well. For instance, Marcin et al. [2014] discuss two studies
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
19
conducted with an affective dialogue system in which textbased system-user commu-
nication was used to model, generate, and present different affective and social inter-
action scenarios in order to intensify human-human interactions within HMNs. In the
same framework, the SoCS project aimed to support higher quality online delibera-
tion in HMNs, especially by supporting a number of  social deliberative skills  such
as perspective taking, empathy, self-re ection, tolerance for uncertainty, listening and
question-asking skills, and meta-dialogue in online contexts [Murray et al. 2014].
Second, and related to the  rst trend, human-machine interactions are becoming
less demanding. By introducing social functionality, HMN designers capitalize on so-
cial motivations to encourage participation. In some cases, HMN designers have also
started introducing monetary incentives, as in paying for contributions on review and
rating sites or for crowdsensing applications. Last but not least, automated data col-
lection is gaining prominence. These changes serve to reduce the effort on behalf of
participants and increase their gains from participation. HMNs no longer need to rely
on  altruists  to continue functioning and growing. Previous research has shown that
the introduction of social functionality in HMNs eases their overall operation and node
interaction. For instance, Murray-Rust et al. [2014] present models and techniques for
coordination of human workers in crowdsourced software development environments.
The techniques augment the existing Social Compute Unit concept   a general frame-
work for management of ad-hoc human worker teams. This approach allows the re-
searchers to combine coordination and quality constraints with dynamic assessments
of software-users  desires, while dynamically choosing appropriate software develop-
ment coordination models, leading to easier human-machine interactions.
Third, machine-human interactions are also becoming more prominent. Machines
now customize and  lter any information that users receive and consume. This is ev-
ident in numerous HMNs nowadays. A typical example is Facebook and the content
control carried out within this network. Even in such a massive network, advanced
content control algorithms are applied and have proven to be quite effective [Bakshy
et al. 2015]. Similar algorithms are applied in several other HMNs enhancing machine-
human interactions.
Fourth, not just the nature of interactions but also the actual structure of the HMNs
is starting to evolve. There is a trend towards redesigning HMNs as peer-to-peer net-
works. A typical example regarding that trend is Bitcoin. The Bitcoin cryptocurrency
is built on top of a decentralized peer-to-peer (P2P) network used to propagate system
information such as transactions or blockchain updates. The Bitcoin architecture does
not rely on a centralized server. Instead, a distributed approach has been adopted to
support the system [Donet Donet et al. 2014]. Such an approach can be used in many
of a system s facets, including data storage, data con rmation, and data transmission.
The major reason for this is that P2P architectures improve the scalability of HMNs.
But they also entail certain undesirable consequences. In P2P networks, machines be-
come equivalent with users, as each user contributes a machine to store, process, and
transmit data. This means that machines start to exhibit some of the problems that hu-
mans have: unavailability, unreliability, distrustfulness, and untrustworthiness. This
implies that social science knowledge and approaches are starting to be indispensable
even for the engineering of HMNs.
The  fth trend is a product of the previous four   the number of HMNs that cut
across the eight types we have identi ed is starting to increase. For example, cryp-
tocurrencies such as Bitcoin have the properties of both public-resource computing and
online markets. Online and mobile dating services such as Match.com and Tinder have
characteristics from both online markets and social media. Wildlife@Home, a project
aimed at analyzing videos of wildlife, combines public resource computing with crowd-
sourcing [Desell et al. 2013]. Open innovation projects often extend the crowdsourcing
20
M. Tsvetkova et al.
approach to mass collaboration, by combining ideation with collaborative re nement
of ideas. Opportunistic Internet of Things systems combine crowdsensing with social
media [Guo et al. 2015]. Since these hybrid types of HMNs are relatively new, the liter-
ature on them is still growing. Our survey methodology placed an emphasis on publi-
cation impact and as a result, down-weighted these networks. Nevertheless, this trend
of hybridization renders our survey particularly valuable, as it emphasizes the need
for the transfer of knowledge and design solutions across different types of HMNs.
4.2. Common challenges
In this survey, we analyzed different types of interactions to identify different types of
HMNs. However, there are risks and challenges in relation to the interactions that are
common among all HMNs. Here we discuss issues related to user motivation, trust,
user experience, privacy, and scalability.
Attracting users and keeping them motivated to participate and contribute is a ma-
jor challenge across all identi ed HMNs. A number of approaches to mitigating this
challenge have been proposed, as we have seen in Section 3. A basic distinction be-
tween these approaches concerns whether to exploit extrinsic or intrinsic motivational
factors, and different types of HMNs exploit such motivational factors differently.
HMNs for public resource computing and multiplayer online games typically aim for
intrinsic participant motivation, for example by targeting the civic bene t or experi-
ential value of the HMN. HMNs for crowdsensing and online markets, on the other
hand, typically address recruitment and motivation challenges through extrinsic mo-
tivational factors such as remuneration or utilitarian gains. Possibly, when designing
for increased user recruitment and motivation for one HMN type, it could be bene cial
to look to other HMN types for inspiration. For instance, design for participant re-
cruitment and motivation in crowdsensing systems could perhaps to a greater degree
accentuate the civic value of participation and, hence, to a greater degree bene t from
intrinsically motivated participation. To make such intrinsically motivated participa-
tion practically feasible, however, participation costs would need to be reduced. One
way is to follow the example of crowdsourcing initiatives such as reCAPTCHA where
the contributions are made as integrated parts of users  everyday behavior [von Ahn
et al. 2008]. Another example of making data collection an integrated part of users 
everyday behavior is the use of mobile phone network position data to monitor traf-
 c  ow [Calabrese et al. 2011]. Such integrated approaches to data collection could
possibly also be applied in crowdsensing.
Other approaches to participation recruitment and motivation are more speci c to
particular HMN types. For example, the use of informal joining scripts [Von Krogh
et al. 2003] has been shown to be an ef cient approach of relevance to establish par-
ticipant motivation in systems for mass collaboration, in particular as existing collab-
orators need to  lter out non-serious newcomers. However, for other HMN types, such
as online markets or crowdsourcing, a more adequate approach for the same purpose
may be to apply traditional recommender systems [Schafer et al. 2001], as participants
here typically connect in multiple brief engagements and informal joining scripts are
therefore neither effective nor ef cient.
Trust is another major challenge for HMNs. Some participants may struggle with
a concern that the technology will undermine their own position or may be unwilling
to rely entirely on the capabilities of the machines [Lee and Moray 1992; Lee and See
2004]. Others may be mainly concerned with the security of their private data [Dwyer
et al. 2007]. In response, machines need to be transparent and predictable, to create
a perception of trustworthiness [Cheshire 2011; Corritore et al. 2003; McEvily et al.
2003; Schoorman et al. 2007]. On the other hand, they may also need to identify and
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
21
counteract deliberate malevolence: hacking, vandalism, and intentional abuse of their
algorithms, such as Google bombs and link farms.
Machine interventions to the content that observers see and use can lead to undesir-
able self-reinforcing feedback loops that can negatively impact the service rendered.
For example, if the number of users who see a particular contribution increases the
chance of others seeing it, the diversity of content can decrease. From the participants 
point of view, there is again the problem of trust, since the machines in HMNs often
employ  black-box  algorithms that can affect one s behavior and mood without the
participant s knowledge and explicit consent [Bond et al. 2012; Kramer et al. 2014].
These two related effects have been labelled   lter bubble  [Pariser 2011]. However,
such  ltering or adaptation of content may be both necessary and bene cial. Without
such  ltering, the result may be information overload on the humans in the HMN.
Further, from a machine network perspective, the size and amount of content to be
delivered will impact network performance and therefore potentially undermine the
Quality of Experience (QoE) for the user. This may lead to the monetisation of content
delivery, imposing strict controls and monitoring of throughput especially in last-mile
segments.
A concern for QoE in machine-human interactions is closely related to Quality of Ser-
vice (QoS) between machines within a network supporting HMN capabilities. In tra-
ditional plain old telephone service (POTS) networks, this often came down to routing
and providing redundant con gurations to ensure that point-to-point communication
could be guaranteed irrespective of potential failures or bottlenecks. HMNs similarly
require complex assemblages of multiple computers and devices; in some cases dedi-
cated links and subnetworks are required to guarantee QoS at least (such as Content
Delivery Networks). The machines communicate via Bluetooth, the Internet, or satel-
lite, depending on proximity and the required QoS. Since not all such machines will
be owned by the same service provider or carrier, contractual arrangements must be
in place in support of agreed levels of service. As and when these are in place, there
is also potentially the issue of transmission speeds and throughputs, leading to dedi-
cated networks, packet-inspection and/or local caching. Although justi ed on the basis
of service delivery, this could compromize fairness as well as privacy [Gedik and Liu
2008; Julian et al. 2002; Kamble and Sharma 2004]. With privacy and data sensitivity
in mind, there may be a need to impose a logical network on top of the existing struc-
tures (Virtual Private Network), requiring speci c security protocols agreed between
the different components of a network. Security architectures often mimic interper-
sonal trust relationships in this way, effectively introducing trust transfer into a purely
machine-based exchange [Hardjono and Weis 2004; McEvily et al. 2003; Stewart 2003].
In other cases, often in connection with issues of robustness as well as privacy, dedi-
cated networks, including private and reserved broadcast wavelengths will be used to
carry data for speci c purposes or in special cases [Chiti et al. 2008; Salkintzis 2006].
There may even be speci c automated practices introduced to impose security compli-
ance without human intervention.
Another signi cant challenge faced by most HMNs is scalability [He et al. 2011;
Ugander and Backstrom 2013]. As the number of humans in the HMN grows, ma-
chines need to connect, communicate, and compute in a more ef cient way, including
sometimes sophisticated routing and resource allocation management to ensure con-
nection between the right user(s) and the right machine(s) [Baran and Wu 1989; Broch
et al. 1998; Cardellini et al. 1999]. In addition, they need to be able to provide con-
sistently good bandwidth, guarantee compatibility between different communication
protocols and operating systems, and improve data structures for ef cient querying,
caching and storage [Chen et al. 2008; Mehlhorn and N aher 1989].
22
M. Tsvetkova et al.
4.3. Design implications
Our framework helps identify common design approaches to the challenges that differ-
ent HMNs share. We can group the design implications according to the four types of
interactions we investigated: human-human, human input to machine, machine out-
put to humans, and machine-machine.
Regarding human-human interactions, the major design concern is how to recruit
human actors and encourage productive or constructive interaction between them. To
secure a solid base of users, special attention should be given to attracting new users
through peer in uence and protecting them from bouncing by streamlining their  rst
contributions and preventing harassment by more experienced users. Further, design
solutions should be geared towards improving engagement and collaboration between
users and creating a feeling of community. This could be achieved by, for example,
organizing of ine social events, symbolically rewarding users with badges, applying a
loyalty ladder, strengthening within-platform communication, and strengthening trust
through rich pro les and recommendations.
The design implications concerning human input are more typically associated with
the User Interface (UI) and the more traditional HCI domain. They relate to encour-
aging as well as facilitating human interaction. Human actors need to be encouraged
to use the interface and to behave in ways that provide the types of input required.
This may be associated with the persuasiveness of the interface, though this is not the
whole story. Continued use requires ef ciency and perceived usefulness, as captured in
the technology acceptance model [Venkatesh 2000]. Further, trust and privacy should
be ensured, for example, by offering strict and clear privacy policies and employing
transparent algorithms. Additional design solutions include organizing contributions
around campaigns rather than routine as is often done with crowdsourcing projects
related to natural disasters and encouraging shared responsibility for the HMN by
requesting regular feedback from users on the the overall state of the project.
The design issues regarding machine output concern how machines respond to hu-
mans and what they do with the information and content provided. It is important
that machines respond proactively and are perceived as positive contributors. Design
solutions should consider not only advanced content  ltering functionality to address
information overload but also algorithms to detect original and emerging content be-
yond popular authoritative sources. Algorithms can route content and tasks to users
according to their interests and expertise in order to improve the quality of contribu-
tions and retain contributors. Further, algorithms can sift through content to select
high quality contributions to show as examples to users in order to improve their fu-
ture contributions. Machines can also creatively employ the geographical distribution
of the HMN users to encourage the formation of local collaboration groups, distribute
work load or even server load [Ugander and Backstrom 2013], and tackle projects and
tasks that are inconceivable otherwise. For example, projects that require continuous
input can be intelligently routed to users from different time zones.
Regarding machine-machine interactions, it is not enough for human actors to per-
ceive the effectiveness of the machine components they are most clearly involved with,
that is, their own computers. Instead, for the HMN to be a success, there must also be
a correspondingly productive interplay between the machines themselves as effective
participants. Security is of primary concern here. When machine agents in a network
wish to interact with others, often unknown to them, there needs to be a separate
security negotiation including authentication and authorisation. One way around this
would be introduce a single  authority  who would vouch for individual machine agents
to mediate their access to other services.
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
23
4.4. Future considerations
Most previous work on networks has tended to focus either on social networks as com-
munities of people sharing and interacting with one another online or of ine, or on
machine networks in terms of their robustness and complexity. It is our view, however,
that in combining the two, we begin to appreciate how human-machine interactions
can and often do lead to subtly interdependent behaviors which would have been im-
possible before. Most earlier analysis of networks and behavior has tended to treat the
actors or entities within the network as equivalent within their de ned type. More-
over, the characteristics and behavior of those entities were seen to remain  xed and
predictable once de ned [Boccaletti et al. 2006]. In order to develop a more advanced
and comprehensive analysis of HMNs, we need to consider that the exhibited charac-
teristics of nodes are dependent upon context, which may change in a complex way in
response to a number of different factors [Milo 2002; Newman 2003]. For example, hu-
man actors may be described as in-group and out-group, which de nes their behavior
in relation to other connected humans [Giles and Giles 2012; Hogg and Reid 2006].
Similarly, a human actor may take the role of leader (or  seed ) at one point in time,
but may relinquish that role in favor of other actors in authority at a later point in
time [Aguirre et al. 1998; Lemonik Arthur 2013].
Machines are, as ever, more predictable than humans, but it is still conceivable that
they may take more than one role in a network   for example, a mobile phone may
be a communication device, a display device, or a sensor under different circumstances
or at different stages of an evolving network situation [Arminen 2006; Raento et al.
2009; Vinciarelli et al. 2012]. Each entity in the network can be characterized by a
number of attributes, some of which are intrinsic to the entity (such as patient, doctor,
collaborator, contributor) and some of which are context sensitive (such as leader, seed,
follower, in-group, out-group, passivity) [Horwitz et al. 2004; Newman 2003]. Similarly,
the relationship between entities can be characterized as a function of both context and
time   so trust and reliance are an attribute of the evolving relationship between two
entities [Rousseau et al. 1998; Schoorman et al. 2007; S ollner et al. 2012; S ollner and
Leimeister 2013], whereas trustworthiness is an attribute of a single entity ful lling
a speci c role [Corritore et al. 2003; Rousseau et al. 1998]. These attributes of entities
should be identi ed and characterized, their potential to adopt different behaviors and
likelihood to adapt or respond to unexpected interactions, as well as the time-variant
or dynamic nature of the relationships should be incorporated [Milo 2002; Newman
2003].
The connections between entities in a network, edges, are often taken simply to rep-
resent the existence of a relationship, effectively taking the form of an in nite capacity
conduit [Boccaletti et al. 2006]. However, the edge itself may also display characteris-
tics that in uence behavior in the network. The edge is effectively a path across which
information  ows between two entities, but it can in uence both the type of interac-
tion and the perception by a human entity of another machine or human node [Lusseau
2003; Newman 2003]. For example, the connection may be a slow or unreliable link, it
will have a capacity limit which determines the type of information it can carry (text,
data, audio, images) and as such may in uence the level of trust or reliance between
nodes and may therefore affect the response that a person has to the information avail-
able to them [Lu et al. 2007; Newman and Park 2003] . Future analysis therefore needs
to take into account the intrinsic characteristics of the edge as well as relate it to other
network characteristics that may be in uenced by it.
In reality, the emergence of new behaviors in an HMN is very dif cult to predict,
although the effect that new user behavior has on the operation of a network can be
profound [Jones 2010; Lusseau 2003]. As an example, consider the impact of social
24
M. Tsvetkova et al.
media usage on networks of people mediated by smart phones. The shift in behavior
from verbal communication (telephony) to text communication has driven the devel-
oping capabilities of smart phones and the demand for universal wide bandwidth data
connection. The inclusion of cameras of ever-increasing resolution and sophistication
and biosensors in smart phones, and the ubiquity of apps has resulted in behavioral
change in the users of such devices and networks. In social media networks such as
Twitter and Instagram the emergence of the use of hashtags has revolutionized the
sharing and discovery of information and has led to the adoption by the network of
concepts such as  trending  [Brock 2012; Doctor 2013; Fortunato 2013; Glasgow and
Fink 2013]. These examples are indications of the way in which human users of any
technology will adapt it to their own requirements, often beyond the expectations of the
originator of the technology, and once adopted and widespread the technology provider
will then move to incorporate the new usage into their offering. This is another aspect
of the dynamic nature of a technology-based network.
That networks evolve has been established above, along with the reasons for their
evolution. Any characterisation of a network therefore needs to embody the dynamic
nature of the entities and connections between them, particularly in relation to the
changing context of both the individuals and the network as a whole [Fortunato 2010;
Milo 2002]. Moreover, the underlying capabilities of the network will evolve with time,
possibly leading to  tipping points  at which new or emergent behavior becomes possi-
ble, and this is paralleled by the developing competence of the network users whereby
they are able to use the technology more effectively [Boyatzis 2006; Rogers 2008]. The
very existence of the network and the sharing of experience between people using the
network ensure that behavior can become  viral  and spread rapidly between users
[Bakshy et al. 2012; Kietzmann et al. 2012]. This is not just  herd behavior , although
it can lead to such phenomena [Langley et al. 2014; Ronson 2015], but can also be part
of a shared learning phenomenon, which can ultimately lead to modi cations in the
way that the technological components of the network are implemented [Benbya and
McKelvey 2006].
5. CONCLUSION
This survey presented the state of the art in the  eld of Human-Machine Networks
(HMNs). We focused on the actors in these networks and the interactions between
them. We identi ed eight types of HMNs: public resource computing, crowdsourcing,
web search engines, crowdsensing, online markets, social media, multiplayer online
games and virtual worlds, and mass collaboration. These types differ in the structure
and intensity of the interactions among and between humans and machines. We sys-
tematically collected relevant research on these types, with an emphasis on recent and
high-impact work. We reviewed this work with a focus on issues related to designing
the HMNs: motivating participants, guaranteeing their privacy, designing reputation,
recommendation, and content-ranking algorithms, aggregating and processing contri-
butions, and so on.
We have identi ed and discussed  ve emerging trends in HMNs: human-human in-
teractions are intensifying in HMNs; human-machine interactions are becoming less
demanding; machine-human interactions are becoming more prominent; the structure
of HMNs is evolving; more hybrid types of HMNs are emerging. The  ve development
trends suggest that the differences between the eight HMN types we identi ed are
starting to blur. Nevertheless, our analytical framework remains useful for identifying
speci c niches for development and innovation. Some possibilities include citizen sci-
ence projects that encourage collaboration between users, search engines that rely on
users explicitly ranking sites, and social network sites that enable  le sharing.
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
25
Our framework helped us identify shared challenges, such as those related to user
motivation, trust, user experience, privacy, and scalability. Our framework also helped
organize the design implications from these challenges. An avenue for further work
is to more systematically delineate types of HMNs and characteristics relevant to de-
scribing them in order to identify transferable solutions that may bene t ICT develop-
ers when designing new HMNs. Building upon the survey presented here, Eide et al.
[2016] have already taken  rst steps towards a more systematic typology.
Key to our de nition of an HMN is the synergistic effect that can occur from the in-
teractions between humans and machines. Synergy may result from emergent behav-
ior, which can be challenging to predict. We have discussed several aspects of emergent
behavior and network dynamics pertaining to, e.g., context of use, changing role in the
network, and type of connections between actors. Characterisation of an HMN needs
to embody the dynamic nature of the actors and the connections between them. How
to characterize HMNs to allow for the prediction of emergent behavior is another in-
teresting avenue for further work.
Our framework has its intrinsic limitations as well. We have simpli ed the type of
interactions and limited the possible combinations. Moreover, we only considered few
modes of contributions by actors, and we did not allow the actors to take different roles.
Still, the simplicity of the provided framework allows for straightforward extensions
in future iterations.
REFERENCES
Mavis T. Adjei, Stephanie M. Noble, and Charles H. Noble. 2010. The in uence of C2C communications in
online brand communities on customer purchase behavior. Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science
38 (2010), 634.
Eugene Agichtein, Carlos Castillo, Debora Donato, Aristides Gionis, and Gilad Mishne. 2008. Finding high-
quality content in social media. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Web Search and Web
Data Mining (WSDM 08). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 183.
B.E. Aguirre, Dennis Wenger, and Gabriela Vigo. 1998. A test of the emergent norm theory of collective
behavior. Sociological Forum 13, 2 (1998), 301 320.
Mohammad Allahbakhsh, Boualem Benatallah, Aleksandar Ignjatovic, Hamid Reza Motahari-Nezhad,
Elisa Bertino, and Schahram Dustdar. 2013. Quality control in crowdsourcing systems: Issues and di-
rections. IEEE Internet Computing 17, 2 (2013), 76 81.
David P. Anderson. 2004. BOINC: A system for public-resource computing and storage. In Fifth IEEE/ACM
International Workshop on Grid Computing. IEEE, 4 10.
David P. Anderson, Jeff Cobb, Eric Korpela, Matt Lebofsky, and Dan Werthimer. 2002. SETI@home: an
experiment in public-resource computing. Commun. ACM 45, 11 (2002), 56 61.
Arvind Arasu, Junghoo Cho, Hector Garcia-Molina, Andreas Paepcke, and Sriram Raghavan. 2001. Search-
ing the Web. ACM Transactions on Internet Technology 1, 1 (2001), 2 43.
Alexandre Ardichvili. 2008. Learning and knowledge sharing in virtual communities of practice: Motivators,
barriers, and enablers. Advances in Developing Human Resources 10, 4 (2008), 541 554.
Ilkka Arminen. 2006. Social functions of location in mobile telephony. Personal and Ubiquitous Computing
10, 5 (2006), 319 323.
Luigi Atzori, Antonio Iera, and Giacomo Morabito. 2010. The Internet of Things: A survey. Computer Net-
works 54, 15 (2010), 2787 2805.
Hyunmi Baek, JoongHo Ahn, and Youngseok Choi. 2012. Helpfulness of online consumer reviews: readers 
objectives and review cues. International Journal of Electronic Commerce 17, 2 (2012), 99 126.
Richard P. Bagozzi and Utpal M. Dholakia. 2006. Open source software user communities: A study of par-
ticipation in Linux user groups. Management Science 52, 7 (2006), 1099 1115.
Eytan Bakshy, Solomon Messing, and Lada Adamic. 2015. Exposure to ideologically diverse news and opin-
ion on Facebook. Science 348, 6239 (2015), 1130 1132.
Eytan Bakshy, Itamar Rosenn, Cameron Marlow, and Lada Adamic. 2012. The role of social networks in
information diffusion. In Proceedings of the 21st International Conference on World Wide Web (WWW 12).
ACM Press, 519.
26
M. Tsvetkova et al.
Carliss Y. Baldwin and Kim B. Clark. 2006. The architecture of participation: Does code architecture miti-
gate free riding in the open source development model? Management Science 52, 7 (2006), 1116 1127.
Mesut E. Baran and Felix F. Wu. 1989. Network recon guration in distribution systems for loss reduction
and load balancing. IEEE Transactions on Power Delivery 4, 2 (1989), 1401 1407.
Barry L. Bayus. 2013. Crowdsourcing new product ideas over time: An analysis of the Dell IdeaStorm com-
munity. Management Science 59, 1 (2013), 226 244.
Adam L. Beberg, Daniel L. Ensign, Guha Jayachandran, Siraj Khaliq, and Vijay S. Pande. 2009. Fold-
ing@home: Lessons from eight years of volunteer distributed computing. In 2009 IEEE International
Symposium on Parallel & Distributed Processing. IEEE, 1 8.
Hind Benbya and Bill McKelvey. 2006. Toward a complexity theory of information systems development.
Information Technology & People 19, 1 (2006), 12 34.
Tim Berners-Lee. 2000. Weaving the Web: The Original Design and Ultimate Destiny of the World Wide Web.
Collins Business, London. 256 pages.
Michael S. Bernstein, Greg Little, Robert C. Miller, Bj orn Hartmann, Mark S. Ackerman, David R. Karger,
David Crowell, and Katrina Panovich. 2010. Soylent: A word processor with a crowd inside. In Proceed-
ings of the 23nd Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology (UIST 10). ACM
Press, New York, New York, USA, 313.
Christian Bird, David Pattison, Raissa D Souza, Vladimir Filkov, and Premkumar Devanbu. 2008. Latent
social structure in open source projects. In Proceedings of the 16th ACM SIGSOFT International Sympo-
sium on Foundations of software engineering (SIGSOFT 08/FSE-16). ACM Press, New York, New York,
USA, 24.
S. Boccaletti, V. Latora, Y. Moreno, M. Chavez, and D.-U. Hwang. 2006. Complex networks: Structure and
dynamics. Physics Reports 424, 4-5 (2006), 175 308.
Robert M. Bond, Christopher J. Fariss, Jason J. Jones, Adam D.I. Kramer, Cameron Marlow, Jaime E.
Settle, and James H. Fowler. 2012. A 61-million-person experiment in social in uence and political
mobilization. Nature 489, 7415 (2012), 295 8.
Richard E. Boyatzis. 2006. An overview of intentional change from a complexity perspective. Journal of
Management Development 25, 7 (2006), 607 623.
danah m. boyd and Nicole B. Ellison. 2007. Social network sites: De nition, history, and scholarship. Journal
of Computer-Mediated Communication 13, 1 (2007), 210 230.
Daren C. Brabham. 2008. Crowdsourcing as a model for problem solving. Convergence: The International
Journal of Research into New Media Technologies 14, 1 (2008), 75 90.
Sergey Brin and Lawrence Page. 2012. Reprint of: The anatomy of a large-scale hypertextual web search
engine. Computer Networks 56, 18 (2012), 3825 3833.
Josh Broch, David A. Maltz, David B. Johnson, Yih-Chun Hu, and Jorjeta Jetcheva. 1998. A performance
comparison of multi-hop wireless ad hoc network routing protocols. In Proceedings of the 4th Annual
ACM/IEEE International Conference on Mobile Computing and Networking. ACM, 85 97.
Andr e Brock. 2012. From the blackhand side: Twitter as a cultural conversation. Journal of Broadcasting &
Electronic Media 56, 4 (2012), 529 549.
I. Buch, M.J. Harvey, T. Giorgino, D.P. Anderson, and G. De Fabritiis. 2010. High-throughput all-atom molec-
ular dynamics simulations using distributed computing. Journal of chemical information and modeling
50, 3 (2010), 397 403.
Vanilson Bur egio, Silvio Meira, and Nelson Rosa. 2013. Social machines : A uni ed paradigm to describe
social Web-oriented systems. In International World Wide Web Conference Committee (IW3C2). WWW
2013 Companion, 1 5.
F. Calabrese, M. Colonna, P. Lovisolo, D. Parata, and C. Ratti. 2011. Real-time urban monitoring using
cell phones: A case study in Rome. IEEE Transactions on Intelligent Transport Systems 12, 1 (2011),
141 151.
Valeria Cardellini, Michele Colajanni, and S Yu Philip. 1999. Dynamic load balancing on web-server systems.
IEEE Internet computing 3, 3 (1999), 28 39.
Claudio Carpineto and Giovanni Romano. 2012. A survey of automatic query expansion in information
retrieval. Comput. Surveys 44, 1 (2012), 1 50.
Manuel Castells. 2011. The rise of the network society: The information age: Economy, society, and culture.
Vol. 1. John Wiley & Sons.
Damon Centola and Arnout van de Rijt. 2015. Choosing your network: social preferences in an online health
community. Social science & medicine (1982) 125 (2015), 19 31.
David Chen, Guy Doumeingts, and Franc ois Vernadat. 2008. Architectures for enterprise integration and
interoperability: Past, present and future. Computers in industry 59, 7 (2008), 647 659.
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
27
Duan-Bing Chen, Hui Gao, Linyuan L  u, and Tao Zhou. 2013. Identifying in uential nodes in large-scale
directed networks: the role of clustering. PloS one 8, 10 (2013), e77455.
Coye Cheshire. 2011. Online trust, trustworthiness, or assurance? Daedalus 140, 4 (2011), 49 58.
Francesco Chiti, Romano Fantacci, Leonardo Maccari, Dania Marabissi, and Daniele Tarchi. 2008. A broad-
band wireless communications system for emergency management. Wireless Communications, IEEE 15,
3 (2008), 8 14.
Chao-Min Chiu, Meng-Hsiang Hsu, and Eric T G Wang. 2006. Understanding knowledge sharing in virtual
communities: An integration of social capital and social cognitive theories. Decision Support Systems
42, 3 (2006), 1872 1888.
Dongseong Choi and Jinwoo Kim. 2004. Why people continue to play online games: In search of critical
design factors to increase customer loyalty to online contents. Cyberpsychology & Behavior 7, 1 (2004),
11 24.
Delphine Christin, Andreas Reinhardt, Salil S. Kanhere, and Matthias Hollick. 2011. A survey on privacy in
mobile participatory sensing applications. Journal of Systems and Software 84, 11 (2011), 1928 1946.
Mark Claypool and Kajal Claypool. 2006. Latency and player actions in online games. Commun. ACM 49,
11 (2006), 40.
Kevyn Collins-Thompson, Paul N. Bennett, Ryen W. White, Sebastian de la Chica, and David Sontag. 2011.
Personalizing web search results by reading level. In Proceedings of the 20th ACM International Confer-
ence on Information and Knowledge Management (CIKM 11). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA,
403.
Sunny Consolvo, Ryan Libby, Ian Smith, James A. Landay, David W. McDonald, Tammy Toscos, Mike Y.
Chen, Jon Froehlich, Beverly Harrison, Predrag Klasnja, Anthony LaMarca, and Louis LeGrand. 2008.
Activity sensing in the wild: a  eld trial of UbiFit garden. In Proceedings of the 26th Annual CHI
Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 08). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA,
1797.
Seth Cooper, Firas Khatib, Adrien Treuille, Janos Barbero, Jeehyung Lee, Michael Beenen, Andrew Leaver-
Fay, David Baker, Zoran Popovi c, and Foldit Players. 2010. Predicting protein structures with a multi-
player online game. Nature 466, 7307 (2010), 756 60.
Cynthia L. Corritore, Beverly Kracher, and Susan Wiedenbeck. 2003. On-line trust: concepts, evolving
themes, a model. International Journal of Human-Computer Studies 58, 6 (2003), 737 758.
Kevin Crowston and James Howison. 2005. The social structure of free and open source software develop-
ment. First Monday 10, 2 (2005).
Kevin Crowston, Kangning Wei, James Howison, and Andrea Wiggins. 2012. Free/Libre open-source soft-
ware development. Comput. Surveys 44, 2 (2012), 1 35.
Antonio Cuomo, Giuseppe Di Modica, Salvatore Distefano, Antonio Pulia to, Massimiliano Rak, Orazio
Tomarchio, Salvatore Venticinque, and Umberto Villano. 2012. An SLA-based broker for cloud infras-
tructures. Journal of Grid Computing 11, 1 (2012), 1 25.
Leucio Cutillo, Re k Molva, and Thorsten Strufe. 2009. Safebook: A privacy-preserving online social network
leveraging on real-life trust. IEEE Communications Magazine 47, 12 (2009), 94 101.
Yves-Alexandre de Montjoye, C esar A. Hidalgo, Michel Verleysen, and Vincent D. Blondel. 2013. Unique in
the crowd: The privacy bounds of human mobility. Scienti c reports 3 (2013), 1376.
Travis Desell, Robert Bergman, Kyle Goehner, Ronald Marsh, Rebecca VanderClute, and Susan Ellis-Felege.
2013. Wildlife@Home: Combining crowd sourcing and volunteer computing to analyze avian nesting
video. In 2013 IEEE 9th International Conference on e-Science. IEEE, 107 115.
Anhai Doan, Raghu Ramakrishnan, and Alon Y. Halevy. 2011. Crowdsourcing systems on the World-Wide
Web. Commun. ACM 54, 4 (2011), 86.
Vanessa Doctor. 2013. Hashtag history: When and what started it? (2013). https://www.hashtags.org/
featured/hashtag-history-when-and-what-started-it/
Judith Donath and Danah Boyd. 2004. Public displays of connection. BT Technology Journal 22, 4 (2004),
71 82.
JoanAntoni Donet Donet, Cristina Prez-Sol, and Jordi Herrera-Joancomart. 2014. The Bitcoin P2P net-
work. In Financial Cryptography and Data Security, Rainer Bhme, Michael Brenner, Tyler Moore, and
Matthew Smith (Eds.). Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 8438. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 87 
102.
Nicolas Ducheneaut and Robert J. Moore. 2004. The social side of gaming: A study of interaction patterns in a
massively multiplayer online game. In Proceedings of the 2004 ACM Conference on Computer Supported
Cooperative Work (CSCW 04). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 360.
28
M. Tsvetkova et al.
Nicolas Ducheneaut, Nicholas Yee, Eric Nickell, and Robert J. Moore. 2006. Alone together? Exploring the
social dynamics of massively multiplayer online games. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on
Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 06). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 407.
Nicolas Ducheneaut, Nicholas Yee, Eric Nickell, and Robert J. Moore. 2007. The life and death of online
gaming communities: A look at guilds in World of Warcraft. In Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference
on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 07). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 839.
Catherine Dwyer, Starr Roxanne Hiltz, and Katia Passerini. 2007. Trust and privacy concern within
social networking sites: A comparison of Facebook and MySpace. (2007). http://aisel.aisnet.org/cgi/
viewcontent.cgi?article=1849&context=amcis2007
Aslak Wegner Eide, J. Brian Pickering, Taha Yasseri, George Bravos, Asbj rn F lstad, Vegard Engen, Paul
Walland, Eric T Meyer, and Milena Tsvetkova. 2016. Human-machine networks: Towards a typology
and pro ling framework. In HCI International. Springer, Toronto, Canada.
F.E. Emery and E. Trist. 1965. The causal texture of organizational environments. Human relations 18, 1
(1965), 21 32.
Enrique Estelles-Arolas and Fernando Gonz alez-Ladr on-de Guevara. 2012. Towards an integrated crowd-
sourcing de nition. Journal of Information Science 38, 2 (2012), 189 200.
Lujun Fang and Kristen LeFevre. 2010. Privacy wizards for social networking sites. In Proceedings of the
19th International Conference on World Wide Web (WWW 10). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA,
351.
Yulin Fang and Derrick Neufeld. 2009. Understanding sustained participation in open source software
projects. Journal of Management Information Systems 25, 4 (2009), 9 50.
Matthew Faulkner, MingHei Cheng, Andreas Krause, Robert Clayton, Thomas Heaton, K. Mani Chandy,
Monica Kohler, Julian Bunn, Richard Guy, Annie Liu, and Michael Olson. 2014. Community sense and
response systems: your phone as quake detector. Commun. ACM 57, 7 (2014), 66 75.
Joe Fortunato. 2013. The hastag: A history deeper than Twitter. (2013). http://www.copypress.com/blog/
the-hashtag-a-history-deeper-than-twitter/
Santo Fortunato. 2010. Community detection in graphs. Physics Reports 486, 3-5 (2010), 75 174.
Ian Foster, Carl Kesselman, and Steven Tuecke. 2001. The anatomy of the Grid: Enabling scalable virtual
organizations. International Journal of High Performance Computing Applications 15, 3 (2001), 200 
222.
Bruno S. Frey and Reto Jegen. 1999. Motivation crowding theory: A survey of empirical evidence. Institute
for Empirical Research in Economics, University of Zurich.
Jon Froehlich, Tawanna Dillahunt, Predrag Klasnja, Jennifer Mankoff, Sunny Consolvo, Beverly Harrison,
and James A. Landay. 2009. UbiGreen: investigating a mobile tool for tracking and supporting green
transportation habits. In Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Human Factors in Com-
puting Systems (CHI 09). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 1043.
Raghu Ganti, Fan Ye, and Hui Lei. 2011. Mobile crowdsensing: current state and future challenges. IEEE
Communications Magazine 49, 11 (2011), 32 39.
Raghu K. Ganti, Nam Pham, Hossein Ahmadi, Saurabh Nangia, and Tarek F. Abdelzaher. 2010. GreenGPS:
a participatory sensing fuel-ef cient maps application. In Proceedings of the 8th International Confer-
ence on Mobile Systems, Applications, and Services (MobiSys 10). ACM Press, New York, New York,
USA, 151.
Bura Gedik and Ling Liu. 2008. Protecting location privacy with personalized k-anonymity: Architecture
and algorithms. IEEE Transactions on Mobile Computing 7, 1 (2008), 1 18.
David Geiger, Stefan Seedorf, Thimo Schulze, Robert C. Nickerson, and Martin Schader. 2011. Managing
the crowd: Towards a taxonomy of crowdsourcing processes. (2011). http://aisel.aisnet.org/amcis2011
submissions/430
Eric Gilbert and Karrie Karahalios. 2009. Predicting tie strength with social media. In Proceedings of the
27th International Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI 09). ACM Press, New
York, New York, USA, 211.
Howard Giles and Jane Giles. 2012. Ingroups and outgroups. In Inter/Cultural communication: Represen-
tation and construction of culture., Anastacia Kurylo (Ed.). Sage Publications, Chapter 7, 141 161.
Kimberly Glasgow and Clayton Fink. 2013. Hashtag lifespan and social networks during the London riots.
In Social Computing, Behavioral-Cultural Modeling and Prediction. Springer, 311 320.
Lakshmi Goel, Norman Johnson, Iris Junglas, and Blake Ives. 2013. Predicting users  return to virtual
worlds: a social perspective. Information Systems Journal 23, 1 (2013), 35 63.
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
29
Sreenivas Gollapudi and Aneesh Sharma. 2009. An axiomatic approach for result diversi cation. In Pro-
ceedings of the 18th International Conference on World Wide Web (WWW 09). ACM Press, New York,
New York, USA, 381.
Rajdeep Grewal, Gary L. Lilien, and Girish Mallapragada. 2006. Location, location, location: How network
embeddedness affects project success in open source systems. Management Science 52, 7 (2006), 1043 
1056.
Bin Guo, Zhu Wang, Zhiwen Yu, Yu Wang, Neil Y. Yen, Runhe Huang, and Xingshe Zhou. 2015. Mobile crowd
sensing and computing. Comput. Surveys 48, 1 (2015), 1 31.
Bin Guo, Daqing Zhang, Zhu Wang, Zhiwen Yu, and Xingshe Zhou. 2013. Opportunistic IoT: Exploring the
harmonious interaction between human and the Internet of Things. Journal of Network and Computer
Applications 36, 6 (2013), 1531 1539.
Johannes Hachmann, Roberto Olivares-Amaya, Sule Atahan-Evrenk, Carlos Amador-Bedolla, Roel S.
Sanchez-Carrera, Aryeh Gold-Parker, Leslie Vogt, Anna M. Brockway, and Alan Aspuru-Guzik. 2011.
The Harvard Clean Energy Project: Large-scale computational screening and design of organic photo-
voltaics on the World Community Grid. The Journal of Physical Chemistry Letters 2, 17 (2011), 2241 
2251.
Jungpil Hahn, Jae Yun Moon, and Chen Zhang. 2008. Emergence of new project teams from open source
software developer networks: Impact of prior collaboration ties. Information Systems Research 19, 3
(2008), 369 391.
Robin Hanson, Ryan Oprea, and David Porter. 2006. Information aggregation and manipulation in an ex-
perimental market. Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization 60, 4 (2006), 449 459.
Thomas Hardjono and Brian Weis. 2004. The multicast group security architecture. (2004). https://tools.ietf.
org/html/rfc3740
Alexander Hars and Shaosong Ou. 2001. Working for free? Motivations of participating in open source
projects. In Proceedings of the 34th Annual Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences. IEEE
Comput. Soc, 9.
Yongqiang He, Rubao Lee, Yin Huai, Zheng Shao, Namit Jain, Xiaodong Zhang, and Zhiwei Xu. 2011. RC-
File: A fast and space-ef cient data placement structure in MapReduce-based warehouse systems. In
Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Data Engineering. IEEE, 1199 1208.
Guido Hertel, Sven Niedner, and Stefanie Herrmann. 2003. Motivation of software developers in Open
Source projects: an Internet-based survey of contributors to the Linux kernel. Research Policy 32, 7
(2003), 1159 1177.
Paul Heymann, Georgia Koutrika, and Hector Garcia-Molina. 2008. Can social bookmarking improve
web search?. In Proceedings of the International Conference on Web Search and Web Data Mining
(WSDM 08). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 195.
Michael A Hogg and Scott A Reid. 2006. Social identity, self-categorization, and the communication of group
norms. Communication Theory 16 (2006), 7 30.
Susan Horwitz, Thomas Reps, and David Binkley. 2004. Interprocedural slicing using dependence graphs.
ACM SIGPLAN Notices 39, 4 (2004), 229.
Jeff Howe. 2006. The rise of crowdsourcing. Wired magazine 14, 6 (2006), 1 4.
Desislava Hristova, Giovanni Quattrone, Afra J Mashhadi, and Licia Capra. 2013. The life of the party:
Impact of social mapping in OpenStreetMap. In Proceedings of the 7th International Conference on
Weblogs and Social Media (ICWSM 13). 234 243.
Shun-Yun Hu, Jui-Fa Chen, and Tsu-Han Chen. 2006. VON: A scalable peer-to-peer network for virtual
environments. IEEE Network 20, 4 (2006), 22 31.
Jeff Huang and Efthimis N. Efthimiadis. 2009. Analyzing and evaluating query reformulation strategies in
web search logs. In Proceedings of the 18th ACM Conference on Information and Knowledge Management
(CIKM 09). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 77.
Kuan Lun Huang, Salil S. Kanhere, and Wen Hu. 2010. Preserving privacy in participatory sensing systems.
Computer Communications 33, 11 (2010), 1266 1280.
Markus C Huebscher and Julie A McCann. 2008. A survey of autonomic computingdegrees, models, and
applications. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR) 40, 3 (2008), 7.
Daniel Hughes, Geoff Coulson, and James Walkerdine. 2005. Free riding on Gnutella revisited: The bell
tolls? IEEE Distributed Systems Online 6, 6 (2005), 1 1.
Panagiotis G. Ipeirotis, Foster Provost, and Jing Wang. 2010. Quality management on Amazon Mechanical
Turk. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGKDD Workshop on Human Computation (HCOMP 10). ACM Press,
New York, New York, USA, 64.
30
M. Tsvetkova et al.
Bernard J. Jansen, Danielle L. Booth, and Amanda Spink. 2008. Determining the informational, naviga-
tional, and transactional intent of Web queries. Information Processing & Management 44, 3 (2008),
1251 1266.
Haiyan Jia, Mu Wu, Eunhwa Jung, Alice Shapiro, and S Shyam Sundar. 2012. Balancing human agency
and object agency: an end-user interview study of the Internet of things. In Proceedings of the 2012
ACM Conference on Ubiquitous Computing. ACM, 1185 1188.
Jeff Jones. 2010. The emergence and dynamical evolution of complex transport networks from simple low-
level behaviours. International Journal of Unconventional Computing 6, 2 (2010), 125 144.
Kiku Jones and Lori N.K. Leonard. 2008. Trust in consumer-to-consumer electronic commerce. Information
& Management 45, 2 (2008), 88 95.
Audun J sang, Roslan Ismail, and Colin Boyd. 2007. A survey of trust and reputation systems for online
service provision. Decision Support Systems 43, 2 (2007), 618 644.
David Julian, Mung Chiang, Daniel O Neill, and Stephen Boyd. 2002. QoS and fairness constrained convex
optimization of resource allocation for wireless cellular and ad hoc networks. In Proceedings of the 21st
Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies (INFOCOM 02), Vol. 2.
IEEE, 477 486.
Vihang Kamble and Vinod Sharma. 2004. A simple approach to provide QoS and fairness in Internet. In Pro-
ceedings of the International Conference on Signal Processing and Communications. Bangalore, India,
412 417.
Sepandar D. Kamvar, Mario T. Schlosser, and Hector Garcia-Molina. 2003. The Eigentrust algorithm for
reputation management in P2P networks. In Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on World
Wide Web (WWW 03). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 640.
Andreas M. Kaplan and Michael Haenlein. 2010. Users of the world, unite! The challenges and opportunities
of Social Media. Business Horizons 53, 1 (2010), 59 68.
Alexander Kawrykow, Gary Roumanis, Alfred Kam, Daniel Kwak, Clarence Leung, Chu Wu, Eleyine Zarour,
Luis Sarmenta, Mathieu Blanchette, and J er ome Waldisp  uhl. 2012. Phylo: a citizen science approach
for improving multiple sequence alignment. PloS one 7, 3 (2012), e31362.
Jeffrey O. Kephart and David M. Chess. 2003. The vision of autonomic computing. Computer 36, 1 (2003),
41 50.
Wazir Zada Khan, Yang Xiang, Mohammed Y Aalsalem, and Quratulain Arshad. 2013. Mobile phone sensing
systems: A survey. IEEE Communications Surveys & Tutorials 15, 1 (2013), 402 427.
Firas Khatib, Seth Cooper, Michael D Tyka, Kefan Xu, Ilya Makedon, Zoran Popovic, David Baker, and
Foldit Players. 2011. Algorithm discovery by protein folding game players. Proceedings of the National
Academy of Sciences 108, 47 (2011), 18949 53.
Jan H. Kietzmann, Bruno S. Silvestre, Ian P. McCarthy, and Leyland F. Pitt. 2012. Unpacking the social
media phenomenon: towards a research agenda. Journal of Public Affairs 12, 2 (2012), 109 119.
Won Kim, Ok-Ran Jeong, and Sang-Won Lee. 2010. On social Web sites. Information Systems 35, 2 (2010),
215 236.
Aniket Kittur, Jeffrey V. Nickerson, Michael Bernstein, Elizabeth Gerber, Aaron Shaw, John Zimmerman,
Matt Lease, and John Horton. 2013. The future of crowd work. In Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on
Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW 13). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 1301.
Aniket Kittur, Boris Smus, Susheel Khamkar, and Robert E. Kraut. 2011. CrowdForge: Crowdsourcing
complex work. In Proceedings of the 24th Annual ACM Symposium on User Interface Software and
Technology (UIST 11). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 43.
Jon M. Kleinberg. 1999. Authoritative sources in a hyperlinked environment. J. ACM 46, 5 (1999), 604 632.
Michal Kosinski, David Stillwell, and Thore Graepel. 2013. Private traits and attributes are predictable
from digital records of human behavior. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 110, 15 (2013),
5802 5.
Iordanis Koutsopoulos. 2013. Optimal incentive-driven design of participatory sensing systems. In Pro-
ceedings of the Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies (INFO-
COM 13). 1402 1410.
Adam D.I. Kramer, Jamie E. Guillory, and Jeffrey T. Hancock. 2014. Experimental evidence of massive-scale
emotional contagion through social networks. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 111, 24
(2014), 8788 90.
Hanna Krasnova, Sarah Spiekermann, Ksenia Koroleva, and Thomas Hildebrand. 2010. Online social net-
works: why we disclose. Journal of Information Technology 25, 2 (2010), 109 125.
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
31
Haewoon Kwak, Changhyun Lee, Hosung Park, and Sue Moon. 2010. What is Twitter, a social network or a
news media?. In Proceedings of the 19th International Conference on World Wide Web (WWW 10). ACM
Press, New York, New York, USA, 591.
Karim R. Lakhani, Kevin J. Boudreau, Po-Ru Loh, Lars Backstrom, Carliss Baldwin, Eric Lonstein, Mike
Lydon, Alan MacCormack, Ramy A. Arnaout, and Eva C. Guinan. 2013. Prize-based contests can provide
solutions to computational biology problems. Nature biotechnology 31, 2 (2013), 108 11.
Karim R. Lakhani and Eric von Hippel. 2003. How open source software works:  free  user-to-user assis-
tance. Research Policy 32, 6 (2003), 923 943.
Nicholas Lane, Emiliano Miluzzo, Hong Lu, Daniel Peebles, Tanzeem Choudhury, and Andrew Campbell.
2010. A survey of mobile phone sensing. IEEE Communications Magazine 48, 9 (2010), 140 150.
David J. Langley, Maarten C. Hoeve, J. Roland Ortt, Nico Pals, and Bob van der Vecht. 2014. Patterns of
herding and their occurrence in an online setting. Journal of Interactive Marketing 28, 1 (2014), 16 25.
Bruno Latour. 2005. Reassembling the Social   An Introduction to Actor-Network-Theory. Oxford University
Press, Oxford, UK.
John Law. 1992. Notes on the theory of the actor-network: Ordering, strategy, and heterogeneity. Systems
Practice 5, 4 (1992), 379 393.
Jeehyung Lee, Wipapat Kladwang, Minjae Lee, Daniel Cantu, Martin Azizyan, Hanjoo Kim, Alex
Limpaecher, Sungroh Yoon, Adrien Treuille, and Rhiju Das. 2014. RNA design rules from a massive
open laboratory. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 111, 6 (2014), 2122 7.
John D. Lee and Neville Moray. 1992. Trust, control strategies and allocation of function in human-machine
systems. Ergonomics 35, 10 (1992), 1243 1270.
John D. Lee and K.atrina A. See. 2004. Trust in automation: Designing for appropriate reliance. The Journal
of the Human Factors and Ergonomics of Society 46, 1 (2004), 50 80.
Juong-Sik Lee and Baik Hoh. 2010. Sell your experiences: a market mechanism based incentive for partici-
patory sensing. In Proceedings of the 2010 IEEE International Conference on Pervasive Computing and
Communications (PerCom). 60 68.
Kyu-Min Lee, Byungjoon Min, and Kwang-Il Goh. 2015. Towards real-world complexity: an introduction to
multiplex networks. The European Physical Journal B 88, 2 (2015), 1 20.
Mikaila Mariel Lemonik Arthur. 2013. Emergent norm theory. In The Wiley-Blackwell Encyclopedia of So-
cial and Political Movements. Blackwell Publishing Ltd, Oxford, UK.
Paul M. Leonardi. 2012. Materiality, sociomateriality, and socio-technical systems: What do these terms
mean? How are they related? Do we need them? In Materiality and Organizing: Social Interaction in a
Technological World, Paul M. Leonardi, B. A. Nardi, and J. Kallinikos (Eds.). Oxford University Press,
Oxford, 25 48.
Loet Leydesdorff, F elix de Moya-Aneg on, and Vicente P. Guerrero-Bote. 2015. Journal Maps, interactive
overlays, and the measurement of interdisciplinarity on the basis of Scopus data (1996-2012). Journal
of the Association for Information Science and Technology 66, 5 (2015), 1001 1016.
Loet Leydesdorff, Ismael Rafols, and Chaomei Chen. 2013. Interactive overlays of journals and the measure-
ment of interdisciplinarity on the basis of aggregated journal-journal citations. Journal of the American
Society of Information Science & Technology 64 (2013), 2573 2586. Issue 12.
Qinghua Li, Guohong Cao, and Thomas F. La Porta. 2014. Ef cient and privacy-aware data aggregation in
mobile sensing. IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing 11, 2 (2014), 115 129.
Carolyn A. Lin. 2003. An interactive communication technology adoption model. Communication Theory 13,
4 (2003), 345 365.
Heshan Lin, Xiaosong Ma, Jeremy Archuleta, Wu-chun Feng, Mark Gardner, and Zhe Zhang. 2010. MOON:
MapReduce On opportunistic eNvironments. In Proceedings of the 19th ACM International Symposium
on High Performance Distributed Computing (HPDC 10). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 95.
Kuan-Yu Lin and Hsi-Peng Lu. 2011. Why people use social networking sites: An empirical study integrating
network externalities and motivation theory. Computers in Human Behavior 27, 3 (2011), 1152 1161.
Y. Lin, W.J. Zhang, and L.G. Watson. 2003. Using eye movement parameters for evaluating human-machine
interface frameworks under normal control operation and fault detection situations. International Jour-
nal of Human-Computer Studies 59, 6 (2003), 837 873.
Jan Lorenz, Heiko Rauhut, Frank Schweitzer, and Dirk Helbing. 2011. How social in uence can undermine
the wisdom of crowd effect. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 108, 22 (2011), 9020 5.
Long J. Lu, Andrea Sboner, Yuanpeng J Huang, Hao Xin Lu, Tara A Gianoulis, Kevin Y Yip, Philip M
Kim, Gaetano T Montelione, and Mark B Gerstein. 2007. Comparing classical pathways and modern
networks: towards the development of an edge ontology. Trends in Biochemical Sciences 32, 7 (2007),
320 331.
32
M. Tsvetkova et al.
Yaobin Lu, Ling Zhao, and Bin Wang. 2010. From virtual community members to C2C e-commerce buyers:
Trust in virtual communities and its effect on consumers  purchase intention. Electronic Commerce
Research and Applications 9, 4 (2010), 346 360.
David Lusseau. 2003. The emergent properties of a dolphin social network. Proceedings of the Royal Society
B: Biological Sciences 270, Suppl 2 (2003), S186 S188.
Marcin, Stefan Skowron, Aleksandra Rank, and widerska. 2014. Applying a text-based affective dialogue
system in psychological research: Case studies on the effects of system behaviour, interaction context
and social exclusion. Springer US 6, 6 (2014), 872 891.
Fabrizio Marozzo, Domenico Talia, and Paolo Trun o. 2012. P2P-MapReduce: Parallel data processing in
dynamic Cloud environments. J. Comput. System Sci. 78, 5 (2012), 1382 1402.
Winter Mason and Duncan J. Watts. 2010. Financial incentives and the  performance of crowds . ACM
SIGKDD Explorations Newsletter 11, 2 (2010), 100.
Philip Mayer, Jos e Velasco, Annabelle Klarl, Rolf Hennicker, Mariachiara Puviani, Francesco Tiezzi, Rosario
Pugliese, Jaroslav Keznikl, and Tom a s Bure s. 2015. The autonomic cloud. In Software Engineering for
Collective Autonomic Systems, Martin Wirsing, Matthias Hlzl, Nora Koch, and Philip Mayer (Eds.).
Lecture Notes in Computer Science, Vol. 8998. Springer International Publishing, 495 512.
Bill McEvily, Vincenzo Perrone, and Akbar Zaheer. 2003. Trust as an organizing principle. Organization
Science 14, 1 (2003), 91 103.
Kurt Mehlhorn and Stefan N aher. 1989. LEDA a library of ef cient data types and algorithms. In Mathe-
matical Foundations of Computer Science 1989. Springer, 88 106.
D. Mendez, M. Labrador, and K. Ramachandran. 2013. Data interpolation for participatory sensing systems.
Pervasive and Mobile Computing 9, 1 (2013), 132 148.
Ron Milo. 2002. Network motifs: Simple building blocks of complex networks. Science 298, 5594 (2002),
824 827.
Alan Mislove, Massimiliano Marcon, Krishna P. Gummadi, Peter Druschel, and Bobby Bhattacharjee. 2007.
Measurement and analysis of online social networks. In Proceedings of the 7th ACM SIGCOMM Confer-
ence on Internet Measurement (IMC 07). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 29.
Audris Mockus, Roy T Fielding, and James D Herbsleb. 2002. Two case studies of open source software
development: Apache and Mozilla. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology 11, 3
(2002), 309 346.
Meredith Ringel Morris. 2013. Collaborative search revisited. In Proceedings of the 2013 Conference on
Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW 13). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 1181.
Meredith Ringel Morris and Eric Horvitz. 2007. SearchTogether. In Proceedings of the 20th Annual ACM
Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology (UIST 07). ACM Press, New York, New York,
USA, 3.
Meredith Ringel Morris, Jaime Teevan, and Katrina Panovich. 2010. What do people ask their social net-
works, and why?. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems (CHI 10). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 1739.
Lev Muchnik, Sinan Aral, and Sean J Taylor. 2013. Social in uence bias: a randomized experiment. Science
(New York, N.Y.) 341, 6146 (2013), 647 51.
Tom Murray, beverly Woolf, Ethan Katsh, Leon Osterweil, Lori Carlke, and Leah Wing. 2014. SoCS: The
fourth party: Improving computer-mediated deliberation through cognitive, social and emotional sup-
port. In Final report of the Social Deliverative Skills (SoCS) project. ACM Press, 62.
Dave Murray-Rust, Ognjen Scekic, Hong-Linh Truong, Dave Robertson, and Schahram Dustdar. 2014. A
collaboration model for community-based software development with social machines. In Proceedings of
the COLLABORATECOM Conference. ICST, 10.
Mark E.J. Newman. 2003. The structure and function of complex networks. SIAM Rev. 45, 2 (2003), 167 256.
Mark E.J. Newman and Juyong Park. 2003. Why social networks are different from other types of networks.
Physical Review E 68, 3 (2003), 036122.
Donald A. Norman, Andrew Ortony, and Daniel M. Russell. 2003. Affect and machine design: Lessons for
the development of autonomous machines. IBM Systems Journal 42, 1 (2003), 38 44.
Oded Nov, David Anderson, and Ofer Arazy. 2010. Volunteer computing: a model of the factors determining
contribution to community-based scienti c research. In Proceedings of the 19th International Conference
on World Wide Web (WWW 10). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 741.
Cory R. Ondrejka. 2004. Aviators, moguls, fashionistas and barons: Economics and ownership in Second
Life. SSRN Electronic Journal (2004).
Jukka-Pekka Onnela and Felix Reed-Tsochas. 2010. Spontaneous emergence of social in uence in online
systems. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 107, 43 (2010), 18375 80.
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
33
Shaul Oreg and Oded Nov. 2008. Exploring motivations for contributing to open source initiatives: The roles
of contribution context and personal values. Computers in Human Behavior 24, 5 (2008), 2055 2073.
Lawrence Page, Sergey Brin, Rajeev Motwani, and Terry Winograd. 1999. The PageRank citation ranking:
Bringing order to the Web. (1999). http://ilpubs.stanford.edu:8090/422/1/1999-66.pdf
Maja Pantic and Leon J.M. Rothkrantz. 2003. Toward an affect-sensitive multimodal human-computer in-
teraction. Proc. IEEE 91, 9 (2003), 1370 1390.
Eli Pariser. 2011. The  lter bubble: What the Internet is hiding from you. Penguin UK.
Veljko Pejovic and Mirco Musolesi. 2015. Anticipatory mobile computing: A survey of the state of the art and
research challenges. Comput. Surveys 47, 3 (2015), 1 29.
Rosalind W. Picard, Elias Vyzas, and Jennifer Healey. 2001. Toward machine emotional intelligence: Analy-
sis of affective physiological state. IEEE Transactions on Pattern Analysis and Machine Intelligence 23,
10 (2001), 1175 1191.
J. A. Pouwelse, P. Garbacki, J. Wang, A. Bakker, J. Yang, A. Iosup, D. H. J. Epema, M. Reinders, M. R. van
Steen, and H. J. Sips. 2008. TRIBLER: a social-based peer-to-peer system. Concurrency and Computa-
tion: Practice and Experience 20, 2 (2008), 127 138.
Tobias Prokesch, Heiko A. von der Gracht, and Holger Wohlenberg. 2015. Integrating prediction market
and Delphi methodology into a foresight support system Insights from an online game. Technological
Forecasting and Social Change 97 (2015), 47 64.
Alexander J. Quinn and Benjamin B. Bederson. 2011. Human computation: a survey and taxonomy of a
growing  eld. In Proceedings of the 2011 Annual Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems
(CHI 11). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 1403.
Moo-Ryong Ra, Bin Liu, Tom F. La Porta, and Ramesh Govindan. 2012. Medusa: A programming framework
for crowd-sensing applications. In Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Mobile Systems,
Applications, and Services (MobiSys 12). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 337.
Mika Raento, Antti Oulasvirta, and Nathan Eagle. 2009. Smartphones: An emerging tool for social scien-
tists. Sociological Methods & Research 37, 3 (2009), 426 454.
Vikas C. Raykar and Shipeng Yu. 2011. Ranking annotators for crowdsourced labeling tasks. In Advances
in Neural Information Processing Systems. 1809 1817.
Vikas C. Raykar, Shipeng Yu, Linda H. Zhao, Gerardo Hermosillo Valadez, Charles Florin, Luca Bogoni,
and Linda Moy. 2010. Learning from crowds. The Journal of Machine Learning Research 11 (2010),
1297 1322.
Patricia J. Rogers. 2008. Using programme theory to evaluate complicated and complex aspects of interven-
tions. Evaluation 14, 1 (2008), 29 48.
Jon Ronson. 2015. So you ve publically shamed. Picador, Oxford, England.
Jeremy Rose, Matthew Jones, and Duane Truex. 2005. Socio-theoretic accounts of IS: The problem of agency.
Scandinavian Journal of Information Systems 17, 1 (2005), 8.
Denise M. Rousseau, Sim B. Sitkin, Ronald S. Burt, and Colin Camerer. 1998. Not So Different After All: A
Cross-Discipline View Of Trust. Academy of Management Review 23, 3 (1998), 393 404.
Serguei Saavedra, Kathleen Hagerty, and Brian Uzzi. 2011. Synchronicity, instant messaging, and per-
formance among  nancial traders. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 108, 13 (2011),
5296 5301.
Apostolis K. Salkintzis. 2006. Evolving public safety communication systems by integrating WLAN and
TETRA networks. Communications Magazine, IEEE 44, 1 (2006), 38 46.
Stefan Saroiu, P. Krishna Gummadi, and Steven D. Gribble. 2001. A measurement study of peer-to-peer
 le sharing systems. In Electronic Imaging 2002, Martin G. Kienzle and Prashant J. Shenoy (Eds.).
International Society for Optics and Photonics, 156 170.
Gregory D. Saxton, Onook Oh, and Rajiv Kishore. 2013. Rules of crowdsourcing: Models, issues, and systems
of control. Information Systems Management 30, 1 (2013), 2 20.
Salvatore Scellato, Anastasios Noulas, and Cecilia Mascolo. 2011. Exploiting place features in link prediction
on location-based social networks. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM SIGKDD International Conference
on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining (KDD 11). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 1046.
J. Ben Schafer, Joseph Konstan, and John Riedi. 1999. Recommender systems in e-commerce. In Proceedings
of the 1st ACM Conference on Electronic Commerce (EC 99). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA,
158 166.
J. Ben Schafer, Joseph A. Konstan, and John Riedl. 2001. E-commerce recommendation applications. In
Applications of Data Mining to Electronic Commerce. Springer, 115 153.
F. David Schoorman, Roger C. Mayer, and James H. Davis. 2007. An integrative model of organizational
trust: Past, present, and future. Academy of Management Review 32, 2 (2007), 344 354.
34
M. Tsvetkova et al.
Nigel R. Shadbolt, Daniel Alexander Smith, Elena Simperl, Max Van Kleek, Yang Yang, and Wendy Hall.
2013. Towards a classi cation framework for social machines. In Proceedings of the 22nd International
Conference on World Wide Web (WWW 13). ACM, 905 912.
Sonali K. Shah. 2006. Motivation, governance, and the viability of hybrid forms in open source software
development. Management Science 52, 7 (2006), 1000 1014.
Kim Bartel Sheehan. 2002. Toward a typology of Internet users and online privacy concerns. The Information
Society 18, 1 (2002), 21 32.
Xiang Sheng, Jian Tang, and Weiyi Zhang. 2012. Energy-ef cient collaborative sensing with mobile phones.
In Proceedings of the Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer and Communications Societies
(INFOCOM 12). IEEE, 1916 1924.
Amit Sheth, Pramod Anantharam, and Cory Henson. 2013. Physical-cyber-social computing: An early 21st
century approach. IEEE Intelligent Systems 28, 1 (2013), 78 82.
Jonathan Silvertown, Martin Harvey, Richard Greenwood, Mike Dodd, Jon Rosewell, Tony Rebelo, Janice
Ansine, and Kevin McConway. 2015. Crowdsourcing the identi cation of organisms: A case-study of
iSpot. ZooKeys 480 (2015), 125 46.
Param Vir Singh, Yong Tan, and Vijay Mookerjee. 2011. Network effects: The in uence of structural social
capital on open source project success. Management Information Systems Quarterly 35, 4 (2011), 813 
829.
Deb Sledgianowski and Songpol Kulviwat. 2009. Using social network sites: The effects of playfulness, crit-
ical mass and trust in a hedonic context. The Journal of Computer Information Systems 49, 4 (2009),
74 83.
Paul R. Smart, Elena Simperl, and Nigel Shadbolt. 2014. A taxonomic framework for social machines. In
Social Collective Intelligence. Springer, 51 85.
Matthias S ollner, Axel Hoffmann, Holger Hoffmann, Arno Wacker, and Jan Marco Leimeister. 2012. Under-
standing the formation of trust in IT artifacts. In ICIS 2012 Proceedings. Association for Information
Systems, Orlando, Florida, 1 18.
Matthias S ollner and Jan Marco Leimeister. 2013. What we really know about antecendetns of trust: A
critical review of the empirical information systems literature on trust. In Psychology of Trust: New
Research, David Gefen (Ed.). Nove Science Publishers, Hauppauge, NY, Chapter 7, 127 155.
Kunwadee Sripanidkulchai, Bruce Maggs, and Hui Zhang. 2003. Ef cient content location using interest-
based locality in peer-to-peer systems. In Proceedings of the 22nd Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE
Computer and Communications Societies (INFOCOM 03), Vol. 3. IEEE, 2166 2176.
Stephen S. Standi rd. 2001. Reputation and e-commerce: eBay auctions and the asymmetrical impact of
positive and negative ratings. Journal of Management 27, 3 (2001), 279 295.
Ben Steichen, Helen Ashman, and Vincent Wade. 2012. A comparative survey of Personalised Information
Retrieval and Adaptive Hypermedia techniques. Information Processing & Management 48, 4 (2012),
698 724.
Constance A. Steinkuehler and Dmitri Williams. 2006. Where everybody knows your (screen) name: Online
games as  third places . Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication 11, 4 (2006), 885 909.
Katherine J. Stewart. 2003. Trust transfer on the World Wide Web. Organization Science 14, 1 (2003), 5 17.
James Surowiecki. 2005. The Wisdom of Crowds. Anchor, New York.
Michael Szell, Renaud Lambiotte, and Stefan Thurner. 2010. Multirelational organization of large-scale
social networks in an online world. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 107, 31 (2010),
13636 41.
Don Tapscott and Anthony Williams. 2011. Wikinomics. Atlantic Books, Limited. 300 pages.
Ching-I Teng. 2010. Customization, immersion satisfaction, and online gamer loyalty. Computers in Human
Behavior 26, 6 (2010), 1547 1554.
Catalina L. Toma and Jeffrey T. Hancock. 2013. Self-af rmation underlies Facebook use. Personality & social
psychology bulletin 39, 3 (2013), 321 31.
Johan Ugander and Lars Backstrom. 2013. Balanced label propagation for partitioning massive graphs. In
Proceedings of the 6th ACM International Conference on Web Search and Data Mining (WSDM 13). ACM
Press, New York, New York, USA, 507.
Viswanath Venkatesh. 2000. Determinants of perceived ease of use: Integrating control, intrinsic motivation,
and emotion into the technology acceptance model. Information Systems Research 11, 4 (2000), 342 365.
Tibert Verhagen, Frans Feldberg, Bart van den Hooff, Selmar Meents, and Jani Merikivi. 2012. Under-
standing users  motivations to engage in virtual worlds: A multipurpose model and empirical testing.
Computers in Human Behavior 28, 2 (2012), 484 495.
Understanding Human-Machine Networks
35
Alessandro Vinciarelli, Maja Pantic, Dirk Heylen, Catherine Pelachaud, Isabella Poggi, Francesca D Errico,
and M. Schroeder. 2012. Bridging the gap between social animal and unsocial machine: A survey of
social signal processing. IEEE Transactions on Affective Computing 3, 1 (2012), 69 87.
Luis von Ahn, Benjamin Maurer, Colin McMillen, David Abraham, and Manuel Blum. 2008. reCAPTCHA:
Human-based character recognition via Web security measures. Science 321, 5895 (2008), 1465 8.
Georg Von Krogh, Sebastian Spaeth, and Karim R. Lakhani. 2003. Community, joining, and specialization
in open source software innovation: a case study. Research Policy 32, 7 (2003), 1217 1241.
Fei-Yue Wang. 2010. The emergence of intelligent enterprises: From CPS to CPSS. IEEE Intelligent Systems
25, 4 (2010), 85 88.
Xinlei Wang, Wei Cheng, Prasant Mohapatra, and Tarek Abdelzaher. 2013. Artsense: Anonymous reputation
and trust in participatory sensing. In Proceedings of the Annual Joint Conference of the IEEE Computer
and Communications Societies (INFOCOM 13). IEEE, 2517 2525.
Steve R. White, James E. Hanson, Ian Whalley, David M. Chess, and Jeffrey O. Kephart. 2004. An architec-
tural approach to autonomic computing. In null. IEEE, 2 9.
Justin Wolfers and Eric Zitzewitz. 2004. Prediction markets. The Journal of Economic Perspectives 18, 2
(2004), 107 126.
Jen-Her Wu, Shu-Ching Wang, and Ho-Huang Tsai. 2010. Falling in love with online games: The uses and
grati cations perspective. Computers in Human Behavior 26, 6 (2010), 1862 1871.
Chenyan Xu, Sherry Ryan, Victor Prybutok, and Chao Wen. 2012. It is not for fun: An examination of social
network site usage. Information & Management 49, 5 (2012), 210 217.
Amir Yahyavi and Bettina Kemme. 2013. Peer-to-peer architectures for massively multiplayer online games.
Comput. Surveys 46, 1 (2013), 1 51.
Nick Yee. 2006. Motivations for play in online games. Cyberpsychology & Behavior 9, 6 (2006), 772 5.
Xi Zhang, Patricia Ord o  nez de Pablos, Xiaojiong Wang, Weiguang Wang, Yongqiang Sun, and Jinghuai She.
2014. Understanding the users  continuous adoption of 3D social virtual world in China: A comparative
case study. Computers in Human Behavior 35 (2014), 578 585.
Elena Zheleva and Lise Getoor. 2009. To join or not to join. In Proceedings of the 18th International Confer-
ence on World Wide Web (WWW 09). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 531.
Pengfei Zhou, Yuanqing Zheng, and Mo Li. 2012. How long to wait?: Predicting bus arrival time with mo-
bile phone based participatory. In Proceedings of the 10th International Conference on Mobile Systems,
Applications, and Services (MobiSys 12). ACM Press, New York, New York, USA, 379.
Runfang Zhou and Kai Hwang. 2007. Powertrust: A robust and scalable reputation system for trusted peer-
to-peer computing. IEEE Transactions on Parallel and Distributed Systems 18, 4 (2007), 460 473.
Zhongyun Zhou, Xiao-Ling Jin, Douglas R. Vogel, Yulin Fang, and Xiaojian Chen. 2011. Individual motiva-
tions and demographic differences in social virtual world uses: An exploratory investigation in Second
Life. International Journal of Information Management 31, 3 (2011), 261 271.
Matthew Zook, Mark Graham, Taylor Shelton, and Sean Gorman. 2010. Volunteered geographic information
and crowdsourcing disaster relief: A case study of the Haitian earthquake. World Medical & Health
Policy 2, 2 (2010), 6 32.
Received November 2015; revised March 2016; accepted June 2016
Online Appendix to:
Understanding Human-Machine Networks: A Cross-Disciplinary
Survey
MILENA TSVETKOVA, Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford
TAHA YASSERI, Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford
ERIC T. MEYER, Oxford Internet Institute, University of Oxford
J. BRIAN PICKERING, IT Innovation Center, University of Southampton
VEGARD ENGEN, IT Innovation Center, University of Southampton
PAUL WALLAND, IT Innovation Center, University of Southampton
MARIKA L  UDERS, SINTEF
ASBJ RN F LSTAD, SINTEF
GEORGE BRAVOS, Athens Technology Center
A. PROCEDURE FOR THE SYSTEMATIC LITERATURE SEARCH
In this appendix, we describe how we executed the systematic literature search. The
 rst step was to identify speci c types of HMNs. We did this by brainstorming for
concrete examples and describing the interactions among humans and machines. This
resulted in differentiating between three kinds of interactions (in addition to  no inter-
action ) for each of the three directed dyadic relations we investigated (human-human,
human input in human-machine interactions, and machine output in human-machine
interactions). The grouping of the HMNs resulted in eight types, out of the 43 = 64
possible.
Second, we used the eight HMN types to systematically collect relevant literature
(illustrated in Figure 4). We started by identifying 4-8  seeds  in each of the types; to
represent the most relevant articles with the highest impact. We conducted exploratory
keyword search on Google Scholar for each type and selected the articles with the
highest number of citations, with an intentional bias for literature review articles.
Due to the emphasis on number of citations, there was also a de-facto bias for older
publications. We then reviewed the content of the seed articles to manually compile
lists of search keywords for each HMN type (Table I).
The lists of keywords were used for systematic searches within the titles, abstracts,
and keywords of all articles on the Scopus bibliographical database (www.scopus.com).
We then looked at the  rst 5000 results, sorted by relevance and selected the highest
impact articles, according to the following formula: C/(2016   Y )2   a, where C is the
number of citations and Y is the year of publication of the article. We set a = 1 for most
cases, with the exception of crowdsourcing and social media, where a = 2, as these
research areas are much more populated. The formula was designed to oversample
recent articles.
Finally, we read the abstracts to manually identify the papers that focused on issues
related to the functioning and the design of the HMNs. This yielded between 11 and
21 articles (including the seeds) for each HMN type.
App 2
M. Tsvetkova et al.
Fig. 4. Method for the systematic literature search.
Table I. Keywords for the Systematic Literature Search
HMN type
Public resource computing
Crowdsourcing
Web search engines
Crowdsensing
Online markets
Social media
Multiplayer online games
and virtual worlds
Mass collaboration
Keywords
 public resource comput*  OR  volunteer comput*  OR  peer-to-peer
comput* 
crowdsourcing OR  crowd sourcing  OR  crowd work  OR  human
computing  OR  human computation  OR  social comput* 
( search engine  AND impact) OR ( search engine  AND design)
 phone sensing  OR  mobile sensing  OR  crowd sensing  OR crowd-
sensing OR  participatory sensing 
 e-commerce  OR  prediction market  OR  online market  OR C2C;
  le sharing  OR  peer-to-peer 
( social network  AND site) OR ( social network  AND online) OR  so-
cial media 
 online game  OR  multiplayer game  OR  virtual world 
 open source  OR wiki OR  mass collaboration 
