Bruno Gon alves  
David S nchez 
Learning about Spanish dialects through Twitter 
 
Abstract: This paper maps the large-scale variation of the Spanish language by employing a corpus 
based  on  geographically  tagged  Twitter  messages.  Lexical  dialects  are  extracted  from  an  analysis  of 
variants of tens of concepts. The resulting maps show linguistic variation on an unprecedented scale across 
the globe. We discuss the properties of the main dialects within a machine learning approach and find that 
varieties spoken in urban areas have an international character in contrast to country areas where dialects 
show a more regional uniformity.  
 
Resumen: En este trabajo, cartografiamos la variaci n a gran escala del idioma espa ol usando un 
corpus basado en mensajes geolocalizados de Twitter. Se extraen las formas dialectales l xicas a partir del 
an lisis  de  decenas  de  variantes.  Los  mapas  resultantes  muestran  una  variaci n  ling  stica  en  todo  el 
planeta con una escala que no tiene precedentes. Examinamos las propiedades de los principales dial cticos 
empleando  t cnicas  de  aprendizaje  autom tico  y  hallamos  que  las  variedades  habladas  en   reas  urbanas 
poseen  un  car cter  internacional,  a  diferencia  de  las  zonas  rurales,  donde  los  dialectos  presentan  una 
uniformidad m s regional. 
Keywords: Spanish variation, Twitter, geolocation, lexical dialectology 
Palabras clave: variaci n del espa ol, Twitter, geolocalizaci n, dialectolog a l xica 
 
 
 
 
 
1. Introduction1 
 
As all social animals, humans depend on communication to live, grow, and thrive and as 
society grows ever more complex so does the need to communicate effectively. The evolutionary 
answer to this need was the development of languages, first in spoken and later in written form. 
                                                 
1  BG  thanks  the  Moore  and  Sloan  Foundations  for  support  as  part  of  the  Moore-Sloan  Data  Science 
Environment at NYU.  
Disclaimer:  This  product  was  made  utilizing  the  LandScan  2007  High  Resolution  global  Population  Data  Set 
copyrighted  by  UT-Battelle,  LLC,  operator  of  Oak  Ridge  National  Laboratory  under  Contract  No.  DE-AC05-
00OR22725 with the United States Department of Energy. The United States Government has certain rights in this 
Data Set. Neither UT-BATTELLE, LLC NOR THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY, NOR ANY 
OF THEIR EMPLOYEES, MAKES ANY WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, OR ASSUMES ANY LEGAL 
LIABILITY  OR  RESPONSIBILITY  FOR  THE  ACCURACY,  COMPLETENESS,  OR  USEFULNESS  OF  THE 
DATA SET. 
 
1 
Language allows us to clearly express our thoughts and feelings, transmit knowledge, coordinate 
large groups of individuals and ultimately achieve our societal and individual goals. For a given 
language to be able to play its fundamental social role it must continuously evolve and adapt to 
serve  the  needs  of  its  population.  As  a  result,  new  forms,  registers,  dialects  and  even  whole 
languages emerge and fade from existence.  
Over  the  years,  linguists  have  strived  to  study  and  analyze  all  aspects  of  variation  and 
change in language (Chambers / Trudgill 1998), both oral (Labov / Sharon / Boberg 2005) and 
written (Bauer 2004) using surveys, interviews, specially crafted corpora, etc. Studies that relied 
predominantly on written records have focused on more formal types of language use, leaving 
the  vernacular  as  a  little  explored  and  understood  domain.  The  recent  massification  of  online 
social  networking  and  microblogging  services  resulted  in  an  unprecedented  wealth  of  written 
content produced by large swaths of the population in many different contexts. Not surprisingly, 
these new Internet corpora have attracted the attention of linguists of diverse backgrounds and 
opened the doors to new and innovative studies on how language use varies both geographically 
and over time (Nguyen et al. 2015) in different languages. Twitter is an excellent example. For 
instance,  using  this  tool  we  (Gon alves  /  S nchez  2014)  find  two  global  varieties  of  Spanish; 
Einsenstein et al. (2014) propose a latent variable model for English geographic lexical diffusion 
and change; Doyle (2014) discusses the differences between Twitter-based linguistic maps and 
results from more traditional approaches; Ibrahim / Abdou / Gheith (2014) use standard Arabic 
and Egyptian dialectal Arabic tweets in a sentiment analysis; Kulkarni / Perozzi / Skiena (2015) 
examine  semantic  and  syntactic  variation  of  English  with  a  massive  online  dataset;  Estrada 
Arr ez / de Benito Moreno (2016) investigate language innovations in online social networks. 
In this work, we build on our previous efforts (Gon alves / S nchez 2014) and use Twitter to 
empirically  define  Spanish  geographically  consistent  dialects.  Based  on  a  machine  learning 
analysis  we  found  that  Spanish  is  globally  split  into  two  large  lexical  clusters.  Cluster    
corresponds to the speech used in largely populated areas (an international variety) while cluster 
  is mostly encountered in rural areas and is thus related to local varieties. Here, using a greatly 
expanded  set  of  tweets  and  an  independent  list  of  words  we  verify  the  existence  of  these 
superdialects and recompute the dialect isoglosses. 
 
 
 
2 
2. Methods 
 
Using  the  Twitter  Gardenhose  we  collected  an  unbiased  sample  of  all  tweets  produced 
between May 2010 and June 2015. See Mocanu et al. (2013), Gon alves / S nchez (2014) and 
Ronen et al. (2014) for further results on Twitter datasets. From these, we selected the subset of 
tweets containing geolocation information and used the Google s Compact Language Detection 
(McCandless  2012)  library  to  identify  all  tweets  written  in  Spanish.  The  resulting  dataset 
contains  106  million  geolocated  tweets  written  in  Spanish.  As  shown  in  Figure  1,  the 
overwhelming  majority  of  Spanish  tweets  are  located  in  Spain  and  Spanish  speaking  Latin-
American  countries  (Moreno  Fern ndez  /  Otero  Roth  2007)  with  the  remaining  tweets  being 
attributable to regions with large expat communities or large tourist attractions.  
 
Figure 1: Geographical distribution of Spanish tweets in our dataset. 
 
 
 
The next step is to define a corpus. We focus on word choice (lexical differences) because 
this level of language is more easily accessed in our database. The advantage of using lexical 
variation is methodological as studying phonetic variation (Penny 2000) in written corpora poses 
many  practical  challenges.  See,  e.g.,  Cahuzac  (1980)  for  a  lexical  analysis  that  leads  to  clear 
divisions of Hispanic America. Our corpus is built from the Varilex database (Ueda / Takagaki / 
 
3 
Ruiz Tinoco 1993). Varilex contains thousands of words and expressions grouped by concepts. 
The  different  correspondences  for  a  given  concept  are  registered  in  many  Spanish-speaking 
locations. We selected a list of 46 common concepts containing 331 lexical features (the full list 
is shown in the Appendix below) and isolated 4 million instances in which these words appeared 
in our dataset of 106 million geolocated tweets in Spanish. The selection of these concepts is 
aimed at examining only geographical distinctions, whilst also minimizing semantic ambiguities 
and register variations. Each instance was mapped to a 25 x25  geographical cell (we have in 
total  3629  non-empty  cells)  for  which  the  dominant  word  for  each  concept  was  determined. 
Maps  for  each  concept  were  generated  by  drawing  a  circle  centered  at  each  cell  with  a  color 
given  by  the  dominant  word  and  an  area  that  scales  with  how  many  times  that  word  was 
observed in that cell.  
Finally, we built a cell x word matrix, M, where element Mcw is 1 if word w is the dominant 
term  for  a  given  concept  in  cell  c  and  0,  otherwise.  This  matrix  summarizes  all  the  relevant 
lexico-geographical information that is necessary to fully characterize the spatial variation of the 
Spanish language. 
 
 
3. Results and discussion 
 
Figure 2 shows the two maps corresponding to the concepts  to miss [someone]  (left) and 
 cold   (right).  From  this  figure  it  becomes  immediately  clear  that  some  forms  are  clearly 
dominant in some regions only to be supplanted by other forms elsewhere. For example, echar 
de menos is the dominant form in European Spanish while extra ar is the more common form in 
the Spanish spoken in America. On the other hand, the geographical distribution of the words 
corresponding to  cold  is much more varied with resfr o being common in the R o de la Plata 
region,  especially  around  Buenos  Aires,  gripa  being  dominant  in  Mexico  and  Colombia  and 
several other forms coexisting in the Iberian Peninsula.  
 
 
 
 
4 
Figure 2: Geographical distribution of words for the concepts  to miss [someone]  (left) 
and  cold, influenza  (right). 
 
 
 
 
It is worth highlighting the fine spatial detail that we are able to obtain with this approach. In 
Fig.  3  we  zoom  in  on  the  geolocations  for  the  words  belonging  to  the  concept   cold   used  in 
Spain. While resfriado dominates in Southern Spain the situation is more diverse in the Northern 
part (Fern ndez-Ord  ez 2012). Clearly, the final distribution is not only geolectal but can also 
include register competition. However, we note that our findings are consistent with the results 
found  in  Varilex,  so  the  outcome  of  our  methodology  is  encouraging  despite  its  obvious 
limitations. Furthermore, in contrast to Varilex our generated maps are not restricted to a few 
towns but show a geographical continuum for the use of the lexical units. In addition, the maps 
are based on an automatic analysis of thousands of tweets including the different words. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5 
Figure 3: Geographical distribution of words for the concept  cold  in Spain. 
 
 
 
The immense amount of data allows us to address a statistical analysis of our results. Our 
aim  is  to  unveil  the  internal  structure  of  the  variation  for  the  Spanish  used  in  Twitter.  The 
different  dialects  and  varieties  should  naturally  emerge  from  the  analysis.  Many  linguistic 
criterions at different levels have been suggested in order to establish well-defined zones with 
dialect similarities. Here, we follow a machine learning approach that consists of trying to find 
regularities in our data (Murphy 2012).  The basic idea is to group cells in K  clusters that are 
mathematically  similar  to  each  other.  This  similarity  in  our  data  has  a  linguistic  origin  and  is 
encoded in M. We therefore use a K-means algorithm applied to the matrix M. However, M is too 
large.  We  can  obtain  a  more  manageable  arrangement  by  reducing  the  M  size  keeping  at  the 
same  time  95%  of  the  variance  (i.e.,  the  meaningful  correlations).  The  difficulty  now  is  to 
establish an optimal value of K that balances the complexity and a relatively small number of 
clusters. This value is found from the metric f(k) (Pham / Dimov / Nguyen 2005).  
We  find  that  the  cells  split  into  two  well-defined  clusters  or  macrovarieties,  which  we 
represent in the map of Fig. 4 (red dots: superdialect  ; blue dots: superdialect  ). Surprisingly, 
the clusters are not localized around a definite region. Both groups are present in all Spanish-
speaking countries (except Cuba, for which we have no Twitter data). There have been previous 
proposals that put forward a bipartition of Spanish into two superdialects. The criterion has been 
mainly  phonetic.  For  instance,  depending  on  the  realization  of  the  implosive  /-s/  Fern ndez 
Sevilla  (1980)  and  Montes  Giraldo  (1982)  have  established  two  large  Spanish  varieties:  the 
 
6 
Southern,  atlantic  or  lowland  dialect  and  the  Central,  interior  or  highland  dialect.  Both 
superdialects  are  at  the  same  time  present  in  Europe  and  America  and  have  no  geographical 
continuity,  as  in  our  case.  Nevertheless,  the  nature  of  our  superdialects  is  entirely  different 
because our analysis is based on the variation of word choice. 
Let us examine in closer detail the properties of our two clusters. In the inset of Fig. 4 we 
plot the statistical distribution of population estimated for each superdialect. Clearly, cluster   
has on average more population than cluster  . We confirm this result by checking that many red 
dots in Fig. 4 correspond to cities and large urban areas (indicated in the figure). We emphasize 
that this conclusion agrees with our previous work (Gon alves / S nchez 2014) but is obtained 
from  a  completely  different  corpus.  The  extension  of  the  two  superdialects  slightly  differs  as 
compared  with  our  earlier  analysis  since  the  Twitter  dataset  is  now  larger.  In  any  case,  the 
presence of the two superdialects obtained through independent datasets shows the robustness of 
our conclusion. 
What  is  the  nature  of  each  superdialect?  The  answer  should  be  found  in  the  influence  of 
cities in the evolution of language. Urban areas have a pivotal role in the globalization process of 
Spanish (L pez Morales 2001). The driving force is multiple (mass media, travellers, emigrants, 
Internet), which tends to a uniformization of the active lexicon eliminating specific words and 
expressions with a marked regional character. We can assume that the pan-Hispanic interurban 
variety enjoys social prestige among Twitter users. We have checked that superdialect   presents 
most of the words in our corpus whereas superdialect   is linguistically more heterogeneous, as 
expected for rural areas. We assign to superdialect   an international Spanish variety understood 
and propagated mostly in the main urban centers and likely related to official media. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
7 
Figure 4: After a cluster analysis, cells represented in Fig. 1 fall into two large clusters or 
superdialects, represented by red (superdialect  ) and blue (superdialect  ) dots. The inset 
highlights the population differences between the two clusters. 
 
 
 
 
We  continue  our  geographical  delineation  of  the  various  dialects  spoken  in  Twitter  by 
further subdividing superdialect  . We identify three distinct regional dialects, as shown in Fig 5, 
corresponding, respectively, to the Iberian Peninsula (in blue), North America, Central America 
and  the  Northern  part  of  South  America  (in  orange)  and  the  Southern  Cone  (in  green). 
Surprisingly,  we  also  find  one  fourth  regional  dialect  (in  yellow)  whose  extension  is  less 
confined and which can be found scattered throughout South America with a predominance in 
the interior of Argentina, where it coexists with the green dialect, and locations along the Andes 
 
8 
mountain range (South, Central and North Andes), where we observe a contact with the orange 
cluster. These diatopically opposable options are truly dialects understood as regional varieties. 
The dialect division of Hispanic America is a topic of ongoing debate; for a review, see Moreno 
Fern ndez (1993). However, our results agree with the most recent proposals (Quesada Pacheco 
2014). The orange dialect spans the south of the United States, Mexico, Central America and the 
Caribbean countries whereas the green variety comprises the Rio de la Plata region in Argentina, 
Uruguay and Paraguay. The former dialect has been more influenced over the years by a closer 
relationship  with  the  European  metropolis  (see  also  the  blue  dots  in  the  Mexican  plateau).  In 
contrast, the Rioplatense Spanish has its own personality due to later settlement of the region and 
less  contact  with  the  prestigious  norm  radiating  from  Spain  during  the  colonial  age.  It  is 
interesting to note that the strongly mixed character of Chile suggests that this country could, in 
fact,  build  up  a  different  region  by  itself,  in  agreement  with  recent  schemes  (Cahuzac  1980). 
Future  work,  which  should  increase  the  size  of  the  dataset  and  reduce  the  noise  levels,  might 
detect more clearly this language variety and also shed more light on the nature of the yellow 
dialect, which now appears to be quite dispersed. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9 
Figure 5: Geographical distribution of language varieties corresponding to superdialect  . 
Note the separation between European and American dialects and the division of the latter 
into three main blocks. 
 
 
4. Conclusions 
 
As technology permeates more and more aspects of our daily lives, our ability to observe 
human behavior through different lenses also increases. In particular, the advent of large-scale 
online social media services implies that we can, for the first time in history, perform a detailed 
analysis of how language is used informally around the world. In this manuscript we extend our 
previous efforts in employing user-generated content to analyze the diatopic structure of modern 
day Spanish language at the lexical level. Using a completely new list of concepts and related 
words and a much larger geolocated Twitter corpus, we recover a more detailed geographical 
 
10 
picture of the two superdialects identified and characterize the regional variations observed. The 
robustness of our results points the way towards a deeper understanding of vernacular language 
and opens the doors to more detailed empirical studies of language usage and evolution across 
the world. This study is one further step towards a large-scale approach to linguistics and we 
believe  that  similar  studies  on  other  languages  will  undoubtedly  allow  us  to  start  to  glimpse 
common mechanisms in language evolution and differentiation.  
 
References 
 
Bauer, Laurie (2004):  Inferring variation and change from public corpora , in: Chambers J. K. / 
Trudgill  Peter  /  Schilling-Estes  Natalie  (eds.):  The  handbook  of  language  variation  and 
change. Oxford: Backwell Publishing, 97-114. 
Cahuzac, Philippe (1980):  La divisi n del espa ol de Am rica en zonas dialectales. Soluci n 
etnoling  stica o sem ntico-dialectal , in: Ling  stica Espa ola Actual 2, 385-461. 
Chambers, J. K. / Trudgill, Peter (1998): Dialectology. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 
Doyle, Gabriel (2014):  Mapping dialectal variation by querying social media , in: Proceedings 
of  the  14th  Conference  of  the  European  Chapter  of  the  Association  for  Computational 
Linguistics (EACL). < http://web.stanford.edu/~gdoyle/papers/doyle-2014-eacl.pdf>.  
Einsenstein, Jacob / O Connor, Brendan / Smith, Noah A. / Xing, Eric P. (2014):  Diffusion of 
Lexical Change in Social Media , in: PLoS ONE 9, e113114. 
Estrada Arr ez, Ana /de Benito Moreno, Carlota (2016):  Variaci n en las redes sociales: datos 
twilectales , in: Revista Internacional de Ling  stica Iberoamericana 28. 
Fern ndez-Ord  ez,  In s  (2012):   El  norte  peninsular  y  su  papel  en  la  historia  de  la  lengua 
espa ola ,  in:  G mez  Seibane,  Sara  /  Sinner,  Carsten  (eds.):  Estudios  sobre  tiempo  y 
espacio en el espa ol norte o. San Mill n de la Cogolla (La Rioja): CILENGUA, 23-68. 
Fern ndez Sevilla, Julio (1980):  Los fonemas implosivos en espa ol , in: Thesaurus: Bolet n de 
Instituto Caro y Cuervo 35, 3, 456-505. 
Gon alves, Bruno / S nchez, David (2014):  Crowdsourcing Dialect Characterization Through 
Twitter , in: PLoS ONE 9, e112074. 
 
11 
Ibrahim,  Hossam  S.  /  Abdou,  Sherif  M.  /  Gheith,  Mervat  (2015):   Sentiment  Analysis  for 
Modern  Standard  Arabic  and  Colloquial ,  in:  International  Journal  on  Natural  Language 
Computing 4, 631394. 
Kulkarni, Vivek / Perozzi, Bryan / Skiena, Steven (2015):  Freshman or Fresher? Quantifying 
the  Geographic  Variation  of  Internet  language .  <http://arxiv.org/abs/1510.06786>  (9 
November 2015). 
Landscan 2007 = Bright, Eddie A. / Coleman, Phil R. / King, Amy L. / Rose, Amy N. (2008): 
Landscan 2007 Dataset. <http://web.ornl.gov/sci/landscan/index.shtml> (27 October 2015). 
Labov,  William  /  Sharon,  Ash  /  Boberg,  Charles  (2005):  Atlas  of  North  American  English. 
Phonetics, Phonology and Sound Change. Berlin / New York: De Gruyter. 
L pez  Morales,  Humberto  (2001):   Tendencias  actuales  del  l xico  hispanoamericano ,  in: 
Revista de Occidente 240, 5-24. 
McCandless,  Michael 
(2012): 
Chromium 
Compact 
Language 
Detector. 
<http://code.google.com/p/chromium-compact-language-detector> (27 October 2015). 
Mocanu,  Delia  /  Baronchelli,  Andrea  /  Perra,  Nicola  /  Gon alves,  Bruno  /  Zhang,  Qian  / 
Vespignani, Alessandro (2013):  The Twitter of Babel: Mapping World Languages through 
Microblogging Platforms , in: PLoS ONE 8: e61981. 
Montes  Giraldo,  Jos   Joaqu n  (1982):   El  espa ol  de  Colombia.  Propuesta  de  clasificaci n 
dialectal , in: Thesaurus: Bolet n del Instituto Caro y Cuervo 37, 1, 23-92. 
Moreno  Fern ndez,  Francisco  /  Otero  Roth,  Jaime  (2007):  Atlas  de  la  lengua  espa ola  en  el 
mundo. Barcelona: Ariel.  
Moreno Fern ndez, Francisco (1993): La divisi n dialectal del espa ol de Am rica. Alcal  de 
Henares: Universidad de Alcal  de Henares. 
Murphy,  Kevin  P.  (2012):  Machine  Learning:  A  Probabilistic  Perspective.  Cambridge  (MA): 
MIT Press. 
Nguyen,  Dong  /  Seza  Do ru z,  A.  /  Ros ,  Carolyn  P.  /  de  Jong,  Franciska  (2015): 
 Computational  Sociolinguistics:  A  Survey .  <http://arxiv.org/abs/1508.07544>  (30  August 
2015). 
Penny, Ralph (2000): Variation and change in Spanish. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 
Pham, Duc Troung / Dimov, Stefan S. / Nguyen, Cuong Du (2005):  Selection of K in K-means 
clustering , in: Journal of Mechanical Engineering Science 219, 1, 103-119. 
 
12 
Quesada Pacheco, Miguel  ngel (2014):  Divisi n dialectal del espa ol de Am rica seg n sus 
hablantes. An lisis dialectol gico perceptual , in: Bolet n de Filolog a 49, 2, 257-309. 
Ronen, Shahar / Gon alves, Bruno / Hu, Kevin Z. / Vespignani, Alessandro / Pinker, Steven / 
Hidalgo, C sar A. (2014):  Links that speak: the global language network and its association 
with global fame , in: Procceedings of the National Academy of Scienes of the United States 
of America 111, 52, E5616-E5622. 
del 
mundo. 
espa ol 
Ueda, Hiroto / Takagaki, Toshihiro / Ruiz Tinoco, Antonio (1993): VARILEX, Variaci n l xica 
<http://lecture.ecc.u-
del 
University 
tokyo.ac.jp/~cueda/varilex/> (5 November 2015). 
 
 
Appendix 
 
Here follows the list of concepts and words used included in our dataset. The Varilex code 
of 
Tokyo. 
number (Ueda / Takagaki / Ruiz Tinoco 1993) is shown in brackets. 
 
 
Concept 
 Slice of cheese  [B009] 
 Demijohn  [B011] 
 Washer  [B038] 
 Plaster  [B046] 
 Attic  [B051] 
 Wardrobe  [B055] 
Lexical features 
l mina de queso, lasca de queso, loncha de 
queso, lonja de queso, rebanada de queso, 
rodaja de queso, slice de queso, tajada de queso, 
queso de sandwich, queso en lonchas, queso en 
rebanadas, queso en slice, queso americano, 
tranchetes 
bid n, bombona, botella grande, garrafa, 
garraf n, tambuche, candungo, pomo pl stico 
lavadora, lavarropa, lavarropas, m quina 
de lavar 
banda adhesiva, curita, esparadrapo, tirita 
 tico, altillo, azotea, buhardilla, guardilla, 
penthouse, mansarda, tabanco 
armario, closet, placard, ropero, 
guardarropas 
 
13 
 Braces, suspenders  [B077] 
 Ring  [B097] 
 Tape recorder  [B111] 
 Blind man s buff  [B119] 
 Merry-go-round  [B134] 
 Loudspeaker  [B153] 
 Flower pot  [B170] 
 Fans  [C001] 
 Waiter  [C014] 
 School  [C029] 
 Amusement  [C028] 
 Stay  [C030] 
 Miss  [C031] 
 Cheek  [C058] 
 Monkey  [C060] 
 Mosquito  [C061] 
 Chance  [C065] 
breteles, bruteles, suspensores, tiradores, 
tirantes 
anillo, argolla, aro, sortija, cintillo 
cassette, casete, grabador, grabadora, 
magnetof n, tocacintas, magnet fono 
escondidas, gallina ciega, gallinita ciega, 
gallito ciego, pita ciega, gallo ciego 
caballitos, calesita, carrusel, tiovivo, 
machina 
altavoz, altoparlante, altovoz, amplificador, 
meg fono, parlante, magnavoz 
maceta, macetero, matera, matero, tiesto, 
macetera, plantera 
afici n, aficionados, fan ticos, fanaticada, 
forofos, hinchada, hinchas, seguidores 
camarero, barman, mesero, mesonero, 
mozo, camarero 
colegio, escuela, centro escolar, scuela 
distracciones, diversi n, entretenci n, 
entretenimiento, pasatiempo 
estada, estad a, estancia 
equivocaci n, error, falencia, fallo 
cachetes, carrillos, galtas, mejillas, 
mofletes, p mulo 
chango, chimpanc , macaco, mono, mico, 
simio, chongo 
c nife, mosco, mosquito, zancudo 
bicoca, chance, ocasi n, oportunidad 
 
14 
 Parcel, package  [C066] 
encomienda, paquete postal 
 Sponsor  [C072] 
 Banana  [C080] 
 Dust  [C082] 
 Bar  [C107] 
 Earthquake  [C109] 
 Shooting  [C112] 
 Glance  [C116] 
 Greasy  [C156] 
 Beautiful  [C159] 
 Cold  [C182] 
 Cellophane tape  [E007] 
 Crane  [E013] 
 Fruit cup  [E017] 
 Gas station  [E018] 
auspiciador, auspiciante, esp nsor, 
patrocinador, patrocinante, propiciador, 
sponsor 
banana, banano, cambur, guineo, pl tano, 
tombo 
nube de polvo, polvadera, polvareda, 
polvazal, polvero, polvoreda, polvor n, terral, 
terregal, tierral, tolvanera 
bar, boliche, cantina, cervecer a, pulper a, 
taberna, tasca, expendio, piquera 
movimiento tel rico, movimiento s smico, 
remez n, se smo, sismo, temblor de tierra, 
terremoto 
abaleo, balacera, baleada, tiroteo 
ojeada, miradita, vistazo 
engrasado, grasiento, grasoso, mantecoso, 
seboso 
bella, bonita, hermosa, linda, preciosa 
catarro, constipado, coriza, gripa, gripe, 
resfr o, resfriado, trancazo 
celo, celof n, cinta adhesiva, cinta scotch, 
cintex, scotch, teip, d rex, diurex, cinta pegante 
gr a, guinche, tecle 
ensalada de frutas, macedonia, cleric , 
c ctel de frutas, tuttifruti, tutifruti 
bomba de gasolina, bomba de nafta, 
estaci n de servicio, gasolinera, bencinera, 
bomba de bencina, gasoliner a, surtidor de 
gasolina 
 
15 
 Interview  [E020] 
 Obstinate  [E026] 
 Peanut  [E027] 
 Scratch  [E032] 
 Sweetener  [E036] 
 Thaw  [E039] 
 Miss  [F125] 
 Park  [D037] 
 
entrevistar, reportear, interviuvar 
cabez n, cabezudo, cabeza dura, cabezota, 
obstinado, porfiado, terco, testarudo, tozudo 
cacahuate, cacahuete, man , cacahu , 
cacaomani 
ara azo, ara  n, aru etazo, aru  n, 
raju o, ray n, rasgu o, rasgu  n 
edulcorante, endulzante, endulcina, 
endulzador, sacarina 
descongelar, deshielar 
echar de menos, extra ar, a orar 
aparcar, estacionar, parquear 
 
16 
