 
 
 
 
 
The Impact of Project Management in Virtual 
Environment: A Software Industry Perspective* 
N. B. J. Gamage 
Faculty of Management Studies & Commerce 
University of Sri Jayawardhanapura 
Gangodawila, 
Nugegoda, Sri Lanka 
bashini.jeewanthi@gmail.com 
Abstract Virtual team in a project within an organization could 
achieve  optimize  project  performance  by  acquiring  appropriate 
human  resources,  coordination,  communication  and  regular 
performance  evaluation.  According  to  the  literature  many  ICT 
tools  will  collaborate  to  manage  virtual  teams,  but  still  most  of 
the  projects  lead  to  failure  in  the  software  industry.  Aim  of  this 
research  is  to  discover  the  most  affected  factors  for  virtual 
project human resource management. 
Keywords     Virtual  environments,  Agile  methodology,  Virtual 
teams, Human Resource management, IT industry. 
I. 
INTRODUCTION 
space  and  organizational  boundaries  with 
A  virtual  team  is  a  group  of  individuals  who  work  across 
time, 
links 
strengthened  by  communication  technology  (Lipnack,  2000). 
Virtual team concept is very common in the software industry. 
Most of the occasions clients and software development team 
in  different  locations  in  the  world.  Sometimes  there  are 
multiple virtual development teams located in different places. 
Their  subject  experts  live  in  different  places  in  the  world.  So 
that project manager needs to hire team from all over the world 
locations. 
As  Cristian  and  Adela's  study  most  of  virtual  teams  are 
ineffective as a percentage 25% , lack of team performance as a 
percentage 27%. Another issue is individual performance lower 
of  team  members  as  a  percentage  17%.  But  another  study 
prove that 18% virtual teams are success in action. Cristian and 
Alde emphasis three main reasons affected to the virtual team 
in trouble. They were, "Lack of face-to-face contact with team 
members  (46%  of  responses),  Lack  of  Resources  (37%)  and 
Time  zone  differences  hindering  the  ability  to  collaborate 
(29%)"( Cristian and Aldea, 2014, p.380). 
Lilian(2013)  argues  that  manage  virtual  team  should  need 
good  and  strong  communication  plan  and  control  among 
between all team members. Managing human resources in the 
virtual team is also big responsibility of team project manager 
or  e-leader.  Papadopoulos  (2015)  state  that  most  of  the 
software  project  managers  use  Agile  methodology  as  project 
management 
in  virtual  environment.  Agile  project 
management  is  process  conducting  with  active  support  of  all 
stakeholders  of  the  project.  Main  advantage  of  this  method 
tool 
 
 
 
 
Agile can easily apply to the virtual teams as well. In a virtual 
environment  team  members  are  located  in  different  places  in 
the world. Basically "tracking the team members performances, 
provide  them  to  sufficient  feed  backs,  resolving  their  burning 
issues  and  optimizing  the  project    performance"(Inc  Project 
Management Institute, 2008, p.215). 
Therefore,  this  research  investigates  Major  factors  that 
could influence effective Project Human in virtual environment 
of  Sri  Lankan  Software  Industry?  Lilian(2013)  argues  that 
virtual team human resource management is challengeable task 
for  practicing  project  manager.  Most  of  the  projects  fails 
because resource inefficiency and late to discover resource skill 
gap. Gain maximum output from the project team in a virtual 
environment  affected  to  project  managers   performances  as 
well as success of the project. Furthermore virtual team human 
resource  management  has  challengeable  issues,  so  to  find 
solution  for  these  issues  I  suppose  to  conduct  this  research. 
This  study  will  benefit  by  the  project  managers  and  other  all 
stakeholders who handle their projects in virtual environment. 
The objectives of this study are as follows: 
  
To  identify  what  are  practicing  project  managers 
facing issues. 
  
To identify factors influence project human resource 
management in Virtual environment. 
In  addition,  the  scope  of  this  research  encompasses  how 
project  managers     handle  their    project    team  members  in  a 
virtual  environment.  How  do 
they  use  Agile  project 
management  methodology  effectively  and  efficient  way  to 
handle the problems while project running? What are the major 
factors affected to the project human resource management in a 
virtual team? 
II.  THEORITICAL BACKGROUND 
A.  Effective project Management 
1)  Virtual team Management 
Virtual team is group of members who working at different 
locations in the world and they communicate and collaborate 
sharing, 
"knowledge 
team  members 
work  by  using  ICT  tools.  Apart  from  the  communication 
between 
transfer, 
acquisition, integration and archive"( Aldea et al., 2012, p. 650) 
doing through ICT tools. "At the same time, Virtual Team have 
the potential to achieve further gains in processes and provide 
high  quality  solutions  by  meeting,  gathering  people  with 
different  knowledge,  expertise"(  Aldea  et  al.,  2012,  p.  650). 
According to  the  Cosmina(2015)  findings  these are  the  issues 
affected  to  the  performance  of  the  Virtual  Team,  such  as 
Elevating goal, structure, Members' competencies(commitment 
and  Trust),  Building  a  collaborative  climate,  Standard  of 
excellence and external support and Leadership. 
B.  Agile project management 
Papadopoulos(2015)argues  that  most  used  and  effective 
approach  to  virtual  team  managing  methodology  is  Agile 
methodology.  Agile  approaches  are  used  to  help  businesses 
respond to unpredictable. "They provide opportunities to assess 
the  state  of  play  and  the  direction  of  the  project  at  different 
points over time" (Amorim and Sousa, 2014, p. 871). "Having 
cross-linked,  self-organized  teams  and  a  flat  organizational 
structure  allows  agile  teams  to  closely  collaborate  without 
needless  complications"(Papadopoulos,  2015,  p.  456).  Agile 
methodology  has  frequent  releases  and  its  move  to  with 
flexible changes of stakeholders or clients. It always welcome 
to changes. 
C.  Project Human Resource Management 
Human  Resource  management  process  contains  main 
elements  such  as  Human  Resource  Planning,  Acquire  Project 
Team,  Develop  Project  Team  and  Manage  Project  Team  (Inc 
Project  Management  Institute,  2008,  p.215).  In  HR  planning, 
project  manager  should  identify  and  record  as  document 
project roles, responsibilities, reportinghierarchy. According to 
the  project  scope  project  manager  should  estimate  size  of  the 
project  team  and  from  where  they  want  to  hire  human 
resources.  Therefore  he  need  to  identifying  and  documenting 
the  project  roles  and  responsibilities  as  well  as  reporting 
relationships."Resolving  attitudes  and  conflicts,  encouraging 
individuals  for  teamwork  and  identify  business  units"(Tohidi, 
2010, p.926) 
is  very 
Acquire  appropriate  Project  Team 
important. 
Because  inappropriate  human  resources  "causes  obvious  and 
hidden  problems"(Tohidi,  2010,  p.926).  Therefore  project 
manager  should  give  high  attention  is  to  the  personality 
characteristics  of  individual.  "In  IT  organizations,  hiring 
qualified people is very important job meaning individuals who 
self-reliable  and  responsible  are  suitable  for  IT  projects." 
(Tohidi, 2010, p.926) 
team 
coordinate 
(e-mail,  video-conferencing, 
Develop Project Team is highly responsible task for project 
manager(Inc  Project  Management  Institute,  2008,  p.215). 
Members  of  a  virtual 
their  work, 
predominantly with electronic information and communication 
technologies 
telephone,  etc.) 
(Hertel et al., 2005, p. 69) Project manager needs to improving 
the  competencies  of  the  team  members  and  interaction  with 
them  to  enhance  project  performance.   For  that  he  can  use 
One-on-one meetings, Modeling the  AS-IS  Business process 
and  Modeling  the   TO-BE   Business  process"  (Cristian  and 
Aldea,   2014,   p.383).   Slow   or   delayed   feedback   due   to 
communication  media  has  negative  impact  on  global  project 
team  performance.  Stawnicza(2014)  argues  that  usage  of 
asynchronous communication tools, such as e-mail, discussion 
boards,  shared  documents,  web  logs,  etc.  for  solving  urgent 
issues,  the  lack  of  immediate  response  can  delay  the  decision 
making process. The communications medium with the highest 
level  of  richness  is  face-to-face  communication,  followed  by 
video conferencing, phone, and chat respectively. 
"The  lowest  richness  level  is  represented  by  e-mail,  text 
messaging  and  written  documents"  (Weimann  et  al.,2010,  p. 
187).  Sharing  knowledge,  information  and  other  relevant 
details  is  most  important  fact  of  the  team.  Most  engineering 
projects,  suits  of  tools  are  also  used  "(e.g.  Google  Apps  for 
Education,  code  hosting  applications  -  https://bitbucket.org/, 
https://github.com/, 
- 
https://drive.google.com)" 
https://www.dropbox.com/, 
(Dascalu et al., 2015, p.104). 
applications 
sharing 
file 
projects, 
EST 
and 
the  GCT 
(Enterprise 
is  well  structured,  and 
Overall  responsibility  is  to  manage  Project  Team.  As 
essential steps of the project management we can take Tracking 
team  member  performance,  providing  feedback,  resolving 
issues,  and  coordinating  changes 
to  enhance  project 
performance.  There  are  many  software  tools  available  for 
measure project performance in different angles. "BCT (Basic 
Communication  Technologies)  are  especially  used  for  high- 
performance 
Software 
Technologies),  e.g.,  ERP  systems  and  project  management 
software  packages,  are  desirable  for  projects  where  the 
environment 
(Group 
Collaboration  Technologies)  must be  given  special weight for 
projects where the environment is less structured, uncertain and 
volatile"  (Pellerin  et  al.,  2013,  p.  860).  These  above  software 
tools helps to optimize real time communication between team 
members  of  the  virtual  team.  Any  Meeting  (Known  as  the 
Freeboard  and  it  has  all  you  need  to  make  an  online 
appointment:  send 
invitations  via  e-mail  create  custom 
registration  forms,  promote  your  meetings  on  Twitter  and 
Facebook,  PC  and  MAC  compatibility,  allows  up  to  200 
participants 
of 
meetings(http://www.anymeeting.com/)),  Caltech s  EVO.(It  is 
the  successor  of  videoconferencing  systems  Virtual  Room 
Video Conferencing and is a tool produced by Caltech. There 
is  no  limit  on  how  many  people  can  participate.  "Client  can 
connect to any server EVO called Panda.), Live Meeting (It can 
streamlined console design, rich multimedia options, webcam, 
audio  controls,  schedule  meetings  and  invite  participants,  live 
Q&A  (audience  members  can  ask  questions  and  get  answers 
without  interrupting  the  presenter))  and  Skype(Millions  of 
individuals  use  Skype  for  audio  and  video  free  calls,  to  send 
instant  messages  and  files  or  for  group  meetings  with  other 
Skype users. It can Skype-to-Skype, call landlines and mobiles, 
conference calling, Skype to go, online number, voicemail, call 
forwarding,  caller  ID  and  call  transfer)"(  Aldea  and  Olariu, 
2014, p. 334). 
unlimited 
number 
 
 
 
 
III.  CONCEPTUAL FRAMEWORK 
 
Figure 1: Conceptual Framework 
 
 
The following hypotheses were developed based on the above 
conceptual  framework. 
Acquire appropriate Team members: 
H01:There  is  no  relationship  between  acquiring  appropriate 
Team members and project performance. 
Ha1:There is relationship between acquiring appropriate Team 
members and project performance. 
Coordination of Team members: 
H02:There  is  no  relationship  between  Coordination  of  Team 
members and project performance. 
Ha2:There   is   relationship   between   Coordination   of   Team 
members and project performance. 
Communication among the team members: 
H03:There is no relationship between Communication among 
the team members and project performance. 
Ha3:There is relationship between Communication among the 
team members and project performance. 
Performance  evaluation: 
H04:There is no relationship between Performance evaluation 
and project performance. 
Ha4:There is relationship between Performance evaluation and 
project performance. 
 
 
IV.  METHODOLOGY 
A.  Research Philosophy 
According to the literature review, most of the researchers 
did studies human resource management of software projects , 
but little  work  has  been  considered  for  virtual  team  handling. 
However  as  of  this  aspect  I  select  analyze  key  factors  which 
impact  to  the  Virtual  team  Human  Resource  management  by 
using  deductive  method.  For  deductive  approaches 
the 
emphases  is  generally  on  causality  (Gabriel,  2015).  This 
proposal  aims  to  investigate  how  traditional  human  resource 
management applies to the virtual team in a given project? 
B.  Research Strategy 
According  to  my  literature  review  I  identified  above 
variables for affecting to the project performance through the 
project human resource management. Qualitative analysis use 
for  interpret  some  variables.  I  need  to  identify  how  do  the 
aforementioned  factors  affect  to  the  employees   performance 
of  a  project,  which  is  managing  in  a  virtual  environment. 
Therefore  I  choose  Quantitative  method  for  conduct  this 
research. 
 
 
in 
to 
the 
To investigate the issues surrounding acquiring appropriate 
human  resources,  Coordination,  communication  and  regular 
performance  evaluation,  a  critical  approach  is  used  from  a 
social critique and a survey study is carried out to collect data. 
Respondents  are  targeted  as  individual  team  members  in  the 
context of organizational context. 
"  There  are  several  research  methodology  approaches 
available  in  Information  Systems  literature"(Arachchilage, 
2012;  Arachchilage  and  Love,  2013;  2014;  Arachchilage, 
2015;  Arachchilage  and  Martin,  2015;  Arachchilage  and 
Martin,  2013; Arachchilage, Namiluku and Martin, 2013).  For 
example,  qualitative,  quantitative  and  mixed  method 
approach.  According 
research  methodology, 
qualitative  approach  could  have  been  used  in  this research 
study. However, quantitative approach is selected  because," it 
offers the flexibility to represent the population in  general of 
users  within  organizations  and  also  widely  penetrated 
approach 
2013; 
Arachchilage  and  Love,  2014)  Furthermore,  quantitative 
research approach can aid to use tables and charts to visualize 
the data, use appropriate means to describe it, and chose some 
methods  to  examine  trend  and  relationship  within  it  using 
statistical techniques. 
(Arachchilage 
and  Love, 
IS" 
Interpretive  studies  do  not  test  a  hypothesis,  as  compared 
to positivist research (Arachchilage et al., 2013; Arachchilage 
and Martin, 2015). Also, if the research is based on a survey or 
experiments,  it  is  more  likely  to  be  based  on  positivism.  So, 
this  proposed  research  approach  would  be  positivist  research 
because it is based on a survey and testing hypothesis derived 
from a research model. Therefore, positivist research could be 
more appropriate because  the focus of this proposed  research 
is to identify the factors that influence to acquiring appropriate 
human  resources,  Coordination,  communication  and  regular 
performance  evaluation. 
The  idea  of  a  survey  is  used  to  obtain  same  sorts  of  data 
from a large group of people in a standard and systematic way 
(Arachchilage, 2012). On the other hand, it may not consume 
respondents  time unnecessarily. 
Perhaps  the  greatest  benefits  offered  by  a  survey  study 
from respondent s viewpoint would be the freedom to choose 
their  best  opinion  from  a  given  set  of  options,  which  is  also 
more  easy  process  for  them  instead  of  having  an  interview 
(Arachchilage  et al, 2015).  Furthermore, overall  survey  study 
could help respondents to get an idea of the research field. 
C.  Population 
Project  managers 
and  Team  Leads  of  Software 
development companies who  manage virtual teams in  the Sri 
Lanka. 
D.  Sample 
I  plan  to  conduct  this  research  for  10  teams  software 
development  virtual  team  with  7-10  members,  who  work 
different locations in the world. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
E.  Operationalization of variable 
Here  I  mentioned  I  identified  independent  variables  and 
measurement  using  a  five-point  scale  Likert  at  1  =   Strongly 
disagree  and 5 =  Strongly agree . 
Variable  
Measurement  
Acquire  appropriate  Team 
Likert  Scale  
members  
Coordination  of  Team 
Likert  Scale  
members  
Communication  among 
Likert  Scale  
the team members  
Performance  evaluation  
Likert  Scale  
F.  Proposed statistical method 
Both  conceptual  and  procedural  knowledge 
  were 
addressed  by  a  total  10  question  items  which  were  evaluated 
based  on  participants  level  of  knowledge.  For  analysis  of 
quantitative data I suppose to use multiple regression method 
and correlation analysis 
V. 
CONCLUSION 
An organization with virtual team and project could achieve 
optimize project performance by acquiring appropriate human 
resources,  Coordination, 
regular 
performance evaluation. According to the literature many ICT 
tools collaborate to manage virtual teams, but still most of the 
projects fails in the software industry. Aim of this research is to 
discover the factors that affect virtual project management in a 
software  organization. 
communication 
and 
REFERENCES 
[1]  Aldea,  C,  C,  Olariu,  C,  2014.  Selecting  the  optimal  software  solution 
under  conditions  of  uncertainty.Procedia  -  Social  and  Behavioral 
Sciences,   [Online].   109   (   2014   ),   333       337.   Available   at: 
http://www.sciencedirect.com [Accessed 04 November 2015]. 
[2]  Aldea,  C,  C,  Popescu,  A,  D,  Draghici,  G,  2012.ICT  Tools 
Functionalities  Analysis  for  the  Decision  Making  Process  of  Their 
Implementation  in  Virtual  Engineering  Teams.Procedia  Technology, 
[Online]. 
http://www.sciencedirect.com [Accessed 07 November 2015]. 
2012 
658. 
5 
( 
Available 
), 
649 
  
at: 
[3]  Amorima,  B,  S,  R,  Sousa,  J,  L,  R,  2014.  Information  System 
conceptualization  drive  of  unique  business  process  through  virtual 
organizations.Procedia  Technology,  [Online].  16  (  2014  ),  867     875. 
Available  at:  http://www.sciencedirect.com  [Accessed  07  November 
2015]. 
[4]  Arachchilage, N. A. G. (2012). Security awareness of computer users: A 
game  based  learning  approach.  Ph.D.  dissertation,  Brunel  University, 
School  of 
Information  Systems,  Computing  and  Mathematics. 
http://bura.brunel.ac.uk/handle/2438/7620.  Accessed  14  November 
2015. 
[5]  Arachchilage,  N.  A.  G.  (2015).  User-Centred  Security  Education:  A 
arXiv  preprint 
to  Thwart  Phishing  Attacks. 
Game  Design 
arXiv:1511.03459. 
[6] Arachchilage,  N.  A.  G.,  &  Love,  S.  (2013).  A  game  design  framework 
for  avoiding  phishing  attacks.  Computers  in  Human  Behavior,  29(3), 
706-714. 
[7]  Arachchilage,  N.  A.  G.,  &  Love,  S.  (2014).  Security  awareness  of 
computer users: A phishing threat avoidance perspective. Computers in 
Human Behavior, 38, 304-312. 
for  Securely  Sharing 
[8]  Arachchilage,  N.  A.  G.,  &  Martin,  A.  P.  (2014).  A  Trust  Domains 
Taxonomy 
Information:  A  Preliminary 
Investigation. In HAISA (pp. 53-68). arXiv preprint  arXiv:1511.04541. 
[9]    Arachchilage, N. A. G., Namiluko, C., & Martin, A. (2013). Developing 
a  Trust  Domain  Taxonomy  for  Securely  Sharing  Information  Among 
Others, International Journal for Information Security Research (IJISR), 
Volume 3, Issues 1 and 2, March/June 2013 
[10]  Cristian, O,Cosmina,C,A, 2014. Managing processes for Virtual Teams 
  a BPM approach. Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, [Online]. 
109 ( 2014 ) , 380    384. Available at: http://www.sciencedirect.com 
[Accessed 21 November 2015]. 
[11] Hertel  G.,  Geister  S.  &Konradt  U.(2005),  Managing  virtual  teams:  A 
review  of  current  empirical  research,  Human  Resource  Management 
Review,1(15), 69-95 
[12]  Inc  Project  Management  Institute,  2008.  A  Guide 
to  Project 
Management  Body  of  Knowledge  (A  Guide  to  Project  Management 
Body of Knowledge).Fourth Edition Edition.Global Standard. 
[13]  Inductive and deductive approaches to research | Dr Deborah Gabriel. 
2015.  Inductive  and  deductive  approaches  to  research  |  Dr  Deborah 
Gabriel. 
at: 
http://deborahgabriel.com/2013/03/17/inductive-and-deductive- 
approaches-to-research/. [Accessed 12 December 2015]. 
[ONLINE] 
Available 
[14] Lilian,  S,  C,  2013.  Virtual  teams:  opportunities  and  challenges  for  e- 
leaders. Procedia - Social and Behavioral Sciences, [Online]. 110 ( 2014 
), 1251   1261. Available at: http://www.sciencedirect.com [Accessed 
01 December 2015]. 
[15] Lipnack,  J,  2000.  Virtual  Teams:  People  Working  Across  Boundaries 
with Technology. 2 Edition. Wiley. 
[16]  Maria-Iuliana,  D,  Ana-Maria,  D,  Melania,  C,  Alin,  M,  2015.  Group 
Maker  Tool  for  Software  Engineering  Projects.Procedia  -  Social  and 
Behavioral Sciences, [Online]. 203 ( 2015 ), 102   108. Available at: 
http://www.sciencedirect.com [Accessed 20 November 2015]. 
[17] Olga, S, 2014. Information and Communication Technologies   Creating 
IT  Project  Teams.  Procedia 
Oneness 
Technology,   [Online].   16   (   2014   ),   1057       1064.   Available   at: 
http://www.sciencedirect.com [Accessed 20 November 2015]. 
in  Globally  Distributed 
[18]  Papadopoulos,  G,  2015.  Moving  from  traditional  to  agile  software 
development methodologies also on large, distributed projects.Procedia - 
Social  and  Behavioral  Sciences,  [Online].  175  (  2015  ),  455     463. 
Available  at:  http://www.sciencedirect.com  [Accessed  07  November 
2015]. 
[19]  Pellerin,  R,  Perrier,  N,  Guillot,  X,  L ger,  P,  M,  2013.  Project 
management  software  utilization  and  project  performance.Procedia 
Technology,   [Online].   9   (   2013   ),   857       866.   Available   at: 
http://www.sciencedirect.com [Accessed 07 November 2015]. 
[20]  Tohidi, H, 2010. Human Resource management main role in information 
technology   project   management.Procedia   -   Social   and   Behavior 
Sciences, 
215-929.  Available  at: 
http://www.sciencedirect.com [Accessed 07 November 2015]. 
[Online].3(2011), 
 
 
 
[21]  Weimann  P,  Hinz  C,  Scott  E,  Pollock  M.  (2010),Changing  the 
Communication  Culture  of  Distributed  Teams  in  a  World  Where 
Communication is neither Perfect nor Complete, The Electronic Journal 
Information Systems Evaluation, 2(13), 187-196. 
[22] Arachchilage, N. A. G., Namiluko, C., & Martin, A. (2013, December). 
A  taxonomy  for  securely  sharing  information  among  others  in  a  trust 
domain. In Internet technology and secured transactions (ICITST), 2013 
8th international conference for (pp. 296-304). IEEE. 
[23]  Arachchilage, N. A. G. (2013). Gaming for Security. ITNOW, 55(1), 32-
33. 
[24]  Arachchilage,  N.  A.  G.,  (2016).  Serious  games  for  cyber  security 
education. Lambert Academic Publishing, pp. 1 244, ISBN-13: 978-3-
659-85318-0.  [arXiv  preprint  arXiv:  1610.09511].  Accessed  15 
November 2016. 
 
