Noname manuscript No.
(will be inserted by the editor)
Fractal social organization as a foundation to
pervasive social computing services
Vincenzo De Florio
7
1
0
2
 
r
a
 
M
7
1
 
 
]
Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
2
v
2
2
2
1
0
.
1
0
6
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Abstract Pervasive social computing is a promising
approach that promises to empower both the individual
and the whole and thus candidates itself as a foundation
to the  smarter  social organizations that our new tur-
bulent and resource-scarce worlds so urgently requires.
In this contribution we  rst identify those that we con-
sider as the major requirements to be ful lled in order
to realize an e ective pervasive social computing envi-
ronment. We then conjecture that our service-oriented
community and fractal social organization ful ll those
requirements and therefore constitute an e ective strat-
egy to design pervasive social computing environments.
In order to motivate our conjecture, in this paper we
discuss a model of social translucence and discuss frac-
tal social organization as a referral service empowering
a social system s parts and whole.
1 Introduction
Several are the de nitions of pervasive social computing
(PSC) that may be found in the literature. Those def-
initions provide di erent pictures of what PSC is and
which challenges it is meant to tackle. A key di erence
is that some de nitions propose PSC as an approach
to augment the individual while others put the accent
on the social dimension. A related major di erence is
given by the challenges that PSC is to tackle. Those
challenges range from the creation of an  an integrated
computing environment, which promises to augment
 ve facets of human intelligence: physical environment
awareness, behavior awareness, community awareness,
interaction awareness, and content awareness  to the
Global Brain Institute and Evolution, Complexity and COg-
nition research group
Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Belgium
E-mail: vincenzo.de orio@gmail.com
de nition of an approach  born for addressing new sit-
uations and new challenges in the age of integrated cy-
ber and physical worlds . Our modern times have in-
deed introduced several new situations that challenge
our ability to sustain our societies and economies [16].
Those situations and challenges may be synthetically
expressed as the advent of Anthropocene the time of
man as the pivotal element for the progress and the
evolution of our ecosystems. In the times of Anthro-
pocene, it is man the main factor who is responsible
for the emergence of ecosystem stability or instability;
it is man s action that can lead either to balance and
sustainability or to rapid resource exhaustion, chaos,
and unsustainability. The ever growing human popula-
tion; a physical world more and more depleted of its
resources; and the widespread of the pure individual-
centric, competitive-oriented model, all themes master-
fully discussed by Hardin in his  Tragedy of the Com-
mons  [25], provide us with a pessimistic vision to our
future. The negative role of man in this context were
brilliantly rendered by famous cartoonist and comic
artist Walt Kelly for the 1970 edition of Earth Day,
in which his character Pogo after observing the dev-
astating e ect of pollution on their habitat concludes:
 We have met the enemy, and he is us! 
I believe such a pessimistic conclusion should be
coupled with other facts of opposite sign. Our modern
times are providing us with unprecedented possibilities
for more pro table and sustainable forms of social ac-
tion. As observed by [4], the  pervasiveness of handheld
devices and the enormous popularity of social network-
ing websites  set the conditions to the emergence of
novel, more e cient and cost-e ective ways to orga-
nize our services. Moreover, a technology  relentlessly
pushing down communication costs  [26] provides us
with the opportunity to evolve our  static, local orga-
nization of an obsolete yesterday  [8] and realize and
2
Vincenzo De Florio
Fig. 1 To be added. Copyright Okefenokee Glee & Perloo, Inc. Used by permission.
experiment with novel, dynamic, and distributed forms
of organization. Our stance in the present contribution
is that PSC may be interpreted also as the technologi-
cal foundation for the de nition of the above-mentioned
novel, dynamic, and distributed forms of organization.
In fact, PSC arti cially augments several  facets of
human intelligence  [37] and realizes a quasi-ubiquitous
 communication channel  that, in the classic de nition
by Kenneth Boulding [6], turns a set of roles into a
social organization, namely the most advanced known
system class in his general systems classi cation.
This paper discusses fractal social organization (FSO)
as an architecture for the design of PSC services. We
 rst discuss social organizations in the framework of
PSC in Sect. 2. FSO is then introduced in Sect. 3. Next,
in Sect. 4, we discuss the relation between FSO and
PSC. Our conclusions and a view to are  nally given in
Sect. 5.
2 Social organizations
One of the  rst and most renowned de nitions of social
system was provided in 1956 by Kenneth Boulding in
his now classic article [6]:
After 70 years from its formulation, Boulding s de ni-
tion is still actual and deserving analysis. The de nition
includes four parts:
A set: This highlights the fact that social actors are
usually grouped into sets, de ned by some measure
of physical or logical proximity. In fact this is a sub-
set of those social actors that are relatively close
to each other according to the above measure. The
term locality has been used to refer to the locus de-
 ned by the physical or logical measure of proxim-
ity [4]. In the case of a pervasive social system this
implies that this set is relatively dense and popu-
lated.
of roles: Quoting again from [6],
 The unit of such systems is not perhaps the
person the individual human as such but
the  role  that part of the person which is
concerned with the organization or situation
in question. 
Shifting the attention from the actor to the role in-
troduces another source of dynamic behavior: a so-
cial system is one in which roles may mutate with
time and the context, leading to complex dynamical
recon gurations.
 it is tempting to de ne social organizations, or
almost any social system, as a set of roles tied
together with channels of communication. 
tied together: This part of the de nition highlights
the fact that in a social  whole  the parts are joined
together by some aggregative force. This force may
Fractal social organization as a foundation to pervasive social computing services
3
be due to cultural, anthropological, or physiologi-
cal reasons. Symbiotic or other mutualistic relation-
ships; a ection; sharing of the same ideals or aims;
lineage; and, in general, the individual returns pro-
duced by the social union strenghten the cohesion of
the parts with the social whole. A dual, disgregative,
force exists, which corresponds to the strength of the
negative returns that are experienced by the social
parts. If the perceived disadvantages resulting from
the social union outweight the perceived advantages,
the parts shall loosen up from the whole, disinte-
grating the social system into its constituent units.
Because of this,  tying the roles together  means
also the ability to accentuate the  centripetal  so-
cial force and to dump the  centrifugal  force. A
technique to achieve this is social translucence: a
socially translucent object, service, system, or user,
is one for which the returns associated with social
interactions are made apparent [24].
with channels of communication: It is once again
Boulding who observes how
 Communication and information processes
are found in a wide variety of empirical sit-
uations, and are unquestionably essential in
the development of organization, both in the
biological and the social world. 
Several aspects should be highlighted here. First,
 communication  is here much more than sharing
data it is sharing structured, semantically described
information [4] that provide snapshots of the in-
dividual and social context: capabilities, policies,
availabilities, location data, as well as viewpoints
about experienced facts. Secondly, nowadays pow-
erful and pervasive  communication channels  are
driven by a technology that o er ever more com-
plex services while  relentlessly pushing down com-
munication costs  [26]. Third, the  pervasiveness of
handheld devices and the enormous popularity of
social networking websites  [4] contribute to the cre-
ation of a quasi-ubiquitous and world-wide  commu-
nication channel  that in practice arti cially aug-
ments several  facets of human intelligence  [37].
It is the ambition of pervasive social computing (PSC)
to realize such social system or better, using Boulding s
terminology, to realize such social organization. PSC
provides a  communication channel  that energizes ag-
gregative forces with the following extra advantages:
one s task. It is then the PSC environment that iden-
ti es actors best-matching the sought roles. PSC
thus shifts the responsibility for handling social ser-
vices from the user to the  channel . It is the chan-
nel that is charged with the task to manage the
highly dynamic set of roles made available by the
actors.
Empowering the Parts: PSC  socially augments  the
individual with   ve facets of human intelligence:
physical environment awareness, behavior awareness,
community awareness, interaction awareness, and
content awareness  [37]. As a side-e ect, this also
strengthens the social  whole  because of the extra
advantages deriving from the augmented awareness.
Empowering the Whole: PSC also empowers the union
of the parts, making it possible to address  new sit-
uations and new challenges in the age of integrated
cyber and physical worlds  [37]. More than this,
PSC favors the emergence of a coherent and pur-
poseful  social behavior  from a set of mostly inde-
pendent individual behaviors. A new  social individual  
the social system then raises from the union of
the parts [17]. The classic behavioral classi cation
of [31] or their extensions such as the one introduced
in [14,13] may then be used to characterize the  sys-
temic class  of the social system. One of the chal-
lenges of PSC is to foster the emergence of advanced
forms of collective intelligence in PSC-empowered
social systems.
Our stance here is that three are the key require-
ments to be ful lled in order to realize an e ective PSC
environment:
1. The de nition of an e ective  communication chan-
nel : a  server  taking the shape of, e.g., a middle-
ware [4] able to o er PSC services to the constituent
actors of a social system identi ed by a given locus.
2. The de nition of an e ective  second-order  com-
munication channel able to o er PSC services to a
set of servers as de ned in 1.
3. The de nition of a mechanism to  tie together  and
e ectively organize a nested compositional hierar-
chy of communication channels.
In what follows we conjecture that our service-oriented
Social translucence: thanks to the PSC environments,
the users can more easily  see through  and  far-
ther , which allows them to identify opportunities
resulting from social unions [24,26,21].
Referral Service: As exempli ed in [4], through PSC
one does not look for roles; rather, one advertises
community (SoC) [17,18] and fractal social organiza-
tion [15,10,11,12] ful ll the above three requirements
and therefore constitute an e ective  strategy  to de-
sign PSC environments. in next secton we introduce
SoC s and FSO s in terms of the three above-mentioned
PSC requirements.
4
Vincenzo De Florio
3 Service-oriented communities and fractal
social organizations
We have concluded last section by identifying those that
we consider to be the three key requirements to PSC. In
what follows we  map  those three requirements onto
the concepts of SoC and FSO.
3.1 Service-oriented communities as PSC channels
A SoC may be described as the practical organiza-
tion of a social system according to the classic de -
nition recalled in Sect. 1:  a set of roles tied together
via channels of communication . Figure 2 provides a
high-level view to the structure of the SoC and high-
lights its relation with social systems and PSC. In a
SoC, a set of roles played by human beings and cyber-
physical systems in physical or logical proximity are
tied together via a social computing engine (SCE). By
means of a publish/subscribe mechanism, said engine is
made aware of: the dynamic assignments of roles; the
availability of the corresponding actors; their engage-
ment policies; their location; the occurrence of events;
resource state changes; requests for service; and other
contextual information. The SCE receives said informa-
tion as semantically described services, which are then
stored into a service registry. The arrival of new service
descriptions triggers a semantic match with the records
already stored in the registry. This is done in order
to identify roles able to ful ll the requests for services
waiting to be answered. Once roles are identi ed, a noti-
 cation is sent to the corresponding actors. In so doing,
social translucence is realized: actors become aware of
the  win-wins  the mutually rewarding relationships
that they may enact and exploit. At the same time,
the SCE makes it possible to optimize the tasks of the
 parts  (the social actors) and those of the  whole  (the
social system). New arrivals are also matched against
service role protocols, namely sequences of actions that
are activated by the veri cation of a guard expressing
the availability of one or more roles. One such protocol,
e.g., instructs what to do when an accelerometer   res ,
publishing the fact that an associated elderly person is
suspected to have fallen [20]. SCE also realizes a sim-
ple form of e-referral [27,32,5]: instead of contacting
possible actors  on a one-to-one basis  [4], requesting
actors just  advertise  their requests. We refer to such
service as  simple  because the range of possible candi-
date roles is limited to those in proximity of each other.
SoC s have been used in the past to realize cyber-
physical societies such as the mutual assistance com-
munity (MAC) [35]. In a MAC, social translucence is
sought by identifying mutualistic relationships through
the use of semantic service description and matching [34].
One such relationship is the so-called  participant  ser-
vice mode, which was exempli ed in [33] and modeled
in [21].
3.2 Fractal social organization
FSO may be concisely de ned as the organization of
a nested compositional hierarchy (NCH) of SoC s. In
order to better explain this concept, we need to describe
two elements: how the NCH is structured and how it is
organized.
The NCH structuring is obtained by allowing an
SoC to be a member of a greater SoC. This means that
sets of roles are included into greater sets of roles. For
simplicity, those sets may be visualized as loci, or con-
tainers, structured as a Matryoshka doll. The idea is
exempli ed in Fig. 3. In that picture we have a set of
layers representing di erent classes of loci for instance
rooms, houses, and buildings. The only di erence be-
tween the loci lies in a simple compositional rule: a
building can contain houses, human beings and cyber-
physical systems; houses can contain rooms, human be-
ings and cyber-physical systems; and rooms may only
contain human beings and cyber-physical systems. This
may be generalized by stating that a level-k SoC can
only include level-j SoC s, with j and k integers such
that 0   k < j and the assumption that a level-0 SoC
corresponds to an individual member a human being
or a cyber-physical system.
The second element we need to clarify is the organi-
zation of the SoC hierarchy. In order to do so, we now
introduce a number of symbols and de nitions.
De nition 1 Given any FSO f , let us refer to SoCf (k)
as to the set of all the level k SoC s of f . When f may
be omitted without introducing ambiguity, we shall use
symbol SoC(k).
De nition 2 Given any FSO f , for any SoC s   f ,
we shall refer to  (s) as to the parent of s, namely the
SoC of f that includes s among its members.
De nition 3 Given any FSO f , let us de ne mf =
maxk SoCf (k). When f may be omitted without intro-
ducing ambiguity, we shall use symbol n to refer to the
root level of f .
De nition 4 Let us de ne as request for services the
following guarded action:
a : r1, r2, . . . , rn,
(1)
in which r1, r2, . . . , rn are role identi ers and n   0 is
an integer.
Fractal social organization as a foundation to pervasive social computing services
5
Fig. 2 General structure of a service-oriented community. Rectangles represent actors and roles. Actors/roles publish context
information (roles, facts, and services) via the publish() method. The top rectangle is the social computing engine, which
manages the PSC services (translucence, referral, and empowering) via semantic description and matching (represented as the
blue triangle). Candidate roles are informed via notify(). If the corresponding actors agree to commit to a social service, they
bind() together and the service is started.
De nition 5 Given any SoC s, We shall say that re-
quest for service a is enabled when it is in the service
registry of the SCE of s.
De nition 6 Given any FSO f , any SoC s   f , and
any request for service a that was enabled in s, we shall
say that a is active when all of its role identi ers have
been associated to actors of f .
Note that, in De nition 6, we refer to the actors of
f , not s. This means that those actors may belong to
any of the SoC s of f .
De nition 7 An association of roles to actors shall be
called in what follows as  enrollment . A  local enroll-
ment  shall be one in which all roles are found in the
present SoC. Otherwise, we shall use the term  global
enrollment. 
As in sociocracy [7], also in FSO we have two orga-
nizational rules:
Double membership: For any 0 < k < m and for any
s   SoC(k), let us call  (s) the SCE of s. The double
membership rule states that  (s) is at the same time
a member of s and a member of  (s).
Exception: Being the SCE of s,  (s) receives noti ca-
tions published by all the members of s. When an
incoming noti cation corresponds to a request for
services a de ned as in (1),  (s) initiates a local
enrollment, trying to identify a set of local actors
to be associated with the roles necessary to enable
a. This is done by checking the current state of
the system registry, which maintains an up-to-date
state of all the members of s. The exception rule
states that, whenever  (s) cannot identify in s all
the roles necessary to ful ll a, it will raise an excep-
tion by publishing a and its missing roles to  (s).
In other words, a failed local enrollment is turned
into a global enrollment.
In what follows, we illustrate how the the SoC and
the FSO ful ll the key requirements to the realization of
an e ective PSC environment that we have introduced
in Sect. 2.
4 SoC s and FSO s as foundation for PSC
environments
As we mentioned in Sect. 2, PSC constitutes a  com-
munication channel  (sensu Boulding s model) that is
characterized by the following major services: social
translucence; referral services; and the empowering of a
6
Vincenzo De Florio
Fig. 3 Exempli cation of a 3-layer FSO. PSC loci are in this case smart rooms, smart houses, and a  smart building . Top
vertex represent SCE s, which manage their SoC and at the same time are members of their parent SoC.
system s parts and whole. In what follows we highlight
how SoC and FSO support those services.
4.1 Social translucence
As already mentioned, social translucence is obtained
in SoC s by identifying mutualistic relationships and
by making the involving parties aware of the existence
of those relationships. In order to better explain this
concept we now introduce a number of de nitions.
De nition 8 (Social action) Let D and R be two
social systems. Behaviors may take place in either sys-
tem as speci ed by behavior sets BD and BR. Then the
following bijective function:
  : BD   BR
(2)
maps behaviors in BD into corresponding behaviors in
BR.
As an example, if D and R are respectively the an-
imalia and plantae kingdoms, then   shall map behav-
iors produced by animals (for instance, respiration) into
behaviors experienced by plants (for instance, produc-
tion of carbon dioxide); and if D and R are respectively
the plantae and the animalia kingdoms, then   shall
map behaviors produced by plants (for instance, pho-
tosynthesis) into behaviors experience by animals (for
instance, production of oxygen).
De nition 9 Let S be a social system in which be-
haviors may take place as speci ed by behavior set BS
. Then the following function:
 S : BS   IS
(3)
maps behaviors in BS into a semantic interpretation/evaluation
of the signi cance of those behaviors for S. We assume
that said interpretation may be associated at least with
one of the following three classes: positive, neutral, and
negative, meaning respectively that the mapped action
is evaluated as being bene cial, insigni cant, or disad-
vantageous. Integers 1, 0, and -1 will be used to repre-
sent the above three classes respectively.
As an example, if S is the animal kingdom, then a
behavior such as b = production of oxygen  would be
considered as bene cial, and therefore  S(b) = 1.
We can now de ne a mutualistic precondition:
De nition 10 (Mutualistic precondition) Let D
and R, BD and BR, and ID and IR be de ned as above.
Fractal social organization as a foundation to pervasive social computing services
7
Then the following conditions are called the mutualistic
precondition (MP) between D and R:
 b   BD :  D(b)   0    R( (b)) > 0
(4)
 c   BR :  R(c)   0    D(  1(c)) > 0
The  rst formula, (4), states that there exists a be-
havior in BD that is interpreted as positive or neutral,
though its occurrence produces positive returns for R.
The second formula, (5), expresses a dual condition: an
action c that is either neutral or positive in R translates
in a bene cial action   1(c).
Animal respiration and plant photosyntesis are be-
haviors that ful ll MP.
De nition 11 (Mutualistic relationship) A mutu-
alistic relationship between two social systems D and
R is de ned as the social behavior occurring when D
and R enact individual behaviors that correspond to
the mutualistic preconditions (4) and (5). When a mu-
tualistic relation exists between D and R, we shall write
D
 
R.
What possibly happens in nature is that the positive
returns triggered by a certain behavior of D stimulate
in R the production of a dual behavior. The positive
interpretation of the latter in D further stimulates the
production of the former actions, which consolidates the
mutualistic relationship between D and R (viz. D
R).
 
De nition 12 (Chain of mutualistic relationships)
Mutualistic relationships may take place also between
three or more social systems; a typical case that occurs
in nature is that of chains of mutualistic relationships:
(cid:33)
 Si( i(b))   0
(cid:32)t 1(cid:94)
(cid:32)t 1(cid:94)
i=0
 b   S0 :
 c   St :
(6)
   St( t(b)) > 0
(cid:33)
 St 1 i(  i(c))   0
   S0 (  t(c)) > 0.
i=1
(7)
The  rst formula, (6), states that there exists a
chain of behaviors that are interpreted as positive or
neutral by a corresponding chain of social systems; and
that the last behavior in the chain produces positive re-
turns for the social system at the end of the chain. The
second formula, (5), expresses a dual condition: there
exists a chain of behaviors that  moves  from the end
of the chain towards its beginning; all those behaviors
are positive or neutral, except at the beginning of the
chain, for which the behavior is bene cial.
 
When (6) and (7) both hold for a set of social sys-
tems S, we shall indicate this by means of symbol
S.
The same symbol shall be used also for any other form
of mutualistic relationship experienced by a set of so-
cial systems S, including the one introduced in De ni-
tion 11.
(5)
The above de nitions and symbols allow us to con-
struct the following semi-formal de nition of social translu-
cence.
 
De nition 13 (Social translucence) Given a set of
S holds, social translucence
social systems S for which
is the property to making all involved social systems
aware that
 
S holds.
Achieving social translucence thus means that the
SCE of a SoC makes use of the notify() method of
Fig. 2 to spread awareness of the existence of a  be-
haviour  (in fact, a service request) that, once enacted,
would result in a mutualistic relationship. In case of
global enrollment, the  rst notify() would trigger sub-
sequent notify() s across the nodes of the involved
SoC s until all the enrolled social systems are made
aware of the bene ts of the social union expressed by
the service request.
4.2 Empowering the parts and the whole through
e-referral
As mentioned before, a major advantage of FSO and the
SON mechanism is given by an e-referral approach that
extends the scope of the one provided by SoC s. When
a request for services a is enabled, the corresponding
actors become a new temporary SoC whose lifespan in
limited to the duration of a. If enabling a request for
services required exceptions in other words, when the
enrollment is global the new temporary SoC is made
of agents from di erent communities. In that case, the
new community brings together nodes from di erent
layers of the FSO hierarchy. Because of this, we call
such a new SoC a social overlay network (SON). The
rigidity of existing organizations is thus replaced by an
agile and dynamic PSC environment that exploits and
promotes cooperation between PSC loci that represent
societal services at di erent scales.
The need for such enhanced cooperation may be
proved by considering two cases: a  rst one focusing
on crisis management organizations, and a second one
related to healthcare. The  rst case is one in which a
single event with a global scope a ects several social
organizations at the same time.
The second case is one in which a single event re-
quires a complex, composite, and coherent response from
8
Vincenzo De Florio
a number of social organizations. In the rest of this sec-
tion we shall brie y discuss those two cases in Sect. 4.2.1
and Sect. 4.2.2.
4.2.1 Crisis management organizations
A practical case where FSO s and their SON s may be
particularly of use is that of crisis management and re-
covery. As observed in [22,13], disastrous events such as
the Katrina hurricane [9] disrupt several concentric  so-
cial layers  at the same time typically local, regional,
national, and federal emergency response organizations.
A major problem that was experienced during the Ka-
trina crisis was that those organizations may be loosely
coordinated and non-cooperating. Con icting goals and
con icting actions; multiple uncoordinated e orts that
resulted in wasting resources and in some cases masked
each other out; the inability to share promptly and dy-
namically the organizational assets according to the
experienced needs; and the inability to make use of
spontaneous (that is, non-institutional) responders [22],
where some of the reasons that slowed down and de-
graded considerably the e ectiveness of the response to
Katrina:
[Responders]  would have been able to do more if
the tri-level system (city, state, federal) of emer-
gency response was able to e ectively use, col-
laborate with, and coordinate the combined pub-
lic and private e orts  [30].
Similar delays and ine ciencies [28] were experienced
also in other cases1.
A major technique advocated as a solution to orga-
nizational delays and e ciencies in disaster recovery is
so-called community resilience. According to RAND [30],
community resilience is
A measure of the sustained ability of a com-
munity to utilize available resources to respond
to, withstand, and recover from adverse situa-
tions. [. . . ] Resilient communities withstand and
recover from disasters. They also learn from past
disasters to strengthen future recovery e orts.
In [29], an FSO for crisis management enabling com-
munity resilience was proposed. By means of multi-
agent simulations it was shown of two SoC s may share
knowledge and resources in the course of a crisis. The
crisis in this case was modeled as a number of houses
catching  re. Timely intervention was necessary in or-
der to contain the damage. Said simulation proved that
cooperation between  re  ghters organizations and  non-
institutional  responders (individuals in proximity) con-
siderably reduces the amount of burned down houses.
4.2.2 Inter-organizational cooperation in healthcare
Regardless of its nature, any system is a ected by its de-
sign assumptions. Our societies are no exception. The
emergence of sought properties such as economic and
social welfare for all; sustainability with respect to nat-
ural ecosystems; and especially manageability and re-
silience, highly depends on the way social organizations
are designed. A typical case in point is given by tra-
ditional healthcare organizations. A common assump-
tion characterizing those organizations is the adoption
of a strict client-server model. The major consequence
of said assumption is the lack of server-side orchestra-
tion of responses to the users  requests. In other words,
it is the responsibility of the client to identify which
server to bind to; it is the user that needs to know,
e.g., which emergency service to invoke; which hospital
to call  rst; which civil organization to refer to, and so
on. Referral services do exist, though they mainly cover
very speci c and simple cases (typically, the seamless
transfer of patient information from a primary to a sec-
ondary practitioner [27]). Moreover, typically such ser-
vices possess an incomplete view of the available re-
sources. Furthermore, to the best of our knowledge,
none of the existing referral services provides a compos-
ite response to complex requests such that the action,
knowledge, and assets of multiple servers are automati-
cally or semi-automatically combined and orchestrated.
Even electronic referral systems in use today are mostly
limited [32] and only provide prede ned services in spe-
ci c domains2. As a consequence, in the face of complex
servicing requests calling for the joint action of multiple
servers, the client is basically left on its own. Societal or-
ganizations do not provide unitary responses nor assist
the client in composing and managing them. Reasons
for this may be found in lack of awareness and also in
the  convenient  shift of responsibility for failures from
the server to the client3.
Through the above considerations it becomes appar-
ent that new and better assumptions are called for by
2 Interesting examples of such systems include SHINE [2]
and SHINE OS+ [3].
1 See for instance the case of Hurricane Andrew [1]. Two
eloquent quotes by Dr. Kate Hale, Dade County s emergency
management director during Andrew s crisis, were  They
keep saying we re going to get supplies. For God s sake, where
are they? ;  Where in the hell is the cavalry on this one?  .
3 As observed by [36], an example of said shift of responsi-
bility may be found in car industry with respect to aviation
industry. A matter for re ection is the fact that the shift of
responsibility regrettably translates in an inferior safety cul-
ture.
Fractal social organization as a foundation to pervasive social computing services
9
social organizations. In particular, the increasing com-
plexity of modern times require that societal organiza-
tions assume responsibility for becoming the enablers
of collectively intelligent responses. Those organization
should function as a catalyst of mutualistic coopera-
tion among the role players at all levels, from the cit-
izens to the governing institutions. By means of the
organization, knowledge should  ow among the players
highlighting needs, assets, requirements, and opportu-
nities. The organization should assist in the process of
self-orchestrating a response, making it easier for all
parties involved to coordinate themselves, exchange in-
formation, and take the right and timely decisions.
Said new model has been studied in the two pa-
pers [19,20]. There, we introduced two e-referral ser-
vices based on our FSO s. The  rst service makes use
of FSO exceptions and SON s to self-orchestrate a com-
posite response for the user. By means of multi-agent
simulations we proved that this considerably shortens
the average time an individual in need of care has to
wait until s/he receives the necessary treatment, in-
creases the amount of treated patients, and reduces the
number of patients that could not timely receive their
treatment. A major conclusion is the empowerment of
the individuals and of society as a whole.
The second service again uses simulated FSO s and
their SON s to tackle the well-known problem of falls
identi cation. In order to improve the quality of falls
detection systems, a cloud of volunteers is used as an
extra  detection layer  to verify whether alarms actu-
ally correspond to falls or are false positives. Major
conclusions are that FSO s dynamic hierarchical orga-
nization optimally orchestrates all participating entities
thus overcoming the sti ness of the traditional organi-
zations. Major returns include an improvement of social
costs and a better use of the social resources (empower-
ment of the whole) as well as a reduction of the average
time to respond to identi ed falls (empowerment of the
parts).
5 Conclusions
We have recalled the major characteristics of SoC and
FSO, and shown that they correspond to the major re-
quirements of pervasive social computing: social translu-
cence, e-referral, and the empowerment of a social sys-
tem s parts and whole. In particular, we have mapped
social translucence with the social computing engine of
SoC s, and we have discussed FSO-based e-referral ser-
vices in the crisis management and healthcare manage-
ment domains. Thanks to the FSO organizational rules
and FSO s nested compositional hierarchy, the adver-
tising of service requests extends beyond the originat-
ing locus. This makes it possible to achieve  inter-loci 
cooperation though the mechanism we called  social
overlay networks.  We showed how the ability to com-
pose social overlay networks constitute a mechanism
to achieve complex e-referral services and enable social
cooperation between co-existing organizations. By re-
calling results achieved through multi-agent simulation,
we suggested how FSO-based pervasive social comput-
ing replaces the rigidity of existing organizations with
an agile and dynamic PSC environment that exploits
cooperation between PSC loci that represent societal
services at di erent scales. In our future work we hope
to move from simulation to real-life experimentation
extending systems such as the FSO middleware of [23,
12]. A major challenge shall be to prove the resilience
of those systems [13,14], namely improving the quality
of social organizations while preserving key aspects of
their identity.
References
1. Adair, B.: 10 years ago, her angry plea got hurricane
St. Petersburg Times. Available online
aid moving.
at http://www.sptimes.com/2002/webspecials02/andrew/
day3/story1.shtml (20 August 2002) 8
2. Anonymous:
Secured
health
exchange
and
online
http://www.gsma.com/connectedliving/wp-content/
uploads/2012/05/Smart-mHealth.pdf (2012) 8
(SHINE).
information
Available
network
at
3. Anonymous: SHINE OS+. Available online at http://
www.shine.ph (2015) 8
4. Ben Mokhtar, S., Capra, L.: From pervasive to social
In: Proceed-
computing: Algorithms and deployments.
ings of the 2009 International Conference on Pervasive
Services, ICPS  09, pp. 169 178. ACM, New York, NY,
USA (2009). DOI 10.1145/1568199.1568229. URL http:
//doi.acm.org/10.1145/1568199.1568229 1, 2, 3, 4
5. Boudreau, M.:
eReferral: A health
ver bullet?
line
at
ereferral-a-health-it-silver-bullet
ber 2014) 4
IT sil-
Orion Health Blog. Available on-
https://www.orionhealth.com/us/blog/
Septem-
(17
6. Boulding, K.: General systems theory the skeleton of
science. Management Science 2(3) (1956) 2
7. Buck, J., Endenburg, G.: The
self-organization.
ter, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
http://www.governancealive.com/wp-content/uploads/
2009/12/CreativeForces_9-2012_web.pdf 5
creative
forces of
rep., Sociocratic Cen-
URL
(2012).
Tech.
8. Buckminster-Fuller, R.: Synergetics: Explorations in
the Geometry of Thinking. Macmillan, New York
(1975). URL https://fullerfuture.files.wordpress.
com/2013/01/buckminsterfuller-synergetics.pdf 1
9. Colten, C.E., Kates, R.W., Laska, S.B.: Community re-
silience: Lessons from new orleans and hurricane katrina.
Tech. Rep. 3, Community and Regional Resilience Insti-
tute (CARRI) (2008) 8
10. De Florio, V.: On the
software and organisational
ciplinary Science Reviews 38(2)
constituent attributes of
Interdis-
URL
resilience.
(2013).
10
Vincenzo De Florio
http://www.ingentaconnect.com/content/maney/isr/
2013/00000038/00000002/art00005 3
11. De Florio, V.: Quality Indicators for Collective Systems
Resilience. Emergence: Complexity & Organization 16(3)
(2014) 3
12. De Florio, V.: Fractally-organized connectionist net-
works: Conjectures and preliminary results. In: F. Daniel,
O. Diaz (eds.) Proc. of the 1st Workshop on PErva-
sive WEb Technologies, trends and challenges (PEWET
2015), ICWE 2015 Workshops, 15th International Con-
ference on Web Engineering (ICWE 2015), Lecture Notes
in Computer Science, vol. 9396, pp. 1 12. Springer
Int.l Publishing, Switzerland (2015). DOI 10.1007/
978-3-319-24800-4 5 3, 9
13. De Florio, V.: On environments as systemic exoskele-
tons: crosscutting optimizers and antifragility enablers.
Journal of Reliable Intelligent Environments 1(2 4), 61 
73 (2015). DOI 10.1007/s40860-015-0006-2. URL http:
//dx.doi.org/10.1007/s40860-015-0006-2 3, 8, 9
14. De Florio, V.: On resilient behaviors in computational
systems and environments. Journal of Reliable Intel-
ligent Environments pp. 1 14 (2015). DOI 10.1007/
s40860-015-0002-6. URL http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/
s40860-015-0002-6 3, 9
15. De Florio, V., Bakhouya, M., Coronato, A., Di Marzo
Serugendo, G.: Models and concepts for socio-technical
complex systems: Towards fractal social organizations.
Systems Research and Behavioral Science 30(6) (2013) 3
16. De Florio, V., Blondia, C.: On the requirements of new
software development. International Journal of Business
Intelligence and Data Mining 3(3) (2008) 1
17. De Florio, V., Blondia, C.: Service-oriented communi-
ties: Visions and contributions towards social organiza-
tions. In: R. Meersman, T. Dillon, P. Herrero (eds.) On
the Move to Meaningful Internet Systems: OTM 2010
Workshops, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol. 6428,
pp. 319 328. Springer Berlin / Heidelberg (2010). DOI
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-16961-8 51 3
18. De Florio, V., Coronato, A., Bakhouya, M., Di Marzo
Serugendo, G.: Service-oriented communities: Models
and concepts towards fractal social organizations.
In:
Proceedings of the 8th International Conference on sig-
nal, image technology and internet based systems (SITIS
2012). IEEE (2012) 3
19. De Florio, V., Pajaziti, A.: How resilient are our soci-
eties? analyses, models, and preliminary results. In: Com-
plex Systems (WCCS), 2015 Third World Conference on.
IEEE (2015) 9
20. De Florio, V., Pajaziti, A.: Tapping into the wells of so-
cial energy: A case study based on falls identi cation. In:
Proceedings of the Third Conference on Complex Sys-
tems (WCCS-15). IEEE (2015) 4, 9
21. De Florio, V., Sun, H., Bakhouya, M.: Mutualistic rela-
tionships in service-oriented communities and fractal so-
cial organizations. In: Complex Systems (WCCS), 2014
Second World Conference on, pp. 756 761. IEEE (2014)
3, 4
22. De Florio, V., Sun, H., Blondia, C.: Community resilience
engineering: Re ections and preliminary contributions.
In: I. Majzik, M. Vieira (eds.) Software Engineering for
Resilient Systems, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, vol.
8785, pp. 1 8. Springer International Publishing (2014).
DOI 10.1007/978-3-319-12241-0 1. URL http://dx.doi.
org/10.1007/978-3-319-12241-0_1 8
23. De Florio, V., Sun, H., Buys, J., Blondia, C.: On the im-
pact of fractal organization on the performance of socio-
technical systems. In: Proceedings of the 2013 Interna-
tional Workshop on Intelligent Techniques for Ubiquitous
Systems (ITUS 2013). IEEE, Vietri sul Mare, Italy (2013)
9
24. Erickson, T., Kellogg, W.A.: Social translucence: An ap-
proach to designing systems that support social pro-
cesses. ACM Transactions on Computer-Human Inter-
action 7, 59 83 (2000) 3
25. Hardin, G.: The tragedy of the commons.
Science
162(3859), 1243 1248 (1968). DOI 10.1126/science.162.
3859.1243. URL http://dieoff.org/page95.htm 1
26. Kellogg, W.A.: Research and emerging trends in social
computing. In: Collaborative Technologies and Systems,
2005. Proceedings of the 2005 International Symposium
on, pp. 1 4 (2005). DOI 10.1109/ISCST.2005.1553274 1,
3
27. Kim, Y., Chen, A., Keith, E., Yee HalF., J., Kushel, M.:
Not perfect, but better: Primary care providers  expe-
riences with electronic referrals in a safety net health
system.
Journal of General Internal Medicine 24(5),
614 619 (2009). DOI 10.1007/s11606-009-0955-3. URL
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s11606-009-0955-3 4, 8
28. Miskel, J.F.: Disaster Response and Homeland Security:
What Works, What Doesn t. Stanford University Press,
Stanford, CA (2008). URL http://www.sup.org/books/
title/?id=16470 8
29. Pajaziti, A.: Models and representations for fractal so-
cial organizations. Master s thesis, Dept. of Computer
Science, University of Antwerp (2015) 8
30. RAND: Community resilience (2014). Available at URL
http://www.rand.org/topics/community-resilience.html
8
31. Rosenblueth, A., Wiener, N., Bigelow, J.: Behavior, pur-
pose and teleology. Philosophy of Science 10(1), 18 
24 (1943). URL http://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/
abs/10.1086/286788 3
32. Shaw, L., de Berker, D.: Strengths and weaknesses of
electronic referral: comparison of data content and clin-
ical value of electronic and paper referrals in dermatol-
ogy. British Journal of General Practitioners 57, 223 224
(2007) 4, 8
33. Sun, H., De Florio, V., Gui, N., Blondia, C.: Participant:
A new concept for optimally assisting the elder people.
In: Proceedings of the 20th IEEE International Sym-
posium on Computer-Based Medical Systems (CBMS-
2007). IEEE Computer Society, Maribor, Slovenia (2007)
4
34. Sun, H., De Florio, V., Gui, N., Blondia, C.: Service
matching in online community for mutual assisted living.
In: Signal-Image Technologies and Internet-Based Sys-
tem, 2007. SITIS  07. Third International IEEE Confer-
ence on, pp. 427  433 (2007). DOI 10.1109/SITIS.2007.99
4
35. Sun, H., De Florio, V., Gui, N., Blondia, C.: The miss-
ing ones: Key ingredients towards e ective ambient as-
sisted living systems. Journal of Ambient Intelligence
and Smart Environments 2(2) (2010) 4
36. Verhulst, E.: Zen and the art of safety engineer-
ing. Available online at http://www.slideshare.net/
ericverhulst1/zen-and-the-art-of-safety-engineering
(2012) 8
37. Zhou, J., Sun, J., Athukorala, K., Wijekoon, D., Yliant-
tila, M.: Pervasive social computing: augmenting  ve
facets of human intelligence. Journal of Ambient Intelli-
gence and Humanized Computing 3(2), 153 166 (2012).
DOI 10.1007/s12652-011-0081-z. URL http://dx.doi.
org/10.1007/s12652-011-0081-z 2, 3
