ACCELERATING	  SCIENCE:	  A	  COMPUTING	  RESEARCH	  AGENDA	  
Vasant	  G.	  Honavar1,	  Mark	  D.	  Hill2,	  and	  Katherine	  Yelick3	  
Computing	  Community	  Consortium	  
2/19/2016	  
Version	  1	  
	  
	  
Abstract	  
The	  emergence	  of	   big	  data 	  offers	  unprecedented	  opportunities	  for	  not	  only	  accelerating	  scientific	  
advances	   but	   also	   enabling	   new	   modes	   of	   discovery.	   Scientific	   progress	   in	   many	   disciplines	   is	  
increasingly	  enabled	  by	  our	  ability	  to	  examine	  natural	  phenomena	  through	  the	  computational	  lens,	  
i.e.,	  using	  algorithmic	  or	  information	  processing	  abstractions	  of	  the	  underlying	  processes;	  and	  our	  
ability	  to	  acquire,	  share,	  integrate	  and	  analyze	  disparate	  types	  of	  data.	  However,	  there	  is	  a	  huge	  
gap	  between	  our	  ability	  to	  acquire,	  store,	  and	  process	  data	  and	  our	  ability	  to	  make	  effective	  use	  of	  
the	   data	   to	   advance	   discovery.	   Despite	   successful	   automation	   of	   routine	   aspects	   of	   data	  
management	  and	  analytics,	  most	  elements	  of	  the	  scientific	  process	  currently	  require	  considerable	  
human	  expertise	  and	  effort.	  Accelerating	  science	  to	  keep	  pace	  with	  the	  rate	  of	  data	  acquisition	  and	  
data	   processing	   calls	   for	   the	   development	   of	   algorithmic	   or	   information	   processing	   abstractions,	  
coupled	  with	  formal	  methods	  and	  tools	  for	  modeling	  and	  simulation	  of	  natural	  processes	  as	  well	  as	  
major	   innovations	   in	   cognitive	   tools	   for	   scientists,	   i.e.,	   computational	   tools	   that	   leverage	   and	  
extend	   the	   reach	   of	   human	   intellect,	   and	   partner	   with	   humans	   on	   a	   broad	   range	   of	   tasks	   in	  
scientific	  discovery	  (e.g.,	  identifying,	  prioritizing	  formulating	  questions,	  designing,	  prioritizing	  and	  
executing	  experiments	  designed	  to	  answer	  a	  chosen	  question,	  drawing	  inferences	  and	  evaluating	  
the	   results,	   and	   formulating	   new	   questions,	   in	   a	   closed-  loop	   fashion).	   This	   calls	   for	   concerted	  
research	   agenda	   aimed	   at:	   Development,	   analysis,	   integration,	   sharing,	   and	   simulation	   of	  
algorithmic	   or	   information	   processing	   abstractions	   of	   natural	   processes,	   coupled	   with	   formal	  
methods	  and	  tools	  for	  their	  analyses	  and	  simulation;	  Innovations	  in	  cognitive	  tools	  that	  augment	  
and	  extend	  human	  intellect	  and	  partner	  with	  humans	  in	  all	  aspects	  of	  science.	  This	  in	  turn	  requires:	  
the	  formalization,	  development,	  analysis,	  of	  algorithmic	  or	  information	  processing	  abstractions	  of	  
various	   aspects	   of	   the	   scientific	   process;	   the	   development	   of	   computational	   artifacts	  
(representations,	  processes,	  protocols,	  workflows,	  software)	  that	  embody	  such	  understanding;	  and	  
the	   integration	   of	   the	   resulting	   cognitive	   tools	   into	   collaborative	   human-  machine	   systems	   and	  
infrastructure	  to	  advance	  science.	  	  
Bioinformatics	  and	  Computational	  Biology	  and	  Neuroscience	  Graduate	  Programs,	  Director,	  Center	  for	  Big	  Data	  Analytics	  and	  
Discovery	   Informatics,	   and	   Associate	   Director,	   Institute	   for	   Cyberscience,	   Pennsylvania	   State	   University,	   University	   Park,	   	   PA	  
OVERVIEW	  
Tycho	  Brahe	  gathered	  considerable	  and	  accurate	  data	  on	  the	  movement	  of	  the	  planets	  ( big	  data 	  for	  
his	  time).	  However,	  this	  data	  did	  not	  find	  real	  value	  until	  Johannes	  Kepler	  used	  it	  to	  discover	  his	  three	  
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
1	  Professor	   and	   Edward	   Frymoyer	   Chair,	   College	   of	   Information	   Sciences	   and	   Technology,	   Professor	   of	   Computer	   Science,	  
16802.	  Email:	  vhonavar@ist.psu.edu;	  Web:	  http://faculty.ist.psu.edu/vhonavar	  	  
2	  John	   P.	   Morgridge	   and	   Gene	   P.	   Amdahl	   Professor	   and	   Chair,	   Department	   of	   Computer	   Sciences,	   University	   of	   Wisconsin-  
3	  Professor,	   Computer	   Science	   Division,	   University	   of	   California	   at	   Berkeley,	   Berkeley,	   CA	   94720	   and	   Associate	   Laboratory	  
http://www.cs.berkeley.edu/~yelick/	  	  
	  
1	  
Madison,	  Madison,	  WI	  53706.	  Email:	  markhill@cs.wisc.edu;	  Web:	  http://pages.cs.wisc.edu/~markhill/	  
Director	   of	   Computing	   Sciences,	   Lawrence	   Berkeley	   National	   Laboratory.	   Email:	  
	   yelick@berkeley.edu;	   Web:	  
laws	  of	  planetary	  motion.	  Later	  Isaac	  Newton	  used	  these	  laws	  and	  other	  data	  to	  derive	  his	  unified	  laws	  
of	  motion,	  and	  lay	  the	  foundations	  of	  classical	  physics.	  To	  do	  so,	  he	  had	  to	  invent	  calculus	  for	  describing	  
such	  things	  as	  rates	  of	  change.	  Brahe,	  Kepler,	  and	  Newton	  were	  all	  engaged	  in	  the	  practice	  of	  science,	  a	  
systematic	   process	   for	   acquiring	   knowledge	   through	   observation	   or	   experimentation	   and	   developing	  
theories	  to	  describe	  and	  explain	  natural	  phenomena.	  The	  past	  centuries	  have	  witnessed	  major	  scientific	  
breakthroughs	  as	  a	  result	  of	  advances	  in	  instruments	  of	  observation,	  formalisms	  for	  describing	  the	  laws	  
of	  nature,	  and	  improved	  tools	  for	  calculation.	  
Today,	  the	  experimental	  instruments	  are	  more	  powerful,	  the	  scientific	  questions	  more	  complex,	  and	  the	  
mathematical,	   statistical	   and	   computational	   methods	   for	   analyzing	   data	   have	   become	   more	  
sophisticated.	   	   The	   resulting	   emergence	   of	    big	   data 	   offers	   unprecedented	   opportunities	   for	  
accelerating	   science.	   Arguably,	   	    big	   data 	  accelerates	  Brahe s	   part	   of	   the	  scientific	  endeavor,	   and	  
increasingly,	  Kepler s	  part,	  with	  the	  increasing	  use	  of	  machine	  learning	  for	  building	  models	  from	  data.	  
Nevertheless,	  many	  aspects	  of	  the	  scientific	  process	  (designing,	  prioritizing	  and	  executing	  experiments,	  
organizing	   data,	   integrating	   data,	   identifying	   patterns,	   drawing	   inferences	   and	   interpreting	   results)	  
constitute	  an	  even	  greater	  bottleneck	  than	  ever.	  	  
The	  goal	  of	  this	  white	  paper	  is	  to	  articulate	  a	  research	  agenda	  for	  developing	  cognitive	  tools	  that	  can	  
augment	  human	  intellect,	  and	  partner	  with	  humans	  on	  all	  aspects	  of	  the	  scientific	  process,	  including	  in	  
particular,	   those	   that	   are	   exacerbated	   by	    big	   data. 	   We	  argue	   that	   there	   is	   great	   opportunity	  for	  
dramatically	   accelerating	   science	   and	   enabling	   new	   modes	   of	   scientific	   discovery,	   perhaps	   even	  
empowering	  and	  enabling	  the	  future	  likes	  of	  Kepler	  or	  Newton	  in	  the	  era	  of	  big	  data.	  
The	   benefits	   of	   accelerating	   science	   extend	   well	   beyond	   the	   scientific	   community	   to	   all	   of	   humanity.	  
Imagine:	   Precision	   health	   regimens	   that	   take	   into	   account	   not	   only	   one s	   genetic	   makeup,	   but	   also	  
environment,	  and	  lifestyle;	  Personalized	  education	  that	  optimizes	  curriculum,	  pedagogy,	  etc.	  to	  optimize	  
the	   learning	   outcomes	   for	   each	   individual;	   Precision	   agriculture	   that	   optimizes	   everything	   from	   the	  
choice	  of	  crops	  to	  water	  and	  fertilizer	  use	  to	  optimize	  yield	  and	  impact	  on	  the	  environment.	  These	  are	  
just	   a	   start,	   however,	   as	   in	   the	   21st	   century	   we	   should	   be	   able	   to	   invent	   technologies	   undreamed	   of	  
in	  this	  century s	  early	  years,	  as	  who	  in	  1900	  could	  have	  anticipated	  20th	  century	  advances,	  such	  as	  the	  
Internet	  (no	  computers	  yet)	  or	  DNA	  sequencing	  (DNA	  structure	  unknown)?	  
ACCELERATING	  SCIENCE:	  THE	  VALUE	  PROPOSITION	  
Imagine	  a	  world	  in	  which	  scientists	  work	  with	  cognitive	  tools	  that	  can	  
   Given	  access	  to	  literature	  and	  data:	  	  
   Create	  and	  share	  a	  knowledge	  base	  that	  summarizes	  what	  we	  know	  about	  a	  scientific	  question	  
(annotated	  with	  uncertainty,	  provenance,	  and	  underlying	  assumptions);	  	  
Summarize	   and	   prioritize	   questions	   that	   need	   to	   be	   answered	   to	   achieve	   an	   overall	   scientific	  
objective	  (e.g.,	  understanding	  the	  molecular	  mechanisms	  that	  underlie	  cancer);	  	  
Identify	   and	   rank	   alternative	   explanations	   of	   an	   observation	   based	   on	   the	   current	   state	   of	  
scientific	  understanding	  in	  a	  given	  field;	  	  
   Design	  and	  prioritize	  study	  techniques;	  	  
   Construct	  a	  computational	  model,	  e.g.,	  a	  network	  of	  genes	  that	  orchestrate	  a	  specific	  biological	  
process	  of	  interest,	  that	  make	  experimentally	  testable	  predictions.	  	  
  
  
	  
   Given	  a	  conjecture:	  	  
Identify	  data	  that	  support	  or	  refute	  the	  conjecture;	  	  
Identify	  simulations	  that	  can	  interpret	  the	  theory,	  e.g.,	  over	  time	  or	  in	  various	  physical	  settings;	  
  
  
   Design	  and	  prioritize,	  orchestrate,	  and	  execute	  experiments.	  
2	  
   Given	  an	  experimental	  design,	  experimental	  results,	  and	  access	  to	  literature:	  	  
   Create	  a	  plan	  for	  replicating	  the	  study	  and	  validating	  the	  claims;	  	  
   Generate	  and	  rank	  alternative	  interpretations	  of	  the	  data;	  	  
   Document	  the	  study,	  communicate	  results;	  	  
  
Integrate	  results	  into	  the	  larger	  body	  of	  knowledge	  within	  or	  across	  disciplines.	  
   Given	  a	  collection	  of	  experimental	  and	  observational	  studies:	  
  
Infer	   a	   causal	   effect	   of	   interest,	   e.g.,	   the	   role	   of	   a	   specific	   gene	   or	   combination	   of	   genes	   in	   a	  
specific	  biological	  process;	  
   Calculate	   scientific	   parameters,	   e.g.,	   geophysical	   characteristics	   affecting	   earthquakes,	   by	  
solving	  an	  inverse	  problem	  by	  comparing	  simulations	  to	  the	  observations.	  	  
   Given	  a	  scientific	  question	  and	  a	  network	  of	  researchers,	  assemble	  a	  team	  that	  is	  best	  equipped	  to	  
answer	  the	  question.	  
   Track	  scientific	  progress,	  evolution	  of	  scientific	  disciplines,	  and	  scientific	  impact.	  	  
Cognitive	   tools	   for	   acclerating	   science	   could	   lead	   to	   dramatic	   increases	   in	   scientific	   productivity	   by	  
increasing	  efficiency	  of	  the	  key	  steps	  in	  scientific	  process,	  and	  in	  the	  quality	  of	  science	  that	  is	  carried	  out	  
(by	  reducing	  error,	  enhancing	  reproducibility),	  allow	  scientific	  treatment	  of	  topics	  that	  were	  previously	  
impossible	   to	   address,	   and	   enable	   new	   modes	   of	   discovery	   that	   leverage	   large	   amounts	   of	   data,	  
knowledge,	  and	  automated	  inference.	  The	  sections	  that	  follow	  attempt	  to	  further	  flesh	  out	  our	  vision	  
for	  accelerating	  science	  by	  accelerating	  increasingly	  larger	  fractions	  of	  the	  scientific	  process.	  	  
1983;	  
Chalmers,	  
understand	   where	  
THE	  SCIENTIFIC	  PROCESS	  
To	  
the	   major	  
bottlenecks	  to	  scientific	  progress	  are,	  it	  is	  
useful	   to	   revisit	   a	   simplified	   model	   or	  
template	   of	   the	   scientific	   process	   (See	  
Hacking,	  
1999;	  
Rosenberg,	   2000	   for	   reviews).	   Figure	   1	  
summarizes	   the	   key	   elements	   of	   the	  
scientific	  process.	  
Typically,	   scientific	   inquiry	   starts	   with	   a	  
question	   within	   a	   domain	   of	   study,	   e.g.,	  
biology.	   With	   the	   question	   in	   hand,	   one	  
has	  
the	   background	  
information	   and	   acquire	  
the	   data	  
necessary	   to	   answer	   the	   question.	   Then	  
one	   proceeds	   to	   construct	   one	   or	   more	   models	   from	   data	   (and	   background	   information).	   Choosing	   a	  
small	   set	   of	   models	   from	   among	   a	   much	   larger	   set	   of	   candidates	   involves	   additional	   considerations	  
(simplicity,	  consistency	  with	  what	  else	  is	  known),	  etc.	  The	  models	  can	  be	  used	  to	  advance	  hypotheses	  
that	   result,	   ideally,	   in	   testable	   predictions.	   The	   observations	   or	   experiments	   designed	   to	   test	   the	  
predictions	  yield	  additional	  data	  that	  feed	  into	  the	  larger	  scientific	  process.	  Science	  is	  a	  social	  endeavor,	  
with	  multiple	  individuals	  and	  teams,	  driven	  by	  intrinsic	  as	  well	  as	  extrinsic	  incentives.	  Scientific	  findings	  
go	   through	   peer	   review,	   communication,	   and	   publication,	   and	   replication	   before	   they	   are	   integrated	  
into	  the	  larger	  body	  of	  knowledge	  in	  the	  relevant	  discipline.	  	  
It	   is	   worth	   noting	   that	   there	   is	  considerable	   variability	   across	   scientific	   disciplines,	   e.g.,	   in	   cosmology,	  
where	  there	   is	   little	   possibility	   of	   executing	   designed	   experiments,	   one	   typically	   has	   to	   make	   do	   with	  
observational	  data	  or	  the	  results	  of	   natural 	  experiments.	  Nevertheless,	  it	  is	  clear	  that	  the	  processes	  of	  
Figure	  1:	  A	  Cartoon	  of	  the	  Scientific	  Process	  
to	  
assemble	  
3	  
	  
acquiring,	   organizing,	   verifying,	   validating,	   integrating,	   analyzing,	   reasoning	   with,	   and	   communicating	  
information	   (models,	   hypotheses,	   theories,	   explanations)	   about	   natural	   and	   built	   systems	   lie	   at	   the	  
heart	  of	  the	  scientific	  enterprise.	  	  
ACCELERATING	  SCIENCE:	  TRADITIONAL	  ENABLERS	  
Major	  scientific	  advances	  are	  often	  enabled	  by:	  
   Advances	   in	   the	   instruments	   of	   observation	   (new	   measurement	   devices	   or	   methods	   or	   making	   it	  
possible	  to	  acquire	  data	  of	  new	  modalities,	  higher	  resolution	  in	  time	  or	  space,	  or	  in	  larger	  volumes	  
than	  previously	  possible).	  	  
   Development	  of	  mathematical	  models	  and	  methods	  for	  representing	  and	  reasoning	  about	  scientific	  
hypotheses	  and	  theories	  (e.g.,	  the	  invention	  of	  calculus	  by	  Newton	  and	  Leibnitz	  that	  were	  necessary	  
for	  the	  advances	  in	  physics);	  
   Development	  of	  effective	  tools	  for	  data	  analysis	  and	  simulation	  (e.g.,	  the	  invention	  of	  the	  computer	  
that	   enabled	   among	   other	   things,	   solution	   of	   systems	   of	   linear	   equations,	   simulation	   of	   complex	  
models	  of	  physical,	  biological,	  and	  cognitive	  processes);	  
   Cross-  fertilization	   and	   integration	   of	   concepts,	   experimental	   methods,	   data,	   tools,	   hypotheses,	  
theories,	   across	   disciplines	   (e.g.,	   the	   emergence	   of	   molecular	   biology	   through	   convergence	   of	  
biological	  and	  physical	  sciences).	  	  
In	  what	  follows,	  we	  argue	  that	  the	  emergence	  of	  big	  data	  and	  the	  ability	  to	  examine	  natural	  processes	  
using	  the	  computational	  lens	  (Karp,	  2011),	  offer	  the	  possibility	  of	  rapid	  acceleration	  of	  science.	  However,	  
realizing	  this	  requires	  algorithmic	  or	  information	  processing	  abstractions	  of	  natural	  processes,	  coupled	  
with	   formal	   methods	   and	   tools	   for	   their	   analyses	   and	   simulation;	   cognitive	   tools	   that	   augment	   and	  
extend	  human	  intellect	  and	  partner	  with	  humans	  in	  all	  aspects	  of	  science.	  
ACCELERATING	  SCIENCE:	  THE	  DRIVERS	  
New	   technology	   in	   sensors,	   detectors,	   sequencing,	   imaging	   and	   simulation	   offers	   unprecedented	  
opportunities	   for	   not	   only	   accelerating	   scientific	   advances,	   but	   also	   enabling	   new	   modes	   of	   scientific	  
discovery.	   New	   scientific	   advances	   in	   many	   disciplines	   are	   increasingly	   being	   driven	   by	   our	   ability	   to	  
acquire,	  share,	  integrate	  and	  analyze	  disparate	  types	  of	  data,	  leading	  to	  what	  has	  been	  suggested	  to	  be	  
a	  new	  scientific	  paradigm,	  namely	  data-  intensive	  science	  (Hey,	  Tansley,	  and	  Tolle,	  2009).	  The	  resulting	  
challenges	   in	   storage,	   organization,	   curation,	   access,	   sharing,	   management,	   processing,	   analytics,	  
statistics,	   and	   visualization	   s	   are	   widely	   recognized	   and	   form	   the	   focus	   of	   much	   current	   research.	  
Modern	  data	  analytics	  techniques	  that	  integrate	  sophisticated	  probabilistic	  models,	  statistical	  inference,	  
and	   scalable	   data	   structures	   and	   algorithms	   into	   machine	   learning	   systems	   have	   resulted	   in	   powerful	  
ways	   to	   extract	   actionable	   knowledge	   from	   data	   in	   virtually	   every	   area	   of	   human	   endeavor.	   Creative	  
applications	   of	   data	   analytics	   are	   enabling	   biologists	   to	   gain	   insights	   into	   how	   living	   systems	   acquire,	  
encode,	   process,	   and	   transmit	   information;	   neuroscientists	   to	   uncover	   the	   neural	   bases	   of	   cognition;	  
health	  scientists	  to	  not	  only	  diagnose	  and	  treat	  diseases	  but	  also	  help	  individuals	  make	  healthy	  choices;	  
economists	   to	   understand	   markets;	   physical	   scientists	   to	   improve	   our	   basic	   understanding	   of	   the	  
physical	   world,	   security	   analysts	   to	   uncover	   threats	   to	   national	   security;	   social	   scientists	   to	   study	   the	  
evolution	  and	  dynamics	  of	  social	  networks;	  and	  scholars	  to	  gain	  new	  understandings	  of	  literature,	  arts,	  
history,	   and	   cultures	   through	   advances	   in	   the	   digital	   humanities.	   However,	   despite,	   and	   perhaps	  
because	   of,	   advances	   in	    big	   data 	   technologies	   for	   data	   acquisition,	   management	   and	   analytics,	  
(bottom	  left	  of	  Figure	  1),	  the	  other	  largely	  manual,	  and	  labor-  intensive	  aspects	  the	  scientific	  process	  (the	  
rest	  of	  Figure	  1)	  have	  become	  the	  rate	  limiting	  steps	  in	  scientific	  progress.	  	  
	  
4	  
Consider	  for	  example,	  the	  task	  of	  identifying	  a	  question	  for	  investigation	  in	  a	  domain	  of	  inquiry,	  e.g.,	  the	  
Life	  Sciences.	  This	  is	  a	  non-  trivial	  task	  that	  requires	  a	  good	  grasp	  of	  the	  current	  state	  of	  knowledge,	  the	  
expertise	  and	  skills	  needed,	  the	  instruments	  of	  observation	  available,	  the	  experimental	  manipulations	  
that	   are	   possible,	   the	   data	   analysis	   and	   interpretation	   tools	   available,	   etc.	   Understanding	   the	   current	  
state	  of	  knowledge	  requires	  mastery	  of	  the	  relevant	  scientific	  literature	  which,	  much	  like	  many	  other	  
kinds	   of	    big	   data ,	   is	   growing	   at	   an	   exponential	   rate.	   For	   example,	   in	   2011,	   the	   number	   of	   peer-  
reviewed	  biomedical	  research	  articles	  appearing	  in	  Pubmed	  exceeded	  2700	  articles	  per	  day.	  The	  sheer	  
volume	  and	  the	  rate	  of	  growth	  of	  scientific	  literature	  makes	  it	  impossible	  for	  a	  scientist	  to	  keep	  up	  with	  
advances	   that	   might	   have	   a	   bearing	   on	   the	   questions	   being	   pursued	   in	   his	   or	   her	   laboratory.	   The	  
magnitude	   of	   this	   challenge	   is	   further	   compounded	   by	   the	   fact	   that	   many	   scientific	   investigations	  
increasingly	  need	  to	  	  draw	  on	  data	  from	  a	  multitude	  of	  databases	  	  (e.g.,	  Genbank,	  Protein	  Data	  Bank,	  etc.	  
in	  the	  life	  sciences)	  and	  expertise	  and	  results	  from	  multiple	  disciplines.	  	  
As	   another	   example,	   consider	   the	   task	   of	   designing	   an	   optimal	   experiment	   that	   provides	   the	   most	  
valuable	  information	  at	  the	  lowest	  cost	  to	  help	  answer	  a	  chosen	  scientific	  question	  requires	  a	  careful	  
exploration	  of	  the	  space	  of	  possible	  experiments,	  their	  relative	  cost,	  risk,	  and	  feasibility,	  in	  the	  context	  
of	   all	   that	   is	   known.	   This	   challenge	   is	   further	   compounded	   by	   the	   varying	   degrees	   of	   uncertainty	  
associated	  with	  the	  scientific	  findings.	  	  
The	   components	   of	   the	   scientific	   process	   present	   similar	   challenges.	   This	   	   underscores	   the	   need	   for	  
much	  improved	  cognitive	  tools	  tools	  for	  assisting	  scientists	  with	  the	  rate-  limiting	  steps	  of	  the	  scientific	  
process.	  
ACCELERATING	  SCIENCE:	  FEASIBILITY	  	  
In	  what	  follows,	  we	  argue	  that	  computation	  increasingly	  serves	  as:	  
    A	  language	  for	  science,	  a	  role	  not	  unlike	  that	  played	  by	  mathematics	  over	  the	  past	  many	  centuries;	  
and	  	  
    A	   powerful	   formal	   framework	   and	   exploratory	   apparatus	   for	   the	   conduct	   of	   science.	   These	  
developments	   	   together	   set	   the	   stage	   for	   developing	   the	   cognitive	   tools	   needed	   to	   accelerate	  
science.	  
Computing	  as	  a	  language	  of	  science	  
It	   was	   nearly	   a	   century	   ago	   that	   Rutherford	   said	    All	   science	   is	   either	   stamp	   collecting	   or	   physics .	  
Advances	   in	   computing,	   storage,	   and	   communication	   technologies	   have	   made	   it	   possible	   to	   organize,	  
annotate,	  link,	  share,	  and	  analyze	  increasingly	  voluminous,	  exquisitely	  diverse	  data,	  or	  in	  Rutherford s	  
words,	   stamp	  collections .	  Recall	  that	  it	  was	  the	  invention	  of	  calculus	  by	  Newton	  and	  Leibnitz	  that	  for	  
the	   first	   time	   allowed	   precise	   descriptions	   of	   rate	   of	   change,	   and	   hence	   fundamental	   constructs	   of	  
classical	   physics	   such	   as	   velocity	   and	   acceleration,	   and	   the	   Newton s	   laws	   that	   specified	   how	   they	  
related	  to	  each	  other,	  that	  helped	  transform	  the	  study	  of	  the	  physical	  universe	  from	   stamp	  collecting 	  
to	   physics, 	  from	  a	  descriptive	  science	  into	  a	  predictive	  science.	  While	  whether	  there	  exist	  analogs	  of	  
the	  simple	  laws	  of	  classical	  physics	  for	  complex	  biological,	  cognitive,	  economic,	  and	  social	  systems	  might	  
be	   debatable,	   that	   the	   invention	   of	   calculus	   by	   Newton	   and	   Leibnitz	   is	   what	   made	   possible	   the	  
emergence	  of	  physics	  is	  not.	  	  
Mathematics	  is	  generally	  regarded	  as	  the	  language	  of	  science.	  Algorithms precise	  recipes	  that	  describe	  
the	   relationships	   between	   and	   the	   processes	   that	   operate	   on	   the	   entities	   that	   make	   up	   the	   world	  
around	   us offer	   a	   means	   for	   expressing	   constructive	   mathematics4.	   Algorithms	   allow	   us	   to	   at	   least	  
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  	  
4	  Constructive	  mathematics	  is	  distinguished	  from	  its	  traditional	  counterpart,	  classical	  mathematics,	  by	  the	  strict	  interpretation	  
of	  the	  phrase	   there	  exists 	  as	   we	  can	  construct 	  (Bridges	  and	  Palmgren,	  2013).	  
	  
5	  
approximate	   anything	   that	   is	   describable,	   including	   highly	   non-  linear	   phenomena	   that	   cannot	   be	  
described	   using	   equations	   that	   have	   closed-  form	   solutions.	   There	   is	   a	   growing	   recognition	   that	  
processes	  of	  interest	  in	  biological,	  social,	  and	  cognitive	  sciences	  can	  be	  viewed	  as	  essentially	  information	  
processes.	  	  Arguably,	  "applied	  computer	  science	  is	  now	  playing	  the	  role	  which	  mathematics	  did	  from	  the	  
seventeenth	  through	  the	  twentieth	  centuries:	  providing	  an	  orderly,	  formal	  framework	  and	  exploratory	  
apparatus	  for	  other	  sciences 	  (Djorgovski,	  2005).	  	  
This	  allows	  us	  to	  examine	  biological,	  cognitive,	  and	  social	  processes	  through	  a	  computational	  lens,	  that	  is,	  
in	   terms	   of	   information	   processing	   abstractions	   (Karp,	   2011).	   Hence,	   we	   understand	   a	   phenomenon	  
when	  we	  have	  an	  algorithm	  that	  describes	  it	  at	  the	  desired	  level	  of	  abstraction.	  Thus,	  we	  will	  have	  a	  
theory	   of	   protein	   folding	   when	   we	   can	   specify	   an	   algorithm	   that	   takes	   as	   input,	   a	   linear	   sequence	   of	  
amino	  acids	  that	  make	  up	  the	  protein	  (and	  the	  relevant	  features	  of	  the	  cellular	  environment	  in	  which	  
folding	  is	  to	  occur),	  and	  produces	  as	  output,	  a	  description	  of	  the	  3-  dimensional	  structure	  of	  the	  protein	  
(or	   more	   precisely,	   a	   set	   of	   stable	   configurations).	   Examination	   of	   natural	   processes	   through	   the	  
computational	  lens	  sheds	  new	  light	  on	  old	  scientific	  problems	  in	  the	  respective	  scientific	  disciplines.	  	  For	  
example,	   Holland s	   and	   Valiant s	   examinations	   of	   biological	   evolution	   through	   the	   computational	   lens	  
provide	  new	  insights	  into	  evolution	  of	  complex	  organisms	  (Holland,	  1975;	  Valiant,	  2009).	  Roughgarden s	  
work	  shows	  how	  computational	  complexity	  sheds	  new	  light	  on	  the	   bounded	  rationality 	  of	  decision-  
makers	   (Roughgarden,	   2010).	   Kleinberg s	   work	   has	   provided	   a	   new	   perspective	   on	   fundamental	  
questions,	  e.g.,	  the	  small	  world	  phenomenon	  (Kleinberg,	  2000),	  in	  the	  social	  sciences.	  
Examination	   of	   a	   natural	   process	   through	   the	   computational	   lens	   necessarily	   requires	   algorithmic	   or	  
information	  processing	  abstractions	  of	  the	  relevant	  natural	  entities,	  relations,	  and	  processes.	  Once	  such	  
abstractions	  are	  created,	  they	  become	  first	  class	  computational	  artifacts	  in	  their	  own	  right	  that	  can	  be	  
analyzed,	  shared,	  and	  integrated	  with	  other	  related	  artifacts,	  contributing	  to	  the	  acceleration	  of	  science.	  	  
Computing	  as	  a	  formal	  framework	  for	  science	  
The	   scientific	   enterprise	   (See	   Figure	   1),	   entails	   acquiring,	   organizing,	   verifying,	   validating,	   integrating,	  
analyzing,	  reasoning	  with,	  and	  communicating	  descriptions	  of	  scientific	  artifacts,	  namely,	  experiments,	  
data,	  models,	  hypotheses,	  theories,	  and	  explanations	  associated	  with	  natural	  or	  built	  systems	  lie	  at	  the	  
heart	   of	   the	   scientific	   enterprise.	   Hence,	   computing,	   the	   science	   of	   information	   processing,	   offers	   a	  
powerful	  formal	  framework	  and	  exploratory	  apparatus	  for	  the	  conduct	  of	  science	  (Djorgovski,	  2005).	  It	  
also	  offers	  the	  theoretical	  and	  experimental	  tools	  for	  the	  study	  of	  the	  feasibility,	  structure,	  expression,	  
and,	  when	  appropriate,	  automation	  of	  (aspects	  of)	  the	  scientific	  process,	  the	  structure	  and	  organization	  
of	   collaborative	   teams,	   modeling	   the	   evolution	   of	   scientific	   disciplines,	   and	   measuring	   the	   impact	   of	  
scientific	  discoveries.	  	  
Accelerating	   science	   through	   automation	   of	   aspects	   the	   scientific	   process	   has	   been	   a	   topic	   of	  
considerable	   interest	   in	   computer	   science	   (Duda	   et	   al.,	   1979;	   deJong	   and	   Rip,	   1987;	   Langley,	   1981;	  
Langley	  et	  al.,	  1987;	  Lindsay	  et	  al.,	  1980;	  Dzeroski	  et	  al.,	  2007;	  Shrager	  and	  Langley,	  1990;	  Valdez-  Perez,	  
1999;	  Bradley	  et	  al.,	  2001;	  Glymour,	  2004)	  as	  well	  as	  cognitive	  science	  (Klahr,	  2000).	  Intelligent	  software	  
agents	  are	  already	  widely	  used	  in	  many	  aspects	  of	  scientific	  activity.	  	  However,	  this	  work	  falls	  short	  of	  
accelerating	  most	  aspects	  of	  science	  (Waltz	  and	  Buchanan,	  2009).	  
Recent	   advances	   in	   robotics	   for	   data	   acquisition,	   data	   bases	   and	   knowledge	   bases	   that	   capture	   the	  
relevant	  background	  knowledge	  in	  specific	  disciplines,	  open	  access	  to	  large	  bodies	  of	  scientific	  literature,	  
technologies	  for	  connecting	  resources	  and	  experts,	  and	  for	  constructing	  and	  sharing	  scientific	  workflows	  
have	  led	  to	  a	  renewed	  interest	  in	  the	  topic.	  	  For	  example,	  	  King	  et	  al.	  (2009)	  have	  demonstrated	  a	  robot	  
scientist	   capable	   of	   generating	   and	   testing	   hypotheses,	   and	   choosing	   the	   experiment	   to	   try	   next,	   to	  
understand	   the	   functional	   genomics	   of	   yeast	   (S.	   cerevisiae).	   Schmidt	   and	   Lipson	   (2009)	   have	  
demonstrated	   a	   system	   that	   discovers	   compact	   equations	   describe	   complex	   nonlinear	   dynamical	  
6	  
	  
systems,	   from	   observations.	   These	   demonstrations	   suggest	   the	   possibility	   of	   accelerating	   science	   by	  
automating	  some	  aspects	  of	  the	  scientific	  process.	  	  
	  
ACCELERATING	  SCIENCE:	  A	  RESEARCH	  AGENDA	  IN	  COMPUTER	  AND	  INFORMATION	  SCIENCES	  
Accelerating	   science	   to	   keep	   pace	   with	   the	   rate	   of	   data	   acquisition	   and	   data	   processing	   calls	   for	  
concerted	  research	  efforts	  that	  encompass	  both:	  
   Development,	   analysis,	   integration,	   sharing,	   and	   simulation	   of	   algorithmic	   or	   information	  
processing	  abstractions	  of	  natural	  processes,	  coupled	  with	  formal	  methods	  and	  tools	  for	  their	  
analyses	  and	  simulation;	  
Innovations	   in	   cognitive	   tools	   that	   augment	   and	   extend	   human	   intellect	   and	   partner	   with	  
humans	  in	  all	  aspects	  of	  science.	  
  
In	  what	  follows,	  we	  elaborate	  on	  each	  of	  these	  in	  turn.	  	  
Algorithmic	  Abstractions	  for	  Accelerating	  Science	  
The	   success	   of	   computational	   lens	   in	   shedding	   new	   light	   on	   long-  standing	   questions	   in	   biological,	  
cognitive,	   and	   social	   sciences	   is	   contributing	   to	   their	   transformation	   from	   descriptive	   sciences	   into	  
predictive	   sciences.	   However,	   in	   most	   disciplines,	   this	   transformation	   is	   far	   from	   complete.	   In	   many	  
areas,	  such	  abstractions	  are	  scarce.	  In	  others,	  the	  abstractions	  and	  the	  hypotheses	  that	  they	  offer	  have	  
remained	  	  untested,	  at	  least	  in	  part,	  due	  in	  part	  to	  the	  limitations	  of	  our	  instruments	  of	  observation	  and	  
experimentation	  and	  in	  part	  due	  to	  the	  cost	  and	  complexity	  of	  the	  scientific	  enterprise.	  In	  order	  for	  a	  
broad	  range	  of	  sciences	  and	  scientists	  to	  benefit	  from	  the	  use	  of	  computational	  lens	  in	  	  their	  respective	  
disciplines,	   there	   is	   an	   urgent	   need	   for	   developing,	   sharing,	   analyzing,	   and	   integrating	   computational	  
abstractions	   or	   representations	   	   of	   the	   key	   entities,	   relationships,	   and	   processes	   of	   interest	   in	   the	  
respective	  scientific	  disciplines.	  For	  example,	  progress	  in	  life	  sciences	  has	  been	  accelerated	  substantially	  
with	   the	   emergence	   of	   gene	   ontology	   (Ashburner	   et	   al.,	   2000).	   Much	   work	   remains	   to	   be	   done	   in	   a	  
similar	   vein	   in	   other	   scientific	   disciplines.	   Of	   particular	   interest	   are	   system-  level,	   mechanistic,	  
computational	  models	  of	  biological,	  cognitive,	  and	  social	  systems	  that	  enable	  the	  integration	  of	  different	  
processes	   into	   coherent	   and	   rigorous	   representations	   that	   can	   be	   analyzed,	   simulated,	   integrated,	  
shared,	   validated	   against	   experimental	   data,	   and	   used	   to	   guide	   experimental	   investigations.	   Such	  
abstractions,	   coupled	   with	   formal	   methods	   for	   their	   analysis,	   can	   provide	   rich	   defined	   modeling	  
languages	   with	   precise	   syntax	   and	   semantics	   that	   can	   be	   analyzed	   systematically	   and	   efficiently	   for	  
certain	  properties	  of	  interest.	  For	  example,	  a	  question	  of	  interest	  to	  a	  cancer	  biologist,	  e.g.	  whether	  the	  
up-  regulation	  of	  genes	  A	  and	  B	  and	  down-  regulation	  of	  gene	  C	  could	  possibly	  take	  a	  cell	  from	  a	  healthy	  
state	  to	  a	  cancerous	  state	  can	  be	  translated	  into	  a	  reachability	  query	  against	  a	  model	  of	  a	  cell	  where	  the	  
state	   of	   the	   cell	   encodes	   the	   expression	   levels	   of	   the	   genes.	   While	   there	   has	   been	   some	   progress	   in	  
developing	   such	   abstractions	   for	   molecular	   and	   systems	   biology	   (Priami,	   2009;	   Bernot	   et	   al.,	   2004;	  
Danos	   and	   Laneve,	   2004;	   Fisher	   and	   Henzinger,	   2007),	   much	   work	   remains	   to	   be	   done,	   especially	   in	  
relation	   to	   formalisms	   that	   allow	   specification	   of	   models	   that	   take	   into	   account	   uncertainty	   and	  
variability,	  as	  well	  as	  couplings	  across	  multiple	  levels	  of	  abstraction,	  e.g.,	  molecules,	  cells,	  tissues,	  organs,	  
organisms.	   Similar	   advances	   are	   needed	   in	   other	   scientific	   disciplines.	   Of	   particular	   interest	   are	  
formalisms	  for	  bridging	  models	  not	  only	  across	  levels	  of	  abstraction,	  but	  also,	  disciplinary	  boundaries,	  to	  
allow	   studies	   of	   complex	   interactions,	   e.g.,	   those	   that	   couple	   food,	   energy,	   water,	   environment,	   and	  
people.	  	  
	  
	  
7	  
literature	   and	  
Cognitive	  Tools	  for	  Accelerating	  Science	  
In	   order	   for	   science	   to	   keep	   pace	   with	   the	   rate	   of	   data	   acquisition	   and	   data	   processing,	   there	   is	   an	  
urgent	  need	  for	  innovations	  in	  cognitive	  tools	  (Saloman	  et	  al.,	  1991)	  for	  scientists,	  i.e.,	  computational	  
tools	  that	  leverage	  and	  extend	  human	  intellect	  (Engelbart,	  1962),	  and	  partner	  with	  humans	  on	  a	  broader	  
range	   of	   tasks	   involved	   in	   scientific	   discovery	   (formulating	   a	   question,	   designing,	   prioritizing	   and	  
executing	  experiments	  designed	  to	  answer	  the	  question,	  drawing	  inferences	  and	  evaluating	  the	  results,	  
and	   formulating	   new	   questions,	   in	   a	   closed-  loop	   fashion).	   This	   calls	   for	   for	   deeper	   understanding	  
formalization,	  and	  algorithmic	  abstractions	  of,	  various	  aspects	  of	  the	  scientific	  process;	  development	  of	  
the	   computational	   artifacts	   (representations,	   processes,	   software)	   that	   embody	   such	   understanding;	  
and	   the	   integration	   of	   the	   resulting	   artifacts	   into	   collaborative	   human-  machine	   systems	   to	   advance	  
science	  (by	  augmenting,	  and	  whenever	  feasible,	  replacing	  individual	  or	  collective	  human	  efforts).	  The	  
resulting	  computer	  programs	  would	  need	  to	  close	  the	  loop	  from	  designing	  experiments	  to	  acquiring	  and	  
analyzing	  data	  to	  generating	  and	  refining	  hypotheses	  back	  to	  designing	  new	  experiments.	  	  
Accelerating	   science	   calls	   for	   programs	   that	   can	   access	   and	   ingest	   information	   and	   background	  
knowledge	  relevant	  to	  any	  scientific	  question.	  As	  search	  engines	  and	  digital	  libraries	  return	  more	  articles	  
in	  response	  to	  a	  query	  than	  anyone	  can	  read,	  e.g.,	  Google	  returns	  about	  3.67	  million	  hits	  for	   cancer	  
biology ,	   there	   is	   a	   need	   for	   programs	   that	   can	   read,	   assess	   the	   quality	   and	   trustworthiness	   of,	   and	  
interpret	  such	  information.	  Machine	  reading	  	  (Etzioni	  et	  al.,	  2006)	  	  and	  information	  extraction	  (Niu	  et.	  
al.,	  2012)	  are	  already	  active	  areas	  of	  research	  in	  computer	  science	  that	  have	  been	  successfully	  applied	  in	  
the	  life	  sciences	  (Hunter	  and	  Cohen,	  2006;	  Mallory	  et	  al.,	  2015)	  and	  found	  their	  way	  into	  commercial	  
technology	  such	  as	  IBM	  Watson	  (Ferrucci,	  et	  al.,	  2013).	  Of	  particular	  interest	  are	  methods	  for	  extracting	  
scientific	   claims	   from	  
linking	   them	   to	   supporting	   assumptions,	   observations	   or	  
experiments,	  answering	  questions,	  quantifying	  uncertainty	  associated	  with	  the	  answers,	  etc.	  
Another	   active	   area	   of	   research	   is	   literature-  based	   discovery	   (Swanson	   and	   Smalheiser,	   1997;	  
Smalheiser,	  2012),	  which	  has	  had	  some	  success	  in	  finding	  new	  relationships	  between	  existing	  knowledge	  
from	  literature	  spanning	  two	  or	  more	  topics	  (Cameron	  et	  al.,	  2013).	  Other	  work	  on	  text	  analytics	  has	  led	  
to	  powerful	  methods	  for	  understanding	  the	  evolution	  of	  scientific	  disciplines	  (B rner	  et	  al.,	  2004;	  Sinatra	  
et	  al.,	  2015),	  recommending	  collaborators	  (Chen	  et	  al.,	  2011),	  and	  choosing	  experiments	  to	  accelerate	  
collective	  discovery	  (Rzhetsky	  et	  al.,	  2015).	  However,	  many	  challenges	  remain,	  e.g.,	  drawing	  inferences	  
from	  disparate	  collections	  of	  literature,	  and	  increasingly,	  scientific	  databases	  and	  knowledge	  bases	  that	  
contain	   information	   of	   varying	   degrees	   of	   quality	   and	   reliability,	   tracking	   the	   evolution	   of	   disciplines,	  
identifying	  major	  gaps	  in	  scientific	  knowledge,	  and	  areas	  ripe	  for	  breakthroughs.	  	  
An	  emerging	  area	  of	  research	  focuses	  on	  data	  driven	  approaches	  to	  characterizing,	  and	  modeling	  the	  
evolution	  of	  scientific	  disciplines.	  For	  example,	  the	  results	  of	  a	  recent	  analysis	  of	  the	  Physics	  literature	  
(Sinatra	  et	  al.,	  2015)	  calls	  into	  question	  the	  conventional	  narrative	  of	  physics	  as	  one	  of	  paradigm	  shifts	  
(Kuhn,	  1996),	  divorced	  from	  other	  sciences,	  and	  shows	  that	  physics	  has	  always	  been	  in	  a	  constant	  dialog	  
with	  other	  disciplines	  from	  mathematics	  to	  chemistry	  and	  even	  theology,	  a	  dialog	  that	  is	  largely	  driven	  
by	  the	  idea	  that	  complex	  phenomena	  can	  be	  understood	  in	  terms	  of	  a	  small	  number	  of	  universal	  laws.	  
Such	  analyses	  could	  allow	  us	  to	  understand	  the	  evolution	  of	  scientific	  disciplines,	  and	  the	  impact	  of	  a	  
scientific	   discovery	   within	   and	   beyond	   the	   discipline,	   and	   identify	   unexplored	   areas	   that	   are	   ripe	   for	  
investigation.	  	  
With	   the	   exponential	   growth	   in	   scientific	   literature,	   often	   with	   conflicting	   scientific	   arguments,	  
supported	  by	  observations	  of	  variable	  quality	  and	  analyses	  made	  under	  differing	  assumptions,	  there	  is	  a	  
dire	   need	   for	   tools	   for	   managing	   conflicting	   arguments,	   tracking	   changes	   in	   the	   validity	   of	   the	  
observations	   and	   assumptions	   that	   they	   rely	   on,	   and	   support	   justifiable	   conclusions.	   While	   there	   is	  
considerable	  work	  on	  computational	  argumentation	  systems	  (Besnard	  and	  Hunter,	  2008),	  much	  work	  is	  
	  
8	  
needed	  to	  develop	  argumentation	  formalisms	  and	  tools	  that	  can	  help	  accelerate	  science.	  Of	  particular	  
interest	   are	   expressive	   yet	   computationally	   tractable	   languages	   for	   representing	   and	   reasoning	   with	  
scientific	  arguments,	  and	  their	  uncertainty	  and	  provenance.	  	  
A	   shift	   in	   emphasis	   from	   accelerating	   data	   collection	   and	   data	   processing	   to	   accelerating	   the	   entire	  
scientific	   process	   calls	   for	   representation	   and	   modeling	   languages	   with	   precise	   formal	   semantics	   for	  
describing,	   sharing,	   and	   communicating	   scientific	   observations	   (including	   measurement	   models)	  
experiments,	  data,	  models,	  theories,	  conjectures,	  and	  hypotheses.	  The	  increasing	  reliance	  on	  cognitive	  
tools	   requires	   that	   the	   all	   of	   these	   be	   specified	   in	   a	   form	   that	   can	   be	   processed	   by	   computers;	   and	  
queries	  against	  them	  be	  translated	  into	  precise	  computational	  problems.	  	  
Even	  the	  relatively	  mundane	  task	  of	  data	  collection	  presents	  many	  questions	  including	  deciding	  which	  
variables	  to	  measure,	  why,	  and	  how	  i.e.,	  the	  instrument	  to	  use	  (if	  one	  exists)	  or	  to	  design	  (if	  need	  be).	  
Scientific	  workflows	  (Gil	  et	  al.,	  2007;	  Davidson	  and	  Freire,	  2008)	  already	  provide	  useful	  ways	  to	  describe,	  
manage,	   share,	   track	   data	   provenance	   within,	   and	   reproduce	   complex	   scientific	   analyses.	   Scientific	  
systems	  are	  already	  being	  used	  for	  data	  analyses	  in	  the	  life	  sciences	  (Hull	  et	  al.,	  2006).	  However,	  there	  is	  
a	  need	  for	  languages	  and	  tools	  for	  describing	  the	  measurement	  process,	  the	  data	  models	  for	  describing	  
observations	  using	  standard	  ontologies	  (when	  they	  exist),	  establishing	  semantics	  preserving	  mappings	  
across	  data	  models.	  There	  is	  an	  urgent	  need	  for	  precise	  languages	  and	  tools	  for	  describing	  experiments,	  
methods	   for	   quantifying	   the	   marginal	   utility	   of	   experiments,	   determining	   the	   scientific	   as	   well	   as	  
economic	   feasibility	   of	   experiments,	   comparing	   alternative	   experiments,	   and	   choosing	   optimal	  
experiments	   (in	   a	   given	   context).	   The	   same	   holds	   for	   hypotheses,	   conjectures,	   theories,	   scientific	  
workflows,	  and	  other	  scientific	  artifacts.	  
Machine	  learning	  currently	  offers	  one	  of	  the	  most	  cost-  effective	  approaches	  to	  constructing	  predictive	  
models	   from	   data	   (Ghahramani,	   2015;	   Jordan	   and	   Mitchell,	   2015)	   across	   a	   number	   of	   disciplines	  
including	   biological	   sciences	   (Baldi	   and	   Brunak,	   2001),	   brain	   sciences	   (Pereira	   et	   al.,	   2009),	   learning	  
sciences	   (Romero	   and	   Ventura,	   2010),	   biomedical	   and	   health	   sciences	   (Jensen	   et	   al.,	   2012),	  
environmental	  science	  (Hampton	  et	  al.,	  2013),	  and	  climate	  science	  (Faghmous	  et	  al.,	  2014).	  For	  example,	  
in	   biological	   sciences,	   machine	   learning	   algorithms	   are	   routinely	   used	   to	   build	   predictors	   of	   gene	  
structure	   (McAuliffe	   et	   al.,	   2004),	   molecular	   interactions	   and	   interfaces	   (Xue	   et	   al.,	   2015),	   and	   to	  
uncover	   regulatory	   interactions	   between	   genes	   (Segal	   et	   al.,	   2003).	   However,	   such	   models	   are	   often	  
complex	  hard	  for	  scientists	  to	  comprehend,	  and	  therefore	  to	  use	  to	  gain	  mechanistic	  insights	  into	  the	  
underlying	  phenomena.	  Consider	  for	  example,	  a	  support	  vector	  machine	  using	  a	  non-  linear	  kernel	  that	  
predicts	   whether	   a	   target	   gene	   of	   interest	   is	   turned	   on	   or	   off	   based	   on	   the	   previous	   states	   of	   a	   few	  
hundred	   other	   genes.	   Such	   a	   model,	   its	   high	   predictive	   accuracy,	   is	   virtually	   useless	   with	   regard	   to	  
helping	   to	   uncover	   the	   underlying	   genetic	   regulatory	   network.	   There	   has	   been	   some	   progress	   in	  
extracting	  comprehensible	  knowledge	  from	  complex	  predictive	  models	  (Pazzani	  et	  al.,	  1997).	  A	  related	  
topic	   in	   which	   there	   has	   been	   considerable	   interest	   has	   to	   do	   with	   methods	   for	   incorporating	   prior	  
knowledge	  into	  machine	  learning	  	  (Heckerman	  et	  al.,	  1995;	  Fung	  et	  al.,	  2002;	  Cohen,	  2014,	  Faghmous	  et	  
al.,	  2014)	  as	  well	  as	  cognitive	  modeling	  (Tenenbaum	  et	  al.,	  2006).	  	  However,	  there	  remains	  a	  significant	  
language	   gap	   between	   model	   builders	   and	   model	   users.	   This	   language	   gap	   presents	   challenges	   in	  
exploiting	  prior	  knowledge	  to	  guide	  model	  construction,	  and	  in	  interpreting	  predictive	  models	  produced	  
by	  machine	  learning	  in	  advancing	  scientific	  understanding	  of	  the	  underlying	  domain.	  	  	  For	  example,	  in	  
life	   sciences,	   directed	   labeled	   graph	   representations	   of	   gene	   regulatory	   networks	   (Honavar,	   2013)	  
wherein	  nodes	  denote	  genes	  and	  directed	  edges	  denote	  regulatory	  influences,	  and	  the	  +	  or	  -  	  labels	  on	  
the	  edges	  denote	  the	  excitatory	  or	  inhibitory	  influences	  are	  likely	  to	  be	  much	  more	  useful	  in	  refining	  our	  
understanding	  the	  underlying	  process,	  and	  in	  suggesting	  further	  experiments,	  than	  a	  black	  box	  support	  
vector	  machine	  with	  a	  complex	  nonlinear	  kernel	  that	  provides	  the	  same	  prediction.	  Hence,	  there	  is	  an	  
9	  
	  
urgent	   need	   for	   a	   new	   generation	   of	   machine	   learning	   algorithms	   that	   that	   can	   incorporate	   prior	  
knowledge	   and	   constraints	   from	   a	   variety	   of	   sources,	   e.g.,	   from	   physics,	   and	   produce	   models	   are	  
expressed	  in	  forms	  that	  are	  easy	  to	  communicate	  to	  disciplinary	  scientists.	  	  
There	  has	  been	  much	  progress	  on	  methods	  and	  tools	  for	  integrating	  data	  from	  disparate	  data	  sources	  
(Lenzerini,	  2002;	  Doan	  et	  al.,	  2012;	  Haas,	  2015);	  describing	  data	  semantics	  using	  expressive	  yet	  tractable	  
fragments	  of	  logic	  (Berners-  Lee	  et	  al.,	  2001;	  Baader	  and	  Nutt,	  2003;	  Calvanese	  et	  al.,	  2007;	  Horrocks	  et	  
al.,	   1999),	   and	   more	   recently,	   on	   the	   more	   complex	   problem	   of	   sharing	   knowledge	   across	   disparate	  
knowledge	   bases	   (Bao	   et	   al.,	   2009;	   Cuenca	   Grau	   et	   al.,	   2008;	   Kutz	   et	   al.,	   2004;	   Borgida	   and	   Serafini,	  
2003).	  Yet	  many	  challenges	  remain,	  especially	  as	  they	  relate	  to	  integration	  of	  data	  and	  knowledge	  at	  
different	  levels	  of	  abstraction,	  differing	  levels	  of	  uncertainty,	  trustworthiness,	  etc.	  
	  Answering	  complex	  questions	  increasingly	  requires	  synthesizing	  the	  findings	  	  from	  data	  from	  disparate	  
observational	   and	   experimental	   studies	   to	   draw	   valid	   conclusions.	   Conclusions	   that	   are	   obtained	   in	   a	  
laboratory	   setting	   may	   not	   hold	   exactly	   a	   setting	   that	   differs	   in	   many	   aspects	   from	   that	   of	   the	  
laboratory.	  Often,	  individual	  studies,	  for	  practical	  reasons	  e.g.,	  cost,	  complexity	  of	  the	  studies,	  focus	  on	  
the	  relationship	  between	  a	  selected	  set	  of	  experimental	  variables	  and	  a	  specific	  outcome	  variable.	  This	  
means	  arriving	  at	  meaningful	  answers	  to	  questions	  of	  interest	  invariably	  requires	  synthesize	  the	  findings	  
from	   multiple	   such	   studies,	   carried	   out	   under	   related,	   but	   different	   experimental	   settings,	   under	  
possibly	  different	  experimental	  constraints	  (e.g.,	  experiments	  that	  can	  be	  performed	  on	  a	  mouse	  cannot	  
be	   carried	   out	   on	   human	   subjects).	   	   While	   causal	   discovery	   from	   disparate	   observations	   and	  
experiments	  is	  an	  active	  topic	  of	  research	  (e.g.,	  Bareinboim	  et	  al.,	  2013),	  a	  great	  deal	  of	  work	  is	  needed	  
to	  characterize	  the	  precise	  conditions	  under	  which	  findings	  of	  disparate	  observational	  and	  experimental	  
studies	   can	   be	   synthesized,	   and	   to	   develop	   cognitive	   tools	   for	   synthesizing	   such	   findings	   when	   it	   is	  
appropriate	  to	  do	  so.	  
While	  we	  have	  effective	  tools	  to	  assist	  scientists	  in	  routine	  aspects	  of	  data	  management	  and	  analytics,	  
barring	  a	  few	  proof-  of-  concept	  demonstrations	  (e.g.,	  King	  et	  al.,	  2009),	  most	  of	  the	  other	  steps	  in	  the	  
scientific	   process	   currently	   constitute	   rate	  
include:	  	  
Characterizing	  the	  current	  state	  of	  knowledge	  in	  a	  discipline	  and	  identifying	  the	  gaps	  in	  the	  current	  state	  
of	  knowledge;	  Generating	  and	  prioritizing	  questions	  that	  are	  ripe	  for	  investigation	  based	  on	  the	  current	  
scientific	  priorities	  and	  the	  current	  state	  of	  knowledge;	  Designing,	  prioritizing,	  planning,	  and	  executing	  
experiments;	   Analyzing	   and	   interpreting	   results;	   Generating	   and	   verifying	   hypotheses;	   Drawing	   and	  
justifying	  conclusions;	  Validating	  scientific	  claims;	  Replicating	  studies;	  Documenting	  studies;	  Recording	  
scientific	   workflows	   and	   tracking	   provenance	   of	   data	   and	   results;	   	   Reviewing	   and	   Communicating	  
results;	   Integrating	   results	   into	   the	   larger	   body	   of	   knowledge	   within	   or	   across	   disciplines.	   Hence,	  
accelerating	  science	  requires	  a	  rich	  model	  of	  the	  entire	  scientific	  process	  (See	  Figure	  1)	  as	  well	  as	  deep	  
knowledge	  of	  the	  scientific	  area	  under	  investigation	  (Honavar,	  2014).	  	  
Because	   science	   is	   increasingly	   a	   collaborative	   endeavor,	   we	   need:	   sharable	   and	   communicable	  
representations	   and	   processes,	   as	   well	   as	   organizational	   and	   social	   structures	   and	   processes,	   that	  
facilitate	  collaborative	  science,	  including	  mechanisms	  for	  sharing	  data,	  experimental	  protocols,	  analysis	  
tools,	   data	   and	   knowledge	   representations,	   abstractions,	   and	   visualizations,	   tasks,	   mental	   models,	  
scientific	   workflows,	   mechanisms	   for	   decomposing	   tasks,	   assigning	   tasks,	  
integrating	   results,	  
incentivizing	   participants,	   and	   engaging	   large	   numbers	   of	   participants	   with	   varying	   levels	   of	   expertise	  
and	  ability	  in	  the	  scientific	  process	  through	  citizen	  science	  (Gill	  and	  Hirsh,	  2012;	  Bonney	  et	  al.,	  2014).	  
in	   scientific	   progress.	   These	  
limiting	   steps	  
SUMMARY	  AND	  RECOMMENDATIONS	  
The	   recent	   advances	   in	   sensing,	   measurement,	   storage	   and	   communication	   technologies	   and	   the	  
resulting	  emergence	  of	   big	  data 	  offer	  unprecedented	  opportunities	  for	  not	  only	  accelerating	  scientific	  
10	  
	  
advances,	   but	   also	   enabling	   new	   modes	   of	   discovery.	   Scientific	   progress	   in	   many	   disciplines	   is	  
increasingly	  driven	  by	  advances	  in	  our	  ability	  to:	  	  
   Examine	  natural	  phenomena	  through	  the	  computational	  lens,	  i.e.,	  using	  algorithmic	  or	  information	  
processing	  abstractions	  of	  the	  underlying	  processes;	  
   Acquire,	  share,	  integrate,	  analyze,	  and	  build	  predictive	  and	  causal	  models	  from	  disparate	  types	  of	  
data.	  	  
However,	  there	  is	  a	  huge	  gap	  between	  our	  ability	  to	  acquire,	  store,	  and	  process	  data	  and	  our	  ability	  to	  
make	  effective	  use	  of	  the	  data	  to	  advance	  science.	  Despite	  successful	  automation	  of	  routine	  aspects	  of	  
data	   management	   and	   analytics,	   most	   elements	   of	   the	   scientific	   process	   currently	   constitute	   rate-  
limiting	  steps	  in	  the	  scientific	  process.	  	  
Accelerating	  science	  to	  keep	  pace	  with	  the	  rate	  of	  data	  acquisition	  and	  data	  processing	  calls	  for	  focused	  
investments	  in	  a	  research	  program	  that	  encompasses	  both:	  
   Development,	  analysis,	  integration,	  sharing,	  and	  simulation	  of	  algorithmic	  or	  information	  processing	  
abstractions	   of	   natural	   processes,	   coupled	   with	   formal	   methods	   and	   tools	   for	   their	   analyses	   and	  
simulation;	  
Innovations	  in	  cognitive	  tools	  that	  augment	  and	  extend	  human	  intellect	  and	  partner	  with	  humans	  in	  
all	  aspects	  of	  science.	  This	  requires:	  
    The	  formalization,	  development,	  analysis,	  of	  algorithmic	  or	  information	  processing	  abstractions	  
  
of	  various	  aspects	  of	  the	  scientific	  process;	  
    The	  development	  of	  computational	  artifacts	  (representations,	  processes,	  software)	  that	  embody	  
such	  understanding;	  and	  	  
    The	  integration	  of	  the	  resulting	  cognitive	  tools	  into	  collaborative	  human-  machine	  systems	  and	  
infrastructure	  to	  advance	  science.	  	  
Of	  particular	  urgency	  are	  investments	  in:	  
    Algorithmic	  abstractions	  of:	  	  
    The	  natural	  entities,	  relations,	  and	  processes	  of	  interest	  in	  specific	  scientific	  disciplines;	  
    Formal	  methods	  and	  tools	  for	  their	  analyses	  and	  simulation;	  
    Formalisms	  for	  specification	  of	  models	  that	  take	  into	  account	  uncertainty,	  and	  variability;	  	  
    Couplings	  across	  multiple	  levels	  of	  abstraction	  and	  spatial	  and	  temporal	  granularity;	  
    Cognitive	  tools	  for:	  
    Mapping	  the	  current	  state	  of	  knowledge	  in	  a	  discipline	  and	  identifying	  the	  major	  gaps;	  	  
    Generating	   and	   prioritizing	   questions	   that	   are	   ripe	   for	   investigation	   based	   on	   the	   current	  
scientific	  priorities	  and	  the	  gaps	  in	  the	  current	  state	  of	  knowledge;	  	  
    Machine	  reading,	  including	  methods	  for	  extracting	  and	  organizing	  descriptions	  of	  experimental	  
protocols,	   scientific	   claims,	   supporting	   assumptions,	   and	   validating	   scientific	   claims	   from	  
scientific	  literature,	  and	  increasingly	  scientific	  databases	  and	  knowledge	  bases;	  
    Literature-  based	   discovery,	  
inferences	   and	   generating	  
hypotheses	   from	   existing	   knowledge	   in	   the	   literature	   (augmented	   with	   discipline-  specific	  
databases	  and	  knowledge	  bases	  of	  varying	  quality	  when	  appropriate),	  and	  ranking	  the	  resulting	  
hypotheses;	  
including	   methods	   for	   drawing	  
11	  
	  
    Expressing,	  reasoning	  with,	  updating	  scientific	  arguments	  (along	  with	  supporting	  assumptions,	  
facts,	  observations),	  including	  languages	  and	  inference	  techniques	  for	  managing	  multiple,	  often	  
conflicting	  arguments,	  assessing	  the	  plausibility	  of	  arguments,	  their	  uncertainty	  and	  provenance;	  
languages	   and	   formalisms	   for	   describing	   and	  
harmonizing	   the	   measurement	   process	   and	   data	   models,	   capturing	   and	   managing	   data	  
provenance,	  describing,	  quantifying	  the	  utility,	  cost,	  and	  feasibility	  of	  experiments,	  comparing	  
alternative	  experiments,	  and	  choosing	  optimal	  experiments	  (in	  a	  given	  context);	  
    Observing	   and	   experimenting,	  
including	  
    Navigating	  the	  spaces	  of	  hypotheses,	  conjectures,	  theories,	  and	  the	  supporting	  observations	  and	  
experiments;	  
    Analyzing	   and	   interpreting	   the	   results	   of	   observations	   and	   experiments,	   including	   machine	  
learning	   methods	   that:	   explicitly	   model	   the	   measurement	   process,	   including	   its	   bias,	   noise,	  
resolution;	  incorporate	  constraints	  e.g.,	  those	  derived	  from	  physics,	  into	  data-  driven	  inference;	  
close	   the	   gap	   between	   model	   builders	   and	   model	   users	   by	   producing	   models	   that	   are	  
expressible	  in	  representations	  familiar	  to	  the	  disciplinary	  scientists;	  
    Synthesizing,	  in	  a	  principled	  manner,	  the	  findings	  in	  a	  target	  setting	  from	  disparate	  experimental	  
and	   observational	   studies	   (e.g.,	   implications	   to	   human	   health	   of	   experiments	   with	   mouse	  
models);	  	  
    Documenting,	  sharing,	  reviewing,	  replicating,	  and	  communicating	  entire	  scientific	  studies	  in	  the	  
form	  of	  reproducible	  and	  extensible	  scientific	  workflows;	  
    Communicating	   results	   of	   scientific	   studies	   and	   integrating	   the	   results	   into	   the	   larger	   body	   of	  
knowledge	  within	  or	  across	  disciplines;	  
    Collabortating,	   communicating,	   and	   forming	   teams	   with	   other	   scientists	   with	   complementary	  
knowledge,	   skills,	   expertise,	   and	   perspectives	   on	   problems	   of	   common	   interest	   (including	  
problems	  that	  span	  disciplinary	  boundaries	  or	  levels	  of	  abstraction);	  
    Organizing	  and	  participating	  in	  citizen	  science	  projects,	  including	  tools	  for	  decomposing	  tasks,	  
assigning	   tasks,	   integrating	   results,	   incentivizing	   participants,	   and	   engaging	   large	   numbers	   of	  
participants	  with	  varying	  levels	  of	  expertise	  and	  ability	  in	  the	  scientific	  process;	  
    Cognitive	   tools	   for	   tracking	   scientific	   progress,	   the	   evolution	   of	   scientific	   disciplines	   	   and	  
scientific	  impact.	  
    Multi-  disciplinary,	  interdisciplinary,	  and	  trans-  disciplinary	  teams	  that	  bring	  together:	  
    Experimental	   scientists	   in	   a	   discipline,	   e.g.,	   the	   biomedical	   sciences,	   with	   information	   and	  
computer	   scientists,	   mathematicians,	   etc.,	   to	   develop	   algorithmic	   or	   information	   processing	  
abstractions	  to	  support	  theoretical	  and	  experimental	  investigations;	  
    Organizational	  and	  social	  scientists	  and	  cognitive	  scientists	  to	  study	  such	  teams,	  learn	  how	  best	  
to	  organize	  and	  incentivize	  such	  teams	  and	  develop	  a	  science	  of	  team	  science;	  
    Experimental	   scientists	   in	   one	   or	   more	   disciplines,	   computer	   and	   information	   scientists	   and	  
engineers,	  organizational	  and	  social	  scientists,	  cognitive	  scientists,	  and	  philosophers	  of	  science	  
to	   design,	   implement,	   and	   study	   end-  to-  end	   systems	   that	   flexibly	   integrate	   the	   relevant	  
cognitive	  tools	  into	  complex	  scientific	  workflows	  to	  solve	  broad	  classes	  of	  problems	  in	  specific	  
domains,	  e.g.,	  understanding	  complex	  interactions	  between	  food,	  energy,	  water,	  environment,	  
and	  populations.	  
   
	  
Interdisciplinary	   graduate	   and	   undergraduate	   curricula	   and	   research	   based	   training	   programs	   to	  
prepare:	  	  
12	  
    A	  diverse	  cadre	  of	  computer	  and	  information	  scientists	  and	  engineers	  with	  adequate	  knowledge	  
of	   one	   or	   more	   scientific	   disciplines	   to	   design,	   construct,	   analyze	   and	   apply	   algorithmic	  
abstractions,	  cognitive	  tools,	  and	  end-  to-  end	  scientific	  workflows	  in	  those	  disciplines;	  
    A	  new	  generation	  of	  natural,	  social,	  and	  cognitive	  science	  researchers	  and	  practitioners	  fluent	  in	  
the	   use	   of	   algorithmic	   abstractions	   and	   cognitive	   tools	   to	   dramatically	   accelerate	   and	   explore	  
new	  modes	  of	  discovery	  within	  and	  across	  disciplines.	  
A	  research	  agenda	  focused	  on	  accelerating	  science	  can	  be	  expected	  to	  yield:	  
   
Fundamental	   advances	   in	   multiple	   areas	   of	   computer	   and	   information	   sciences,	   including,	  
theory	   of	   computation,	   complexity	  
formal	   methods,	   knowledge	  
representation	  and	  inference,	  information	  integration,	  machine	  reading,	  software	  engineering,	  
machine	   learning,	   causal	   inference,	   multi-  objective	   optimization,	   argumentation	   systems,	  
planning,	   decision	   making,	   computational	   organization	   theory,	   robotics,	   human-  computer-  
robot	  interaction,	  among	  others;	  
theory,	   algorithms,	  
    Cognitive	   tools	   that	   could	   dramatically	   accelerate	   scientific	   progress,	   by	   leveraging	   and	  
extending	   the	   reach	   of	   human	   intellect,	   and	   partnering	   with	   scientists,	   including	   citizen	  
scientists,	  with	  a	  broad	  range	  of	  skills	  and	  expertise.	  
This	  white	   paper	   has	   sought	   to	   articulate	   a	   research	   agenda	   for	   developing	   cognitive	   tools	   that	  can	  
augment	  human	  intellect	  and	  partner	  with	  humans	  on	  the	  scientific	  process.	  The	  resulting	  new	  cognitive	  
tools	   can	   help	   realize	   the	   transformative	   potential	   of	   big	   data	   in	   many	   sciences,	   by	   dramatically	  
accelerating	  science.	  	  The	  benefits	  of	  accelerating	  science	  extend	  well	  beyond	  the	  scientific	  community	  
to	  all	  of	  humanity:	  Precision	  health	  regimens	  that	  take	  into	  account	  not	  only	  one s	  genetic	  makeup,	  but	  
also	   environment,	   and	   lifestyle;	   Personalized	   education	   that	   optimizes	   curriculum,	   pedagogy,	   etc.	   to	  
optimize	  the	  learning	  outcomes	  for	  each	  individual;	  Precision	  agriculture	  that	  optimizes	  everything	  from	  
the	  choice	  of	  crops	  to	  water	  and	  fertilizer	  use	  to	  optimize	  yield	  and	  impact	  on	  the	  environment.	  
	  	  
Acknowledgements	  
This	   material	   is	   based	   upon	   work	   supported	   by	   the	   National	   Science	   Foundation	   under	   Grant	   No.	  
(1136993).	  Any	  opinions,	  findings,	  and	  conclusions	  or	  recommendations	  expressed	  in	  this	  material	  are	  
those	  of	  the	  author(s)	  and	  do	  not	  necessarily	  reflect	  the	  views	  of	  the	  National	  Science	  Foundation.	  The	  
article	   has	   benefited	   from	   discussions	   with	   and	   feedback	   from	   the	  broader	   scientific	   community,	   and	  
current	  and	  former	  members	  of	  the	  Computing	  Community	  Consortium	  Council,	  especially	  Greg	  Hager,	  
Cynthia	   Dwork,	   Liz	   Bradley,	   Klara	   Nahrstedt,	   Elizabeth	   Mynatt,	   Ben	   Zorn,	   Susan	   Davidson,	   Susan	  
Graham.	  
REFERENCES	  
1.  Ashburner,	  M.,	  Ball,	  C.A.,	  Blake,	  J.A.,	  Botstein,	  D.,	  Butler,	  H.,	  Cherry,	  J.M.,	  Davis,	  A.P.,	  Dolinski,	  K.,	  
Dwight,	  S.S.,	  and	  J.T.	  Eppig,	  J.T.	  (2000).	  Gene	  Ontology:	  tool	  for	  the	  unification	  of	  biology.	  The	  Gene	  
Ontology	  Consortium.	  Nature	  Genetics,	  25:25 29	  
2.  Baader,	   F.	   and	   Nutt,	   W.	   (2003).	   Basic	   description	   logics.	   In	   Description	   logic	   handbook	   pp.	   43-  95.	  
Springer.	  
3.  Baldi,	  P.	  and	  Brunak,	  S.,	  2001.	  Bioinformatics:	  the	  machine	  learning	  approach.	  MIT	  press.	  
4.  Bao,	   J.,	   Voutsadakis,	   G.,	   Slutzki,	   G.	   and	   Honavar,	   V.	   (2009).	   Package-  based	   description	   logics.	   In	  
Modular	  Ontologies	  (pp.	  349-  371).	  Springer	  Berlin	  Heidelberg.	  
	  
5.  Bareinboim,	  E.,	  Lee,	  S.,	  Honavar,	  V.	  and	  Pearl,	  J.	  (2013).	  Transportability	  from	  multiple	  environments	  
with	  limited	  experiments.	  In	  Advances	  in	  Neural	  Information	  Processing	  Systems:	  pp.	  136-  144.	  
13	  
6.  Berners-  Lee,	  T.,	  Hendler,	  J.	  and	  Lassila,	  O.	  (2001).	  The	  semantic	  web.	  Scientific	  American,	  284:.28-  
37.	  
7.  Bernot	   G,	   Comet	   JP,	   Richard	   A,	   Guespin	   J.	   (2004).	   Application	   of	   formal	   methods	   to	   biological	  
regulatory	  networks:	  extending	  Thomas 	  asynchronous	  logical	  approach	  with	  temporal	  logic.	  Journal	  
of	  theoretical	  biology.	  229(3):	  339-  47.	  
8.  Besnard,	  P.,	  and	  Hunter,	  A.	  (2008)	  Elements	  of	  argumentation.	  Cambridge:	  MIT	  press.	  
9.  Bonney,	  R.,	  Shirk,	  J.L.,	  Phillips,	  T.B.,	  Wiggins,	  A.,	  Ballard,	  H.L.,	  Miller-  Rushing,	  A.J.	  and	  Parrish,	  J.K.,	  
(2014).	  Next	  steps	  for	  citizen	  science.	  Science,	  343(6178),	  pp.1436-  1437.	  
10. Borgida,	  A.	  and	  Serafini,	  L.	  (2003).	  Distributed	  description	  logics:	  Assimilating	  information	  from	  peer	  
sources.	  Journal	  on	  data	  semantics	  1:	  153-  184.	  
11. B rner,	  K.,	  Maru,	  J.T.	  and	  Goldstone,	  R.L.,	  2004.	  The	  simultaneous	  evolution	  of	  author	  and	  paper	  
networks.	  Proceedings	  of	  the	  National	  Academy	  of	  Sciences,	  101	  (suppl	  1):	  5266-  5273.	  
12. Bradley	   E,	   Easley	   M,	   Stolle	   R.	   (2001)	   Reasoning	   about	   nonlinear	   system	   identification.	   Artificial	  
Intelligence.	  2001	  Dec	  31;133(1):139-  88.	  
13. Bridges,	   D.	   and	   Palmgren,	   E.	   (2013),	   Constructive	   Mathematics.	   In:	   The	   Stanford	   Encyclopedia	   of	  
Philosophy	  Edward	  N.	  Zalta	  (ed.),	  http://plato.stanford.edu/archives/win2013/entries/mathematics-  
constructive/.	  
14. Calvanese,	  D.,	  De	  Giacomo,	  G.,	  Lembo,	  D.,	  Lenzerini,	  M.	  and	  Rosati,	  R.	  (2007).	  Tractable	  reasoning	  
and	   efficient	   query	   answering	   in	   description	   logics:	   The	   DL-  Lite	   family.	   Journal	   of	   Automated	  
reasoning,	  39:385-  429.	  
15. Cameron,	  D.,	  Bodenreider,	  O.,	  Yalamanchili,	  H.,	  Danh,	  T.,	  Vallabhaneni,	  S.,	  Thirunarayan,	  K.,	  Sheth,	  
A.P.	   and	   Rindflesch,	   T.C.	   (2013).	   A	   graph-  based	   recovery	   and	   decomposition	   of	   Swanson s	  
hypothesis	  using	  semantic	  predications.	  Journal	  of	  biomedical	  informatics,	  46:238-  251.	  
16. Carlson,	  A.,	  Betteridge,	  J.,	  Kisiel,	  B.,	  Settles,	  B.,	  Hruschka	  Jr,	  E.R.	  and	  Mitchell,	  T.M.	  (2010).	  Toward	  
an	  Architecture	  for	  Never-  Ending	  Language	  Learning.	  In	  AAAI	  pp.	  1306-  1313.	  
17. Chalmers,	  A.F.	  (1999).	  What	  is	  this	  thing	  called	  Science?	  University	  of	  Queensland	  Press.	  
18. Chen,	   H.H.,	   Gou,	   L.,	   Zhang,	   X.	   and	   Giles,	   C.L.,	   2011,	   June.	   Collabseer:	   A	   Search	   Engine	   for	  
collaboration	  discovery.	  In	  Proceedings	  of	  the	  11th	  annual	  international	  ACM/IEEE	  joint	  conference	  
on	  Digital	  libraries	  pp.	  231-  240.	  ACM.	  
19. Cohen,	   W.W.	   (2014)	   Compiling	   prior	   knowledge	   into	   an	   explicit	   bias.	   In	   Proceedings	   of	   the	   Ninth	  
International	  Conference	  on	  Machine	  Learning	  pp.	  102-  110.	  
20. Cuenca	  Grau,	  B.,	  Horrocks,	  I.,	  Kazakov,	  Y.	  and	  Sattler,	  U.	  (2008).	  Modular	  reuse	  of	  ontologies:	  Theory	  
and	  practice.	  Journal	  of	  Artificial	  Intelligence	  Research,	  pp.	  273-  318.	  
21. Danos	  V,	  Laneve	  C.	  (2004).	  Formal	  molecular	  biology.	  Theoretical	  Computer	  Science.	  325(1):	  69-  110.	  
22. Davidson,	   S.B.	   and	   Freire,	   J.	   (2008).	   Provenance	   and	   scientific	   workflows:	   challenges	   and	  
opportunities.	  In	  Proceedings	  of	  the	  2008	  ACM	  SIGMOD	  international	  conference	  on	  Management	  
of	  data,	  pp.	  1345-  1350.	  ACM.	  
23. de	  Jong,	  H.	  and	  Rip,	  A.	  (1997).	  The	  Computer	  Revolution	  in	  Science:	  Steps	  Towards	  the	  Realization	  of	  
Computer-  Supported	  Discovery	  Environments	  Artificial	  Intelligence	  91:	  225-  256.	  
24. Djorgovski	   (2005).	   V.	   In:	   Proc.	   of	   CAMP05,	   "Computer	   Architectures	   for	   Machine	   Perception",	   Di	  
Gesu	  &	  D.	  Tegolo	  (Ed).	  	  IEEE	  Press.	  pp.	  125-  132.	  
25. Doan,	  A.,	  Halevy,	  A.	  and	  Ives,	  Z.	  (2012).	  Principles	  of	  data	  integration.	  Elsevier.	  
26. Duda,	  R.O.,	  Gaschnig,	  J.,	  Hart,	  P.E.	  (1979)	  in:	  Expert	  Systems	  in	  the	  Microelectronic	  Age,	  D.	  Michie,	  
Ed.	  Edinburgh	  Univ.Press.	  pp.	  153 167.	  
	  
14	  
27. Dzeroski,	  S.,	  Langley,	  P.,	  and	  Todorovski,	  L.	  (2007).	  Computational	  Discovery	  of	  Scientific	  Knowledge.	  
In:	   Dzeroski,	   S.,	   Todorovski,	   L.	   (Eds.)	   (2007),	   Computational	   discovery	   of	   communicable	   scientific	  
knowledge.	  Berlin:	  Springer.	  
28. Engelbart,	   D.C.,	   2001.	   Augmenting	   human	   intellect:	   a	   conceptual	   framework	   (1962).	   PACKER,	  
Randall	  and	  JORDAN,	  Ken.	  Multimedia.	  From	  Wagner	  to	  Virtual	  Reality.	  New	  York:	  WW	  Norton	  &	  
Company,	  pp.64-  90.	  
29. Faghmous,	  J.H.,	  Banerjee,	  A.,	  Shekhar,	  S.,	  Steinbach,	  M.,	  Kumar,	  V.,	  Ganguly,	  A.R.	  and	  Samatova,	  N.	  
(2014).	  Theory-  guided	  data	  science	  for	  climate	  change.	  Computer,	  11:74-  78.	  
30. Ferrucci,	   David	   A.,	   Anthony	   Levas,	   Sugato	   Bagchi,	   David	   Gondek,	   and	   Erik	   T.	   Mueller.	   Watson:	  
beyond	  jeopardy!	  Artif.	  Intell.	  199	  (2013):	  93-  105.	  
31. Fisher	  J,	  Henzinger	  TA.	  (2007).	  Executable	  cell	  biology.	  Nature	  biotechnology.	  25(11):	  1239-  49.	  
32. Fung,	  G.M.,	  Mangasarian,	  O.L.	  and	  Shavlik,	  J.W.	  (2002).	  Knowledge-  based	  support	  vector	  machine	  
classifiers.	  In	  Advances	  in	  neural	  information	  processing	  systems	  pp.	  521-  528.	  
33. Etzioni,	  Oren,	  Michele	  Banko,	  and	  Michael	  J.	  Cafarella.	  Machine	  Reading.	  In	  AAAI,	  pp.	  1517-  1519.	  
2006.	  
34. Gil,	  Y.,	  Deelman,	  E.,	  Ellisman,	  M.,	  Fahringer,	  T.,	  Fox,	  G.,	  Gannon,	  D.,	  Goble,	  C.,	  Livny,	  M.,	  Moreau,	  L.	  
and	  Myers,	  J.	  (2007).	  Examining	  the	  challenges	  of	  scientific	  workflows.	  IEEE	  Computer,	  40(12):	  26-  
34.	  
35. Gil,	   Y.	   and	   Hirsh,	   Y.	   (2012).	   Discovery	   Informatics:	   AI	   Opportunities	   in	   Scientific	   Discovery.	   AAAI	  
Technical	  Report	  FS-  12-  03.	  	  
36. Ghahramani,	   Z.	   (2015).	   Probabilistic	   machine	   learning	   and	   artificial	   intelligence.	   Nature,	   521:452-  
459.	  
37. Glymour,	  C.	  (2004).	  The	  automation	  of	  Discovery.	  Daedalus	  Winter	  2004,	  pp.	  69-  77.	  
38. Haas,	  L.M.	  (2015)	  The	  Power	  Behind	  the	  Throne:	  Information	  Integration	  in	  the	  Age	  of	  Data-  Driven	  
Discovery.	  In	  Proceedings	  of	  the	  2015	  ACM	  SIGMOD	  International	  Conference	  on	  Management	  of	  
Data.	  pp.	  661-  661).	  ACM.	  
39. Hacking,	  I.	  (1983).	  Representing	  and	  Intervening.	  Introductory	  Topics	  in	  the	  Philosophy	  of	  Science.	  
Cambridge	  University	  Press.	  
40. Hampton,	  S.E.,	  Strasser,	  C.A.,	  Tewksbury,	  J.J.,	  Gram,	  W.K.,	  Budden,	  A.E.,	  Batcheller,	  A.L.,	  Duke,	  C.S.	  
and	   Porter,	   J.H.	   (2013).	   Big	   data	   and	   the	   future	   of	   ecology.	   Frontiers	   in	   Ecology	   and	   the	  
Environment,	  11:156-  162.	  
41. Heckerman,	  D.,	  Geiger,	  D.	  and	  Chickering,	  D.M.,	  1995.	  Learning	  Bayesian	  networks:	  The	  combination	  
of	  knowledge	  and	  statistical	  data.	  Machine	  learning,	  20:197-  243.	  
42. Hey,	  Tansley,	  S.	  and	  Tolle,	  K.M.	  (Ed)	  2009.	  The	  fourth	  paradigm:	  data-  intensive	  scientific	  discovery.	  
Redmond,	  WA:	  Microsoft	  Research	  
43. Holland,	   J.H.	   (1975).	   Adaptation	   in	   natural	   and	   artificial	   systems:	   an	   introductory	   analysis	   with	  
applications	  to	  biology,	  control,	  and	  artificial	  intelligence.	  U	  Michigan	  Press.	  
44. Honavar,	   V.	   (2013).	   From	   Data	   Analytics	   to	   Discovery	   Informatics.	   In:	   Data	   Science:	   Unlocking	   the	  
Videocast.	  
Power	  
http://videocast.nih.gov/summary.asp?bhjs=0&File=17798.	  
Institutes	  
National	  
45. Honavar,	  V.	  (2014).	  The	  promise	  and	  potential	  of	  big	  data:	  A	  case	  for	  discovery	  informatics.	  Review	  
Health	  
Data.	  
of	  
Big	  
of	  
of	  Policy	  Research,	  31(4),	  pp.326-  330.	  
46. Horrocks,	   I.,	   Sattler,	   U.	   and	   Tobies,	   S.	   (1999),	   September.	   Practical	   reasoning	   for	   expressive	  
description	  logics.	  In	  Logic	  for	  Programming	  and	  Automated	  Reasoning.	  pp.	  161-  180.	  Springer	  Berlin	  
Heidelberg.	  
15	  
	  
47. Hull,	  D.,	  Wolstencroft,	  K.,	  Stevens,	  R.,	  Goble,	  C.,	  Pocock,	  M.R.,	  Li,	  P.	  and	  Oinn,	  T.,	  2006.	  Taverna:	  a	  
tool	  for	  building	  and	  running	  workflows	  of	  services.	  Nucleic	  acids	  research,	  34	  (suppl	  2),	  pp.	  W729-  
W732.	  
48. Hunter,	   L.	   and	   Cohen,	   K.B.	   (2006).	   Biomedical	   language	   processing:	   what's	   beyond	   PubMed?	  
Molecular	  cell,	  21(5):	  589-  594.	  
49. Jensen,	   P.B.,	   Jensen,	   L.J.	   and	   Brunak,	   S.	   (2012).	   Mining	   electronic	   health	   records:	   towards	   better	  
research	  applications	  and	  clinical	  care.	  Nature	  Reviews	  Genetics,	  13:395-  405.	  
50. Jordan,	   M.I.	   and	   Mitchell,	   T.M.	   (2015).	   Machine	   learning:	   Trends,	   perspectives,	   and	   prospects.	  
Science,	  349:255-  260.	  
51. Karp	   RM.	   (2011).	   Understanding	   science	   through	   the	   computational	   lens.	   Journal	   of	   Computer	  
Science	  and	  Technology,	  26(4):	  569-  77.	  
52. Klahr,	   D.	   (2000).	   Exploring	   Science:	   The	   Cognition	   and	   Development	   of	   Discovery	   Processes,	  
Cambridge,	  MA:	  MIT	  Press.	  
53. Kleinberg	   J.	   (2000).	   The	   small-  world	   phenomenon:	   An	   algorithmic	   perspective.	   In:	   Proceedings	   of	  
the	  thirty-  second	  annual	  ACM	  symposium	  on	  Theory	  of	  computing.	  pp.	  163-  170.	  ACM.	  
54. Kuhn,	  T.	  S.	  (1996).	  The	  Structure	  of	  Scientific	  Revolutions	  (3rd	  ed.).	  University	  of	  Chicago	  Press.	  
55. Kutz,	   O.,	   Lutz,	   C.,	   Wolter,	   F.	   and	   Zakharyaschev,	   M.	   (2004).	   E-  connections	   of	   abstract	   description	  
systems.	  Artificial	  intelligence,	  156:	  1-  73.	  
56. Langley,	  P.	  (1981)	  Data driven	  discovery	  of	  physical	  laws.	  Cognitive	  Science,	  5(1),	  pp.31-  54.	  
57. Langley,	   P.,	   Simon,	   H.A.,	   Bradshaw,	   G.L.,	   and	   Zytkow,	   J.M.	   (1987).	   Scientific	   discovery:	  
Computational	  explorations	  of	  the	  creative	  processes.	  Cambridge,	  MA:	  MIT	  Press.	  
58. Lenzerini,	  M.	  (2002).	  Data	  integration:	  A	  theoretical	  perspective.	  In	  Proceedings	  of	  the	  twenty-  first	  
ACM	  SIGMOD-  SIGACT-  SIGART	  symposium	  on	  Principles	  of	  database	  systems	  pp.	  233-  246.	  ACM.	  
59. Lindsay,	  R.K.,	  Buchanan,	  B.G.,	  Feigenbaum,	  E.A.,	  and	  Lederberg,	  J.	  (1980).	  Applications	  of	  Artificial	  
Intelligence	  for	  Organic	  Chemistry:	  The	  DENDRAL	  Project,	  McGraw-  Hill.	  
60. Mallory	   EK,	   Zhang	   C,	   R 	   C,	   Altman	   RB.	   Large-  scale	   extraction	   of	   gene	   interactions	   from	   full	   text	  
literature	  using	  DeepDive.	  Bioinformatics.	  2015	  btv476.	  
61. McAuliffe,	  J.D.,	  Pachter,	  L.	  and	  Jordan,	  M.I.	  (2004).	  Multiple-  sequence	  functional	  annotation	  and	  the	  
generalized	  hidden	  Markov	  phylogeny.	  Bioinformatics,	  20:1850-  1860.	  
62. Niu,	  F,	  Zhang	  C,	  R 	  C,	  Shavlik	  J.W.	  (2012).	  DeepDive:	  Web-  scale	  Knowledge-  base	  Construction	  using	  
Statistical	  Learning	  and	  Inference.	  VLDS	  12:25-  8.	  
63. Pazzani,	  M.J.,	  Mani,	  S.	  and	  Shankle,	  W.R.,	  1997.	  Beyond	  Concise	  and	  Colorful:	  Learning	  Intelligible	  
Rules.	  In	  KDD	  (Vol.	  97,	  pp.	  235-  238).	  
64. Pereira,	   F.,	   Mitchell,	   T.	   and	   Botvinick,	   M.	   (2009).	   Machine	   learning	   classifiers	   and	   fMRI:	   a	   tutorial	  
overview.	  Neuroimage,	  45(1):	  S199-  S209.	  
65. Priami	  C.	  (2009).	  Algorithmic	  systems	  biology.	  Communications	  of	  the	  ACM.	  52(5):	  80-  8.	  
66. Romero,	   C.	   and	   Ventura,	   S.	   (2010).	   Educational	   data	   mining:	   a	   review	   of	   the	   state	   of	   the	   art.	  
Systems,	  Man,	  and	  Cybernetics,	  Part	  C:	  Applications	  and	  Reviews,	  IEEE	  Transactions	  on,	  40:601-  618.	  
67. Rosenberg,	  A.	  (2000).	  Philosophy	  of	  Science.	  Routledge	  Press.	  
68. Roughgarden	  T.	  (2010).	  Algorithmic	  game	  theory.	  Communications	  of	  the	  ACM.	  53(7):78-  86.	  
69. Rzhetsky,	   A.,	   Foster,	   J.G.,	   Foster,	   I.T.	   and	   Evans,	   J.A.	   (2015).	   Choosing	   experiments	   to	   accelerate	  
collective	  discovery.	  Proceedings	  of	  the	  National	  Academy	  of	  Sciences,	  112(47):14569-  14574.	  
70. Salomon,	   G.,	   Perkins,	   D.N.	   and	   Globerson,	   T.	   (1991).	   Partners	   in	   cognition:	   Extending	   human	  
intelligence	  with	  intelligent	  technologies.	  Educational	  researcher,	  20(3),	  pp.2-  9.	  
71. Schmidt,	  M.	  and	  Lipson,	  H.	  (2009).	  Distilling	  free-  form	  natural	  laws	  from	  experimental	  data.	  Science,	  
324(5923),	  pp.81-  85.	  
	  
16	  
72. Segal,	  E.,	  Shapira,	  M.,	  Regev,	  A.,	  Pe'er,	  D.,	  Botstein,	  D.,	  Koller,	  D.	  and	  Friedman,	  N.	  (2003).	  Module	  
identifying	   regulatory	   modules	   and	   their	   condition-  specific	   regulators	   from	   gene	  
networks:	  
expression	  data.	  Nature	  genetics,	  34:166-  176.	  
73. Shrager,	   J.,	   &	   Langley,	   P.	   (Eds.)	   (1990).	   Computational	   models	   of	   scientific	   discovery	   and	   theory	  
formation.	  San	  Mateo,	  CA:	  Morgan	  Kaufmann.	  
74. Sinatra	   R,	   Deville	   P,	   Szell	   M,	   Wang	   D,	   Barab si	   A.L.	   (2015).	   A	   century	   of	   physics.	   Nature	   Physics.	  
11(10):791-  6.	  
75. Smalheiser,	  N.R.	  (2012),	  Literature-  based	  discovery:	  Beyond	  the	  ABCs.	  J.	  Am.	  Soc.	  Inf.	  Sci.,	  63:	  218 
224.	  doi:	  10.1002/asi.21599	  
76. Swanson	  DR,	  Smalheiser	  NR.	  An	  interactive	  system	  for	  finding	  complementary	  literatures:	  a	  stimulus	  
to	  scientific	  discovery.	  Artificial	  Intelligence	  1997;	  91:	  183-  203.	  
77. Tenenbaum,	   J.B.,	   Griffiths,	   T.L.	   and	   Kemp,	   C.	   (2006).	   Theory-  based	   Bayesian	   models	   of	   inductive	  
learning	  and	  reasoning.	  Trends	  in	  cognitive	  sciences,	  10:309-  318.	  
78. Valdez-  Perez,	  R.E.	  (1999).	  Principles	  of	  Human-  Computer	  Collaboration	  for	  Knowledge	  Discovery	  in	  
Science	  Artificial	  Intelligence	  107:335-  346.	  	  
79. Valiant,	  L.G.	  (2009).	  Evolvability.	  Journal	  of	  the	  ACM	  (JACM),	  56(1),	  DOI	  =	  10.1145/1462153.1462156	  
http://doi.acm.org/10.1145/1462153.1462156	  
80. Waltz,	  D.	  and	  Buchanan,	  B.G.,	  2009.	  Automating	  science.	  Science,	  324(5923),	  pp.43-  44.	  
81. Xue,	   L.C.,	   Dobbs,	   D.,	   Bonvin,	   A.M.	   and	   Honavar,	   V.	   (2015).	   Computational	   prediction	   of	   protein	  
interfaces:	  A	  review	  of	  data	  driven	  methods.	  FEBS	  letters,	  589:3516-  3526.	  
82. Zytkow,	  J.M.,	  Zhu,	  J.	  and	  Hussam,	  A.	  (1990)	  Automated	  Discovery	  in	  a	  Chemistry	  Laboratory.	  In	  AAAI	  
pp.	  889-  894.	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
	  
For	  citation	  use:	  Honavar	  V.,	  Hill	  M.,	  &	  Yelick	  K.	  (2016).	  Accelerating	  Science:	  A	  Computing	  Research	  
Agenda:	  A	  white	  paper	  prepared	  for	  the	  Computing	  Community	  Consortium	  committee	  of	  the	  
Computing	  Research	  Association.	  http://cra.org/ccc/resources/ccc-  led-  whitepapers/	  	  
	  	  	  	  	  	  	  This	  material	  is	  based	  upon	  work	  supported	  by	  the	  National	  Science	  Foundation	  under	  Grant	  No.	  
(1136993).	  Any	  opinions,	  findings,	  and	  conclusions	  or	  recommendations	  expressed	  in	  this	  material	  
are	  those	  of	  the	  author(s)	  and	  do	  not	  necessarily	  reflect	  the	  views	  of	  the	  National	  Science	  
Foundation.	  
	  
17	  
