Understanding Musical Diversity via Online Social Media

[Please cite the ICWSM’15 version of this paper]

Minsu Park∗1, Ingmar Weber2, Mor Naaman1, Sarah Vieweg2

2Qatar Computing Research Institute (QCRI)

1Jacobs Institute, Cornell Tech
{minsu, mor}@jacobs.cornell.edu

{iweber, svieweg}@qf.org.qa

7
1
0
2

 

y
a
M
7
1

 

 
 
]

Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 

2
v
2
2
5
2
0

.

4
0
6
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

Musicologists and sociologists have long been inter-
ested in patterns of music consumption and their re-
lation to socioeconomic status. In particular, the Om-
nivore Thesis examines the relationship between these
variables and the diversity of music a person consumes.
Using data from social media users of Last.fm and Twit-
ter, we design and evaluate a measure that reasonably
captures diversity of musical tastes. We use that mea-
sure to explore associations between musical diversity
and variables that capture socioeconomic status, demo-
graphics, and personal traits such as openness and de-
gree of interest in music (into-ness). Our musical diver-
sity measure can provide a useful means for studies of
musical preferences and consumption. Also, our study
of the Omnivore Thesis provides insights that extend
previous survey and interview-based studies.

Introduction

The cultural and social signiﬁcance of music is universal;
music is found in every known human culture, and plays
a role in rituals, wars, ceremonies, work, and everyday
life (Wallin, Merker, and Brown 2001). Tia DeNora (De-
Nora 2000) noted that “Music is not merely a meaningful
or communicative medium. It does much more than convey
signiﬁcation through non-verbal means. At the level of daily
life, music has power. It is implicated in every dimension
of social agency.” As social media become more ingrained
in our lives, it follows that connections between social me-
dia use, and habits and norms regarding music consumption,
will occur. In this paper, we present an empirical analysis of
social media data as they relate to and reveal details of users’
musical tastes.

A person’s musical consumption can reveal a lot about
their personality, preferences, and sense of self. One can
have limited tastes; they may listen to a single genre like
pop or rap, and not diverge into other genres. On the other
hand, another individual may be eclectic in their musical
choices and have a playlist ﬁlled with jazz, hip-hop, indie
rock, classical, and so forth. We often think of such dif-
ferences as a matter of individual choice and expression;
∗The majority of this work was done while Minsu Park was a
research intern at Qatar Computing Research Institute.
Copyright c(cid:13) 2015, Association for the Advancement of Artiﬁcial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.

however, to a great degree, it is hypothesized and tested
that the diversity of musical tastes can be explained by ex-
ternal factors. For example, previous research has identi-
ﬁed a relationship between musical tastes and social factors,
and produced the cultural omnivore thesis. This thesis de-
scribes “a shift in the orientation of high-status individuals
toward an inclusive range of musical preferences that tra-
verses the traditional boundaries between highbrow, middle-
brow, and lowbrow genres (Peterson 1992; Peterson 1997;
Peterson 2005).” However, symbolic boundaries between
musical genres have been eroding (Goldberg 2011) in recent
years, which provides an opportunity to rethink the high-to-
lowbrow cultural categories in relation to musical diversity.
This can lead to a better understanding of the impact of so-
cial conditioning on diverse musical tastes, and by proxy,
a better understanding of the connection between socioe-
conomic status, demographics, and the diversity of musical
preferences.

To date, the social computing community has examined
online listening activity as source of information and recom-
mendations for music (Bu et al. 2010; Zheleva et al. 2010;
Farrahi et al. 2014; Turnbull et al. 2014). However, com-
putational tools and online outlets such as social media can
make further contributions toward understanding human be-
havior related to musical consumption and help to elabo-
rate user-centric music retrieval systems by analyzing per-
sonal characteristics. We focus on exploring a new means
of measuring the diversity of individual musical tastes by
using data collected from social media, and examine the re-
lationship between musical diversity and various individual
factors including socioeconomic and demographic informa-
tion, as well as social and individual information that can be
collected from social media.

Through a multi-platform analysis of a dataset of U.S.
Last.fm1 users and their corresponding Twitter accounts,
we examine music consumption together with demograph-
ics (e.g., age and gender) and other descriptive variables for
a community music fans who have an online presence. Using

1Last.fm is a music recommendation service. The site builds a
detailed proﬁle of each user’s musical consumption by recording
details of the tracks the user listens to, either from Internet radio
stations, or the user’s computer or many portable music devices. It
also offers some social networking features such as recommending
and playing artists to Last.fm friends (Wikipedia 2015).

Twitter-derived information for these users, we inferred their
socioeconomic information (e.g., income, education level,
and area of their residence) as well as other social and per-
sonal variables (e.g., how diverse their friends and interests
are, and how ‘open’ and ‘into music’ they are). We then de-
ﬁned a measure for musical diversity by applying the no-
tion of shared understanding as socially perceived distances
between genres. We suggest that designing a diversity mea-
sure can provide a useful means for studies in recommen-
dation systems. Moving from designing a measure to analy-
sis of associations between diversity and individual factors,
we suggest this type of analysis can provide meaningful in-
sights that are complementary to those provided by previ-
ous survey and interview-based studies regarding the musi-
cal omnivore thesis. Our main contributions therefore are as
follows:
• We propose and validate a novel diversity measure that
borrows the concept of Rao-Stirling diversity for music
consumption. While recent studies (Hurley and Zhang
2011; Farrahi et al. 2014) deﬁne diversity (as it relates
to music consumption) as the total number of unique gen-
res associated with all artists listened to, we go into more
detail, and deﬁne diversity as a multidimensional prop-
erty that has three main attributes: variety (the number
of unique genres one listened to), balance (the listening
frequency distribution across these genres), and disparity
(the degree of distance between musical categories).

• We investigate the relation between musical diversity and
various other variables including socioeconomic factors.
In particular, we ﬁnd that followers of high-proﬁle news
media are more likely to have diverse musical tastes. We
also consistently ﬁnd a weak, but robust trend for peo-
ple who are more ‘into’ music to have less diverse tastes.
Along with these ﬁndings, our results also show that de-
mographic factors such as age and gender are associated
with musical diversity rather than conventional socioeco-
nomic status such as income and education level.

We begin by reviewing the primary key research around
the diversity of musical tastes, and then identify possible
challenges for developing better measures of diversity.

Related Literature

Disciplines such as sociology and social computing ad-
dressed the notion of cultural omnivorism and the impor-
tance of understanding the musical diversity. Given the
wealth of related work on these topics, our review focuses
on what could be tested by complementing the limitations
of previous studies through social media data and how we
can design a meaningful measure for the diversity of musi-
cal tastes.

Changing Status of the Omnivore Thesis
Since the publication of Bourdieu’s seminal work Distinc-
tion (Bourdieu 1984), in which he explains the notion of
cultural capital and exhibits how access to education, knowl-
edge of the arts, and familiarity with other highly regarded

aspects of western culture lead to a ‘highbrow’ status, co-
pious research has investigated the relationship between so-
cioeconomic position and musical tastes (Coulangeon and
Lemel 2007). The majority of the current studies on the
omnivore thesis in relation to musical tastes, proposed by
Richard Peterson (Peterson 1992) show that people with a
higher socioeconomic status have broader (omnivorous) mu-
sical tastes than those with a lower socioeconomic status
who have limited (univorous) musical preferences in low-
brow music. There are generally two deﬁnitions of omniv-
orousness, referred to as the volume and the compositional
deﬁnitions (Warde, Wright, and Gayo-Cal 2007). The ﬁrst
refers to higher socioeconomic status people favoring more
musical genres than those of lower socioeconomic status.
The second refers to the situation that people with higher so-
cioeconomic status tend to have more eclectic tastes across
the spectrum of high-to-lowbrow music than people with
lower socioeconomic status.

More recently, however, Peterson (Peterson 2005) con-
ducted comparative research and noted that “despite the at-
tention paid to the concept by numerous scholars, the sub-
types of omnivorousness suggested by them were diverse
and fall into no recurrent patterns due to changes in the
socio-cultural world.” Indeed, though there is a little dis-
agreement that the contemporary era has witnessed shifts in
the ways cultural preferences and practices are mapped onto
social locations, the extent to which this implies changes
in the functioning of cultural capital remains unclear (Rim-
mer 2012). In addition, Peterson (Peterson 2005) raised a
question regarding the traditional measurement of omnivo-
rousness, and recent qualitative studies identiﬁed a number
of limitations in conventional survey-based studies (Warde,
Wright, and Gayo-Cal 2007; Rimmer 2012): First, the sim-
ple or compositional volume of genres preferred by an indi-
vidual is insufﬁcient to show the full picture of one’s form
of engagement and social status since different conceptual
frameworks may provide different understandings. Second,
there is a tendency to discriminate genres within preferred
genres (i.e., even though one answers ‘rock’ as a preferred
genre, it does not mean that one likes all kinds of rock; there-
fore, it is possible that someone who likes a Heavy Metal,
a subgenre of rock, says “I like rock,” and someone who
likes the same subgenre says “I don’t like rock”). This in-
ability to discriminate genres, or lack of knowledge regard-
ing how to best express what genres one prefers, can cre-
ate confusion (Rentfrow and Gosling 2003). This gap may
bring inconsistency in the preference scoring across survey
participants. Finally, the high-to-lowbrow scheme should be
reconsidered in contemporary social contexts as Peterson
(2005) argues that there is no consensus. In addition, a lot
of research has used inconsistent levels of genres, e.g., a
questionnaire of preferences for opera, jazz, rock, and heavy
metal may be used in these types of surveys, even though
heavy metal is often considered a subgenre of rock.

We believe online social media data can help rectify some
of these limitations and provide a unique and useful perspec-
tive on the musical omnivore thesis: data collected from so-
cial media sites can provide a unique capacity to (i) reduce
the inconsistency of preference scoring (which may differ

across people due to their inability to discriminate) by sys-
tematically classifying the genres consumed by users, (ii)
explore a different level of relationship between social sta-
tus and musical tastes by accessing the subgenres of choice
among users, which are more ﬁne-grained than higher-level
genres, and (iii) analyze data on a consistent level of genre-
hierarchy. Further, social media data can provide users with
open-ended spaces (Lewis, Gonzalez, and Kaufman 2012)
in which to list their favorite music, concert attendance, and
direct/indirect musical information sources, which offers an
unprecedented opportunity to examine how tastes are asso-
ciated with various individual factors. Up to now, the major-
ity of research on musical tastes has relied on closed-ended
surveys typically measuring preferences in terms of genres,
and our aim is to contribute a new way to look at the rela-
tionship between musical preference and various social and
individual factors.

Technology and Music Listening Practice
Exploring musical diversity is an interesting challenge in
social computing, as well as music information retrieval
(MIR); it also has many applications in real-life scenarios.
In MIR, some researchers have explored to achieve the op-
timal balance between the two objectives on recommen-
dation, similarity and diversity, because it has been recog-
nized that being accurate with similarity metric alone is not
enough to judge the effectiveness of a recommendation sys-
tem (McNee, Riedl, and Konstan 2006; Chen, Wu, and He
2013). In addition, recent studies (Chen, Wu, and He 2013;
Farrahi et al. 2014) suggest that one’s personality might have
a role in the formation and maintenance of music prefer-
ences, and diversity of musical tastes could serve as a proxy
of the level of openness of one’s personality. These stud-
ies show that looking at musical diversity as an indicator of
openness can have an impact on the performance of a collab-
orative ﬁltering recommender system. In social computing,
diversity has been considered in studying phenomena such
as peer inﬂuence and music consuming mechanism. Some of
this research conﬁrms that informational inﬂuence is the key
underlying mechanism of music listening practices (Yang,
Wang, and Mourali 2014) and systematic recommendations
affect users’ choices of music tracks and listening behav-
iors (Buld´u et al. 2007).

Research Questions
We believe associations between musical categories (e.g.,
genre-to-genre and subgenre-to-subgenre) can be reason-
ably derived from the perception of crowds by analyzing
their musical consumption, and these distances may help de-
sign better measures of musical diversity. The existing mea-
sures, volume or entropy, are different from diversity, and
thus cannot accurately capture its essence. Volume, which
is deﬁned as the number of musical categories one listens
to, does not consider whether a person listens with balance.
A 99%-1% split between two genres would be treated the
same as a 50%-50% split. Entropy, on the other hand, takes
the distribution into account, so a more skewed distribution
would be considered less balanced. However, entropy does
not look at the similarities of the musical categories and im-

plicitly assumes all categories to be equidistant to each other
(e.g., listening to three different styles of metal music would
be the same as listening to classical music, death metal, and
salsa). People, however, do consider certain types of music
as similar or dissimilar (M¨orchen et al. 2005). To deﬁne and
to quantify this notion of similarity we use co-consumption
behavior. For example, if both rap and hip-hop are consumed
by many people we assume that these two genres are simi-
lar. Having musical consumption data for a large user set can
reveal the distance between musical categories.

The challenges and opportunities in studying musical di-
versity lead us to introduce two research questions that guide
the remainder of this paper:
RQ1 Can a novel diversity measure using variety, balance,
and distance between musical categories capture the di-
versity of musical tastes better than existing methods?

RQ2 What variables are associated with diversity in mu-
sic consumption? Is socioeconomic status a factor or are
other factors also associated?

Method

The literature referenced in the previous section points to
three major dimensions of explanatory variables: socioe-
conomic status, demographic information, and ‘openness’
(degree of appreciation for novelty and variety of experi-
ence). With these dimensions and the additional dimension
of ‘into-ness’ (degree of self-disclosed interest in music) as
a guide, we identiﬁed 15 variables. We inferred socioeco-
nomic status including income, education level, ethnic diver-
sity of area of residence, and urbanness of area of residence
by using geocoded tweets. Into-ness (i.e., degree of music-
related topics of interest in Twitter) and openness including
number of friends, timezone diversity of friends, and interest
diversity was inferred by using tweets, proﬁle descriptions,
and friendship information in Twitter. We directly down-
loaded demographic information (e.g., gender and age) and
other types of into-ness (e.g., number of event attendance in
the past, number of loved tracks, period after registration,
and number of friends in Last.fm) through the Last.fm API.
Initial Data Collection
To identify and obtain a sample of Last.fm users in the
U.S. who share gender, age, and Twitter user names in their
Last.fm proﬁles, we used the Google Custom Search API
and the Bing Search API. We created a custom query con-
taining parameters that returned only Last.fm user pages
which contained this particular information. To augment
the sample size, we collected U.S. Twitter users who share
their Last.fm accounts in their Twitter proﬁles by using the
‘Search Bio’ feature in Followerwonk2. This allowed us to
obtain 23,294 unique users. Then, we collected all publicly
available tweets from that user population. During this pro-
cess 4,392 unique users were screened out since some of
them did not allow public access to their tweets or had re-
moved their accounts in the meantime. This left us with
18,902 unique users. To infer socioeconomic status by us-
ing geocodes in tweets, we limited our remaining sample to

2https://followerwonk.com

those users who posted at least ten tweets with geocodes,
which resulted in 3,548 users. Along with Twitter data, we
collected Last.fm data including ‘Top artists’ list (i.e., the
50 musicians a user listened to the most; listening frequency
for each artist is included) as well as demographic and some
into-ness information directly through the Last.fm API.

Socioeconomic Status
We used home location derived from Twitter as an index
to approximate socioeconomic data, and news interests, ex-
pressed via Twitter’s following network, as another proxy
for socioeconomic status.

A user’s home location can be a marker of their so-
cioeconomic status. In particular, the socioeconomic status
of social media users can be estimated by extracting the
users’ hometown ZIP codes and matching that to the median
ZIP code household income according to the Census Bu-
reau (Lewis, Gonzalez, and Kaufman 2012). In addition, us-
ing the inferred home location we can check whether a user
lives in an urban or rural area (Hecht and Stephens 2014).

To obtain the home location for a user, we followed a pro-
cedure that involved three different methods of identifying
a user’s possible home ZIP code. We ﬁrst reverse-geocoded
all the latitude and longitude tags for the user into the ZIP
codes, using the Nominatim API3. We also extracted Fed-
eral Information Processing Standard (FIPS) codes, which
represent speciﬁc regions in counties, using the Coordinates
to Political Areas API in Data Science Toolkit4. Using the
ZIP code data for the user, we inferred a probable home lo-
cation of a user when we found an intersection between the
sets of potential ZIP codes for the user computed by three
different methods, the plurality and n-days methods sum-
marized in (Hecht and Stephens 2014) and the plurality with
time limitation described in (Castelli et al. 2009).

The plurality approach (Hecht and Stephens 2014) as-
sumes that the single region in which a user was the most
active is the user’s home location. Using this approach, we
ﬁnd the user’s mode ZIP code(s) from which tweets were
most frequently posted. The plurality with time limitation
method is based on the ﬁnding in (Castelli et al. 2009), that
people are most likely home between 10pm – 6am. Using
these parameters, we identify the user’s mode ZIP code(s)
from which tweets were most frequently posted during that
time period. Since the plurality approaches may not be ap-
propriate for users who travel frequently, the ﬁnal method
we used identiﬁed the ZIP code(s) in which a user posted
over a period of at least 10 days, considering them ‘local’ to
that area if they did.

We selected a single home ZIP code (and FIPS code) for
each user by intersecting the ZIP code sets resulting from the
three methods mentioned above. The ﬁnal set of users with
non-empty intersection had 1,306 users (there were 3,451,
3,258, and 1,822 users with non-empty sets for each of plu-
rality, plurality with time constraint, and n-days methods re-
spectively). All other users for which we could not robustly
estimate a location were removed from the data.

3http://www.nominatim.org
4http://www.datasciencetoolkit.org

Finally, to extract socioeconomic data, we used each ZIP
code to query the 2010 US Census data to determine in-
come, education level, and ethnic diversity in the area. We
matched each FIPS code to NCHS data for urban–city classi-
ﬁcation of the area which places every U.S. county on a dis-
crete scale from 1 (a large central metro area) to 6 (a sparse
rural area). For each user we thus have values for median
household income, percentage of bachelor degrees, propor-
tion of white people5, and urbanness: these are our socioeco-
nomic proxy measures. This process resulted in 1,306 users
for whom we have self-declared gender and age, as well as
inferred income, education level, and characteristics of the
area of residence6.

In addition to location-derived socioeconomic data, we
used news interest as a proxy for socioeconomic variables.
According to Pew Research (Pew Research Center 2012),
regular news audiences often are more formally educated
and have higher household incomes. In particular, readers
of The New Yorker and The Economist news media tend to
be highly educated and high earners (Pew Research Center
2012). We therefore created a variable that indicates whether
each of our users follows The New Yorker (@NewYorker) or
The Economist (@TheEconomist) on Twitter.

Genre and Subgenre Information Collection
For each user, we extracted the categories of music they lis-
ten to at both genre and subgenre (‘style’) levels. For each
user we retrieved the top 50 artists the user listened to via
the Last.fm API. We collected genre and subgenre infor-
mation for each artist using the API for Allmusic7, a well-
known music database (DB). Unlike other music content
databases, Allmusic’s metadata is professionally edited and
thus is likely to be more consistent when assigning genres
or subgenres to artists. Many high-proﬁle music sources like
iTunes and Spotify currently use Allmusic to handle relevant
artist information.

We matched each artist name collected from Last.fm to
an artist entry on the Allmusic DB only if the result exactly
matched the queried artist name. When multiple musicians
with the same name were matched, we used the Allmusic
engine’s relevance ranking which is based on usage data
and editorial weighting. We manually validated the Allmusic

racial and ethnic diversity as 1 −(cid:80)

5We tested relation between white ratio and ‘racial and ethic di-
versity’ by using the Ethnic/Racial Diversity Index which deﬁnes
r∈G P (r)2 where P (r) is pro-
portion of a race population r and G is represented race groups (in
our case: white, black, Native American, Asian, Hispanic, Paciﬁc
Islander, two or more races, and other races by following ethnic-
ity distribution in the 2010 Census). A higher index number de-
notes more diversity. However, there is confusion among the gen-
eral population about the designation of the Hispanic identity since
‘Hispanic’ in the census refers to any ‘race,’ both black and white.
So, we decided to use the simple metric, 1 – white ratio, as ‘Racial
Diversity’ since it is clearer. The Pearson correlation between the
white ratio and ethnic diversity was 0.667 (p < 0.001).

6We ignored 97 users due to various ZIP code issues, such as
ZIP code that were invalid, not available from the census data, or
too small to have socioeconomic statistics.

7http://www.allmusic.com/

ranking for a random selection of 100 artists that had mul-
tiple entries. We examined the Last.fm page for the artist
(as linked from the user’s Top 50 list, i.e. uniquely identi-
ﬁed) and the Allmusic page for the top-ranked artist by the
same name as retrieved by the API. We found that the top-
ranked artist matches with the Last.fm artist for all cases in
this sample of 100.

A single artist could be classiﬁed into multiple genres and
subgenres, in which case we distributed the artist’s ‘weight’
equally between the respective genres or subgenres. During
this data processing, we dropped 292 users who did not have
full set of 50 artists that were classiﬁed by Allmusic and lis-
tened to more than 100 times by the user. As a result, data for
1,014 users were analyzed. There were 8,490 unique artists
among the Top 50 artists of 1,014 users, and 987 artists
among the unique artists were matched with more than one
exact name in Allmusic DB (e.g., Nirvana and Spoon).
Measuring Diversity
We calculated the diversity of music consumption for each
user using both genre- and subgenre-level data derived from
their Last.fm activity. We previously argued that in order
to explore diversity, we need to investigate multiple fac-
tors, namely: the number of genres listened to (variety),
the distribution of playing frequency among genres (bal-
ance), and, crucially, how related these different genres are
(measured via some distance or similarity). These assump-
tions align well with the concept of Rao-Stirling diver-
sity (Stirling 1998; Stirling 2007; Porter and Rafols 2009;
Leydesdorff and Rafols 2011).

user u as(cid:80)

values (for each row u,(cid:80)

To operationalize the concept of diversity, following Rao-
Stirling, we computed the diversity of musical tastes of a
i,j∈N pu,i × pu,j × d(i, j). In this formulation,
pu,i is the fraction of user u’s preference for genre i (we per-
formed separate and equivalent calculations for genres and
subgenre information; the description here focuses on genre
information). To compute d(i, j), we computed the pairwise
co-consumption between musical categories as a proxy of
closeness. Using an M × N genre proportion matrix of pu,i
i pu,i = 1), we computed every
possible pair of genre-to-genre cosine distances between the
matrix columns, representing closeness between genres. The
distance d(i, j) is the cosine distance, i.e., 1 – cosine simi-
larity, between the genres. As mentioned above, we repeated
the same process with subgenre information. For illustra-
tion, the resulting distances for genres, embedded in two di-
mensions using multidimensional scaling (Kruskal and Wish
1978) (MDS), are shown in Figure 18.

This approach to computing diversity of music consump-
tion has a number of useful qualities. A user who equally
(balance) consumes many types of music (variety) that are
pairwise highly dissimilar (distance) will have a large di-
versity score, whereas a user disproportionally consuming a

8Interestingly, highbrow and middlebrow genres (e.g., classical,
easy listening, and jazz) are close to each other rather than being
close to lowbrow genres (e.g., pop&rock, folk, country, rap) even
though we used an inductive approach to identify the distance be-
tween musical categories rather than assuming that musical tastes
are shaped by certain schemes.

Figure 1: Multidimensional scaling for distance between
genres

few pairwise similar types of music will has a low diversity
score. We evaluate this approach and its robustness below.

Into-ness and Openness
For each user, we calculated several variables that capture
openness (preference for novelty and variety) and into-ness
(degree of interest in music) using Twitter and Last.fm data.
To help inferring into-ness and openness regarding each
user’s interests, we ﬁrst inferred the user’s general interests
by using a method proposed in (Bhattacharya et al. 2014).
For a given Twitter user u (whose interests are to be in-
ferred), the method ﬁrst checks which other users u is fol-
lowing, i.e., users from whom u is interested in receiving
information. It then identiﬁes the topics of expertise of those
users (whom u is following) to infer u’s interests, i.e., the
topics on which u is interested in receiving information. Ex-
pertise is deﬁned by the users bio or tweets via the Lists
feature in Twitter (Ghosh et al. 2012).

Using the interest topics for each user, we computed open-
ness and into-ness measures. As a proxy of openness, we
computed the diversity of the user’s interests using the same
method we calculated music consumption diversity above.
In this case, for example, similarity of interests can be de-
rived from the cosine distance between interest in a matrix
that captures users’ interest breakdown. As other measures
of openness, we counted for each user in our dataset the
number of people they are following on Twitter and also the
number of unique timezone in 100 randomly sampled peo-
ple from whom they are following. We collected these open-
ness variables inspired by (Schrammel, K¨offel, and Tsche-
ligi 2009; Quercia et al. 2011)9.

As a proxy of music into-ness, we used the proportion of
music-related interests (any interest topic that included the
term ‘music’) among the entire set of user interests along
with other types of into-ness that were directly collected via

9We did not consider lexical features of tweets as variables
since previous efforts (Golbeck et al. 2011; Qiu et al. 2012;
Schwartz et al. 2013) showed a disagreement regarding predicting
features for openness.

Socioeconomic Variables

Distribution

Income

Education

Racial Diversity

High-proﬁle News Reader

Urbanness

Demographic Variables

Age

Gender

Into-ness Variables

Musical Event Attendance

# of Loved Tracks

Days from Registration

# of Last.fm Friends

Interest in Music

Openness Variables

# of Twitter Friends

Timezone Diversity of Friends

Interest Diversity

Diversity

Diversity on Genre

Diversity on Subgenre

Max

192,250

100

0.98

1–6 (Scale)

52

1,504

12,619

4,305

2,036

2,456

10,954

31

0.76

0.67

0.80

Table 1: Fifteen variables used to explain the measured mu-
sical diversity scores and genre- and subgenre-level of diver-
sity scores. The distributions accompanying each variable
begin at zero and end at the adjacent maximum. Many vari-
ables are not normally distributed.

the Last.fm API: number of event attendance in the past,
number of loved tracks, period after Last.fm registration,
and number of friends in Last.fm.

Table 1 presents 15 variables we identiﬁed and diversity

on genre and subgenre along with their distributions.
Data Validation and Preparation
Given that some of our variables were indirectly derived
from social media data, we performed validation tests for
our key variables.
Reverse Geocoding To validate our geocoding frame-
work, we matched the inferred ZIP code to the self-reported
home location of the user on their Twitter proﬁle. Out of 100
randomly sampled users, eight users did not disclose their
location on their Twitter proﬁle or did not properly disclose

their location like “not in a cornﬁeld but. . . close” and “up in
the air.” Among the rest of them (92% of users), only eight
users’ locations did not overlap with the inferred zip code
location. In other words, more than 90% of inferred loca-
tions were well-matched to the self-reported home locations
at town/city/state levels.

Note that it is unusual to have as much as 92% of users
with a valid location ﬁeld (Hecht et al. 2011). Our dataset,
though, includes Twitter users who are also heavy users of
the geo-tagged tweets feature; it is conceivable that the same
group more readily exposes location in their proﬁle data.
Socioeconomic Status Even if we get the user’s location
right, the derivation of their socioeconomic information may
be wrong as the user may not be representative of where
they live. For example, it is possible that people who use
both Twitter and Last.fm have similar socioeconomic sta-
tus, regardless of what sort of neighborhood they live in.
However, if the inferred socioeconomic information are cor-
rect, they should correlate with our other proxy for socioe-
conomic status: following the New Yorker or Economist.
We thus validate our socioeconomic measures by examin-
ing whether our inferred income and education level are as-
sociated with following the New Yorker (@NewYorker) or
The Economist (@TheEconomist) Twitter accounts. Indeed,
compared to other users, New Yorker and Economist follow-
ers had higher status for all inferred income and education
values, including adjusted gross income (AGI), household
income, and level of post-secondary degree (both bachelor’s
and graduate). These differences were statistically signiﬁ-
cant as determined by a one-way ANOVA (New Yorker fol-
lowers AGI: p < 0.01; median household income: p < 0.05;
bachelor degree: p < 0.001; graduate degree: p < 0.001;
Economist followers AGI: p < 0.001; median household
income: p < 0.05; bachelor degree: p < 0.001; graduate
degree: p < 0.001).
Data Imputation and Standardization In our ﬁnal
dataset, 189 out of 1,014 subjects had missing values in one
or more variables. According to (Hair et al. 2006), if the
missing data level is under 10% in each variable, any im-
putation method can be used to augment the missing val-
ues. We used multiple imputation methods in our dataset:
we applied Bayesian linear regression for continuous vari-
ables, and linear discriminant analysis for factor variables.
We also standardized all the variables for the ﬁnal analysis.

Results

Our primary purposes for this study were (i) to design a mea-
sure that reasonably captures the notion of ‘diversity of mu-
sical tastes’ and (ii) to explore associations between musi-
cal diversity and various individual factors regarding dimen-
sions of socioeconomic status, demographics, and personal
traits including openness and into-ness in music.

Diversity Measure
To answer RQ1, we estimated the reliability of our diversity
measure. We asked three independent annotators to assign a
diversity level to the musical consumption of 25 randomly

chosen users. The annotators ranged in their music knowl-
edge; we had an expert (musicologist), a music fan, and a
causal listener. We provided the annotators two sets of ta-
bles of genre- and subgenre-based listening proportion of
the 25 users. We asked the annotators to carefully examine
each user’s listening pattern and apply a 6-point diversity
Likert scale where ‘5’ meant very diverse musical taste, ‘1’
meant very low diversity, and ‘0’ meant no diversity at all (it
is possible that a user listened only to one genre). We did not
provide the annotators with any other information or instruc-
tions (such as “consider the relationship between genres”) as
we wanted to know their natural impressions and interpreta-
tions of diversity based on their own experiences. Fleiss’s
Kappa and average pairwise Cohen’s Kappa were used to
assess the inter-rater reliability for the evaluation. For genre-
level the Fleiss Kappa score was 0.411 (p < 0.001) indicat-
ing moderate agreement, and the Cohen’s Kappa score was
0.819 (p < 0.001) indicating almost perfect agreement. For
subgenre-level, the respective scores were 0.011 (p > 0.1)
indicating slight agreement and 0.415 (p < 0.05) indicat-
ing moderate agreement. We averaged the rater responses for
each user and used that below as the raters’ diversity score.
To evaluate our diversity measure, we calculated the Pear-
son correlation between the raters’ average score and our
computed diversity score. For genre-level diversity, the cor-
relation between our measure and the raters’ diversity was
0.94 (p < 0.001). For the subgenre-level diversity, the aver-
age correlation was 0.87 (p < 0.05). Interestingly, looking
at correlations between individual raters’ and our diversity
score, the expert annotator had the highest correlation with
our diversity score in both settings.

Other commonly used diversity measures were more sen-
sitive to the level of analysis. We correlated the raters di-
versity scores with the diversity scores computed by Shan-
non entropy and by the count of musical categories a user
listened to (‘volume’). In the genre-level analysis, both the
entropy and volume methods showed signiﬁcant correlation
with the raters. The Pearson correlation between the raters’
average scores and the entropy values was 0.95 (p < 0.001).
The average correlation between raters and the volume mea-
sure was 0.86 (p < 0.001). However, in subgenre-level anal-
ysis we found more notable differences between the raters’
and our diversity scores. The Pearson correlations between
the entropy and the rater scores was 0.79 (p < 0.05). With
volume, the average correlation was 0.46 (p < 0.05).

This result initially indicates that our diversity measure is
promising as it captures human rater evaluations of diver-
sity more robustly than traditional measures—it is less de-
pendent on changes in categorical hierarchies. The distance
between musical categories can be an important factor for
understanding musical diversity, especially in highly com-
plex musical classiﬁcations.

Correlates of Musical Diversity
To address RQ2, we used multiple regression analyses to ex-
amine factors associated with the diversity of musical con-
sumption. We examined socioeconomic status variables as
well as demographics, openness, and into-ness measures.

Table 2 presents the standardized coefﬁcients of the ex-

Income

Education

Racial Diversity

Urbanness

High-proﬁle News Reader

Age

Gender (Male)

Music Event Attendance

# of Loved Tracks

Days from Registration

# of Last.fm Friends

Interest in Music

# of Twitter Friends

Friends’ Timezone Diversity

Interest Diversity

Constant

Genre

(1)

-0.047
(0.037)

0.027
(0.039)
0.108∗∗
(0.036)

-0.040
(0.035)
0.366∗∗∗
(0.095)
0.121∗∗∗
(0.033)
0.111·
(0.067)
-0.145∗∗∗
(0.034)
0.079∗
(0.033)
-0.102∗∗
(0.033)

0.023
(0.036)
-0.143∗∗∗
(0.034)
0.085∗
(0.033)

0.026
(0.032)

-0.027
(0.032)
-0.123∗
(0.057)

Dependent variable:

Subgenre

(2)
0.007
(0.037)

-0.020
(0.039)
0.089∗
(0.036)

0.052
(0.035)
0.301∗∗
(0.096)
0.161∗∗∗
(0.033)
0.153∗
(0.067)

-0.042
(0.034)
0.089∗∗
(0.033)

-0.029
(0.033)
-0.081∗
(0.036)
-0.113∗∗∗
(0.034)

0.050
(0.034)
0.074∗
(0.032)

-0.017
(0.031)
-0.143∗
(0.057)

Observations
R2
Adjusted R2
Residual Std. Error (df = 998)
F Statistic (df = 15; 998)
Note:

1,014
0.101
0.088
0.955
7.487∗∗∗
· p<0.1; ∗p<0.05; ∗∗p<0.01; ∗∗∗p<0.001

1,014
0.087
0.073
0.963
6.322∗∗∗

Table 2: Multiple regression coefﬁcients of individual fac-
tors on the musical diversity of genre and subgenre

planatory variables10. The model (1) in Table 2 estimates
the effects of socioeconomic, demographic, and other indi-
vidual variables on the diversity of musical consumptions on
genres. Among the ‘socioeconomic status’ variables, High-
proﬁle News Reader variable had a high coefﬁcient due to
users who follow The Economist or The New Yorker hav-
ing higher musical diversity than those who do not (one-
way ANOVA conﬁrmed the signiﬁcance; p < 0.001). Even
though we exclude this variable to check whether income
and education variables are associated with diversity of mu-
sic consumption, we could not ﬁnd any change regarding

10All variance inﬂation factors are below 1.64 (µ = 1.28 and
σ = 0.16); Pearson correlation between genre and subgenre diver-
sities is 0.68 (p < 0.001).

signiﬁcance level and direction of correlation. The readers
of high-proﬁle news reports may have indirect or subtle dif-
ference in terms of socioeconomic status.

Racial Diversity positively associates with the diversity of
music consumption. This may imply that people in our sam-
ple who live in more ethnically diverse area are more likely
to have higher musical diversity. By considering the rela-
tionship between white ratio and ethnic diversity, this result
might be related to the effect of residential segregation. Both
of Age and Gender in the ‘demographic’ variables have pos-
itive effect on diversity: being older or male is more likely
to have more diverse musical tastes.

Among variables about ‘into-ness,’ Musical Event At-
tendance and Days from Registration appear to be nega-
tively associated with diversity, whereas Number of Last.fm
Friends does not show a signiﬁcant relationship and Num-
ber of Loved Tracks appears to positively associated with
diversity. Number of Twitter Friends as a ‘openness’ vari-
able appears to be positively associated with diversity while
Timezone Diversity of Friends and Interest Diversity shows
no effect. On this basis, one could speculate that few vari-
ables within the same set of variables correlate with musical
diversity in different directions. We discuss these trends be-
low.

Model (2) in Table 2 estimates the effects of the same
variables on the diversity of musical consumption of sub-
genres; it shows very similar trends with model (1). How-
ever, Gender is more signiﬁcantly associated with diversity.
Among the ‘into-ness’ variables, Number of Last.fm Friends
is signiﬁcantly associated with diversity rather than Days
from Registration. But, the general trends of ‘into-ness’ are
in common. Among the ‘openness’ variables Timezone Di-
versity of Friends is signiﬁcantly associated with diversity
rather than Number of Twitter Friends while the general
trends of the ‘openness’ are in common.

Discussion

Our results provide initial evidence for the value of our ‘mu-
sic diversity measure’ which aims to balance three quali-
ties: variety, balance, and distance. Our diversity measure
has shown to be more robust than other conventional mea-
sures such as volume and entropy.

Differences between Pearson correlation coefﬁcients at
the genre- and subgenre-levels computed by our measure,
as well as the average rates assigned by independent coders
on a 6-point Likert scale, were not signiﬁcantly different.
For the other measures of diversity, when moving between
genre and subgenre levels, the average correlation coefﬁ-
cients dropped more steeply, especially the volume measure.
Musical diversity can be computed by simple methods, but
it may underestimate or overestimate diversity depending on
the complexity of musical categories and the disparity be-
tween musical categories that people perceive. Our results
show that volume and entropy might not be the best solution
for computing the musical diversity of people on a highly
complex map of musical categories such as subgenres.

We only considered the genre and subgenre categories,
but new methods for music classiﬁcation may result in cate-
gories that are even more complex, making a robust diversity

measure even more important. For example, research efforts
have developed novel methods for music classiﬁcation using
various data sources such as audio features and song meta-
data (Henaff et al. 2011; Foucard et al. 2013).

In addition, diversity of music consumption was corre-
lated with interest in high-proﬁle news media; users who fol-
low high-proﬁle news media are much more likely to have
a higher level of musical diversity. When we think about
whether one consumes high-proﬁle news media, it is not
necessarily a variable that is as straightforward as income
or education level. To understand news reports, readers need
more than a basic grasp of word order and word meaning;
a particular ‘knowledge of the world’ is also necessary. Van
Dijk (Van Dijk 1996) explains this when he writes: “Readers
of a news report ﬁrst of all need to understand its words, sen-
tences, or the structural properties. This does not only mean
they must know the language and its grammar and lexicon,
possibly including rather technical words such as those of
modern politics, management, science, or the professions.
Users of the media need to know something about the spe-
ciﬁc organization and functions of news reports in the press,
including the functions of headlines, leads, background in-
formation, or quotations. Besides such grammatical and tex-
tual knowledge, media users need vast amounts of properly
organized knowledge of the world.” Van Dijk’s point alludes
to the possibility that if one has access to particular under-
standings of ‘the world,’ then they are better equipped to
seek out and beneﬁt from high proﬁle news sources. If this
is the case, then we can begin to think about level of music
diversity as a potential variable vis-`a-vis knowledge.

Our results also conﬁrm a number of previous ﬁndings
about demographic variables associated with the diversity
of music consumption. They show that male users are more
likely to have diverse musical tastes, which conﬁrms prior
research showing that males tend to consider mainstream
music as unhip while females consider it in another way
of saying popular music (Christenson and Peterson 1988);
such perceptions might affect musical consumption. Males
are also more likely to prefer more unique styles of music
than females (Rawlings and Ciancarelli 1997). In addition,
people who are older in our sample are more likely to have
diverse musical tastes. This result closely echos the analyses
of (Warde, Wright, and Gayo-Cal 2007): young people may
identify strongly with one or only a few genres and styles
of music, which reveals the signiﬁcance of their representa-
tional dimensions.

A potentially surprising ﬁnding is that people who at-
tended more musical events are less likely to have diverse
listening habits. (Warde, Wright, and Gayo-Cal 2007) also
argues that there is a tendency, or an openness, towards un-
familiar musical forms and evidence of relatively diverse
tastes in people who are limited in how they can engage
in musical activities. The development of a broad palette of
musical tastes was not valued by people for whom music
is more accessible. We note that urban dwellers may have
better access to musical activities, but we could not ﬁnd a
signiﬁcant association with urbanness in our results.

Users with diverse patterns of music consumption are less
likely to follow music-related accounts on Twitter. This ﬁnd-

ing can be due to a different set of music-related interests
between diverse listeners—who care more about the mu-
sic itself—and more casual music fans who may care more
about the celebrity factor. If this were shown to be true, we
may refer to it as the Justin Bieber effect (no offense to his
fans should they be reading this paper).
Final Remarks

In this paper, we have designed a reasonable measure that
quantiﬁes the diversity of musical tastes. In addition, we pro-
vide an analysis of diversity as it relates to the cultural om-
nivore thesis. Based on well-known individual factors which
relate diversity of musical preferences across various theo-
retical work and empirical studies, we identiﬁed key factors
for designing a diversity measure, and located individual-
level variables for exploring correlations of musical diver-
sity.

We acknowledge that the manner in which we inferred
the socioeconomic status variable could produce signiﬁcant
inaccuracies. For example, users’ home locations were in-
ferred in ZIP code resolution and using geocoded Twit-
ter data. These methods are prone to error. Other methods
for collecting more direct or ﬁne-grained location data, or
maybe even a direct collection of socioeconomic variables,
might give us a better opportunity to study this correla-
tion with music consumption. Second, our user population
and the music they listen to are both potentially highly bi-
ased. Our population is comprised of users who make an
explicit connection between their Twitter and Last.fm ac-
counts, which may indicate search biases on our behalf. In
addition, the tracks and artists displayed for each user are
based on their public listening behavior, which may or may
not be reﬂective of their overall listening habits. Finally, we
could see rating differences among coders due to knowledge
differences. The measurement validations can be improved
by better systematic investigations using more listening his-
tory samples and annotators with different levels of knowl-
edge background. At the same time, it would be interesting
to see if the way of rating changes when the music listeners
themselves are asked about their diversity.

Future research along this vein will provide a richer and
more complex picture of musical preferences. This pic-
ture will in turn contribute to a greater understanding of
the changing face of the cultural omnivore, as it manifests
through analyses of social media data, and also contribute to
a empirical recommendation system aiming to provide con-
tents based on tastes and aesthetics preferences.

Acknowledgements

We are grateful to Gabriel Magno, Luam Cat˜ao, Kunwoo
Park, Jaehyuk Park, Seungback Shin, Amit Sharma, Nir
Grinberg, Michael Macy, and Dan Cosley for their thought-
ful questions, comments, and helps on this study, and we
also appreciate the anonymous reviewers for their valuable
comments.

References

[Bhattacharya et al. 2014] Bhattacharya, P.; Zafar, M. B.;
Ganguly, N.; Ghosh, S.; and Gummadi, K. P. 2014.
In-

ferring user interests in the twitter social network. In ACM
Conference on Recommender systems (RecSys), 357–360.
[Bourdieu 1984] Bourdieu, P. 1984. Distinction: A social
critique of the judgement of taste. Harvard University Press.
[Bu et al. 2010] Bu, J.; Tan, S.; Chen, C.; Wang, C.; Wu, H.;
Zhang, L.; and He, X. 2010. Music recommendation by uni-
ﬁed hypergraph: Combining social media information and
music content. In ACM International Conference on Multi-
media (ACMMM), 391–400.
[Buld´u et al. 2007] Buld´u, J. M.; Cano, P.; Koppenberger,
M.; Almendral, J. A.; and Boccaletti, S. 2007. The complex
network of musical tastes. New Journal of Physics 9(6):172.
[Castelli et al. 2009] Castelli, G.; Mamei, M.; Rosi, A.; and
Zambonelli, F. 2009. Extracting high-level information from
location data: The w4 diary example. Mobile Networks and
Applications 14(1):107–119.
[Chen, Wu, and He 2013] Chen, L.; Wu, W.; and He, L.
2013. How personality inﬂuences users’ needs for recom-
mendation diversity? In CHI’13 Extended Abstracts on Hu-
man Factors in Computing Systems, 829–834.
[Christenson and Peterson 1988] Christenson, P. G., and Pe-
terson, J. B. 1988. Genre and gender in the structure of mu-
sic preferences. Communication Research 15(3):282–301.
[Coulangeon and Lemel 2007] Coulangeon, P., and Lemel,
Y. 2007.
Is ‘distinction’ really outdated? questioning the
meaning of the omnivorization of musical taste in contem-
porary france. Poetics 35(2):93–111.
[DeNora 2000] DeNora, T. 2000. Music in everyday life.
Cambridge University Press.
[Farrahi et al. 2014] Farrahi, K.; Schedl, M.; Vall, A.;
Hauger, D.; and Tkalcic, M. 2014. Impact of listening be-
havior on music recommendation. In International Society
for Music Information Retrieval Conference (ISMIR).
[Foucard et al. 2013] Foucard, R.; Essid, S.; Richard, G.; and
Lagrange, M. 2013. Exploring new features for music classi-
ﬁcation. In IEEE International Workshop on Image Analysis
for Multimedia Interactive Services (WIAMIS), 1–4.
[Ghosh et al. 2012] Ghosh, S.; Sharma, N.; Benevenuto, F.;
Ganguly, N.; and Gummadi, K. 2012. Cognos: Crowdsourc-
ing search for topic experts in microblogs. In International
ACM SIGIR conference on Research and Development in In-
formation Retrieval, 575–590.
[Golbeck et al. 2011] Golbeck, J.; Robles, C.; Edmondson,
M.; and Turner, K. 2011. Predicting personality from twit-
ter. In IEEE International Conference on Social Computing
(SocialCom), 149–156.
[Goldberg 2011] Goldberg, A. 2011. Mapping shared un-
derstandings using relational class analysis: The case of the
cultural omnivore reexamined1. American Journal of Soci-
ology 116(5):1397–1436.
[Hair et al. 2006] Hair, J. F.; Tatham, R. L.; Anderson, R. E.;
and Black, W. 2006. Multivariate data analysis, volume 6.
Pearson Prentice Hall Upper Saddle River, NJ.
[Hecht and Stephens 2014] Hecht, B., and Stephens, M.
2014. A tale of cities: Urban biases in volunteered geo-

In AAAI conference on Weblogs and

graphic information.
Social Media (ICWSM).
[Hecht et al. 2011] Hecht, B.; Hong, L.; Suh, B.; and Chi,
E. H. 2011. Tweets from justin bieber’s heart: The dynam-
In ACM SIGCHI
ics of the location ﬁeld in user proﬁles.
Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI),
237–246.
[Henaff et al. 2011] Henaff, M.; Jarrett, K.; Kavukcuoglu,
K.; and LeCun, Y. 2011. Unsupervised learning of sparse
In International
features for scalable audio classiﬁcation.
Society of Music Information Retrieval (ISMIR), 681–686.
[Hurley and Zhang 2011] Hurley, N., and Zhang, M. 2011.
Novelty and diversity in top-n recommendation–analysis
and evaluation. ACM Transactions on Internet Technology
(TOIT) 10(4):14.
[Kruskal and Wish 1978] Kruskal, J. B., and Wish, M. 1978.
Multidimensional scaling, volume 11. Sage.
[Lewis, Gonzalez, and Kaufman 2012] Lewis, K.; Gonzalez,
M.; and Kaufman, J. 2012. Social selection and peer in-
ﬂuence in an online social network. Proceedings of the Na-
tional Academy of Sciences 109(1):68–72.
[Leydesdorff and Rafols 2011] Leydesdorff, L., and Rafols,
I. 2011.
Indicators of the interdisciplinarity of journals:
Diversity, centrality, and citations. Journal of Informetrics
5(1):87–100.
[McNee, Riedl, and Konstan 2006] McNee, S. M.; Riedl, J.;
and Konstan, J. A. 2006. Being accurate is not enough:
How accuracy metrics have hurt recommender systems. In
CHI’06 Extended Abstracts on Human Factors in Comput-
ing Systems, 1097–1101.
[M¨orchen et al. 2005] M¨orchen, F.; Ultsch, A.; N¨ocker, M.;
and Stamm, C. 2005. Databionic visualization of music col-
lections according to perceptual distance. In International
Society of Music Information Retrieval (ISMIR), 396–403.
[Peterson 1992] Peterson, R. A. 1992. Understanding au-
dience segmentation: From elite and mass to omnivore and
univore. Poetics 21(4):243–258.
[Peterson 1997] Peterson, R. A. 1997. The rise and fall of
highbrow snobbery as a status marker. Poetics 25(2):75–92.
[Peterson 2005] Peterson, R. A. 2005. Problems in com-
parative research: The example of omnivorousness. poetics
33(5):257–282.
[Pew Research Center 2012] Pew Research Center.
2012.
Demographics and political views of news audiences.
http://tinyurl.com/kbb6n9m.
[Online; accessed
30-December-2014].
[Porter and Rafols 2009] Porter, A. L., and Rafols, I. 2009.
Is science becoming more interdisciplinary? measuring and
Scientometrics
mapping six research ﬁelds over time.
81(3):719–745.
[Qiu et al. 2012] Qiu, L.; Lin, H.; Ramsay, J.; and Yang, F.
2012. You are what you tweet: Personality expression and
perception on twitter. Journal of Research in Personality
46(6):710–718.
[Quercia et al. 2011] Quercia, D.; Kosinski, M.; Stillwell,
D.; and Crowcroft, J. 2011. Our twitter proﬁles, our selves:

In IEEE International

Predicting personality with twitter.
Conference on Social Computing (SocialCom), 180–185.
[Rawlings and Ciancarelli 1997] Rawlings, D., and Ciancar-
elli, V. 1997. Music preference and the ﬁve-factor model
of the neo personality inventory. Psychology of Music
25(2):120–132.
[Rentfrow and Gosling 2003] Rentfrow, P. J., and Gosling,
S. D. 2003. The do re mi’s of everyday life: The structure
and personality correlates of music preferences. Journal of
personality and social psychology 84(6):1236.
[Rimmer 2012] Rimmer, M. 2012. Beyond omnivores and
univores: The promise of a concept of musical habitus. Cul-
tural Sociology 6(3):299–318.
[Schrammel, K¨offel, and Tscheligi 2009] Schrammel,
J.;
K¨offel, C.; and Tscheligi, M. 2009. Personality traits, usage
patterns and information disclosure in online communities.
In British HCI Group Annual Conference on People and
Computers: Celebrating People and Technology, 169–174.
[Schwartz et al. 2013] Schwartz, H. A.; Eichstaedt, J. C.;
Kern, M. L.; Dziurzynski, L.; Ramones, S. M.; Agrawal,
M.; Shah, A.; Kosinski, M.; Stillwell, D.; Seligman, M. E.;
et al. 2013. Personality, gender, and age in the language
of social media: The open-vocabulary approach. PloS One
8(9):e73791.
[Stirling 1998] Stirling, A. 1998. On the economics and
analysis of diversity. Science Policy Research Unit (SPRU),
Electronic Working Papers Series 28:1–156.
[Stirling 2007] Stirling, A. 2007. A general framework for
analysing diversity in science, technology and society. Jour-
nal of the Royal Society Interface 4(15):707–719.
[Turnbull et al. 2014] Turnbull, D. R.; Zupnick, J. A.; Stens-
land, K. B.; Horwitz, A. R.; Wolf, A. J.; Spirgel, A. E.; Mey-
erhofer, S. P.; and Joachims, T. 2014. Using personalized
radio to enhance local music discovery. In CHI’14 Extended
Abstracts on Human Factors in Computing Systems, 2023–
2028.
[Van Dijk 1996] Van Dijk, T. A. 1996. Power and the news
media. Political communication in action 9–36.
[Wallin, Merker, and Brown 2001] Wallin, N. L.; Merker,
B.; and Brown, S. 2001. The origins of music. MIT press.
[Warde, Wright, and Gayo-Cal 2007] Warde, A.; Wright, D.;
and Gayo-Cal, M. 2007. Understanding cultural omnivo-
rousness: Or, the myth of the cultural omnivore. Cultural
sociology 1(2):143–164.
[Wikipedia 2015] Wikipedia. 2015. Last.fm. http://en.
wikipedia.org/wiki/Last.fm.
[Online; accessed
19-January-2015].
[Yang, Wang, and Mourali 2014] Yang, Z.; Wang, J.; and
Mourali, M. 2014. Effect of peer inﬂuence on unautho-
rized music downloading and sharing: The moderating role
of self-construal. Journal of Business Research.
[Zheleva et al. 2010] Zheleva, E.; Guiver, J.; Mendes Ro-
drigues, E.; and Mili´c-Frayling, N. 2010. Statistical models
of music-listening sessions in social media. In International
World Wide Web Conference (WWW), 1019–1028.

