Journeys & Notes:
Designing Social Computing for Non-Places
Justin Cranshaw
Microsoft Research
Redmond, WA, USA
justincr@microsoft.com
Andr s Monroy-Hern ndez
Microsoft Research
Redmond, WA, USA
amh@microsoft.com
S. A. Needham
California, USA
needhamsa@hotmail.com
6
1
0
2
 
y
a
M
7
2
 
 
 
]
C
H
.
s
c
[
 
 
1
v
8
4
5
8
0
.
5
0
6
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
ABSTRACT
In this work we present a mobile application we designed and
engineered to enable people to log their travels near and far,
leave notes behind, and build a community around spaces in
between destinations. Our design explores new ground for
location-based social computing systems, identifying oppor-
tunities where these systems can foster the growth of on-line
communities rooted at non-places. In our work we develop,
explore, and evaluate several innovative features designed
around four usage scenarios: daily commuting, long-distance
traveling, quanti ed traveling, and journaling. We present the
results of two small-scale user studies, and one large-scale,
world-wide deployment, synthesizing the results as potential
opportunities and lessons learned in designing social comput-
ing for non-places.
Author Keywords
location-based systems; mobile; urban computing;
non-places; place versus space; check-ins;
ACM Classi cation Keywords
H.5.m. Information Interfaces and Presentation (e.g. HCI):
Miscellaneous
Figure 1. (Left) The Home screen. Here users can review their history,
add a new journey, and check-in to a previous journey. (Right) The Jour-
ney screen. Once a user has checked-in to a journey, they can see stats
about past visitors and interact with notes that others have left behind.
INTRODUCTION
The distinction between space and place has long provided an
important theoretical framework for guiding the critical study
and design of social computing systems, mobile location-
based services, and online communities [20, 18]. Spaces are
best thought of as purely abstract they are bounded or un-
bounded geographic areas or domains without any speci c
cultural signi cance. Places, on the other hand, are spaces
that are imbued with a history, human social context, and cul-
tural meaning [19, 25, 39, 5, 2]. By understanding the pro-
cesses that turn a space into a place, one is empowered with
conceptual tools for understanding how to develop successful
online communities and collaborative systems.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of part or all of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for pro t or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full cita-
tion on the  rst page. Copyrights for third-party components of this work must be
honored. For all other uses, contact the owner/author(s). Copyright is held by the au-
thor/owner(s).
CHI 2016, May 7 12, 2016, San Jose, California, USA.
ACM 978-1-4503-3362-7/16/05.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2858036.2858573
However, it is also important to understand the characteristics
of non-places in the physical world:
those physical spaces
 which cannot be de ned as relational, or historical, or con-
cerned with identity [4]." In his 1995 treatise on the sub-
ject, anthropologist Marc Aug  argues that the cultural and
technological forces of modernity are pushing us to spend
increasingly more of our time in non-places, describing a
world where  people are born in the clinic and die in a hos-
pital, where transit points and temporary abodes are prolif-
erating under luxurious or inhuman conditions (hotel chains
and squats, holiday clubs and refugee camps, shanty towns
threatened with demolition or doomed to festering longevity);
where a dense network of means of transport which are also
inhabited spaces is developing; where the habitu  of super-
markets, slot machines, and credit cards communicates word-
lessly, through gestures, with an abstract, unmediated com-
merce [4]."
By understanding non-places and the impact technology has
on their production, we can hope future technologies will mit-
igate or reverse the societal trends that Aug  describes. This
work aims to take a step in that direction.
We are motivated by the question of how location-based so-
cial computing can enhance the meaning, symbolization, and
cultural relations experienced at physical non-places. We ask,
how can place-making efforts in the digital world augment the
experience at physical non-places?
To examine these questions through design, we draw our fo-
cus on what Aug  calls the  archetype of non-place,  the
spaces occupied by the traveller [4]. As Aug  describes  the
plurality of places  that the traveller passes through creates
a  discontinuity between the spectator-traveller and the land-
scape he is contemplating or rushing through,  preventing the
him (or her) from perceiving this landscape as a place, and
 from being fully present in it [4].  Journeys taken by trav-
ellers often start and end at non-places (for example at bus
terminals, airports, or subway stations), and are played out
on the place-less  elds of modern transport-infrastructure (in
cars stuck in highway traf c, in cramped airplanes, or packed
train cars), touching the daily lives of billions of individuals.
The main contributions of this work are:
  The design and implementation of Journeys & Notes, an
Android app that lets people check-in to their journeys.
  Two 1-week-long user studies (6 people, and 15 people) of
how people adopted the system, and how their use of the
system impacted their perceptions of travel and non-places.
  A large-scale  eld study on 9,435 participants providing
insight into usage patterns, and the types of messages peo-
ple write on their journeys.
BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
Check-in apps emerged around 2003 to enable a virtual social
experience anchored around physical places [26]. These apps
allow users to broadcast their presence at venues, that is, the
places they go to. Venues include restaurants, bars, of ces,
apartment buildings, homes, museums, parks, movie theatres,
shops, and caf s. Dodgeball, GoWalla, Foursquare and now
Swarm are some of the apps that embodied this concept of
checking-in to a venue. More recently, Facebook has adopted
this as a feature that people can use to attach a location to
their posts.
Designers of social computing technologies have grappled
with the concept of places for quite some time. In 1996, Har-
rison and Dourish [20] argued for the importance in distin-
guishing between  places" and  spaces," with a special em-
phasis on the virtual. Ten years later, Dourish [18] restates
these concepts in the context of spatial technologies.
Places often create communities around them [34, 30]. Place
check-in apps have begun to leverage and augment these
venue-based communities [27, 37]. Conversely, non-places
are not typically conceptualized as vibrant spaces where
communities take root. However, we have observed in-
stances where online communities anchored at non-places
have shown signs of emergence.
Previous work has explored the design of technologies to con-
nect people with one another while riding public transporta-
tion. For instance, researchers developed Trainroulette, an
app to promote  situated in-train social interaction between
passengers  [10]. The researchers found that people were
interested in knowing who shares the rides with them, but
wanted to do it semi-anonymously (exposing only certain as-
pects of their identity). Similarly, Belloni and colleagues
[6] explored the use of mobile technologies in  transitional
spaces.  Their work focused on the design of a location-based
friend  nder that displays any of the user s friends that are
in the same subway train. The researchers found that users
wanted the ability to  invisibly  log in to the system. This
need for identity opaqueness inspired the design of our app s
identity system.
Other work has looked at designing applications to increase
social engagement with the physical world. Rosner et al. de-
signed an application that let people convert free form doo-
dles to sharable walking routes on maps [35]. Cranshaw et
al. designed an online community of people documenting
their experiences at places through sharable city guides [16].
Overall, a meta-analysis of pervasive technology and public
transport [9] proposed the development of applications that
not facilitate only more ef cient journeys, but also more en-
joyable ones that people look forward to. This is what we set
out to do.
SCENARIO-BASED DESIGN FOR NON-PLACES
Our investigation of non-places as an unexplored domain in
social computing began with an informal survey of how exist-
ing social computing systems and apps are being used or re-
purposed for use in non-places. In surveying this landscape,
we considered all-purpose social networks such as Facebook,
check-in apps like Foursquare,  tness apps like Strava, track-
ing apps such as Moves, travel apps such as TripAdvisor, and
commuting apps such as Waze. As we considered each tech-
nology, we thought about how the features and usage scenar-
ios of these existing services might be adapted by the non-
place traveller, perhaps to help foster a disappearing sense of
community, or to augment a transient space with virtual ex-
periences of place.
Inspired by formal design methodologies such scenario-based
design [12, 11, 29, 36] and persona-based design [33, 13,
8], we synthesized our  ndings into a set of four scenar-
ios that we felt represent broad yet diverse archetypes of the
non-place traveller, while speaking to the opportunities, chal-
lenges, and implications of life in non-places. Here we high-
light how these scenarios helped inform our design process,
offering a lens through which we can empathize with the
lives, emotions, and social computing needs of a non-place
traveller.
The Everyday Commuter
Whether they travel by car, by bus, by train, by bike, or by
foot, the one thing most everyday commuters have in com-
mon is the regularity of their trips. Especially in larger urban
cores, this often translates to either time spent in the car stuck
The Quanti ed Traveller
Counting   a cousin to logging, tracking, following, and
recording   requires extreme consideration and attention to
detail. The quanti ed traveller might count calories, steps,
rides, smiles, records, sodas, hellos, sighs, words spoken,
liters drunk, grams consumed, emails sent, texts sent, etc.  
you know, the things that prove useful when compiling the
annual report.
The quanti ed-self movement seeks to empower individuals
with increased capabilities for tracking and expressing their
personal activities. Some of the initial commercial successes
in this space have been glori ed step counters, allowing peo-
ple to estimate how much they walk in a given day. Recent
quanti ed-self applications are starting analyze the trips peo-
ple take. For example, Strava is a smartphone app for compet-
itive bicyclists and runners that tracks their routes and times
[14]. It goes well beyond simple GPS path tracking, however,
implementing a leaderboard that shows the best recorded
times on all road segments. Moves is another quanti ed-self
smartphone application that builds a beautiful visual journal
of the users  activities by automatically identify the venues
that they stop at and the modes of transit used to take them
between venues.
The Journaling Traveller
The journaling traveller documents the details they feel are
often overlooked, carrying their stories with them   on fronts
of notebooks, side pockets, marking events on calendars.
Documenting the world as they see it drives the Journaling
traveller to write at length about how their neighborhood is
changing, about the gentleman who walks the park every
morning at 7:19am, and about the most recent paint change
on the sushi restaurant next door.
Documenting journeys is an age-old tradition. One of the ear-
liest travelogues recorded is the one by the Greek geographer
Pausanias from second century A.D. Today, the explosion of
social media applications has motivated people to document
every aspect of their lives, and journeys are not an excep-
tion. People document them with photos on Instagram, or by
writing long and detailed notes on Yelp or TripAdvisor about
their journeys. Journaling-speci c mobile applications like
Day One have millions of people using them diligently every
day. All of this shows the desire both for journaling travels
and for mobile apps to do so.
JOURNEYS & NOTES SYSTEM DESIGN
In this section we describe the key elements of the Journeys
& Notes system design. We link speci c designs and com-
ponents to the various facets of social life in non-places that
motivated them, often using our four scenarios as a connect-
ing point of reference.
Overview
Journeys & Notes extends the concept of a check-in [26, 15]
beyond  xed-point venues, allowing users to check-in to the
journeys they take. By specifying the endpoints of their jour-
ney and their mode of travel, users unlock a virtual social ex-
perience where they interact with other travellers also on the
Figure 2.
way.(Right) Facebook group for meeting tango dancers at airports.
(Left) Swarm venue for a recurring traf c jam in a high-
in traf c, or sharing the same bus or train with many of the
same familiar strangers they see each day.
Recently, apps such as Waze [38] have successfully har-
nessed the excess capacity of people s free time during peak
commuting hours by using people s smartphones to crowd-
sourcing traf c conditions. Although its goal is utilitarian,
Waze built an online mobile social community around com-
muting drivers stuck together in traf c, all just trying to  nd
a way around. This shows how social computing can be de-
signed with the needs of the everyday commuter in mind.
The Frequent Flyer
Red-eye to London. Dinner at an airport bar in Istanbul. Just
enough time for a coffee before the early  ight to Fez. The
frequent  yer knows airports. There are no familiar strangers
in the airport, only familiar types   the business traveller, the
retiree, the honeymooning couple, the college student return-
ing home, the jet-setting socialite   the frequent  yer can spot
them all with barely a glance.
Airports are among the most highly checked-in-to venue
types in Foursquare and Facebook. Sometimes,  yers check-
in on departure to let friends know they ll be out of town. Oth-
ers check-in to boast about the interesting places they re trav-
elling to. Checking-in upon arrival in an unfamiliar place of-
fers the opportunity for serendipitously bumping into nearby
social connections. A Facebook group called Airport Tango1
has over 8,000 members. Whenever a group member has
some layover time in an airport, they post to the group looking
to connect with other members so they can dance the Tango
while they wait for their  ights (see Figure 2 Right). Simi-
larly, Foursquare users often create fake venues to check in
while stuck in traf c jams (see Figure 2 Left). Check-in apps
and other forms of social computing are regularly being used
by travellers to make airports a little more social.
1https://www.facebook.com/groups/348726108583892/
Figure 4. Nearby journeys are bundled together to create a community.
J is the check-in journey of distance d, which de nes a community ra-
10 . Only notes J(cid:48)
dius of r   d
2 starts within r
of J and ends within r of J.
2 are visible to J, becauseJ(cid:48)
(e.g. a named points of interest, like  The Statue of Lib-
erty") or street addresses. The system geolocates the user s
input, resolving the endpoints to a coordinate by referencing
the Foursquare API (for venues) and the Bing API (for ad-
dresses). To enable ease of free text input on a mobile device,
as the user types their endpoints the system generates  typea-
head" auto-suggestions of nearby venues and addresses based
on the current device location [3].
Journey Check-ins
The central experience of Journeys & Notes is the journey
check-in, the process by which users expresses their presence
on a particular journey. To check-in to a journey, a user must
give their origin and destination (determining which journey
they are on), and they must choose their mode of travel from
a menu of travel icons (See Figure 5 Left).
When a user checks-in to a journey, they are taken to the Jour-
ney screen, where they are greeted by a randomized  wel-
come" message that we crafted to reinforce the user check-in
behavior, and adding variety, playfulness, and gami cation
aspects to the user experience. We designed three types of
welcome messages. The  rst type shows high level statis-
tics about the journey, including any notable milestones, how
many times the user has travelled the journey, and how many
other people have travelled on the journey too. The second
message type presents a travel-related haiku for the user s en-
joyment. The third type shows  fun facts" about the jour-
ney (for example how long would it take a bird to travel the
whole distance). In later sections, we will delve into the de-
sign and motivation for showing these messages. Figure 6
(Right) shows one example of the welcome screen.
Journey Community
The Journey page is a forum that asynchronously connects
users on similar journeys, allowing people to leave behind
notes for their fellow travellers to read, and to read and re-
spond to the notes left behind by others. These notes are
only visible when a user is on that journey, creating an ex-
plicit bond between the virtual content of the journey, and the
physical journey itself.
This design augments the space of the traveller with a persis-
tent community, complete with affordances to interact with
this community outside of the physical realities of the non-
place. This design is one of the most direct vehicles by which
we hope to impact the experience of non-places.
Figure 3. (Left) The Notes view. Users can leave a note behind on their
journey for others to see. (Right) The Stats view. Users can see summary
stats of all the journeys they have taken, grouped by mode of transit.
journey, discover notes that others travellers have left along
the way, and they can leave behind their own notes for others
to  nd.
The app is comprised of two main screens: the Home screen,
and the Journey screen. From the home screen (see Figure 1
Left), there are four possible actions that the user might take:
(1) they can check-in to a new journey; (2) they can review
their previous journeys, possibly checking-in to one of them;
(3) they can return to see details of their current journey; and
(4) they can review statistics about all their journeys by mode
of transit (see Figure 1 Right).
When the users tap the  new journey" area, they are prompted
to specify the origin, destination, and mode of transit to com-
plete their journey check-in. When checking-in to a previous
journey, the user is only required to specify the mode of tran-
sit (see Figure 5 Left). Previous journeys are presented on the
Home screen as a visual list of cards for each journey, depict-
ing the origin, destination, and summary statistics about past
mode-of-transit choices on that journey. If a user is currently
checked-in to a journey, they will see  current journey" sec-
tion on the home screen, with a card depicting the details of
the journey they re checked into. In all cases, these actions
take the users to the Journey screen for their current journey.
Journeys
A journey is fully speci ed by its endpoints   the origin and
destination of the user s trip. In the system, endpoints are lit-
erally points on the map (latitude and longitude coordinates),
so that two users will be on identical journeys if they start at
the same location and  nish at the same location, independent
of the paths they take while en-route. The user provides their
journey endpoints in a text  eld by specifying either a venue
Figure 5. (Left) Supported modes of travel. (Right) The number of jour-
ney check-ins by transit mode observed during the  eld deployment.
Cars (34%), Airplanes (17%), Trains (14%), Buses (12%), and Pedes-
trians (7%) comprise the majority of check-ins.
Each check-in journey de nes its own forum members based
on the journey endpoints. Roughly speaking, all other jour-
neys that start near the check-in journey s origin, and end
near its destination are bundled together to de ne the jour-
ney s forum. We scale this bundling so that the longer a
distance covered by the check-in journey (as the crow  ies),
the wider the community of bundled journeys. Speci cally,
if the check-in journey J = (a, b) travels from point a to
point b and is distance d, we de ne the community radius
r = (d/c) to be a constant fraction of the distance for some
c > 1. As d varies, we further restrict r so that it has
 xed minimum and maximum values   and  . Then the
community of journeys bundled with check-in journey J is
C(J) = {J(cid:48) = (a(cid:48), b(cid:48)) : d(a, a(cid:48))   r and d(b, b(cid:48))   r}. In
our implementation we set c to 10,   to 100 yards, and   to
30 miles. That is, J is bundled with other journeys that start
within a radius equal to 1/10th of its distance and end within
1/10th of its distance (with an additional minimum radius
constraint of 100 yards and maximum radius of 30 miles).
This is outlined with an example in Figure 4.
Having a community radius that scales with the length of the
journey allows Journeys & Notes to be equally useful for the
long distance business trips, where you would want to encom-
pass the entire cites or each end, and for the many intra-city
adventures of the everyday commuter, where radius should
capture just a block or a neighborhood.
Mode of Travel
Asking users to select the mode of travel in order to check-in
to a journey serves three very different purposes. First, by
forcing travellers to think of their mode of transportation as
not just a means to the end of their journey, but as a critical
part of their identity in the online community (their avatar),
we are turning role of the mode of travel on its head, from
something that encourages individuality and disorientation in
the physical world, to symbol that breeds sociality and pres-
ence in the online community.
Second, their mode of travel provides an important piece of
contextual information that can be used to help foster online
community growth. To surface this information, we use the
mode of travel icon as the user s avatar in the journey fo-
rum. This increases travellers  awareness of other possible
Figure 6. (Left) The note compose window. Tapping the toggle in the
top right switches between anonymity and pseudonymity. Tapping the
sub-header will step through the  ve different note sections. (Right) A
welcome pop-up appears immediately after a user checks-in to a journey.
modes of travel to get where they are going; for example,
drivers become more aware of the cycling community that
exists along their commute. It also encourages communities
to form within a given mode of travel; for example, bus rid-
ers can quickly scan posts from other bus avatars and identify
with other bus riders  travelling experience.
Finally, data about how people get to where they are going
is extremely valuable civic data that could be used to better
inform city transit planning. Collecting these data at a large
scale is very dif cult for cities and organizations. Develop-
ing a scalable approach for approximating or modelling trans-
portation patterns within a city could lead to signi cant civic
innovations.
Notes
Leaving notes on a journey is relatively straightforward. Sim-
ply tapping a "compose" button opens up a note builder
popover window, which guides users to constructing their
notes. Notes are plain text and are restricted to 250 charac-
ters. The compose view is shown in Figure 6. The author has
the option to categorize the note with one of  ve categories:
Notes & Visitors, Secrets & Stories, Love & Hate, Missed
Connections, and Tips & Tricks. By scaffolding the compose
window with note topic sections, our goal is to gently focus
the discussion, so that people are not turned away by the cold
start problem of a blank page with no inspiration for what to
write.
Notes appear in the Journey page in a feed displayed in re-
verse chronological order. Different categories receive differ-
ent color treatments, allowing for visual information  ltering
when browsing the feed. When a note in the feed is tapped,
it opens up a detail view for that note, which displays any
well over a million possibly fake but convincing bird com-
mon names (e.g. scarlet crested wren). We felt having bird
names as pseudonyms was a whimsical and playful design
that might appeal to users like the journaling traveller, who
sees beauty in the simple things around her. Figure 7 il-
lustrates the new user on-boarding screens, highlighting the
pseudonym assignment.
Much of our thinking about identity and anonymity was in-
 uenced by the needs and experiences of the city-dwelling
public transit enthusiast, such as the everyday commuter sce-
nario. Many who live in large cities have high regard for the
anonymity that comes with city life, a somewhat paradoxical
byproduct of sharing a small physical area with a great many
people [21]. They also value the structure and regularity of
the daily commute   in particular the familiar strangers, those
faces in the crowd that they recognize and who may even oc-
cupy a signi cant portion of their lives, yet whom they have
never had any deep interactions with.
Stanley Milgram was one of the  rst to write about the role
of familiar strangers in urban milieu. He describes the phe-
nomenon as a distinct category of relationship, providing sup-
port and value, and also requiring maintenance in the same
way that family, friends, or colleagues do [28]. Like Paulos
and Goodman s Jabberwocky [31], our design of Journeys
& Notes does not attempt to alter existing familiar stranger
norms or relationships. Rather, we hope to accentuate famil-
iar strangers by building technology that enables new interac-
tions and experiences that highlight their unique role in urban
life.
Speci cally, our decision to use assigned pseudonyms was
intended to preserve urban anonymity. For the everyday
commuters who regularly share close quarters with many of
the same fellow travellers every day on their bus, train, or
shuttle commutes, we believe it is important to maintain the
same feelings of anonymity in the application as is experi-
enced in the physical world. Our use of persistent random
pseudonyms, in contrast to pseudonyms that are refreshed
with each new post [24], allows users to maintain familiar
stranger relationships in the application by noticing and fol-
lowing the posts of familiar pseudonyms that they might rec-
ognize from journeys past.
as place based check-in applications use
Quanti ed-Self and Gami cation
Just
self-
quanti cation and gami cation as motivating forces that drive
usage [26, 40, 15], we believe there are similar opportunities
for non-place based check-ins. First, inspired by a similar
feature Foursquare used to have, we give people the title of
 trailblazer  when they are the  rst to check-in to a journey
that no one else has checked-in to before. Our goal is to en-
courage people to explore new journeys for themselves and
for the system as a whole. Furthermore, inspired by the ex-
amples we described in our scenario like Waze and Strava,
we decided to incorporate journey-based statistics about the
user. We surface these statistics to the user in a summary
panel on the Journey page. We  rst maintain simple counts
for the number of times the user has taken each trip. Addi-
tionally, we maintain counts for the number of times the user
Figure 7. (Left) Journeys & Notes loading screen. (Right) A random
pseudonym given to a  rst time user.
comments that have been left, and exposes an interface for
composing a comment on the selected note.
Note are not only the primary means by which people inter-
act with their fellow travellers (by reading the notes of others,
and leaving comments behind), but simply by virtue of be-
ing asked to write about it, notes encourage the traveller to
be mindful of the journey, and create a sense of history and
culture from the previous travellers.
Pseudonymity and Anonymity
There are three de ning aspects of our design around user
pro les and identity:
(1) users are given random system-
assigned usernames, or pseudonyms, the  rst time they use
Journeys & Notes; (2) pseudonyms are persistent, they can-
not be changed, and they are visible on all the notes they leave
behind; and (3) when users are composing a note, they can
decide (with the switch of a radio button) to make the note
completely anonymous, thereby not associating that note with
their pseudonym.
Our pseudonyms are derived from naming schemes devel-
oped for bird species common names. Although there
are only about 10,000 species of birds [1], we devel-
oped a method for creating a suitably large name-space of
pseudonyms that sound like bird names, but may not be,
by expanding on typical structure used in naming strategies.
Each species common name must feature the common name
of the family (e.g. sparrow, wren, warbler). However, the
family name is typically modi ed by (1) attributes describ-
ing the physical characteristics (e.g. yellow-rumped cacique);
(2) geographic terms denoting where the bird can be found
(e.g.
the Eurasian nuthatch); or (3) landscapes or habitats
where the bird roosts (e.g. mountain pygmy owl). By tak-
ing the Cartesian product of the constituent sets of descrip-
tors in each of these three cases, we created a name space of
has checked-in with each mode of transit, both in total and for
each journey. We also measure cumulative miles traveled (as
the crow  ies) for each mode of transit, again both in total and
for each journey. The total cumulative mode of transit stats is
displayed on the user pro le page, see Figure 3 (Right).
Design Aesthetics and Poetic Elements
The idea of leaving a digital note behind on a journey evokes
feelings of hiding a message in a bottle and tossing it out to
sea   the action itself is poetic   writing a message not
knowing who, if anyone, will ever see it. From the visual
design language of the application, to the use of bird names
as pseudonyms, to the natural imagery scattered throughout,
we ve tried to imbue much of the poetics of this moment into
the look, feel, and voice of the application. These poetic ele-
ments encourage travellers to be mindful and present in their
surroundings, perhaps nudging them to notice aspects about
the journey that they otherwise might have missed.
The most overt invocation of poetics in our design was our use
of haikus to welcome users to a journey and priming them,
to think about the type of content they might leave behind
as notes. We hired three creative writers on oDesk2 to pro-
duce haikus exploring the core concept of the app: the jour-
ney through non-places. Each writer composed 15 haikus,
three haikus inspired by each of the  ve note sections.
Here is one inspired by Missed Connections:
Motor hum, grease smell
and there you are again, but
long, the road between
Seeded Content
We also hired a number of writers who were familiar with
a number of major metropolitan areas of the United States
to seed the app with pre-existing 896 notes as one way to
bootstrap engagement. We asked the writers to write notes
for common journeys of people in those metro areas. Below
is an example of a note written by one of these writers:
 Every day during my lunch break I take a run from the
bottom of Boston street up the hill and I draw a chalk
line to see where I am after 10 minutes. I m inching my
way up, guys, anyone wanna race?"
Implementation
Journeys & Notes is implemented as a client (Android ap-
plication) and server (REST API), where the server s role is
exclusively to persist the actions of the user to a remote data-
store, facilitating sharing and interaction across multiple dis-
tributed clients. The datastore is implemented with a spatially
enabled PostGIS/PostgreSQL database, allowing for ef cient
execution of queries with spatial joins. Our REST API is im-
plemented in Python with the Flask framework. We will not
go into any further details about the system architecture.
USER STUDIES
We conducted two rounds of small scale user studies of indi-
viduals who used Journeys & Notes for one week with a total
2http://odesk.com
of 21 participants. In study 1, we recruited 6 participants from
the Seattle area through TaskRabbit3. We conducted an hour
long, in-person pre-study interview with each participant, to
get a sense of their normal everyday transportation patterns,
how they got around the city, and what they typically perceive
as they travel. After this discussion we gave them an overview
of how to use Journeys & Notes. They were asked to use
Journeys & Notes for one week, to check-in on each journey
they take, and to leave 3 notes behind on their journeys per
day. After this week, we conducted another in-person, 1 hour
long post-study interview. In study 2, we recruited 15 peo-
ple from the Seattle area through Craigslist4 to use Journeys
& Notes for one week with the same usage requirements of
study 1 participants. In this round, however, our evaluation
was through two online surveys (pre- and post-study), featur-
ing several free response questions about their experience.
Our goal was two-fold. First, we wanted to better understand
the landscape of how people conceptualized the journeys they
take and people they encounter along the way. Second, we
wanted them to use Journeys & Notes for a week, so we could
get a high level understanding of which aspects of the system
people seemed to respond most to, and which were features
were not as robust. The version of the app that we tested in
these trials was more primitive than the one described above.
It did not have as many quanti ed-self features that counted
trips and mileage. We transcribed the interviews and iden-
ti ed common themes and important insights that emerged,
which we synthesize in the discussion below.
Anonymity and Other People
Because the content was sparse and geographically siloed
across the city, participants had limited contact with others in
the study, however there was some. One participant remarked
laughing at posts he found from other people:  Some of the
missed connections are really funny. There was one guy that
lost his blue velvet jacket somewhere up there [laughter]...
he was looking for it. He lost it on a bet. That was hi-
larious!" Although most people did not post anything fully
anonymously, some of those who came into contact with oth-
ers  posts seemed more thoughtful about using fully anony-
mous postings, often when saying things that they didn t want
attributed to their pseudonym. One participant posted all of
her content anonymously. She was a regular bus rider, and
was concerned about people identifying patterns in her posts
and being able to guess her real identity, so she decided to be
entirely anonymous.
Re ection, Curiosity, and Exploration
By far the most common theme we heard from participants
was that Journeys & Notes made them more re ective in dif-
ferent ways. For example, one person felt having the transit
icons so closely associated with his identity made him ques-
tion his transportation choices:  I think I would try to bike
more instead of drive. That was the powerful thing for me
with the app since I didn t have any other contact [with oth-
ers]. It really forced me to consider how I travel and if it was
3http://taskrabbit.com
4http://craigslist.org
really necessary.
I really liked it for that reason." Another
participant felt that getting into the habit of writing while on a
journey made him more aware of his commute and the world
around him:  I can only use my experience, but I think any-
one who wants to actively be more aware of their commute
would enjoy this. It allows re ection on a part of the day that
is often dismissed as a necessary evil best ignored." Similarly,
another felt that,  Writers and thinkers would love it. It s a
great way to be expressive. It might clue you in on things you
had no idea about." This is particularly encouraging feedback
in support of the journaling scenario for non-place based so-
cial applications.
Another participant felt the app piqued her curiosity:  the app
just made me curious. It made me want to explore and look
for people in the area. I really wanted to have a conversation
with someone!" Similarly, someone else said:  When I did
get to read other s posts I felt some sense of connection  
like hey, other people are going through here and are sharing
their experience. I liked the opportunity to pick up little se-
crets about places." She continued:  Each time I logged in, I
felt thoughtful and more conscious of my surroundings (ex-
cept for having my head in my phone). But when I wasn t
looking down, I was more aware of my surroundings because
I wanted to write descriptively."
In response to seeing the haikus, another participant said:  I
did notice the Haikus!
I liked them. They seemed to in-
spire me more than anything. They build up this idea that
just around the corner I might meet someone unexpected."
Public Transport
We heard from several participants that they felt the app was
most useful for public transportation (and not driving, or
walking, or biking). For example, one woman said:  I think
the app is most useful for public transport, didn t log any trips
I took by car or foot." This was echoed by several others. If
we were designing the app from scratch, we would reconsider
the decision to make it a general purpose transit app. We will
expand more on this this feedback in the discussion section.
Limitations
Of course, not all participants enjoyed Journeys & Notes.
Some were just too busy with other things they valued more
to give it much time:  In transit, especially taking transit, I
had other things I needed to pay attention to like not missing
my stop and being alert to what was going on around me. I
also don t like having my face buried in my phone on the bus
because I think people do it to relieve social anxiety or out
of boredom. I like being able to people watch- or gasp- even
strike up a non-digitized exchange with someone."
Others just didn t feel connected to what it was trying to
achieve, and felt systems like Facebook are more complete:
 At 53, I found nothing too interesting in it. You have Face-
book and a few other things out there, so people check in
there, though not me. I can see the bene t for entertainment
of strangers commenting on stuff written by me, but since I
was just outside Seattle, I saw no comments from anyone."
Another thought it was too buggy to enjoy:  Why would any-
one use it if this is what it is? What does it add to a trip? It
is  ddly in alpha and doesn t look up addresses, and is yet
populated with a lot of user content, so no, I d not use it as it
lives now."
Feature Requests
One of the features that we had planned to add, but were
not able to  nish before these studies, was a statistics and
tracking feature about journeys (e.g. quanti ed-self). Inter-
estingly, this was something that was speci cally requested:
 Also, I think a cool feature to add would be distance and
time measurements. Maybe the app keeps track of how long
the journey takes the user, or the user can add that information
in. This would give others on the same trip more information
hence why they use the app in the  rst place! Also adding a
distance counter could be cool and easy, especially since the
locations are already in the database." This feedback moti-
vated us to complete this exact feature in time for our release
in the app store.
LARGE SCALE FIELD DEPLOYMENT
The app was publicly released in the Google Play store on
October 22, 2014. Between then and September 20, 2015,
there were 20,323 installations resulting in 23,697 user regis-
trations (we purposefully do not maintain user identity across
re-installs, resulting in duplicate registrations). During this
time 9,435 people performed a total of 12,904 journey check-
ins on 11,337 unique journeys. While most of these users
performed just one journey check-in, there were 2,121 peo-
ple with more than one check-in during this period, some with
considerably more, with a maximum of 50 check-ins by one
user observed. As one would expect, most journeys were rela-
tively short with a long tail of very long journeys: the median
distance was 54 kilometers (33 miles) and the mean distance
was 1296 kilometers (805 miles).
We can also see how these journeys are distributed across dif-
ferent modes of transit (Figure 5 Right). While most people
embarked on journeys on traditional modes of transit (Car,
Airplane, Bus, Train, and Walking account for 84% of check-
ins), people did engage with our more playful and atypical
modes of transit. We observed 58 people take journeys by
skateboard, 125 people checked-in with a horse, 21 travelled
by wheelchair, and 363 by the fantastical rocket-ship.
Analysis of Contributed Notes
Along with those check-ins, 1,989 users wrote 2,777 notes on
their journeys, and 203 replies to existing notes. As one might
expect, most of these notes were left in the default, Notes &
Visitors section (2,300 or 90%). Some users also ventured
from the default section and left their posts in Tips & Tricks
(122 or 5%), Love & Hate (51 or 2%), Secrets & Stories (45
or 2%), or Missed Connections (16 or 1%).
To explore how these 2,777 posts contributed to the  sense
of place" of the journey, we asked 5 annotators to categorize
each post along  ve dimensions: (1) is the post poetic? (2) is
it factual? (3) is it personal or intimate? (4) is it about memo-
ries of a past journey? and (5) is it about the present moment
Category
Poetic
Factual
Intimate
About Past Journey
About Current Journey
Everyday Commuter
Frequent Flyer
Quanti ed Traveller
Journaling Traveller
  Number of posts
77
536
15
46
816
443
76
25
373
0.41
0.22
0.01
0.06
0.16
0.21
0.09
0.02
0.06
Table 1. A summary of post labels given by  ve annotators, where  
is the Fleiss  measure of inter-rater reliability, and the number of posts
counts when at least two annotators agree.
in this journey? We additionally wanted to identify posts that
expressed the essence of the four personas that were critical to
our design. We asked the annotators to also make judgements
about whether the post author was (6) an everyday commuter,
(7) a frequent  yer, (8) a quanti ed traveller, or (9) a journal-
ing traveller. In this way, annotators labeled the data across
9 categories, and they could tag each post with any, all, or
none of these categories. Table 1 shows a summary of num-
ber of post tagged in each category, including Fliess  Kappa
scores for the annotations. Fliess    scores are computed, and
in some cases indicate low agreement, perhaps re ecting the
subjectivity of the task. We show approximate counts of each
category type, by counting when at least two annotators agree
on a labelling. Most posts were about the current journey
(816), and the most exempli ed scenarios were the Everyday
Commuter (443) and the Journaling Traveller (373).
Below are some examples of notes written by users that ex-
emplify the scenarios above. We only show posts from each
category if at least two of the four annotators agreed the post
belonged in that category.
Poetic
 From the shelter of my bus stop I watched the mist hug the
walls of the building. Everything seemed to be wrapped in
drops."
 The train is empty. Seats creak. The guard approaches
silently. Gliding like he has done for years. I have no ticket
to show him. I am not here."
Factual
 Grab a taxi or the BTS to the Victory Monument. From
there head to the north-east side of the roundabout (you ll see
all the minbuses) and speak to the women there. It should
cost 60 Baht to the centre of Ayutthaya."
 During the weekday, is easier to get coach ticket from the
terminal bersepadu selatan (TBS), southern bound bus termi-
nal."
Intimate
 I m going to meet the love of my life for the  rst time, and
if it doesn t work out I doubt I ll ever have the strength or
will to overcome it. This is, regardless, a day of incredible
happiness and growth. Optimism, more than anything."
About a Past Journey
 It is my second time back to TO after leaving it in 2005.
This time marks as a special trip in memory of my one decade
since graduated from U of T."
 My journey from the Philippines to the USA was years ago.
I migrated here with my family with hopes of a better future
and life."
About the Current Journey
 Hi travelers, I m a trucker and giving this app a try, headed
to Ohio!"
 Got here just as the leasing of ce closed :-( Better luck to-
morrow I hope but for right now, I m getting tacos."
Everyday Commuter
 Just another ride to work at the shack. One day soon this
ride won t be necessary and instead go on to do bigger things.
That day will come soon I hope."
 My commute is farther from home than most people in his-
tory travelled in their entire lives."
Frequent Flyer
 I feel elated. Airborne. Rising higher. Soaring like a bird.
With massive metal wings. And lots of creatures inside. Peo-
ple. Inside a bird. Odd."
 Left FAT airport at 2pm. It s never a long line so it took only
45 minutes to get in and in line for the plane. File out to SFO.
Got there in 45 minutes."
Journaling Traveller
 Loved Prague.. could see living here with learning just a few
words of Czech. On to Poland!"
 Beautiful ambience, exotic wildlife, a calm weekend... What
else do you want? The Boatbill strongly recommends this
place."
 Stopped by Carkeek Park to see the salmon."
DISCUSSION
We believe we have identi ed a rich new space, ripe for fu-
ture HCI research: developing mobile and social computing
systems for engaging people in non-places. To explore this
domain, we created Journeys & Notes, a check-in app that
augments journeys in the physical world with online places
where people interact with other past, present, and future trav-
ellers of the same their journey. Our intention was to design a
system that might surface new experiences and address unmet
needs of travellers passing through non-places. We grounded
our design decisions around four archetypal scenarios where
non-place travellers might encounter social computing: the
everyday commuter, the frequent  yer, the journaling trav-
eller, and the quanti ed traveller.
Through two small scale user studies, and one  eld deploy-
ment, our preliminary investigation shows evidence that so-
cial computing can indeed imbue a transient physical space
with basic characteristics of a place: elements of a history, a
culture, a community, and mechanisms to foster a heightened
sociality among those that pass through it.
Our small scale interview studies revealed a broad range of
reactions, both positive and negative, to individual features of
the design. They also present strong evidence in support of
the central premise of this work, that there is opportunity for
social computing to grow online communities that are rooted
at non-places. The most valuable aspect of Journeys & Notes
that emerged from these interviews seemed to be the fact that
through a small set of very basic interactions (check-in mech-
anisms, and note compositions), the system could support a
range of different uses: self-re ection, atemporal interactions
with others, discovery of new places, self-tracking and com-
munity building.
Although the app-store release of Journeys & Notes has yet to
successfully generate sustained usage or foster dense, anony-
mous, hyper-local communication channels (see the limita-
tions section below), it has nevertheless been successful at
providing a window into the needs and thoughts of the non-
place traveller. Because communication in Journeys & Notes
is atemporal, the notes that people write are like messages in
bottles tossed into the sea, composed for future travellers of
the journey to read, regardless of whether anyone ever  nds
them. The content of the messages examples above give
us a fascinating glimpse into the range of different things
people post about, and the potential place-making impacts
such a communication channel might have in transient spaces.
We take these messages as further evidence that Journeys &
Notes speaks to interactions and scenarios that resonate with
people, and yet are not fully explored by existing research or
technologies. The richness and opportunity for social com-
puting for non-places is clear.
Limitations and Lessons Learned
In our evaluations of the design, we uncovered a number of
limitations and lessons that might be valuable to future re-
searchers in this area. Many of these lessons stem from the
tensions between being a low  delity research project, while
also being a product available in an app market. On the sur-
face Journeys & Notes appears somewhat polished, but as
an experimental app, it lacked many features and details that
product teams would typically invest in.
In order to truly get sustained usage of the app, we would
have needed to invest more into cracking the two-sided prob-
lem of geographic sparsity hindering the discoverability of
posts. A number of approaches might have helped. Instead
of a world-wide release in an app store, we could have em-
braced geographic-contagion model for the release, focusing
on one dense geographic region to start and scaling out. We
also would have needed to embraced device noti cations as
a mechanism to inform people when other activity happens
near them, or on the posts that they leave behind, thus increas-
ing interactions, and discoverability of people and content.
We also found that post-sections (e.g. missed-connections,
tips & tricks, etc.) were barely used at all, likely because
of a  awed UI design that made them dif cult to discover.
While we included these as a way to nudge users to focus
their conversation around  xed topics, in retrospect, people
seemed post compelling and interesting content without using
them, so they may not be necessary after all.
There were a number of features that we explicitly chose
not to support that ended up being requested by users. We
wanted to create an ephemeral experience similar to other
online communities [7], and designed our posts so that they
were only visible when people were actually checked-in to
their journeys. People didn t like this. Here s an example re-
view written by one of our users:  i want to be able to delete
a journey and review the notes I ve made. . . bc right now, i
have to log in another journey to see my notes and it looks
so messy now." We also wanted to design a text only experi-
ence, but users today are so used to rich media, that there was
a strong desire to see photos in posts.
Some people, especially the quanti ed travellers, found it too
much work to have to manually enter every journey. While
we made it easy for people to check-in to previous journeys
by simply clicking on them; other apps make it even easier.
For example, the Moves app uses the geolocation features
in smartphones to automatically log people s activities [17].
While this auto logging opens up challenges for privacy and
device battery-life, it is a feature some people expect to have.
Future iterations should consider giving people this option.
The system tried to capture all types of a journey s modalities,
from bus to plane to skateboard. This reduces the possibility
to optimize for one type of community; in retrospect, the sys-
tem could have been created with one speci c community in
mind, similar to what Waze has done by focusing on auto-
mobiles. This need to focus on a speci c community was
highlighted by one of the emails we received from one of our
most avid users:  I think that you should work on a trucker
version. Drivers could leave notes about truck stops, ware-
houses, road hazards, places with truck parking and such. I
think that it would be a hit. (. . . ) I am a truck driver. I have
been driving for about 20 years."
Future Research Opportunities
This work opens the door to a number of different promis-
ing areas of future research. By strengthening community
structures around common commute paths, non-place com-
munities could help  nally realize the original vision of peer-
to-peer ride-sharing (not the  ride-for-hire" form of ride shar-
ing popularized by Uber and Lyft). Beyond speci c end-user
functionality, we also envisioned these type of systems being
useful sources of civic data that communities can use to bet-
ter understand mobility patterns, transit choices, and people s
perceptions of their surrounding environments. We also be-
lieve that developing technologies speci cally for non-places
can help meet the challenges of rebuilding and strengthen-
ing communities in the 21st century. The increased occupa-
tion of non-places, and the growing communities these non-
places contain, makes them increasingly central to social de-
velopment and interaction, and properly designed technolo-
gies can transform Milgram s familiar strangers into knowl-
edge sharing and human contact even in an asynchronous and
pseudonymous fashion.
REFERENCES
1. 2015. List of birds by common name. (July 2015).
https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=
List_of_birds_by_common_name&oldid=672667630
Page Version ID: 672667630.
2. John Agnew. 2011. Space and place. The SAGE
handbook of geographical knowledge (2011), 316 330.
3. Chris Aniszczyk. 2013. Twitter Typeahead.js: You
Autocomplete Me. (2013).
https://blog.twitter.com/2013/
twitter-typeaheadjs-you-autocomplete-me
4. Marc Aug . 1995. Non-Places: An Introduction to
Supermodernity (2 edition ed.). Verso, London ; New
York.
5. Gaston Bachelard and Maria Jolas. 1994. The poetics of
space. Vol. 330. Beacon Press.
6. Nicolas Belloni, Lars Erik Holmquist, and Jakob
Tholander. 2009. See you on the subway: exploring
mobile social software. In CHI 09 Extended Abstracts
on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM,
4543 4548.
7. Michael S Bernstein, Andr s Monroy-Hern ndez, Drew
Harry, Paul Andr , Katrina Panovich, and Greg Vargas.
2011. 4chan and/b: An Analysis of Anonymity and
Ephemerality in a Large Online Community. (2011).
8.  sa Blomquist and Mattias Arvola. 2002. Personas in
action: ethnography in an interaction design team. In
Proceedings of the second Nordic conference on
Human-computer interaction. ACM, 197 200.
9. Tiago Camacho, Marcus Foth, and Andry
Rakotonirainy. 2012. Pervasive technology and public
transport: Opportunities beyond telematics. IEEE
Pervasive Computing 12, 1 (2012), 18 25.
10. Tiago Camacho, Marcus Foth, and Andry
Rakotonirainy. 2013. Trainroulette: promoting situated
in-train social interaction between passengers. In
Proceedings of the 2013 ACM conference on Pervasive
and ubiquitous computing adjunct publication. ACM,
1385 1388.
11. J.M. Carroll. 2000a. Five reasons for scenario-based
design. Interacting with Computers 13, 1 (2000), 43 60.
DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/S0953-5438(00)00023-0
12. John M Carroll. 2000b. Making use: scenario-based
design of human-computer interactions. MIT press.
13. Yen-ning Chang, Youn-kyung Lim, and Erik Stolterman.
2008. Personas: From Theory to Practices. In
Proceedings of the 5th Nordic Conference on
Human-computer Interaction: Building Bridges
(NordiCHI  08). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 439 442.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1463160.1463214
14. Paolo Cintia, Luca Pappalardo, and Dino Pedreschi.
2013. "Engine Matters": A First Large Scale Data
Driven Study on Cyclists  Performance. In Proceedings
of the 2013 IEEE 13th International Conference on
Data Mining Workshops (ICDMW  13). IEEE Computer
Society, Washington, DC, USA, 147 153. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/ICDMW.2013.41
15. Henriette Cramer, Mattias Rost, and Lars Erik
Holmquist. 2011. Performing a check-in: emerging
practices, norms and con icts  in location-sharing using
foursquare. In Proceedings of the 13th International
Conference on Human Computer Interaction with
Mobile Devices and Services. ACM, 57 66.
16. Justin B Cranshaw, Kurt Luther, Patrick Gage Kelley,
and Norman Sadeh. 2014. Curated city: capturing
individual city guides through social curation. In
Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference on Human
Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 3249 3258.
17. Kim-Mai Cutler. 2013. No Fitbit Or Fuelband
Necessary. The Moves App Tracks Your Steps From
The iPhone. (2013). http://social.techcrunch.com/
2013/01/24/moves-app-activity-tracker/
18. Paul Dourish. 2006. Re-space-ing Place: "Place" and
"Space" Ten Years on. In Proceedings of the 2006 20th
Anniversary Conference on Computer Supported
Cooperative Work (CSCW  06). ACM, New York, NY,
USA, 299 308. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1180875.1180921
19. J Nicholas Entrikin. 1991. The betweenness of place:
Towards a geography of modernity. (1991).
20. Steve Harrison and Paul Dourish. 1996. Re-place-ing
Space: The Roles of Place and Space in Collaborative
Systems. In Proceedings of the 1996 ACM Conference
on Computer Supported Cooperative Work (CSCW  96).
ACM, New York, NY, USA, 67 76. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/240080.240193
21. Jane Jacobs. 1961. The death and life of great American
cities. Random House, New York.
22. Yoojung Kim, Changhoon Oh, Taeyoung Lee, Donghun
Lee, Joongseek Lee, and Bongwon Suh. 2015. Travel Q:
Questifying Micro Activities Using Travel Photos to
Enhance Travel Experience. In Proceedings of the 33rd
Annual ACM Conference Extended Abstracts on Human
Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 1507 1512.
23. Robert E Kraut, Paul Resnick, Sara Kiesler, Moira
Burke, Yan Chen, Niki Kittur, Joseph Konstan, Yuqing
Ren, and John Riedl. 2012. Building successful online
communities: Evidence-based social design. Mit Press.
24. Nicole Lee. 2014. Shh, it s a Secret: The allure of the
anonymous internet. (2014). http://www.engadget.
com/2014/04/16/secret-anonymous-internet/
25. Henri Lefebvre. 1991. The production of space. Vol.
142. Oxford Blackwell.
26. Janne Lindqvist, Justin Cranshaw, Jason Wiese, Jason
Hong, and John Zimmerman. 2011. I m the mayor of
my house: examining why people use foursquare - a
social-driven location sharing application. In
Proceedings of the 2011 annual conference on Human
factors in computing systems (CHI  11). ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 2409 2418. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1978942.1979295
27. Joseph F McCarthy, Shelly D Farnham, Yogi Patel,
Sameer Ahuja, Daniel Norman, William R Hazlewood,
and Josh Lind. 2009. Supporting community in third
places with situated social software. In Proceedings of
the fourth international conference on Communities and
technologies. ACM, 225 234.
28. S Milgram. 1977. The Individual in a Social World:
Essays and Experiments. Longman Education, London.
29. Lene Nielsen. 2002. From User to Character: An
Investigation into User-descriptions in Scenarios. In
Proceedings of the 4th Conference on Designing
Interactive Systems: Processes, Practices, Methods, and
Techniques (DIS  02). ACM, New York, NY, USA,
99 104. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/778712.778729
30. Ray Oldenburg. 1989. The great good place: caf s,
coffee shops, community centers, beauty parlors,
general stores, bars, hangouts, and how they get you
through the day.
31. Eric Paulos and Elizabeth Goodman. 2004. The familiar
stranger: anxiety, comfort, and play in public places. In
Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human
factors in computing systems (CHI  04). ACM, New
York, NY, USA, 223 230. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/985692.985721
32. Jenny Preece. 2000. Online communities: Designing
usability and supporting socialbilty. John Wiley & Sons,
Inc.
33. John Pruitt and Jonathan Grudin. 2003. Personas:
practice and theory. In Proceedings of the 2003
conference on Designing for user experiences. ACM,
1 15.
34. Robert D. Putnam. 1995. Bowling Alone: America s
Declining Social Capital. Journal of Democracy 6, 1
(1995), 65 78. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1353/jod.1995.0002
35. Daniela K Rosner, Hidekazu Saegusa, Jeremy Friedland,
and Allison Chambliss. 2015. Walking by Drawing. In
Proceedings of the 33rd Annual ACM Conference on
Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 397 406.
36. Mary Beth Rosson and John M Carroll. 2009. Scenario
based design. Human-computer interaction. Boca
Raton, FL (2009), 145 162.
37. Raz Schwartz. 2014. Online place attachment. Mobility
and Locative Media: Mobile Communication in Hybrid
Spaces (2014), 85.
38. Thiago H. Silva, Pedro O. Melo, Aline Carneiro Viana,
Jussara M. Almeida, Juliana Salles, and Antonio A.
Loureiro. 2013. Traf c Condition Is More Than Colored
Lines on a Map: Characterization of Waze Alerts. In
Proceedings of the 5th International Conference on
Social Informatics - Volume 8238 (SocInfo 2013).
Springer-Verlag New York, Inc., New York, NY, USA,
309 318. DOI:
http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-03260-3_27
39. Yi-Fu Tuan. 1977. Space and place: The perspective of
experience. U of Minnesota Press.
40. Ahmet Zeynep, Henriette Cramer, Lars Erik Holmquist,
and Mattias Rost. 2011. Gami cation and
location-sharing: some emerging social con icts. In
Proceedings of the Workshop on Gami cation, CHI
2011. ACM.
