Design Guidelines for the User-Centred Collaborative Citizen
Science Platforms
Human Computation (2016) x:x:x-y
c(cid:13) 2016, xyz & xyz.
ISSN: 2330-8001, DOI: xyz
POONAM YADAV, IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON
JOHN DARLINGTON, IMPERIAL COLLEGE LONDON
6
1
0
2
 
ABSTRACT
y
a
M
3
 
1
v
0
1
9
0
0
 
 
]
C
H
.
s
c
[
 
 
Online Citizen Science platforms are good examples of socio-technical systems where technology-enabled interactions oc-
cur between scientists and the general public (volunteers). Citizen Science platforms usually host multiple Citizen Science
projects, and allow volunteers to choose the ones to participate in. Recent work in the area has demonstrated a positive
feedback loop between participation and learning and creativity in Citizen Science projects, which is one of the motivating
factors both for scientists and the volunteers. This emphasises the importance of creating successful Citizen Science plat-
forms, which support this feedback process, and enable enhanced learning and creativity to occur through knowledge sharing
and diverse participation. In this paper, we discuss how scientists  and volunteers  motivation and participation in uence the
design of Citizen Science platforms. We present our summary as guidelines for designing these platforms as user-inspired
socio-technical systems. We also present the case-studies on popular Citizen Science platforms, including our own Citizen-
Grid platform, developed as part of the CCL EU project, as well as Zooniverse, World Community Grid, CrowdCrafting and
EpiCollect+ to see how closely these platforms follow our proposed guidelines and how these may be further improved to
incorporate the creativity enabled by the collective knowledge sharing.
.
5
0
6
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
INTRODUCTION
1.
In recent years, Citizen Science (CS) has opened new territories of scienti c collaboration by involving the general public.
Internet-based Citizen Science projects attract volunteer participants from diverse communities and bene t both scientists
and volunteers. Due to the potential bene ts, new projects are being regularly created. This invokes a need for the online
Citizen Science platforms that can host different projects and allow volunteers to choose and participate. Examples of
such platforms include CitizenGrid (Yadav and Darlington, 2015; Yadav et al., 2016b) that is developed as part of the CCL
EU project, Zooniverse (Zooniverse, 2015) and others.
It is interesting to investigate what are the other bene ts these
platforms bring to both scientists and volunteers from a motivational perspective. Therefore, in this paper, we analyse both
scientist s and volunteer s participation cycles in a Citizen Science project, starting from their initial motivation. We present
both scientists  and volunteers  participation steps in Section 2. In Section 3 we present the design guidelines for a user-
centred Socio-technical collaborative Citizen Science platform, based on our understanding gained from the analysis. In
Section 4, we study the already existing Citizen Science platforms with respect to the proposed guidelines to see how closely
the platforms follow the guidelines and discuss how these may be further improved to incorporate the creativity based on
collective knowledge sharing. In Section 5, we present other similar online platforms that are used for listing the Citizen
Science projects and present the conclusions and a summary in Section 6.
2. USERS  PARTICIPATION
Citizen Science platforms are collaborative online spaces where scienti c projects can be hosted to allow scientists to inform
about their research and invite participants to contribute to it, while the general public (citizen scientists/ volunteers) can
2 P. Yadav, and J. Darlington / Human Computation (2016) x:x
select and participate in the projects that  t their interests.
Recent work in the area has revealed a positive feedback loop between participation and learning and creativity in Citizen
Science projects, which is one of the motivating factors both for scientists and the volunteers to participate in the Citizen
Science projects interactively. This emphasises the importance of creating successful Citizen Science platforms, which
support this feedback process, and enable enhanced learning and creativity to take place both for the scientists and the
volunteers.
In the context of this paper, the scientists seek through CS projects, various forms of public contribution to solve scienti c
problems they are working on. The volunteers are the general public who voluntarily contribute to these CS projects. In
order to derive platform design guidelines that would take both types of users into consideration, we follow the user-centred
design approach by analysing both the participation of the scientists and the volunteers in any type of Citizen Science project.
2.1. Analysis of Scientists  Participation Cycle
The Scientists  participation cycle as shown in Figure 1 consists of the following steps: motivation, initial participation, con-
tinuous participation and evaluation and impact. The initial motivation de nes the Scientist s interest in creating a Citizen
Science project or converting a science project to Citizen Science Project. Once they are motivated, they look for the avail-
able support tools and techniques for creating and hosting the project online (Yadav and Darlington, 2016a). Scientists also
need monitoring tools of the volunteers  participation in order to enhance project outreach and engagement. The other tools
they require for continuous monitoring for volunteers participation to enhance project outreach and engagement. The Sci-
entists  participation cycle as shown in Figure 1 consists of the following steps: motivation, initial participation, continuous
participation and evaluation and impact; we describe each step here in detail. The initial motivation de nes the Scientist s
interest in creating or converting a science project to a Citizen Science Project. Once they are motivated, they look for the
available support tools and techniques for creating and project online hosting. The other tools they require for continuous
monitoring for volunteers participation to enhance project outreach and engagement.
2.1.1.
Initial Motivations
Scientists may have one or more motivations to be involved in the citizen science projects. Some of these motivations are:
(1) seeking help (contribution) in their research work; (2) seeking involvement of general public on global research issues
for public awareness; (3) promoting and supporting the scienti c literacy; (4) promoting their own research work (Jennett,
2013; Land-Zandstra et al., 2015; Nov et al., 2011; Tweddle et al., 2012). There could be various others reasons that make
scientists seek help from the general public. The one reason could be the nature of the research problem, for example, if it
requires diversity contribution from a large number of participants. The other reason could be the unaffordable cost of the
resources that are required to conduct research (both human and computing resources).
Figure 1. Scientist s Participation Cycle in a Citizen Science Project.
P. Yadav, and J. Darlington / Human Computation (2016) x:x
3
2.1.2.
Initial Participation
Once the scientist is motivated to start a new CCS project, there are some factors that decide whether they would like to
go further or not. These factors are categorised as technical,  nancial and legal. The main technical factors are: (1) The
availability of frameworks and design tools to help forge an online Citizen Science project out from the initial science project;
(2) The availability of platforms for hosting and deployment of the CS projects; (3) The process of handling the security and
trust issues, privacy, and data quality issues (Melissa Gedney, 2015; Lea Shanley, 2015; Gellman, 2015). The  nancial
factors relate to the affordable costs (in terms of time, man-power and resources), whereas the legal factors consider the
process involved in handling the intellectual properties (IP) rights, and privacy and security related legal issues.
2.1.3. Continuous Participation
Once the CS project is deployed online, there are a number of factors they consider to keep continuing their participation
in the project. These factors are: (1) The availability of tools for analysing the volunteer s participation in the project; (2)
Available help and support for changing or updating the various components of the project; (3) The  exibility in changing
the project without disturbing the volunteers who are already participating in the project; (4) Possibilities of interactive
discussions with the volunteers.
2.1.4. Evaluation and Impact
The metrics, which measures the impact of the project, are de ned corresponding to the project goals and outcomes. In
general, a project requires some frameworks and tools for measuring the impact of the project qualitatively or quantitatively.
The frameworks and tools are required to: (1) measure the user engagement and participation; (2) measure the learning and
creativity in short and long term; (3) measure the volunteer s contribution; (4) measure the project s outreach and publicity;
(5) measure the project s comparative performance.
2.2. Analysis of Volunteers  Participation Cycle
In recent years, a number of research studies have been conducted to understand the volunteers involvement in Citizen
Science (Jennett, 2013; Land-Zandstra et al., 2015; Nov et al., 2011; Tweddle et al., 2012). Figure 2 shows the volunteers
participation cycle in a Citizen Science project, starting from initial motivation to continuous participation.
2.2.1.
Initial Motivation
The well-known motivations (Tweddle et al., 2012; Nov et al., 2011) are: (1) willingness and desire to contribute in sci-
ence; (2) desire to learn science by involving in Citizen Science; (3) for fun and enjoyment through game playing or other
interactive project participation.
Figure 2. Volunteer s Participation Cycle in a Citizen Cyber Science Project.
4 P. Yadav, and J. Darlington / Human Computation (2016) x:x
2.2.2.
Initial Participation
Once volunteers are interested in contributing in a Citizen Science project, their initial participation are based on the following
factors: (1) easy discovery of interesting Citizen Science projects; (2) ease and simplicity of launching the project; (3) quick,
easy and secure project s initial setup.
2.2.3. Continuous Participation
The volunteers continuous participation depends on their expectations that come from their initial motivations. The three
main points that in uence volunteer s long-term engagement meant are: (1) volunteers receive feedback and appreciation for
their participation (Jennett and Cox, 2014); (2) volunteers can measure or observe what they are learning while participating
in the project; (3) if the project meets volunteers  fun and enjoyment expectations (Jackson et al., 2015).
3. THE COLLABORATIVE PLATFORM S DESIGN GUIDELINES
The goal of Citizen Science platforms is to bring together a number of Citizen Science projects for volunteers participation.
The platforms could provide these different functionalities, such as (1) project portal where volunteers can  nd their favourite
project by searching or selecting from dashboard, menus, etc.; (2) host complete project or project clients; (3) launch and run
project servers. All Internet-based Citizen Science (Virtual Citizen science) projects are not similar and may fall into different
project categories and have different deployment scenarios, for example volunteer computing and human-computation CS
projects (Yadav and Darlington, 2014, 2016b). Moreover, Citizen Science platforms are also designed for either one or more
project categories. Therefore, the design guidelines we present here are generic and are based on our experiences gained
from building the CitizenGrid Platform and could be applied to any Citizen Science platform regardless the project categories
the platform supports.
1. Cost Effective: This is an important consideration for a setting up Citizen Science projects, since most are started by an
academic or a public institution with a limited initial grants. The use of open source technologies in the platform/project
development or free to use services is an important consideration for the platform usability, having a wider scienti c
community in mind.
2. Easy to Create Project: The easy, simple and quick project creation and deployment process allows scientists to deploy
and maintain their project themselves (DIY: do-it-yourself feature).
3. Multi-categories Projects: If a Citizen Science platform supports multi-categories/types of projects, it would make it
easier for the scientists to advertise, host, and maintain different types of Citizen Science projects at the same place. For
example, this would allow  exibility to host and deploy volunteer thinking, volunteers computing and game-based Citizen
Science projects. This feature helps volunteers to discover and participate in different types of projects on one platform.
4. Comparative Project Performance: This feature provides scientists the comparative summary report of their project,
including volunteers engagement and participation report, volunteers learning and creativity report, project overall impact
and volunteer contribution report.
5. Easy Maintenance: For long-term projects, it is a very important design consideration. The platform should allow easy
project  le updates - adding new  les, deleting, synching new information without causing problems to participating
volunteers.
6. Security and Trust: The platform should adhere security requirements that are required for the standard web platforms.
7. Scientists and Volunteers Interaction: This is important for users engagement and long-term participation. The interac-
tion can be achieved by user forums, online videos for help and tutorials, real-time message exchange systems, etc.
8. Simple Project Participation: The volunteers who contribute in the Citizen Science projects advertised on the platforms
have varied computing skills levels ranging from novice to expert. The devices they use to access the platforms are also
heterogeneous in terms of hardware capabilities and software. Therefore, it is very necessary that platform make the
project simple and easily accessible to them.
P. Yadav, and J. Darlington / Human Computation (2016) x:x
5
4. CASE STUDIES
In this section we analyze already existing platforms World Community Grid (World Community Grid, 2015), Citizen-
Grid (Yadav and Darlington, 2015; CitizenGrid, 2015; Simpson et al., 2014), Zooniverse (Zooniverse, 2015; Tinati et al.,
2015), Epicollect+ (Epicollect, 2015; Aanensen et al., 2014), and CrowdCrafting (Crowdcrafting, 2014). All platforms are
free to use and allow easy project creation. CitizenGrid, Epicollect and Zooniverse, CrowdCrafting are open source and
supports do-it-yourself (DIY) new project creation process. In this section, we analyse all these platforms with respect to the
design guidelines we presented above and present summary in Table 1.
CitizenGrid: CitizenGrid allows do-it-yourself hosting of the project and simplify the process of hosting and deployment
of the project by supporting Virtual Machine based client distribution. The CitizenGrid allows  exibility to use any of
the task management and distribution frameworks from the list: Copilot (Predrag Buncic, 2011), LiveQ (Charalampidis,
2015), or BOINC (BOINC, 2015) and allows project discovery and search mechanism by free text search for volunteers. On
CitizenGrid interface volunteers can see their participation history and scientists can see projects  comparative performance,
and easily maintain their project by changing the project new  les etc.. However, in current version any change in the client
part requires volunteers to restart the client again. CitizenGrid team consists of four members and have hosted 4 real projects,
e.g., RedWire (Redwire, 2015) and Cern Virtual Atom Smasher Game (VAS, 2015; Yadav et al., 2016a) and advertised nearly
50 already existing volunteer computing and thinking projects. CitizenGrid doesn t maintain social network account but hold
a YouTube channel and a regular meet up event for one-to-one interaction and have nearly 25 registered users.
World Community Grid: World Community Grid platform hosts volunteer computing (VC) projects e.g., Uncovering
Genome Mysteries (Uncovering Genome Mysteries, 2015) or Mapping Cancer Markers (Princess Margaret Cancer Centre,
2013) and CERN Test4Theory (LHC@home 2.0, 2015). The World Community Grid uses BOINC (Boinc, 2015) middleware
framework for the projects task management and distribution. World Community Grid s project support-team provides full
support for hosting and maintaining the scientist volunteer computing project, if the platform team approves the project. The
platform hosts 5 active projects currently with 26 projects in total. World Community Grid is very popular platform with
social networking platforms followers (Facebook: 22196 and Twitter: 7.6 K (on 28th December 2015) ).
Zooniverse: Zooniverse platform allows do-it-yourself hosting of volunteer cognition and thinking (VT) projects. In volun-
teer cognition and thinking projects, where volunteers only need to use their time, cognitive power and knowledge to analyse
data. Zooniverse is currently hosting 42 projects (on 28th December 2015) with a very user friendly interface, however, there
is no option for searching a project by name or category. The projects comparative performances are not available to the
project scientists, however, information is made available through research publications (Tinati et al., 2015). The Zooniverse
development and maintenance team consists of nearly 20 members and funded by a number of research grants. Zooniverse is
very popular platform with social networking platforms followers (Facebook: 24551 and Twitter: 13.5 K (on 28th December
2015) ) and maintains active blogs   daily Zooniverse for a quick daily update and Zooniverse blogs. Addition to this, the
platform maintenance team maintains an interactive talk forum as shown in Figure 3 for volunteers  interactions. This is very
important feature which motivates volunteers to stay connected with the project. The detail analysis of the interaction has
been presented in the research articles (Tinati, 2014). The volunteer participation in volunteer cognition projects is marked
as creative, learning oriented and interactive (Jennett and Cox, 2014).
Epicollect+: The Epicollect+ (Epicollect, 2015; Aanensen et al., 2014) platform allows data collection and aggregation
platform. It is supported by the mobile client app, which makes it easy for volunteers to support and participate in the
data collection projects. It allows scientists to setup the do-it-yourself data collection projects, for example, photos and text
based survey, etc. Epicollect+ have two components: a mobile app and a web server app. The EpiCollect+ mobile app
allows scientists to load a single or multiple projects and provides the interface for volunteers to gather the data. All data
can be subsequently synched with a central server and, furthermore, data can be retrieved onto the mobile devices from the
central server and viewed as tables or maps. The web server app provides facility of hosting the server for project data, by
providing server software and instructions for setting up a database and web application for scientists to house and view the
data collected by any number of mobile devices.
CrowdCrafting: CrowdCrafting hosts human computation projects as well as data collection projects such as image classi-
 cation, transcription, geocoding and uses Epicollect+ for the mobile clients. CrowdCrafting has a very appealing interface
6 P. Yadav, and J. Darlington / Human Computation (2016) x:x
Figure 3. Zooniverse Interactive Forum (screenshot taken on 27th December 2015) (Zooniverse, 2015) .
with easy project discovery in seven categories: featured, social, art, humanities, biology, economics, and science and allows
do-it-yourself (DIY) project creation process.
Table 1. Citizen Science Online Platforms
Cost Effective
Easy Project Creation Multi-Categories Comparative
Easy
Security & Interaction
Simple
GUIDELINES
Free-to-use Open-source General
Performance Maintenance
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
Trust
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
Participation
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
 
 
(cid:88)
 
 
  : Partially Supported
PLATFORMS
CitizenGrid
World Community
Zooniverse
Epicollect
CrowdCrafting
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
 
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
DIY
(cid:88)
 
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
(cid:88)
Projects
VC&VT
VC
VT
DC
DC
 
 
 
 
 
5. RELATED WORK
Design guidelines for online platform play central role in human-computer-interface (HCI) research. Apart from the platform
discussed in previous section, in recent year, there are a number of Citizen Science Portals such as Scistarter (SciStarter,
2014), Citizen Science Search (University, 2014), and Wikipedia (Wikipedia, 2014) are developed. These portals list a
number of Citizen Science projects for easy project discovery. SciStarter is a web-portal for Citizen Science projects that
maintains a catalogue of nearly 700 projects and provides different search criteria such as outdoor/indoor projects, featured
projects and projects suitable for students and children, etc. SciStarter itself does not host projects, instead, direct volunteers
to the individual project websites where potential volunteers can  nd out more about a project and participate. Citizen
Science Search website offers "keyword" based text search and list only a limited number of selected projects. Wikipedia
lists and displays many Citizen Science application and projects with their brief description along with project links.
6. CONCLUSIONS
In this paper, we presented the design guidelines for user-inspired Citizen Science collaborative platforms by analysing the
participation steps of scientists and volunteers in a Citizen Science project. We discussed how scientists  and volunteers 
motivation and participation in uence the design of these platforms. We also presented the case-studies on popular Citizen
Science platforms such as Zooniverse, CitizenGrid, World Community Grid, EpiCollect and CrowdCrafting to see how
closely these platforms matches our proposed guidelines. These case studies are helpful in understanding how closely these
platforms follow our proposed guidelines and how these may be further improved to incorporate the creativity based on
collective knowledge sharing.
P. Yadav, and J. Darlington / Human Computation (2016) x:x
7
7. REFERENCES
Aanensen, D, Huntley, D, Menegazzo, M, Powell, C, and Spratt, B. (2014). EpiCollect+: linking smartphones to web applications for complex data collection projects.
F1000Res 3 (2014). DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.12688/f1000research.4702.1
BOINC (2015). Middleware Supported Projects List. (2015). http://boinc.berkeley.edu/projects.php [Accessed on 23rd April 2014].
Charalampidis, I. (2015). An interactive volunteering computing batch system source-code (Github). (2015). https://github.com/wavesoft/LiveQ [Accessed on 26th May
2015].
CitizenGrid (2015). Github Source-code. (2015). https://github.com/ImperialCollegeLondon/citizengrid [Accessed 26th May 2015].
Crowdcrafting (2014). Middleware Platform for Citizen Science Projects. (2014). http://crowdcrafting.org [Accessed on 20th March 2014].
Epicollect (2015). A Middleware platform for Citizen Science Data Collection Projects. (2015). http://www.epicollect.net [Accessed on 23rd April 2014].
Gellman, R. (2015). Crowdsourcing, Citizen Science, and the Law: Legal Issues Affecting Federal Agencies. (2015). https://www.wilsoncenter.org/sites/default/ les/
CS_Legal_Barriers_Gellman.pdf [Accessed on 23rd December 2015].
Jackson, C, Osterlund, C, Mugar, G, Hassman, K, and Crowston, K. (2015). Motivations for Sustained Participation in Crowdsourcing: Case Studies of Citizen Science
on the Role of Talk. In 48th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences (HICSS 15). 1624 1634. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/HICSS.2015.196
Jennett, C. (May 2013). Creativity in Citizen Cyber-Science: All for one and one for all, May, 2013, Paris, France.. In ACM WebSci.
Jennett, C and Cox, A. (2014). 8 guidelines for designing virtual citizen science projects. In Citizen + X Workshop: Volunteer-Based Crowdsourcing in Science, Public
Health and Government, HCOMP. AAAI.
Land-Zandstra, A. M, Devilee, J. L. A, Snik, F, Buurmeijer, F, and van den Broek, J. M. (2015). Citizen science on a smartphone: Participants  motivations and learning.
Public Understanding of Science 1, 16 (2015). DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1177/0963662515602406
Lea Shanley (2015). Federal Crowdsourcing and Citizen Science. (2015). http://www.digitalgov.gov/communities/federal-crowdsourcing-and-citizen-science/ [Accessed
on 22nd December 2015].
LHC@home 2.0 (2015). Test4Theory project. (2015). http://lhcathome2.cern.ch/test4theory/ [Accessed on 23rd April 2014].
Melissa Gedney (2015). Barriers and Accelerators to Crowdsourcing and Citizen Science in Federal Agencies: An Exploratory Study. (2015). http://wilsoncommonslab.
org/2014/09/07/an-exploratory-study-on-barriers/ [Accessed on 22nd December 2015].
Nov, O, Arazy, O, and Anderson, D. (2011). Dusting for Science: Motivation and Participation of Digital Citizen Science Volunteers. In Proceedings of the iConference
(iConference 11). ACM, New York, NY, USA, 68 74. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/1940761.1940771
Predrag Buncic, A. H. (2011). Co-pilot: The distributed Job Execution Framework. Technical Report. Portable Analysis Environment using Virtualization Technology
(WP9), CERN.
Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, I. L. S. D. C. (2013). Mapping Cancer Markers. (2013). http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~juris/MCM.htm [Accessed on 27th December
2015].
Redwire (2015). A mixing game platform. (2015). http://redwire.io/game/list [Accessed on 19th April 2015].
SciStarter (2014). Citizen Science Applications Web Portal and Catalogue. (2014). http://scistarter.com [Accessed on 23rd April 2014].
Simpson, C, Yadav, P, Cohen, J, and Darlington, J. (2014). CitizenGrid: A platform for simpli ed access to and development of citizen science and Volunteer Computing
Applications. In Poster and demo, CloudScape VI,. Brussels, Belgium.
Tinati, R, Van Kleek, M, Simperl, E, Luczak-R sch, M, Simpson, R, and Shadbolt, N. (2015). Designing for Citizen Data Analysis: A Cross-Sectional Case Study of a
Multi-Domain Citizen Science Platform. In Proceedings of the 33rd Annual ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems (CHI  15). ACM, New York,
NY, USA, 4069 4078. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1145/2702123.2702420
Tweddle, J, Robinson, L, Pocock, M, and Roy, H. (2012). Guide to citizen science: developing, implementing and evaluating citizen science to study biodiversity and the
environment in the UK. In NERC/Centre for Ecology and Hydrology. [Accessed on 10th April 2015].
Uncovering Genome Mysteries (2015). (2015). http://www.genomemysteries.org/ [Accessed on 10th April 2015].
University, H. (2014). Citizen Science Search platform. (2014). http://koenigstuhl.geog.uni-heidelberg.de/citizenscience/ [Accessed on 23rd April 2014].
VAS (2015). Virtual Atom Smasher. (2015). http://test4theory.cern.ch/vas/ [Accessed on 20th June 2015].
Wikipedia, . (2014). Citizen Science Projects List. (2014). http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_citizen_science_projects [Accessed on 23rd April 2014].
World Community Grid (2015). (2015). http://www.worldcommunitygrid.org/ [Accessed on 10th April 2015].
Yadav, P, Charalampidis, I, Cohen, J, Darlington, J, and Grey, F. (2016)a. A Collaborative Citizen Science Platform to Bring Together Scientists, Volunteers, and Game
Players. IEEE Transactions On Computational Social Systems (2016). Manuscript under review.
Yadav, P, Cohen, J, and Darlington, J. (2016)b. CitizenGrid: A middleware platform for Citizen Cyberscience Applications. Transaction On Parallel And Distributed
Systems (2016). Manuscript under preparation.
Yadav, P and Darlington, J. (2014). Computation Platform Deployment Scenarios. Technology Enhanced Creative Learning in the  eld of Citizen Cyberlab ( FP7-317705
) Project Report D3.3. Imperial College London, http://citizencyberlab.eu/research/publications-and-reports/. [Accessed on 12th April 2015].
Yadav, P and Darlington, J. (2015). CitizenGrid Platform: Online Service and API. Technology Enhanced Creative Learning in the  eld of Citizen Cyberlab ( FP7-317705
) Project Report D3.5. Imperial College London, http://citizencyberlab.eu/research/publications-and-reports/. [Accessed on 12th April 2015].
8 P. Yadav, and J. Darlington / Human Computation (2016) x:x
Yadav, P and Darlington, J. (2016)a. Conceptual Frameworks for Building Online Citizen Science Projects. Human Computation Journal (2016). Manuscript under
preparation.
Yadav, P and Darlington, J. (2016)b. Deployment Scenarios of Virtual Citizen Science Projects: A Survey. Human Computation Journal (2016). Manuscript under
preparation.
Zooniverse (2015). The human-computation based Citizen Science project hosting platform. (2015). https://www.zooniverse.org [Accessed on 10th April 2015].
