Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A
SANjA  S  CEPANOVI  C, Aalto University
IGOR MISHKOVSKI, University Ss. Cyril and Methodius
BRUNO GONC  ALVES, New York University
NGUYEN TRUNG HIEU, University of Tampere
PAN HUI, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
People are observed to assortatively connect on a set of traits. This phenomenon, termed assortative mixing or sometimes
homophily, can be quanti ed through assortativity coef cient in social networks. Uncovering the exact causes of strong
assortative mixing found in social networks has been a research challenge. Among the main suggested causes from sociology
are the tendency of similar individuals to connect (often itself referred as homophily) and the social in uence among already
connected individuals. Distinguishing between these tendencies and other plausible causes and quantifying their contribution
to the amount of assortative mixing has been a dif cult task, and proven not even possible from observational data. However,
another task of similar importance to researchers and in practice can be tackled, as we present here: understanding the exact
mechanisms of interplay between these tendencies and the underlying social network structure. Namely, in addition to the
mentioned assortativity coef cient, there are several other static and temporal network properties and substructures that can
be linked to the tendencies of homophily and social in uence in the social network and we herein investigate those.
Concretely, we tackle a computer-mediated communication network (based on Twitter mentions) and a particular type
of assortative mixing that can be inferred from the semantic features of communication content that we term semantic
homophily. Our work, to the best of our knowledge, is the  rst to offer an in-depth analysis on semantic homophily in
a communication network and the interplay between them. We quantify diverse levels of semantic homophily, identify the
semantic aspects that are the drivers of observed homophily, show insights in its temporal evolution and  nally, we present its
intricate interplay with the communication network on Twitter. By analyzing these mechanisms we increase understanding
on what are the semantic aspects that shape and how they shape the human computer-mediated communication. In addition,
our analysis framework presented on this concrete case can be easily adapted, extended and applied on other type of social
networks and for different types of homophily.
Keywords: Homophily, Semantics, In uence, Semantic Relatedness, Twitter, Wikipedia, Social Network Analysis, Compu-
tational Social Science
1. INTRODUCTION
Homophily [Lazarsfeld and Merton 1954; McPherson et al. 2001] (sometimes referred as selection
[Leenders 1997; Crandall et al. 2008]) represents a tendency of individuals who are similar on some
traits to connect to each other (become friends, follow each other, communicate etc.) in a social net-
work. Social in uence (peer pressure) is in a way an inverse tendency for people to become similar
on some traits or to adopt certain behavior from their social contacts. Both, homophily and social
in uence result in a higher correlation (assortative mixing) on certain traits between connected than
between random users in a network. This assortative mixing property (also in some studies referred
as social correlation [Anagnostopoulos et al. 2008]) is repeatedly con rmed in social network anal-
ysis literature [Bollen et al. 2011; De Choudhury et al. 2010; Anagnostopoulos et al. 2008; Aral
and Walker 2012; Tang et al. 2013]. A question remains, to what extent is the observed assortative
mixing a result of an underlying homophily that shapes the formation of the network or of the social
in uence taking place in an already formed network [Leenders 1997]. A third factor that could be
the cause of social correlation is a common external in uence. Moreover, a combination of these
factors is often at play. For instance, an external factor might have non-homogeneous adoption in
the network because friends could have a higher common latent propensity for it and adopt it to a
larger extent than non-friends. Distinguishing between these factors as the main causes of assorta-
Author s addresses: S.  S cepanovi c, Aalto University, Department of Computer Science, Espoo, 02150, Finland; I.
Mishkovski, University Ss. Cyril and Methodius, Faculty of Computer Science, Skopje, 1000, Macedonia; H. Nguyen Trung,
University of Tampere, Tampere, 33100, Finland; P. Hui, Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Department of
Computer Science, Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong Kong; B. Gonc alves, New York University, Center for Data Science,
New York, 10003, U.S.;
7
1
0
2
 
r
a
 
M
0
2
 
 
]
h
p
-
c
o
s
.
s
c
i
s
y
h
p
[
 
 
3
v
7
0
2
8
0
.
6
0
6
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
A:2
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
tive mixing has been a challenge, and proven not even possible from observational data [Shalizi and
Thomas 2011].
Extensive research is conducted in sociology on homophily in social networks as abstractions of
diverse groups in society (see the seminal review by McPherson et al. [McPherson et al. 2001]).
Classical paper [Lazarsfeld and Merton 1954] introduced two basic levels or dimensions of ho-
mophily: status and value homophily. Status homophily relates to any formal or perceived status
among individuals. It includes some of the most important social dimensions, such as race, eth-
nicity, sex, age, education, occupation and religion. Value homophily relates to our internal states
that might shape the future behavior; for example: abilities (intelligence), aspirations, and attitudes
(political orientation), regardless of the differences in status.
In addition to individuals connecting to similar individuals, another suggested mechanism driving
homophily is the process of tie (link) dissolution over time that happens more often among non-
similar individuals. However, both mechanisms, of similarity and dissimilarity are not enough to
explain a particular clustered (community) structure found in social networks. Sociologists have pro-
posed that instead of only being driven by similarity, a tie is actually often formed around a speci c
focus of homophily [Feld 1981]. McPherson et al. [McPherson et al. 2001] offer a nice overview
on possible different foci, and below we brie y discuss some of them. Geographical proximity is
considered one of the most important foci of homophily, simply put, because we are more likely to
have contacts with the people who are geographically closer to us. The ties induced by proximity
in space are often weak; however, they leave more potential for stronger ties formation. It is worth
noting that the advent of new technologies over time did not remove this pattern of geographical
homophily and recent empirical research on online social networks  nds that people online still tend
to connect more often to geographically close people (in Twitter network [Kulshrestha et al. 2012;
De Choudhury 2011]; in Microsoft IMS [Leskovec and Horvitz 2008]; in Facebook social graph
[Ugander et al. 2011]; in mobile phone communication [Blondel et al. 2010]). The only study we
found that reports no signi cant effects of geographical homophily tackles organization-individual
relationship on Twitter [Sun and Rui 2017]. Another important focus that causes homophily are fam-
ily ties. Family ties are an interesting focus of formation that causes people who are similar on some
aspects and as well who are dissimilar on certain other aspects to connect. For this reason, when
it comes to family ties, we  nd the largest geographic, age, sex and educational heterophily; but at
the same time, the largest race, religious and ethnic homophily. Organizational foci turns to be the
most important cause of ties that are not relatives nor family-bound. These foci include schoolmates,
colleagues from work and voluntary organizations. A more implicit cause of homophily shows to
be network position. Research  nding exist that holding a same position inside an organization will
induce larger homophily between individuals than it would be the case if the ties were random
[Lincoln and Miller 1979]. Another, more internal, focus for homophily lies inside perceived sim-
ilarity and shared knowledge, and it is termed cognitive processes. It is particularly notable among
teenagers who tend to connect to those who are perceived to be more similar on some of the internal
traits. Looking back at the described homophily traits and foci, it is not easy to make a clear dis-
tinction between the consequences of homophily and the causes or origins of it. Whether cognitive
processes focus among teenagers causes them to become friends with similar ones; or whether the
friend teenagers in uence each other and hence become similar on a value homophily level?
1.1. Terminology
Communication network: In this study, the social network of interest is a computer-mediated
communication [Thurlow et al. 2004] network from Twitter. It is formed of nodes representing
Twitter users, and the directed links representing the tweets in which they mention (reply to) each
other. The tweet content is also included. Hence, our network can be seen as a subtype of previously
introduced interaction networks on Facebook [Wilson et al. 2009]. Throughout the rest of this study
we simply use the term communication network referring to this de nition. While in general
communication refers to exchanging of information, we recognize the potential of Twitter mentions
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:3
to carry two different forms of communication. In the  rst form, the source is directly addressing the
receiver, and in the second form, there is a sort of authority attribution where the source comments
to the rest of the Twitter users about the receiver (this could be a critique as well). Communication
intensity (CI) in our network denotes the weight on the links i.e., the number of mentions between
a pair of users.
Semantic homophily: Importantly, in many related studies the term homophily is used with the
meaning of assortative mixing as we introduced it here (one possible reason being described indis-
tinguishability of presented phenomena). We also use the term semantic homophily when talking
about assortative mixing on semantic aspects of communication. In the light of introduced de ni-
tions, a more precise term to use would be semantic assortative mixing. However, we select to talk
about semantic homophily in order to be consistent with the related studies and also since we do not
focus on distinguishing between homophily and social in uence. Hence, using an umbrella term
semantic homophily to cover both tendencies is simpler. When at some point we talk about one
of the tendencies in particular, we then point that out. In order to analyze semantic homophily, we
tackle following semantic aspects of communication:
  semantic relatedness (SR) between the tweet contents of two users. SR is a more general metric
compared to semantic similarity [Harispe et al. 2015] since in addition to similarity, it includes
also any other relation between the terms, such as antonymes (opposite terms) [Lehrer and Lehrer
1982] and meronymes (a term is a part of or member of the other) [Murphy 2003]. For instance,
the term airplane is similar to the term spacecraft. The same term is related to car, train or wing,
but not similar to them. SR relation between tweets of a pair of users is quanti ed by a value
ranging from 0 (not related at all) to 1 (maximally related);
  sentiment of user tweet content. The sentiment value ranges from -1 (negative) to 1 (positive);
  the most important entities (people, companies, organizations, cities, geographic features etc.),
concepts (abstract ideas in the text: for example, if an article mentions CERN and the Higgs
boson, it will have Large Hadron Collider as a concept even if the term is not mentioned explicitly
in the page [An IBM Company 2016]) and taxonomy (a hierarchy that helps to classify the content
into its most likely topic category) of user tweets content.
Communication propensity (  cp) is de ned as function of some property and represents the ex-
tent to which the observed communication and its intensity diverge from what would be expected in
a uniformly random setting with respect to that property. We investigate communication propensity
in our network with respect to SR threshold in the network (formula is given in Section 4.1).
Social capital: Among a variety of de nitions from sociology [Portes 2000; Bourdieu 2011],
one that translates well to our case introduces social capital as the actual and potential resources
that are linked to the ego s social network and relationships. Hence, in similarity to the previ-
ous study on socio-semantic networks [Roth and Cointet 2010], we de ne social capital in our
communication network as the total number of contacts (degree in the unweighted network) or
the total communication intensity (degree in the weighted network). Moreover, we can divide the
social capital, de ned as such, in both cases to popularity (if we look at in-degree) and commu-
nication activity (if looking at out-degree). To sum up, thanks to our network being directed and
weighted, we can introduce four types of social capital in it: (i) popularity in terms of number of
communication contacts and (ii) popularity in terms of communication intensity and (iii) activity in
terms of number of contacts and (iv) activity in terms of communication intensity.
Semantic capital denotes the amount of diversity of user tweet content with respect to the intro-
duced semantic attributes, similarly as in [Roth and Cointet 2010].
Relative status of two users can be de ned for both social and semantic capital and represents the
difference of their respective status ranks. Finally, for a single user we de ne status inconsistency
[Lenski 1954; Rogers and Bhowmik 1970] as a relative difference between his/her ranking among
all users on social and semantic capital. Status inconsistent individuals tend to be highly ranked on
some aspects and lowly ranked on others. This is suggested to be an attribute of individuals who
are drivers of social change [Lenski 1954]. Status inconsistency can be de ned on a communication
A:4
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
link, as well, as a measure of inconsistency of both participating users (we give a formal de nition
in Section 4.4).
1.2. Contributions
In this study, we offer a deeper understanding on the mechanisms of semantic homophily and how
they are shaping the structure and properties of the underlying communication network.
While homophily has been identi ed in a diverse set of social networks, most of the studies inves-
tigated friendship, followers or citation type of ties. Interaction ties are more suitable for inferring
meaningful social relationships [Wilson et al. 2009]. Our analysis is on the communication ties
formed from Twitter mentions (replies), that are a subtype of interaction ties. The ties in our net-
work are not only formed once (such as friendship and followership), but they require an active
engagement over time. The nature of the mention network is fundamentally different from fol-
lower/friendship network in Twitter [Bliss et al. 2012]. For instance, the reciprocity of the followers
network is found to be around 22% [Kwak et al. 2010] which is lower compared to the other social
networks. The reciprocity of our mention network is 64%, considerably higher. When a user A fol-
lows a user B it simply states some type of potential interest in what B has to say. Depending on the
different time zones and the number of other users that A is already following s/he might not even
get to see any of B s tweets. In the case of our communication network we can clearly point to
interactions and information diffusion between users (when the user A mentions the user B), instead
of simply speculating about it when using the friendship/follower network. While retweet network
allows for similar information diffusion analysis, its nature is also shown to be importantly different
from mention network [Conover et al. 2011]. Finally, observance of communication interruption in
time allows us to de ne a tie dissolution (link decommission). As discussed in [Bliss et al. 2012],
considering link decommission resolves issues of analyzing social network with stale links without
current functional role.
The focus of our work is on semantic homophily. While several other studies have tackled some
aspects of semantic homophily, as we discuss in the related work, to the best of our knowledge
this is the  rst study aiming towards a comprehensive picture on the role of semantic homophily in
communication. We offer an in-depth and detailed investigation of semantic homophily: from quan-
ti cation and qualitative assessment, through temporal evolution to its interplay with community
structure of communication network.
Fig. 1 presents the general framework for our study and lists several main contributions. For a full
list of our contributions, we refer the reader to Table VIII in Discussion 7. As depicted in Fig. 1, we
operate on experimental datasets (from Twitter and Wikipedia), while at the same time building on
existing sociological  ndings and theories. By testing for existence of status and value homophily,
we con rm that these general theories from sociology hold in a communication social network. In
addition, we identify the aspects of homophily that are speci c for communication, compared to
other types of social networks. A natural method to asses homophily in communication is through
semantic aspects of it.
At  rst we quantify diverse aspects of semantic homophily in the network. We start by uncover-
ing the subtle relationship between SR among users and the intensity of their communication. Next
we introduce measures of social and semantic status of users and show that communication net-
work exhibits assortativity on those metrics. This con rms sociological theories on status level ho-
mophily. We also show that such status correlation increases with strength of ties in communication.
In addition, analysis of the interplay between two types of capital reveals large status heterogeneity
among users. Accordingly, we  nd that status inconsistency of one or both communicating parties
correlates with intensity of communication.
Next we focus on temporal evolution of semantic homophily. We detect temporal increase in
average semantic relatedness among users and investigate new links formation as a possible cause.
However, we also  nd a number of links that get decommissioned in time. After comparing rel-
ative statuses of users who stop communication, we present evidence that decommission is more
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:5
Fig. 1: General framework and main contributions of our study. In blue frames we denote
the evidence found in Twitter experimental data for the existing theories from sociology. During
data analysis, we also  nd evidence pointing to some novel hypotheses, presented in green fames.
However, such evidence should be evaluated and con rmed in several other datasets before any
general conclusions about semantic homophily in communication can be reached.
due to status than to value heterophily. Finally, the analysis on the community structure of the
communication network (structural communities) reveals the semantic foci around which such
communities are formed (functional communities). In this way, we  nd evidence for Feld s theory
of focused organization of social ties [Feld 1981] and also identify some of such foci around which
communication ties are formed. In the end, we delve into the mechanisms of pluralistic homophily
(assortative mixing as a result of several foci), and describe speci city of users who have such a
position in communication network.
The rest of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 presents related research literature. In
Section 3 we describe two Web datasets (from Twitter and Wikipedia) used for analysis, as well
as the framework of analysis consisting of a communication (Section 3.1) and semantic (Section
3.2) layer. Quanti cation of different forms of homophily in our network is presented in Section
4: social status homophily in 4.2 and semantic status and value homophily in 4.3. Insights on the
relationship between these forms of capital, and relative status and status inconsistency are given in
4.4. The relationship between semantic relatedness and communication are reported in Subsection
4.1. Temporal aspects of semantic homophily, from link formation and dissolution to persisting
interactions, are discussed in Section 5. Community structure and focused organization of social
A:6
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
ties are the topic in Section 6. Pluralistic homophily is also characterized in this section. The article
concludes with a discussion and  nal remarks on future research directions in Section 7.
2. RELATED WORK
Knowledge networks representing scienti c collaboration and blogger citations are studied in [Roth
and Cointet 2010]. This study is similar to ours in that the joint dynamics and co-evolution of the
social and socio-semantic structures is analyzed in these knowledge networks. Our work is dif-
ferent since we focus on another type of a network (communication). Hence, we respond in part
to the call by Roth and Cointet [Roth and Cointet 2010] to analyze some of the epistemic patterns,
which they found in the scientist and blogger communities, in other type of communities. Moreover,
while they only investigate social link formation, we are also able to investigate link decommission
(disconnection), thanks to the type of the network we analyze. Therefore, our work offers an ad-
ditional understanding on the temporal interplay between semantic and social structures. Another
important difference is that we offer considerably deeper semantic aspects analysis. Compared to
a hand-picked set of categories used in [Roth and Cointet 2010], our Wikipedia-based database in
combination with Alchemy API provide us with richer insights on entities, categories, taxonomy
and also sentiment of communication.
A recent study on Twitter analyzes homophily on the status (de ned as the difference in the
follower counts) and the value (tweet contents, common followees, location, age etc.) levels [Sun
and Rui 2017]. There are several important differences to our work: the focus of their study is on
reciprocal followers network (instead of mention network in our case), homophily is analyzed on
the organization-individual relationship (whereas we focus on individual-individual relationship)
and there is no focus on community analysis or temporal aspects of homophily as in our study.
However, there are several previous studies in online settings that have analyzed the temporal
interplay between homophily and social ties. Crandal et al. [Crandall et al. 2008]  nd that the ho-
mophily between two Wikipedia admin users sharply rises some time before the tie formation and
after that continues to slowly grow. This is interpreted so that, at  rst, homophily plays a role in the
tie formation, but after that, the tie plays a role in the continuous increase of homophily. Another
similar study on Flickr [Zeng and Wei 2013],  nds more subtle insights: the users who have similar
popularity (de ned as the average number of favorites for their photos) are more likely to diverge
in similarity after the tie formation; while the similarity continues to grow for the users who have a
larger popularity difference. This is explained by the tendency of users to stay unique and diverse
in their uploaded content from equally popular users. Besides focusing on a different type of social
ties   communication, our work extends these previous studies with the insights on interplay of
homophily and tie (link) decommission that they have not investigated. In addition, we also uncover
the relationship between introduced social and semantic forms of capital and homophily around the
time of link formation and decommission.
Signi cant homophilous foci on Facebook [Barnett and Bene eld 2015] are found to be ge-
ographic proximity, language, civilization, and migration. The analysis performed on 3 online
datasets: Last.fm, Flickr and aNobii [Aiello et al. 2012], presents how homophily information can
be used for link prediction. The authors present best accuracy in the case of aNobii (92%) when
combining multiple features: in-degree, activity, number of distinct tags, assortativity of users in
terms of topics etc. A conclusion is that the distinct language groups present in the aNobii dataset,
which are quite homogenous and non-mixing, support the prediction accuracy. Halberstam et al.
[Halberstam and Knight 2014] analyze communication on Twitter (comprising both retweets and
mentions of political candidates) in similarity to us, however, with a different aim   to understand
information diffusion. They  nd a greater degree of homophily exhibited and also more connections
per node in larger communities.
Below we mention several other studies that have tackled homophily in online settings, but with a
different focus from us. A number of studies are conducted toward distinguishing between in uence
and homophily [Aral et al. 2009; La Fond and Neville 2010; Anagnostopoulos et al. 2008] report-
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:7
Table I: Twitter dataset  ltering steps statistics
Dataset
original download
English language
users > 20 tweets
internal replies
mentions
12 441 636
2 527 990
1 344 692
744 821
users
547 368
284 100
29 616
26 717
ing different levels and proportions of the two traits in online social networks. For example, De
Choudhury et al. [De Choudhury et al. 2010] quanti ed the impact of various types of homophily
on in uence on Twitter. Users were given homophilous traits based on attributes such as: location,
information roles they take (generators, mediators and receptors), content creation (meformer, in-
former) and activity behavior (number of tweets per period of time). However, it is later shown that
in empirical settings these tendencies are indistinguishable due to confounding effects [Shalizi and
Thomas 2011]. A couple of more recent papers tackled this research challenge in controlled exper-
iments. The experiment on Facebook found that the probability for a user to share a link increases
with the number of friends who shared the same link even without the user being exposed to their
link shares [Bakshy et al. 2012]. Hence this controlled experiment con rmed homophily or some
unobserved common external in uence taking place in the network.
3. DATASETS AND FRAMEWORK FOR ANALYSIS
3.1. Communication layer: Twitter mention network
Our initial dataset contains 12,441,636 mentions (tweets including @username) among 547,368
users over the course of 6 months (May-Nov 2011). All internal mentions are included, meaning,
each time when a user from our dataset mentions a user from outside, we did not keep such tweets,
but all the mentions among the users in the dataset are present.
In order to have a well suited dataset for the intended analysis, we perform several cleaning and
 ltering steps described below. The initial dataset includes tweets in several languages, so we  lter it
to select only English tweets and from the users who mostly tweet in English. We use NLTK Python
library [Bird et al. 2009] in this step. After the language  ltering, the dataset is reduced to 20% of its
original size in terms of tweets, while the number of users halved. For semantic analysis, individual
tweets are often too small and noisy, so the next step involves  ltering the remaining users based
on their total number of tweets. Upon research and pre-test with the semantic knowledge database
that we built (described in the following subsection), a threshold of minimum 20 tweets is selected.
After this step, the dataset contains 29,616 users. Finally, again keeping only the internal replies
withing this group of users, we end up with 26,717 users in our  nal dataset for analysis (see Table
I).
From the  nal  ltered dataset we build our analysis target, the communication network,
G = (V,E,W ). The nodes ui,u j   V represent Twitter users; they are connected with a directed
edge ei j = (ui,u j)   E if a user ui mentions u j, and the edge is assigned the weight wi j =
(ui,u j)   W equal to the communication intensity (total number of such mentions). Properties of
the communication network are given in Table II. Finally, at some points we will look at undi-
rected and/or unweighted versions of the presented network. When we do so, it will be pointed out,
otherwise, whenever we discuss communication network it refers to the weighted and directed
network described here.
3.2. Semantic layers: Semantic enrichment of communication network
On top of the communication layer, we extract another, semantic layer from the Twitter data. Con-
cretely, we apply two semantic analysis procedures that enrich our communication network in
terms of node and edge attributes. The  rst procedure is based on Wikipedia semantic relatedness
A:8
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Table II: Communication network statistics
Network parameter
Nodes
Edges
Avg weighted deg.
Avg clustering coeff.
value
26 717
99 910
55.75
0.051
Network parameter
Max out-degree
Max in-degree
Diameter
Density
value
1358
3228
29
0.00014
database that we build from a whole English Wikipedia dump according to the Explicit Seman-
tic Relatedness (ESA) algorithm [Gabrilovich and Markovitch 2009; Gabrilovich and Markovitch
2007]. The second procedure employs an existing, natural language processing API, Alche-
myAPI [An IBM Company 2016] from IBM. Wikipedia SR database provides enrichment for both,
edges (SR between tweets of two users) and nodes (extracted Wikipedia concepts relevant to the
user tweets   see following paragraph for details). AlchemyAPI provides an additional set of node
attributes: concepts, entities, taxonomy and sentiment of the user tweets. We describe both proce-
dures and the enrichment they provide in more detail in the following.
3.2.1. Wikipedia Semantic Relatedness database. The semantic layer includes a network of users
featuring semantic relatedness (SR) between their tweets collections as edge weights, we refer to it
as the SR network. The SR network is based on SR knowledge database built using a Wikipedia
XML dump from April 2015 (for details see Methods 8). In addition to SR scores, from the
Wikipedia SR database, for each user we can also obtain their corresponding Wikipedia concept
vectors CVs. CV s are formed of relevant Wikipedia concepts (articles) describing semantically user
tweet contents.
In a somewhat computationally demanding task, we calculate the SR scores between all the user
pairs (not just those who communicate and are connected in communication network), resulting
in a full SR network. Distribution of SR values of the full SR network is shown in Fig. 9 (right).
During the analysis, we also apply different thresholds (SRth) on the edge weights and obtain several
SR sub-networks, which we denote SRth networks.
3.2.2. AlchemyAPI. AlchemyAPI [An IBM Company 2016] performs natural language process-
ing (NLP) and machine learning (ML) analysis. We send individual user tweets collections for anal-
ysis and AlchemyAPI returns semantic meta-data from the content. Not all are relevant for our study
but we utilize following: sentiment score, taxonomy, concepts, entities and keywords. Hence, based
on the output, we assign a set of attributes to users: the overall sentiment of his/her tweets (a real
number between -1 for fully negative and 1 for fully positive), the taxonomy hierarchy representing
topics, concepts, entities and keywords found relevant in the tweets. For each of the elements in the
output, AlchemyAPI also returns corresponding relevance score, that we utilize to  lter for most
relevant semantic attributes.
Based on the evaluations in the literature, we believe that AlchemyAPI is a suitable choice to
support our work. In [Meehan et al. 2013] it was shown that the sentiment analysis obtained from
AlchemyAPI achieved accuracy of 86% on a corpus of 5,370 tweets employed by an intelligent
recommendation system for tourism. The AlchemyAPI s performance on a number of datasets and
in different contexts was also shown in [Rizzo and Troncy 2011] and [Saif et al. 2012], where
AlchemyAPI outperfomed Zemanta1, OpenCalais2, Extractiv3 and DBpedia Spotlight4 in extracting
and categorizing named entities. However, besides the evaluations stated above, and the benchmark
analysis done in [Ribeiro et al. 2016], we might consider using sentence-level methods, as VADER
1http://blog.zemanta.com/
2http://www.opencalais.com/
3http://extractiv.com/
4https://github.com/dbpedia-spotlight/dbpedia-spotlight
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:9
[Hutto and Gilbert 2014], SentiStrength [Thelwall 2013] or Umigon [Levallois 2013] on our Twitter
dataset as our future work.
4. QUANTIFYING SEMANTIC HOMOPHILY
4.1. Semantic relatedness and communication
We start by investigating interplay between SR for a pair of users and their CI by asking: whether
higher communication intensity is linked to a higher semantic relatedness? Fig. 2 (left) displays
the correlation when we apply logarithmic binning to account for long-tailed distribution of CI(e).
However, we  nd that user pairs exist who communicate quite intensively but have low relatedness
of their tweet contents and also on the opposite   some users with relatedness close to 1 seldom
communicate. Our result is comparable those in the study that evaluated similar relationship in
retweet and follower Twitter graphs [Mitzlaff et al. 2014]. Next we turn to another way of assessing
the interplay between the two communication aspects.
Fig. 2: Interplay between SR and communication: (a) correlation of link SR value (SR(e)) and
its communication intensity (CI(e)); we apply logarithmic binning to account for long-tailed distri-
bution of CI(e); average value and standard deviation are shown for each bin; (b) communication
propensity with respect to SR (  cp(SRth)) for different minimum communication intensity (CIth) of
links
We calculate communication propensity (  cp) with respect to SR threshold (SRth) as the extent
to which observed communication and its intensity diverge from what would be expected in an
uniformly random setting. To illustrate, SR0.2 network has   40M links, or   9% out of all the
possible   438M links in full SR network. Hence, in a uniformly random setting, we would expect
a similar percent of communication links in SR0.2 network. However, we  nd this percent to be 3
times higher. Precisely, we apply the dyadic propensity formula de ned in [Roth 2005] to calculate
 cp:
 cp(SRth) = Lcomm(SRth)/Ltot (SRth),
where Lcomm(SRth) is the number of links in communication network with SR value higher than
the threshold and Ltot (SRth) is the number of total possible such links. We also evaluate in the same
A:10
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Fig. 3: Properties of SR network in function of SRth: (left) size of the largest connected compo-
nent, its density and overall network density; (right) branching factor, intermodular connectivity and
transitivity as three ingredients for network degree assortativity [Estrada 2011]
way existence of links with a minimum communication intensity threshold (CIth). Fig. 2 presents
the results. Communication propensity increases with the increase in both SR and CI thresholds.
The increase reveals presence of semantic homophily in the network with respect to SR. After both
presented analyses, we conclude that the correlation between SR and CI is not simple and linear, but
it is strongly captured by the subtle aspects of communication network.
This section we conclude with several results on the properties of the full SR network. It is impor-
tant to point out that for this analysis we take the network built from the data for the whole 6 months
period. Such results inform us about semantic relatedness metrics of a random group of people (not
necessarily ever communicating). Fig. 3 (left) reveals that when thresholding the SR network near
SR value 0.25, the largest connected component still has around 85% of the nodes and its density
stabilizes, even it starts to grow, whereas the overall density in the network is signi cantly reduced.
In Fig. 3 (right) we plot the degree assortativity [Newman 2002] in SR network as a function of
SR threshold. We detect an interesting changing pattern from positive to negative degree assortativ-
ity. In order to make sure that this pattern is speci c to real-world SR metric, we randomize the SR
values on SR network in several ways and  nd no pattern in such cases. Hence, we conclude that
a structurally important change in human SR network takes place when we consider different SR
threshold.
Fig. 3 (right) also shows the values for branching factor, intermodular connectivity and network
transitivity (clustering coef cient), as it has been proven that they together de ne degree assorta-
tivity value [Estrada 2011]. In the interval (0.15,0.35) SR network obeys highest assortativity and
transitivity. In this way we  nd lower and upper bounds for the threshold that can be used to remove
the noise generated when building the SR knowledge database. For these values we also obtain
the best community matching between SR network and communication network, as described in
Section 6. From an application point of view, these  ndings might be important to consider while
designing other semantic relatedness and similarity metrics, in particular when choosing a suitable
threshold to distinguish signi cantly related and not related users.
4.2. Forms of social capital and degree assortativity
As we introduced earlier, a basic measure of assortative mixing in a network is the assortativity
coef cient [Newman 2003] or simply assortativity. This coef cient is calculated as Pearson cor-
relation between the value of a property on a node and the average value of that property on its
neighbors. Hence the assortativity value ranges from 1 in a perfectly assortative network to -1 in a
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:11
perfectly dissasortative network. Any discrete or scalar attribute of nodes can be used to calculate
this coef cient.
We start by calculating assortativity based on node degree, an inherent node attribute of any
network. Positive degree assortativity [Newman 2002] is suggested to be fundamental to social
networks and to distinguish them from other types of networks [Newman and Park 2003].
Undirected network variants. We start by looking at an undirected variant of our
communication network. Such an abstraction provides us with social capital in terms of num-
ber of contacts (unweighted) and total communication intensity (weighted network case). When we
look at mutual edges, then we tackle strong communication ties, and when including all edges, then
we also consider weak communication ties [Granovetter 1973]. The values of degree assortativity
coef cient (r) in different variants of the communication network are presented in Table III. Us-
ing jackknife method as in [Newman 2003] we calculate and present also the standard deviation for
each measurement to verify statistical signi cance of the results. Below we discuss and interpret the
cases when our networks exhibits assortativity.
  Undirected unweighted network including all edges is slightly disassortative with r =  0.015.
  Undirected unweighted network with only mutual edges is on the other hand highly assortative
with r = 0.414 (similar result reported in [Bliss et al. 2012]). This result shows that the more
strong contacts you have, the more strong contacts they themselves tend to have.
  Undirected weighted network including all edges is slightly disassortative with r =  0.014.
  Undirected weighted network with only mutual edges is again highly assortative with r = 0.474.
This result shows that the stronger communication intensity you have, the stronger communication
intensity your contacts tend to have.
Directed network variants. In directed networks, four types of degree assortativity can be calcu-
lated, as introduced in [Piraveenan et al. 2012]. These four types of assortativity coef cients show if
the degree of a source node is correlated with the degree of the target nodes, hence tackling relational
analysis between source and receiver in communication [Rogers and Bhowmik 1970]. As shown in
Table III the in-in is the only negative of the four coef cients in our network. This is in agreement
with the  ndings for assortativity in directed followers Twitter network [Myers et al. 2014], except
for out-in coef cient which is also found negative in the followers graph and it is slightly positive
in our case. The authors (ibid.) argue that Twitter exhibits negative assortativity coef cients, unlike
other social networks, because of its role as an information network, too. Below we interpret the
results in our network.
  Looking at in-in coef cient, there was no assortativity with r =  0.001 in the unweighted net-
work. This value increases to r =  0.015 in the weighted network case and becomes statistically
signi cant. It is still low so we do not interpret it.
  Low positive in-out degree assortativity tells that: the more popular you are the more active those
who you contact tend to be (both in terms of number of contacts and in terms of communication
intensity).
  Positive out-in degree assortativity is low (0.038) so we do not interpret it.
  The highest coef cient is for out-out degree assortativity, informing us that the higher the number
of users whom you contact, the higher the number of users they also tend to contact (or the more
intensively you are communicating, the more intensively those who you contact also tend to be
communicating).
Assortativity as a function of communication intensity. We can create an ensemble of weighted
communication networks by thresholding the original network on different minimum edge
weights. Then we calculate the above presented coef cients in each thresholded network. Since
weight on the edges represents intensity of communication, the result is degree assortativity as a
function of the communication intensity, as shown in Fig. 4.
A:12
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Table III: Degree assortativity r coef cients in the communication network. Standard deviation s
calculated using jackknife method [Newman 2003] is also presented
undirected networks
r
s
unweighted
weighted
mutual edges
0.414
0.010
all edges
-0.015
0.001
mutual edges
0.474
0.017
all edges
-0.014
0.001
directed networks
in-in
in-out
out-in
out-out
in-in
in-out
out-in
out-out
r
-0.001
0.110
0.038
0.389
-0.015
0.207
0.014
0.338
s
0.002
0.013
0.003
0.014
0.002
0.020
0.004
0.026
Fig. 4: Degree assortativity as a function of communication intensity CI in the ensemble of thresh-
olded communication networks. undir all is degree assortativity in undirected network including
all edges; undir mutual in undirected network with only reciprocal; in(out)-in(out) are the four types
of coef cients in directed networks showing the correlation between in(out)-degrees of source and
receiver nodes [Piraveenan et al. 2012]
First insight is that already with a small threshold, the two assortativity coef cients that are in
the original network found slightly negative (in undirected network with all edges and in directed
network in-in coef cient) become positive. With the threshold larger than 20 mentions, the networks
are highly assortative on all the coef cients. This property exhibits one of the differences between
often analyzed social networks based on unweighted, once formed links (such as friendship and
followership) and the weighted communication network that we focus on. Bliss et al. [Bliss et al.
2012] demonstrated temporal stability of degree assortativity in mutual mention network, while
herein we exhibit its variability with respect to the minimum communication intensity. Coming
back to the above mentioned negative assortativity results in the Twitter followers network [Myers
et al. 2014], we argue that at higher communication intensity (requiring more time and effort than
other interactions, such as following) the Twitter mention network serves more of a social than
information role. That is exhibited by the strong degree assortativity coef cients.
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:13
Fig. 5: Semantic capital distributions
Moreover, looking at the higher communication intensity thresholds, we notice two more inter-
esting patterns. Two directed assortativity coef cients (in-in and out-out) start to slowly decrease,
while the four other coef cients asymptotically reach the maximum value 1. In our concrete net-
work case, the threshold of 239 mentions is when the four coef cients all become equal by reaching
the value 1 and also the coef cients in-in and out-out become equal (at value 0.505). While not
shown in Fig. 4, we calculated and those two coef cients continue to drop, while the others stay at
the maximum value as we increase the threshold further.
To conclude, presented positive degree assortativity properties reveal presence of social status
homophily (users with higher status tend to assortatively connect) on different forms of social capital
in the communication network. We also  nd slight amounts of social status heterophily in relation
to weak ties and popularity, but this heterophily quickly gives place to strong homophily when there
is higher communication intensity in the network.
4.3. Forms of semantic capital and attribute assortativity
In this section, we investigate levels of assortative mixing on semantic aspects in the
communication network. Besides degree, social networks are shown to exhibit assortativity on
diverse nodes attributes [Bollen et al. 2011; Aiello et al. 2012; Eom and Jo 2014]. In line with such
previous  ndings, we ask on which semantic attributes our Twitter communication network ex-
hibits assortativity and to what extent. While social capital aspects presented in previous section
reveal status homophily, some of the semantic capital aspects in this section exhibit value and some
status homophily. Precisely, we look at assortativity on sentiment score and topics presence in the
tweets, revealing semantic value homophily. We also look at semantic capital, or the diversity with
regard to the number of relevant entities, concepts and taxonomy levels found in the tweets and this
analysis reveals semantic status homophily. Prior to looking at assortativity, it is useful to familiar-
ize ourselves with the distributions of semantic capital and sentiment values for the whole user base.
In Fig. 5 we show kernel density estimates of their distributions displaying heterogeneity of entities
and CVs diversity (see Section 3.2.1 and Methods for description of CVs), and sentiment values
among users. While most of the users tend to have around 5 entities relevant to their tweet contents,
we also  nd an important percent of users with nearly 30 such entities. Similarly for concepts, a
majority of users has 500 700 concepts in their CVs, but we  nd also users with with 1500 2000
concepts. As for sentiment, a majority of users tend to have neutral tweets sentiment, however, we
also  nd users on both sides of the spectrum (negative and positive sentiment scores). Hence, we
conclude that there is large semantic capital heterogeneity among our users (see [Roth and Cointet
2010] for similar result in different types of networks).
A:14
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Table IV: Status and value homophily: attributes assortativity r
in the unweighted
communication network. Standard deviation s calculated using jackknife method is also presented
level
attr Wiki CVs
diversity
topic
music movies
value homophily
topic
taxonomy
diversity
sentiment
score
topic
sex
0.151
0.003
0.269
0.006
0.136
0.004
0.244
0.005
0.136
0.004
0.253
0.006
concept
diversity
status homophily
entity
diversity
directed network, all edges
0.292
0.003
0.315
0.003
undirected network, mutual edges
0.452
0.005
0.398
0.005
0.173
0.003
0.289
0.005
r
s
r
s
0.144
0.003
0.269
0.006
0.157
0.003
0.282
0.005
The results presented in Table IV suggest the presence of both, value (topics of tweet-
ing, sentiment) and status (semantic capital) homophily in the unweighted versions of the
communication network. We focus on the unweighted versions, since we  rst of all ask, whether
there is a tendency among the users to have contact with other users who are similar to them on some
semantic attributes (without looking at intensity of communication). This means that the answers
to this question in the networks including only mutual edges will inform us about such correla-
tion among strong contacts, while looking at networks with all edges included will inform us also
about weak contacts. Once again, as with the degree assortativity, we  nd that mutual (reciprocal)
communication network is importantly different compared to the network including also one-
sided communication edges. Notably, it exhibits higher levels of assortativity on all the analyzed
attributes.
As the observed correlation levels could be induced by existing degree assortativity, we also test
the presence of assortativity after node attribute randomization. The assortativity value in such case
is importantly lower, 0.07 and so we conclude that indeed the communication network exhibits
low to moderate levels of semantic status and value homophily. Moreover, among analyzed semantic
attributes, status homophily is the largest with respect to entity diversity and value homophily with
respect to sentiment.
4.4. Interplay between social and semantic capital
After establishing the presence of status and value homophily in the communication network
on different forms of social and semantic capital, we ask next about the relationship between these
forms of capital. Whether the users who are richer in terms of social capital (and hence more network
central) are also richer in terms of semantic capital (their tweets are semantically richer, or exhibit
more diversity on semantic aspects)? With this analysis, we respond to the call by authors in [Roth
and Cointet 2010] to look for similar types of patterns as they have investigated in the bloggers and
scientists networks. Indeed, we also  nd a wide range of possible combinations of joint values of
social and semantic capital, as they have reported. In the end we conclude that the observed patterns
in the Twitter communication network resemble more of the bloggers than the scientists network
presented in [Roth and Cointet 2010].
Precisely, testing for different forms of social capital against different forms of semantic capital
reveals no signi cant or low to medium correlations between the two. For the purpose of visualiza-
tion, in Fig. 6, we show joint distributions for entity, concepts diversity and sentiment score on one
side and communication intensity (of popularity and of activity) on the other.
When it comes to popularity (weighted indegree), we observe a wide spectrum of semantic
diversity in terms of entities for both, the users with low and high popularity. Most popular users
tend to be slightly more likely to have high semantic diversity. On the other hand, most popular users
are likely to have quite neutral sentiment in their tweets. However, users which are more positive or
negative in their sentiment are likely to have modest to low popularity.
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:15
Fig. 6: Joint distributions of social and semantic capital: the darkness of the hexagon corresponds
to the frequency of users with the combination of social and semantic capital values
When it comes to intensity of communication activity (weighted outdegree), we observe similar
patterns that are a bit more pronounced for the socially richest users. Basically, most actively com-
municating users are likely to have higher semantic diversity in terms of entities (however, we still
 nd a number of users with diverse tweet contents that are not actively communicating). Seman-
tic (entity) diversity has the highest correlations with communication activity (weighted outdegree;
r = 0.397) presented in Fig. 6 and with weighted mutual degree (r = 0.396). These values are simi-
lar to the value found in the bloggers network and lower compared to the scientists network in [Roth
and Cointet 2010].
Sentiment has negative correlations with both popularity and activity, also presented in Fig. 6.
This means that with popularity and being active users tend to have a slightly more negative tweets
sentiment. Finally, when it comes to diversity in terms of number of concepts present in their CVs,
we do not  nd any differences between popular and active users. The richest users in terms of both
types of social capital tend to have an average semantic capital (between 500 and 1000). Hence,
we conclude that different forms of semantic capital have different patterns of interplay with social
capitals.
Thanks to our network being directed and weighted, we are able to observe one additional pattern:
while being particularly low for popularity (indegree), all the correlations increase for user activ-
ity (outdegree) and with communication intensity (weighted degrees). For instance, the correlation
between entity diversity and (unweighted) indegree is only 0.051. In this way, we exhibit that com-
munication activity, intensity and stronger contacts are more conductive of higher semantic capital,
compared to popularity and weaker contacts.
A:16
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Fig. 7: Status differences in communication: Kernel density estimates for distributions of (left)
popularity difference and (right) semantic capital difference.
Relative status of source and receiver. An additional way to investigate the interplay between
social and semantic capitals is in terms of relative status of source and receiver in communication.
By relative status we mean the difference in status on a particular form of capital. Such de nition
is similar to the achieved status presented in [Sun and Rui 2017]. In Fig. 7 we show distributions
of relative social status (popularity difference) and relative semantic status (entity diversity differ-
ence) between source and receiver. In particular, the distribution for relative social status exhibits a
dominant peak at zero (users with similar status are most likely to communicate), but plotting it on
a log scale reveals two additional interesting peaks at intervals ( 100, 10) and (10,100). There is
a higher likelihood for users with differences in social status belonging to these ranges to be talking
to each other. The left peak is higher, and this together with the negative mean value for relative
social status informs us that source users tend to be a bit less popular. There is also a small number
of users mentioning considerably more popular users than themselves (leftmost part of the distri-
bution). This happens to a smaller extent in the other direction, from more popular source users.
When it comes to semantic capital, most of communication happens between those who have close
to equal semantic capital.
For the joint distribution of social and semantic relative statuses we  nd (analyzed, not shown
in a graph) a wide range of combinations. There is a small positive correlation between the two.
As for the small number of users who initiate communication towards a considerably more popular
users discussed above, we  nd that they tend to be semantically richer compared to the receiving
users. We speculate that this semantic superiority might be a needed approach for such users to
compensate for their lower popularity.
Status inconsistency of source and receiver. Finally, we can tackle a sociological proposition
that source and/or receiver status inconsistency can increase effectiveness of their communication
[Rogers and Bhowmik 1970]. Status inconsistency (internal heterophily of an individual) is de ned
in sociology as the relative lack of similarity in an individual s ranking on various indicators of
social status [Lenski 1954]. Hence we introduce status inconsistency for Twitter users as a relative
difference in their social and semantic capital ranks. We apply a similar formula to calculate status
inconsistency (stinc) as in [Lenski 1954]:
(cid:26) (1  rsoc/rsem),
(1  rsem/rsoc),
stinc =
if rsoc   rsem
otherwise;
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:17
l
Fig. 8: Relationship between communication intensity and link inconsistency: (left) scatter
plot; (right) linear regression visualization   we apply logarithmic binning to account for long-tailed
distribution of CI(e); average value and standard deviation are shown for each bin.
where rsoc and rsem are users ranks in terms of social and semantic capital, respectively, among all
users. This de nition allows  rstly to asses the amount of user status inconsistency (how close is
abs(stinc) to 1), and second, it also encodes whether he/she has higher social (stinc is positive) or
semantic (stinc is negative) status.
While we can not measure effectiveness of communication directly using our dataset, we al-
low communication intensity to be a proxy for it. Our hypothesis in this regard is: the higher the
communication intensity between a source and receiver, the higher potential for an effective com-
munication. Now, for all the directed links (ei, j) in our communication network we de ne link
inconsistency using above introduced status inconsistency of the source (stinc(ui)) and the receiver
(stinc(u j)) as their product:
stinc(ei, j) = stinc(ui)  stinc(u j).
This simple formula produces a higher absolute value for the links with higher total pair s inconsis-
tency. The sign in this case indicates whether the source and receiver are ranked higher on the same
sorts of capital (stinc(ei, j) positive) or different forms of capital (stinc(ei, j) negative).
We indeed  nd signi cant correlation between introduced link inconsistency and communication
intensity (r = 0.27). Results presented in Fig. 8 indicate following  nding: the communication be-
tween two users tends to increase with status inconsistency of one or both of the users, if they are
both richer on the same form of capital. If the users are status inconsistent but being rich on differ-
ent forms of capital, then their communication intensity tends to decrease. As with other  ndings
regarding social capitals, the described patterns are relevant for extreme cases (high and low edge
weights), and there is a wide spectrum of edge inconsistency values taken by the medium-weight
edges (Fig. 8, left).
5. TEMPORAL EVOLUTION OF SEMANTIC HOMOPHILY
In previous sections we performed analysis on a snapshot of Twitter network formed from the whole
6 months dataset. In this section we investigate temporal aspects of semantic homophily by looking
A:18
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Fig. 9: Cumulative SR distributions
in
communication network and (right) in the rest of SR network. For better visualization of the dif-
ferences in distributions the y-axis is thresholded above 0.7. The distributions are together sharply
rising up to around that point.
for 5 full months
in our dataset:
(left)
at different snapshots of the network for each month. First we analyze temporal change of SR values.
In Fig. 9, cumulative distribution functions (CDF) of SR values for each full month in our dataset are
shown for communication network and for the rest of the links in SR network. Precisely, we con-
sider all the links with mutual communication (strong ties) in communication network, while for
the second distribution, we take the difference between links in SR network and all communication
contacts (both strong and weak). In this way we aim to distinguish between SR of user pairs affected
by communication (and hence social in uence) and those that are less likely to be affected (no com-
munication of any type occurred between them in our dataset). Gradual increase in SR values takes
place in both cases over time (CDF increases at higher SR values). In addition to the visualization,
by applying Kolmogorov-Smirnov (K-S) test [Massey Jr 1951] we con rm the distribution change.
In particular, we compare the distributions for June and for October. For communication network,
K-S results in p < e 24 and, respectively, for SR network, in p < e 197, hence in both cases strongly
rejecting the hypothesis that the distributions are the same.
5.1. External in uences evidence
The increase in average SR in SR network (Fig. 9) among not connected pairs of users is peculiar. It
indicates a possible external in uence taking place during the period causing all users to talk more
on a similar (external) topic. However, since the Twitter social network we investigate is not the
only possible way for our users to communicate and in uence each other, this does not allow us to
assert whether the increase is indeed (only) due to external in uence. In any case, we turn to our
semantic layers to look for an evidence of common external in uences in the dataset.
Using AlchemyAPI output, we identify overall most popular categories for topics of communi-
cation in our dataset. They are displayed in Fig. 10. Arts and entertainment, including movies, tv
shows, music and humor is the dominant category. Second set of most popular categories includes
sex (under society), sports and technology and computing.
Insights on common topics of communication using Wikipedia semantic relatedness database
are consistent with those from AlchemyAPI. In Table V we present some of top 100 concepts
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:19
Fig. 10: Semantic taxonomy of whole communication network visualized in a bubble-tree-
map: highest level categories are in the center. Subcategories are represented as descendants in the
tree. Size of bubbles corresponds to the frequency of topics under that category in our dataset.
(Wikipedia articles) found to describe the semantics in the dataset overall. For easier comparison,
we display these concepts per (sub)categories identi ed using AlchemyAPI. The two seasons of
TV series This Is England that have been aired at the time corresponding to our dataset are ranked
2nd and 3rd. Next, we also  nd several musicians and bands. The concepts LOL and Smiley Face
are in part a result of how ESA algorithm [Gabrilovich and Markovitch 2009; Gabrilovich and
Markovitch 2007] that we used to build Wikipedia SR database works. They are also in agreement
with humor being prevalent subcategory among users in our dataset. In addition to the series This is
England being aired at the time of our dataset, the death of Osama bin Laden also happened during
that period, and we see an article about him describing the general conversation. ESA s output of
> 300K Wikipedia concepts describing topics in our dataset results in a  ne SR metrics, as exhibited
in detecting  ne gradual temporal increase. At the same time, from Table V we see that already the
top 100 concepts provide insights into the concrete topics of the conversation in the dataset.
These insights, offer evidence for some external in uence taking place in our dataset that could
lead to global increase in SR among not connected users. Since mentioned TV series, music and
events are prevalent topics in the dataset, it could mean that our users are independently watch-
ing/following and commenting on them. This in turn could lead to average increase in their SR,
even if they never communicated. However, once again, we can not assert whether the increase is
indeed (only) due to external in uence or due to some social contacts and/or peer in uence not
detectable using our Twitter dataset.
A:20
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Table V: Most popular Wikipedia concepts in the dataset, per taxonomy categories: movies and TV
shows, music, sports and humor
Wikipedia articles in category
Wikipedia articles in category
Concept
Movies and TV shows
rank
Music
Concept
rank
This Is England  86 (TV series)
This Is England  88 (TV series)
Love of Life (American soap opera)
The Dad Who Knew Too Little
(Simpsons episode)
2
3
15
38
Robert Smith (musician)
10cc (English rock band)
The Cure
Producers
(band)
5
9
10
16
Wikipedia articles in category
Sports
Concept
rank
Wikipedia articles in category
Humor
Concept
rank
List of electronic sports titles
Larry Johnson (American football)
Alabama Crimson Tide football
Racism in association football
22
67
68
82
LOL
Smiley Face
Lolcat
Pres. Obama on Death of
Osama bin Laden (spoof)
1
4
20
36
5.2. Semantic homophily, social in uence and tie dissolution
The increase in communication network can be due to homophily in its strict de nition, i.e., new
user pairs starting communication. Once connected they are later likely to have higher SR, as we
presented in Section 4. This can happen due to already connected pairs becoming more related, i.e.,
social in uence. Sociology also suggests to look for link dissolution among dissimilar individuals
[Felmlee et al. 1990; Block and Grund 2014] as one of the reasons of average network SR increase.
We start by investigating formation and dissolution of links through time and their SR change. The
requirement for active engagement from both source and receiver allows us to de ne communica-
tion activation (link formation) and communication decommission (link dissolution) for reciprocal
links. For each of the 69,312 reciprocal links observed during the whole period, we de ne com-
munication activation (formation) time to be the month when for the  rst time both users have
mentioned each other (in our dataset period). Communication decommission (dissolution) time is
given by the last month in our dataset that the users have both mentioned each other, after which one
or both sides ceased the communication. In order to have enough data to calculate users similarity
prior/after to links activation/decommission, we require the month of activation/decommission to
be between July and September. With this approach, we  nd in total 13,492 link activations and
10,080 link decommissions in our dataset. As a  rst insight, we notice that slightly more links are
activated than decommissioned.
Temporal change of average SR on links prior to and after the activation is shown in Fig. 11.
The SR between a user pair noticeably increases at the month of their communication activation.
Similar result has been found in other networks, for instance among Wikipedia admins [Crandall
et al. 2008] and for Flickr users [Zeng and Wei 2013]. The drop in average SR in the period after
the link activation is also reported in earlier studies [Zeng and Wei 2013]. To investigate the drop
in our case, we look for an evidence that some interactions might not be preserved for long. This is
one aspect where our approach is advantageous compared to the previous approaches, that consider
a formal edge formation (adding someone as a friend or following) and do not require an active user
engagement afterwards.
Indeed, we  nd in total 8,166 links that are activated and then also decommissioned during
our dataset period. The SR change for such links, that are activated and then decommissioned, as
well as for those that persist in our dataset after the formation is show in Fig. 12. The average SR
values for formed and persisting links stay high after they are formed. It is those links that will get
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:21
Fig. 11: Temporal SR change. Average SR on: (top) all communication links, (mid, left) during
communication activation, (mid, right) decommission, and (bottom) on persisting links; error bars
show standard deviation values
Fig. 12: SR change during formation and decommission; (left) during link formation and (right)
during link decommission. We show the differences between the links that persist after formation
or not, and similarly between those that were persisting in our dataset period before decommission
and those that were non-persisting. Error bars show standard deviation values
decommissioned soon that contribute to lowering the average SR after formation that we see in Fig.
11. This result displays that homophily needs to be considered together with active engagement and
its temporal dynamics.
If observing only the persisting links that were already active and persisted during the whole
period in our dataset, we obtain results for their average SR change in the bottom plot in Fig. 11.
Such persisting interactions have a relatively stable average SR through time despite that the average
SR in the whole network has increased from June until October. Also, SR on persisting links is
higher compared to the whole network. The stability of SR for an established communication could
suggest a lack of in uence in our network. However, we are careful with such an interpretation,
since this result might also indicate a saturation effect taking place. If looking at newly formed links
A:22
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Fig. 13: Temporal status differences during formation and decommission: (top) average relative
social status (number of strong contacts), (bottom) average sum of strong contacts. Error bars show
standard deviation values
which persist and have high SR, that indicates how at  rst, the users might in uence each other for
some time. However, their similarity is likely to stabilizes around this speci c SR value (  0.07) for
persisting links in our dataset, as indicated by average SR during dissolution of previously persisting
links in Fig. 12 (we discuss this result in more detail below).
Fig. 11 also displays temporal change of SR on links that get decommissioned. Again, in Fig.
12, we separate persisting links (during our dataset) that get decommissioned from those that have
formed during our dataset time frame (non-persisting) and get decommissioned. Indeed, we can
notice how the persisting links have the above mentioned characteristic average SR of 0.07 which
does not change during the actual month of decommission, but afterwards drops signi cantly to
  0.02. The non-persisting links reach even higher SR during the month of decommission, but
before and after their SR is lower. This can indicate a sort of short-lived active engagement/interest
between such pairs, unlike more stable relationship between previously persisting links. The drop in
average SR on the links that get decommissioned is striking: SR becomes from 2 (on non-persisting)
to 3 (on persisting) times lower after link dissolution. Sociology suggests as one possible cause
for link decommission that maintaining ties with dissimilar others might be costly [Felmlee et al.
1990]. However, we notice that the SR values before decommission on previously persisting links
are not lower but around the same as on the links that stay persisting. Hence, in terms of SR there
is no observable dissimilarity between users with persisting communication before they will cease
communication. We investigate other possible reasons for their link dissolution below.
Operating on the same sets of communication links as so far, we now look at social capital of the
communicating user pairs. As presented earlier, different forms of social capital can be assessed.
Since herein we look at mutual communication, it is natural to asses social capital in terms of
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:23
numbers of strong/weak contacts. In Fig. 13, we show relative status and total number of strong
contacts of communicating user pairs.
Relative social status (discussed in Section 4.4) is de ned as the absolute difference between
social capitals of source and receiver users. Looking at relative status (top row plots in Fig. 13),
we  rst notice the difference on persisting links compared to other types of links (and also to the
whole network, a result which is not displayed). Persisting links have lower relative status, i.e., users
who are actively communicating tend to have similar social status rank. While homophily on the
status level is not new, herein we exhibit its underlying mechanisms in communication network.
Namely, both types of links, those that are newly formed and those that will get decommissioned in
time, have slightly, but notably higher relative social status compared to persisting links. Hence, we
 nd evidence that link dissolution happens due to dissimilarity in social status. Another interesting
observation is that user pairs that start with higher relative status compared to persisting also get
decommissioned later (while those who start around that persisting average indeed persist commu-
nication later). The results are similar for relative status in terms of weak contacts so we do not
present them. To reiterate, our analysis so far gives two insights about links before they get decom-
missioned: i) lack of semantic differences on previously persisting links (their SR is not lower at the
time when link dissolution happens compared to those who consistently persist communication) and
ii) higher status differences (also compared to persisting links). Hence, there is indication in Twit-
ter network that persisting communication links dissolve in the presence of status level heterophily
rather than value level heterophily.
Findings from sociology also suggest that relationships last shorter time and are more likely to
decay for pairs of individuals with lower overall social status [Burt 2000]. To assess this hypothesis
in our communication network, we observe social status in terms of total number of contacts for
user pairs who cease communication. Results in Fig. 13 (plots in bottom row) do not support such
hypothesis for strong contact: pairs who cease communication have around the same sum of strong
contacts on average as the pairs who persist communication. Moreover, in the case of weak contacts,
there is an opposite evidence: pairs prior to communication cease tend to have more weak contact
compared to average of persisting links (other results for weak contacts are similar to strong so we do
not show them). In addition, the increase in the sum of pair s contacts at the month of decommission
suggests that those new contacts might affect their existing link. After the decommission the sum of
contacts drops, but still stays higher than would be expected after the decommission (existing link is
counted as one strong contact for both users, so after the decommission, their sum of contacts would
be expected to drop by 2). Such evidence suggests that in some percent of the cases one or both of the
users have established new communication links at the time of abandoning the current one between
them. This result is supported by a level of stability on the number of persisting communication
links per user. Namely, most of the 5,229 users who participate in constantly persisting links in our
dataset have between one to two persisting contacts (  = 1.2 and   = 0.49).
In summary, presented types of interactions show the importance of considering both homophily
and in uence as dynamic interdependent tendencies [Yavas  and Y ucel 2014] in temporal networks,
instead of looking at static snapshots. Our analysis on interaction decommission reveals similar
results as in [Noel and Nyhan 2011] where it is showed how not accounting for homophily effect
on tie dissolution ( unfriending ) may importantly affect social in uence estimation. Precisely, we
suggest that on a same communication link (interaction) at different points of time with reference
to its activation/decommission time, one or the other of the tendencies might be playing a stronger
role. Our dataset time-frame does not allow for that, but as a future work, we aim to look at the
period in which edge formations and deletions might be happening, and whether there are some
natural cycles in the human communication networks.
6. COMMUNITY STRUCTURE AND SEMANTIC FOCI
We start by investigating what are the semantics traits that shape community structures in
communication network of Twitter users.
A:24
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Table VI: Largest communities in the communication network and their semantic foci
Num of
users
Main
geo-entities
% positive users
2222
686
636
435
381
343
343
Nigeria
Indonesia
0.38
0.87
Philippines,
South
Africa Malaysia
0.67
0.72
Jamaica U.K. NY, LA,
0.5
0.59
Miami
0.71
Fig. 14: Most relevant entities found in the tweets of the two largest communities: (left) Nige-
rian and (right) Indonesian
When dealing with representations of real-world networks one can distinguish between structural
and functional communities [Yang et al. 2014; Yang and Leskovec 2015]. The connectivity pattern
among members in the network de nes structural communities, whereas a common function or
a role of user groups de nes functional communities. Simply speaking, structural communities
can be de ned as groups of users that are more tightly connected within the group compared to the
rest of the network. This de nition can entail modular or communities with distinct users, but also,
more representative of the real-world, we can think of overlapping community structure, where
certain nodes belong to more communities.
If we recall Feld s theory about foci of homophily [Feld 1981] that drive clustered (community)
structure of social networks, then foci can be seen as one such common function or role around
which communities are formed. In our case, we allow different semantic traits of user commu-
nication to de ne semantic foci. Our initial question can be now rephrased as whether structural
communities (both modular and overlapping) can be explained in terms of their functional roles by
semantic foci.
6.1. Modular communication communities
A state of the art algorithm when it comes to detecting modular community structure is based
on modularity metrics [Newman 2006]. We run its fast implementation [Blondel et al. 2008] on
our commnication network and detect 2632 communities. Statistics about the largest detected
modular communities is shown in Table VI. By applying semantic analysis on groups of users be-
longing to detected communities, we  nd most relevant semantic traits of the communication in
each community. Precisely, we  nd relevant concepts, entities, categories, taxonomy tree and aver-
age sentiment for each community. Then we also apply TF-IDF analysis on the semantic traits with
respect to those for the whole communication network to asses whether found semantic traits are
speci c to a community. After careful analysis, we conclude that only the entities of conversation
can be used to explain the modular communities. As an example, in Fig. 14, we present top entities
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:25
found in tweets of the two largest communities. Thanks to those entities, we are able to conclude
that they represent respectively a community of users speaking about Nigeria and about Indonesia.
Importantly, in addition to a few dialect speci c words (such as in this case dey in Nigerian and
nih in Indonesian community), among most relevant entities we  nd geographical entities (in ad-
dition to Nigeria, we  nd entity Lagos in Nigerian and in addition to Indonesia, we detect Jakarta
and Bali for Indonesian community). With such analysis and additional manual inspection of the
tweets, we conclude that the largest modular communities are formed around geographic entities
as foci of communication (see Table VI for the other top size communities). To reiterate, we con-
clude that geographic entities are homophilous foci that best explain modular communities in our
communication network. Similar result are found in different types of communication networks;
good predictors of cohesive communication groups in [Leskovec and Horvitz 2008; De Choudhury
2011] are geographic foci and several studies [Blondel et al. 2010; Aiello et al. 2012] report lan-
guage foci. As a remark, the communities in our Twitter network may be formed due to the ethnicity
of users or their geolocation, while in any case, their tweet contents contain relevant geo-location
entities.
Another important  nding regarding modular communities is that there is a wide diversity in their
average sentiment. In Table VI, we show the percent of  positive  users in the whole community. We
can see it ranges from 0.38, for a quite  negative  Nigerian, to 0.87 for the most  positive  Indonesian
community. The large difference in the sentiment between these two particular communities can
be also inferred from their relevant concepts: prevalent swear word-concepts in Nigeria (having
negative sentiment), and, on the other hand, gratitude and luck being dominant in positive Indonesia.
Displaying particularity of the Indonesian community, an earlier study found that Indonesian users
have higher than average tweets per user ratio, which is related to higher reciprocity, and in turn a
higher-reciprocity communities display a happier language [Poblete et al. 2011].
If modular structural communities were not formed around foci as suggested by Feld s theory,
but if instead they were simply a result of semantically related users connecting more often, then we
would expect to see similar communities when running community detection on the SR network.
We test such hypothesis by detecting communities on a several SR x networks. In order to evaluate
how well the sets of communities from communication (P) and semantic layer (L) match, we apply
the procedure used in [Yang et al. 2014; Yang and Leskovec 2012; Yang and Leskovec 2015] to  nd
the matching score:
S = max
Pj P,Li L
F1(Li,Pj),
where F1() uses F1 as a score for similarity between the two sets. Resulting S   [0,1], where 1
indicates perfect matching.
Best matching score we  nd when running InfoMap algorithm [Rosvall and Bergstrom 2008] on
the SR 0.2 network. The threshold x = 0.2 matches with and is explained by the analytical anal-
ysis of SR network that we discussed earlier (see Section 4.1). InfoMap is not modularity-based
community detection and the rationale why it performs better on the semantic layer is because SR x
networks are so dense. Modularity metric, which is optimized by modularity-based algorithms, eval-
uates existence of dense connections among nodes within communities but sparse connections with
nodes in different communities. Hence it can not work well on dense networks, such as SR 0.2.
Best matching scores for biggest communities (with more than 50 users) are presented in Table
VII. We also visualize modular communication communities and their respective SR community
counterparts in Fig. 15. The matching scores reveal that SR communities can only to a moderate
extent explain the communication community structure. Such conclusion, in turn, supports Feld s
theory about foci of homophily, in particular when he states that similarities need not lead to fo-
cused (clustered) interaction, and focused interaction can exist apart from similarity of individual
characteristics [Feld 1981].
A:26
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Fig. 15: Modular communication network communities; (left) radial axis visualization in Gephi
[Bastian et al. 2009] of communication network communities with displayed identi ed user geo-
location entities in each community; (right) SR communities produced by Infomap visualized with
different colors on the communication network community representation; we can see to what
extent the largest modular communities from the communication layer overlap with those produced
from the semantic layer
Table VII: Community similarity between communication and semantic layer
P communities
P0 - Philippines
P8 - Nigeria
P10 - Indonesia
P11 - Nigeria
P102 - UK
L communities
L326
L2
L159
L2
L211
S
0.41
0.45
0.18
0.18
0.13
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:27
Fig. 16: Overlapping communities: (left) relationship between community size and density; (right)
forms of social capital as a function of node community membership. We average values for 10 and
more community memberships, due to data scarcity. Error bars show one standard deviation.
6.2. Overlapping communication communities
Next we analyze overlapping structural communities in communication network. We select the
algorithm BigClam [Yang and Leskovec 2013] because it detects overlapping communities as the
groups of nodes with denser links presence, in agreement with sociological theories, such as the
Feld s [Yang and Leskovec 2014]. BigClam automatically detects 198 communities in our network,
largest in size consisting of 586 users. Community membership of a user (de ned as the number
of communities in which it belongs), ranges from the minimum 1, for a majority of users, to the
maximum 14, for a small number of users, and it exponentially decreases. Similar semantic anal-
ysis as with modular communities reveals that geographic foci are again the strongest predictor of
communities. The subtle difference, however, is seen in modular communities being broken apart in
several overlapping communities. For instance, the largest Nigerian modular community now has 7
overlapping counterparts. Many of the nodes from one modular community will belong to several
such counterparts. By careful analysis, we reveal other foci, behind the overarching geographic, that
drive such overlapping communities within the modular (these foci can again be geographic or not).
For example, withing the Nigerian group, we  nd subgroups discussing different geo-entities, in
addition to common Nigeria: some talk about Ghana, some about Zambia and others about London.
That not only geographic foci drive these overlapping sub-communities, we can see from the case
for Malaysia where one subcommunity of 260 users has the predominant entity selamat hari raya,
or Muslim greeting for Happy Eid. We also  nd communities around specialized topics, such as one
of 144 users talking predominantly about NASCAR (auto racing). Hence, our semantic analysis of
overlapping community structure reveals that geographic and language foci are the largest foci, in
terms of number of users connected. Within these foci as enablers, we can  nd other more focused
and overlapping foci, with smaller number of users discussing more speci c topics.
Additionally, we look into which communities are featuring most overlaps with others. To this
purpose, we introduce community density as the average number of community memberships for
the nodes in the community. As presented in Fig. 16 (left), there is a strong positive correlation
between the size of the community and its introduced density. Such result exhibits that the largest
communities are those that feature most overlaps with other (sub)communities. Thinking of foci,
such result can be interpreted also in the following way. The largest foci are as well enablers for
A:28
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Fig. 17: Pluralistic homophily and semantic capital: (left) semantic capital, (middle) mean neigh-
borhood SR and (right) status inconsistency in function of community memberships. Error bars
show one standard deviation.
participating users to develop more additional foci of homophily. A related result in an analysis
on Twitter is reported by Halberstam et al. [Halberstam and Knight 2014] who found that users
af liated with majority political groups, relative to the minority group, have more connections, and
are more densely connected.
6.3. Pluralistic homophily
Pluralistic homophily results from several different foci. The users that share more communities
(they are found in overlapping parts) have more homophilous foci in common, i.e., they feature
aspects of pluralistic homophily. Such users are more densely connected [Yang and Leskovec 2013]
forming a network core [Yang and Leskovec 2014]. Hence we ask whether the nodes in these parts
tend to have higher social capital. However, we  nd no correlation between community member-
ship and social capital, except that the nodes in more communities tend to be slightly more popular
than active (see Fig. 16, right). Interestingly, the same holds for semantic capital: nodes with higher
community membership are no more likely to be semantically rich than those belonging to less
communities (see Fig. 17, left). This is a particularly surprising result, as such nodes, with higher
community membership, are tied with their friends from different communities around different
foci, according to the theory of focused interaction [Feld 1981]. We would expect them to be seman-
tically richer, since they talk on several additional topics, as their community membership grows.
However, as they are not semantically richer, then our next assumptions is that such nodes must be
less similar to their neighbors on average. Indeed, this is true, as presented in Fig. 17 (middle). The
correlation between similarity to an average neighbor and community membership is highly nega-
tive and signi cant  0.83, p = 0.003. A concept of opinion leaders [Rogers and Bhowmik 1970]
de nes them as the members of the group sought by others for opinion and advice and they are said
to posses features and conformity to the norms that make them super-representative or similar to
their average follower. Hence, the users with increased community membership in our network po-
tentially represent opinion leader withing their different communities. So far we  nd no correlation
between social or semantic capital and community membership. However, we ask what about sta-
tus inconsistency. Since status inconsistency can be negative, we correlate its median value against
community membership (although, similar result holds for mean value, as well). As presented in
Fig. 17 (right), status inconsistency grows with community membership (r = 0.87 and p = 0.001).
With this we reveal that the users in more communities do not have higher social or semantic status,
but they can be characterized by increased status inconsistency. As mentioned in introduction, status
inconsistency is suggested to be an attribute of individuals who are drivers of social change [Lenski
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:29
1954]. Therefore, we conclude that individuals featuring pluralistic homophily in communication
networks are likely to be the opinion leaders and drivers of social change within their communities.
7. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION
Despite the vast and growing literature and research on what interweaves people in social networks,
the interplay of homophily and in uence as the main factors for social correlation with the network
is still not fully explored and understood. Our  rst set of  ndings quantify to what extent semantic
homophily and social in uence affect the communication, its propensity and intensity in online
social networks, though we are not trying to distinguish between these two factors. Concretely,
we analyze interplay of semantic relatedness and communication intensity and show that while
their correlation is low, their relationship is strongly captured by subtle communication network
properties.
Next we show that several types of homophily are present in communication network, such as
value (topics, sentiment) and status (social and semantic capital) homophily. Introduced social and
semantic status metrics allow us to exhibit their growth with strength of the links (both, in terms
of reciprocal communication and with increase in intensity). Assessment on how the two types of
capital are affecting each other in communication network reveals diversity of relationships depend-
ing on which exact form of the two types of capitals is considered. While popularity and semantic
capital are positively correlated, sentiment, inversely, is negatively correlated with social capital.
In any case, we exhibit large diversity among users on the existing combinations of capitals they
posses. Additional investigation on sociological concept of relative status reveals strong preference
for communication with users of similar status. However, for relative social status particularly, we
notice pattern of less popular users initiating more communication towards higher popularity users.
We also  nd evidence for sociological proposition that status inconsistency of one or both of the
parties increases communication effectiveness. Moreover, our data suggest a new hypothesis: this
proposition holds only when both users are higher on the same status type, otherwise, communica-
tion intensity decreases compared to average.
Using temporal communication network we show that the tendencies of homophily and in uence
are dynamic and change their role and magnitude in time. In addition to con rming previous  nding
in other types of networks that similarity of users sharply grows before their link formation, we also
explain in part the following decrease in similarity   as a result of link decommission. A novel in-
sight we make is that relative difference in social status is a stronger predictor for link decommission
compared to differences on a value homophily level.
We analyze modular and overlapping community structure of the communication layer and  nd
evidence for Feld s theory about focused organization of social ties. Comparison of best matching
between community structure in communication and in semantic layer shows that cohesive commu-
nities cannot be explained only by semantic relatedness of users, instead there need to be a foci of
homophily present around which communities are formed. Further analyses reveal that geographic
foci are the largest predictor for both modular and overlapping communities. However, in the case
of overlapping community structure, we  nd that such large foci also give space for smaller but
stronger foci around which sub-communities within are formed. Precisely, larger foci tend to create
denser communities (i.e., those with more overlapping parts within). Explanation from sociology is
a tendency of people who are connected around one foci to  nd or create new foci to strengthen the
interaction.
Finally, we also exhibit that pluralistic homophily does not correlate with social or semantic cap-
ital; instead the users who are connected with others around several different foci tend to have lower
average similarity to those neighbors, while at the same time being increasingly status inconsistent.
A:30
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Table VIII: Summary of our contributions: for each theory or question from sociology that de ned
the analysis we describe found evidence and/or some novel hypotheses or open questions that arise
from the analysis.
Experimental evidence
Novel hypotheses/open questions
Sociology;
theory and
questions
Semantic
homophily
Status level
homophily
Value level
homophily
Semantic
homophily
evolution
Heterophilous
links
dissolution
Quanti cation
Comm. propensity (  cp) and intensity
(CI) increase with SR.
(Un)directed degree assortativity;
increases with tie strength and CI. = 
On higher CI, Twitter is more a
social than information network.
Attribute assortativity on semantic
aspects of comm., such as topics,
sentiment, semantic diversity.
Temporal evolution
Average increase through time in SR
among communicating users.
The increase is driven by semantic homophily
and social in uence.
Dissolution more due to social status and
less due to semantic value heterophily.
Persisting pairs having more weak
contacts are increasingly likely
to stop communicating.
CI increases with status inconsistency,
when both users are high on the same
status dimension; otherwise CI decreases.
in-in and out-out deg. assortativity
coef cients obey a different pattern
to others with increase in CI.
Tendency of users with a particular
popularity difference to interact.
Semantic diversity and negative
sentiment increase with comm. activity.
Average increase through time in SR
among users who never communicated.
The increase is driven by external in uence.
At the time of a link dissolution,
one or both of the participating users
are likely to have found a new contact
that will replace the one being
disconnected.
High correlation between size of a
community and its density of overlap.
Pluralistic homophily is not explained
by social or semantic capital.
On the other hand, individuals
exhibiting pluralistic homophily
are increasingly status inconsistent.
Theory of
focused
interaction
Pluralistic
homophily
Community foci
Semantic similarity in terms of SR
only moderately explains structural
communities. Modular communities
explained by geolocation entities as
comm. foci.
Overlapping communities
formed around other foci enabled
by overarching geolocation foci.
7.1. Limitations
A limitation of our work posed by the restricted dataset is that we are not considering the entire
Twitter channel for information  ow, as there are also considerable amount of information  owing
along the retweet network, which is not taken into consideration in this work. Besides this, the men-
tion mechanism in Twitter can be sometimes biased towards speci c target audiences for speci c
information [Tang et al. 2015].
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:31
Another limitation is that our results are solely about computer-mediated communication and we
do not tackle the impact of Internet (online medium) on social interaction.
Further investigation is needed on the in uence of the threshold for semantic relatedness on the
semantic homophily, as we show in this work that the semantic layer became disassortative after
threshold equal to 0.6. Additional and improved sentiment analysis is needed to understand how the
social reinforcement in uences communication between users and if there exists happiness paradox
while people communicate in social network.
8. METHODS
In this section we describe how we build Wikipedia-based semantic database using an English pages
dump (52GB in size, uncompressed). The  rst step is to take the article texts as the algorithm builds
on the large amount of knowledge they provide. We then apply an open-source script wikiextractor
[Giuseppe Attardi 2015] to pre-process and clean the texts. The ESA algorithm is based on the TF-
IDF (term frequency - inverse document frequency) [Baeza-Yates et al. 1999] scores of words in
different articles in the Wikipedia corpus. As a result a word w1 is mapped to the concept vector
CV (w1) = {(C1
j represent Wikipedia concepts and V 1
j
are TF-IDF scores for the word w1 in those articles and are calculated as follows:
3 ), ..., (C1
M1)}. C1
1 ), (C1
2 ), (C1
M1,V 1
2,V 1
1,V 1
3,V 1
j = T F   IDF = (1 + log( f1, j))  log(
V 1
N
nt
),
(1)
where T F is the log-normalized raw frequency ( f1, j) of the word w1 in article j, and IDF is the
inverse document frequency, N is the number of articles, and nt is the number of articles in which
the word w1 is present.
The algorithm was implemented in Python with application of the scikit-learn machine learning
library [Pedregosa et al. 2011] and the resulting database was stored in a MongoDB collection.
Since some of the concept vectors might have tens of thousands of terms; prior to storing, we apply
the pruning process [Gabrilovich and Markovitch 2009] that for each word keeps only important
CV elements. The algorithm implementation needs tuning several parameters, and in this process
we also consult some of the existing implementations of the ESA algorithm. Our implementation of
ESA is open-source and published on Github [Scepanovic 2016].
8.0.1. Word Semantic Relatedness. The semantic relatedness (SR) between words is not mea-
sured directly, but it is rather determined through a set of concepts highly related to them
[Gabrilovich and Markovitch 2009; Hieu et al. 2013]. Let us assume that the SR between words
w1 and w2 is requested. The word SR calculation follows the two steps below.
1,V 1
2 ), (C1
1 ), (C2
  Determining the corresponding CVs derived from Wikipedia for the words w1 and
w2. The CVs are based on concepts (or articles) of Wikipedia which are related to
the words. Let us assume that w1
(tf-idf) vector: CV (w1) =
is mapped to concept
{(C1
M1)} and w2 is mapped to concept (tf-idf) vector:
1 ), (C1
..., (C1
M2)}. These are the sets of Wikipedia con-
CV (w2) = {(C2
3,V 2
cepts, C1
j and V 2
j and C2
j ,
respectively. In the following, we will assume that N is the number of common concepts in CV (w1)
and CV (w2).
2,V 1
1,V 2
j , which are related to the word w1 and w2 and their TF-IDF scores, V 1
M1,V 1
3 ), ..., (C2
3,V 1
3 ),
2 ), (C2
2,V 2
  Calculating the SR between words using cosine similarity between obtained CVs. For mea-
suring the degree of semantic relatedness, cosine similarity between the CV s for two words w1
and w2 is calculated. This measure gives the cosine of the angle between the two vectors CV (w1)
M2,V 2
A:32
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
and CV (w2). The cosine measure can be re-formulated for our purpose as follows:
SR(w1,w2) = cos(CV (w1),CV (w2)) =
,
(2)
(cid:113)
 M1
k=1
 N
i=1V 1
(cid:0)V 1
k
(cid:1)2  (cid:113)
i  V 2
i
 M2
l=1
(cid:1)2
(cid:0)V 2
l
where i iterates over the common concepts.
The SR(w1,w2) values range from 0 (i.e., no semantic relatedness) to 1 (i.e., perfect semantic relat-
edness) as the TF-IDF weights can not be negative.
1   V 1
M, (v1
1   V 1
1 ,v2
1), (t2
2, (v1
1   V 1
1 ) = {(C1
2 )), (C1
3, (v1
3 )) , ..., (C1
2 ,v1
2), (t1
3), ..., (t2
3 ,v1
n ,v2
1 ,v1
2), (t2
1), (t1
3 ,v2
8.0.2. Document Semantic Relatedness. The semantic relatedness (SR) between documents is
measured through the SR of the words found in the documents. Let us assume that the SR between
documents d1 and d2 is requested. The document SR calculation follows the three steps below.
  Analyzing documents using the term frequency (TF) approach which  nds the frequency of
words in the document. The result of this step is a list of important words with their correspond-
ing TF scores. Let us assume that:
d1 is analyzed to term (tf) vector: T (d1) = {(t1
d2 to term (tf) vector: T (d2) = {(t2
2 ,v2
  Determining the corresponding CVs derived from Wikipedia for the documents d1 and d2.
For each term in the lists T (d1) and T (d2) we derive their individual CV s (as described for words in
1 
Section 8.0.1). For instance, the t1
1, (v1
M))}. The other terms in T (d1) can be
V 1
1 )), (C1
represented in a similar way. When summarizing the CV s for one document, the CV for each term
is multiplied with its TF score in the document (found in the previous step). If the terms in T (d1)
have the same concepts in their CV s, we sum the weighted TF-IDF scores of those concepts.
After this process we obtain CV (d1), the list of Wikipedia concepts and TF-IDF scores which
are related to all the terms in T (d1). Similarly, for d2 the list of relevant Wikipedia concepts and
TF-IDF scores is found in CV (d2).
1 term is mapped to concept (tf-idf) vector: CV (t1
m)},
3), ..., (t1
m,v1
n)}, and m < n.
  Calculating the SR between documents using cosine similarity between obtained CVs. Fi-
nally, we obtain the SR(d1,d2) between documents by calculating the cosine similarity of CV (d1)
and CV (d2) (see Eq. 2).
8.0.3. SR database evaluation. The English version of Wikipedia used includes over 2.5 million
articles. Since many of the articles are highly specialized, and due to the described pruning process,
we  nd only around 15% of those articles (387,992) relevant for our tweets corpus. In a similar
manner as in the original paper [Gabrilovich and Markovitch 2009], we evaluate the quality of the
SR database that we built against available datasets with human judgment for word pairs relatedness.
We use several such datasets available online, as one of the most comprehensive current resources
[Faruqui and Dyer 2014]. The results of the evaluation are presented in Table IX. We do not provide
herein a comparison with the existing implementations, since not all of them provide their evaluation
on the same datasets with human judgments, and since a previous study comparing them has shown
that some of these results are incompatible [Cramer 2008]. However, our evaluation scores are
comparable to the original implementation [Gabrilovich and Markovitch 2009] and to the ESA
implementations available online.
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
S. S. research was partially  nanced by CIVIS EU FP7 project (FP7- SMARTCITIES-2013). I.M. work was partially  -
nanced by the Faculty of Computer Science and Engineering at the University  Ss. Cyril and Methodius . S. S. and I.M.
also gratefully acknowledge the CyberTrust research project for their support. B.G. thanks the Moore and Sloan Foundations
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:33
Table IX: SR knowledge database evaluation
Human judgments dataset
WordSim-353
Miller and Charles
Word pair similarity, MTurk
Rubenstein and Goodenough
MEN dataset of word pair sim.
Average
Spearman s rank Pearson s correlation
0.51
0.79
0.53
0.81
0.73
0.67
0.45
0.82
0.45
0.74
0.44
0.58
for support as part of the Moore-Sloan Data Science Environment at New York University. P.H. thanks General Research
Fund 26211515 from the Research Grants Council of Hong Kong. S. S. thanks A. Ukkonen for the help with the SR database
implementation. S. S. also acknowledges collaboration with P. T. Trung during his MSc thesis project when we performed a
similar type of SR analysis on Twitter data. The authors also thank A. Gionis for the helpful discussion and for reviewing the
manuscript.
REFERENCES
Luca Maria Aiello, Alain Barrat, Rossano Schifanella, Ciro Cattuto, Benjamin Markines, and Filippo Menczer. 2012. Friend-
ship prediction and homophily in social media. ACM Transactions on the Web (TWEB) 6, 2 (2012), 9.
An IBM Company. 2016. AlchemyAPI and IBM Watson. (January 2016). http://www.alchemyapi.com/api
Aris Anagnostopoulos, Ravi Kumar, and Mohammad Mahdian. 2008. In uence and correlation in social networks. In Pro-
ceedings of the 14th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining. ACM, 7 15.
Sinan Aral, Lev Muchnik, and Arun Sundararajan. 2009. Distinguishing in uence-based contagion from homophily-driven
diffusion in dynamic networks. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 106, 51 (2009), 21544 21549.
Sinan Aral and Dylan Walker. 2012. Identifying in uential and susceptible members of social networks. Science 337, 6092
(2012), 337 341.
Ricardo Baeza-Yates, Berthier Ribeiro-Neto, and others. 1999. Modern information retrieval. Vol. 463. ACM press New
York.
Eytan Bakshy, Itamar Rosenn, Cameron Marlow, and Lada Adamic. 2012. The role of social networks in information diffu-
sion. In Proceedings of the 21st international conference on World Wide Web. ACM, 519 528.
George A Barnett and Grace A Bene eld. 2015. Predicting international Facebook ties through cultural homophily and other
factors. New Media & Society (2015), 1461444815604421.
Mathieu Bastian, Sebastien Heymann, and Mathieu Jacomy. 2009. Gephi: An Open Source Software for Exploring and
Manipulating Networks. (2009). http://www.aaai.org/ocs/index.php/ICWSM/09/paper/view/154
Steven Bird, Ewan Klein, and Edward Loper. 2009. Natural language processing with Python.   O Reilly Media, Inc. .
Catherine A Bliss, Isabel M Kloumann, Kameron Decker Harris, Christopher M Danforth, and Peter Sheridan Dodds. 2012.
Twitter reciprocal reply networks exhibit assortativity with respect to happiness. Journal of Computational Science 3, 5
(2012), 388 397.
Per Block and Thomas Grund. 2014. Multidimensional homophily in friendship networks. Network Science 2, 02 (2014),
189 212.
A:34
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Vincent Blondel, Gautier Krings, Isabelle Thomas, and others. 2010. Regions and borders of mobile telephony in Belgium
and in the Brussels metropolitan zone. Brussels Studies (2010).
Vincent D Blondel, Jean-Loup Guillaume, Renaud Lambiotte, and Etienne Lefebvre. 2008. Fast unfolding of communities
in large networks. Journal of statistical mechanics: theory and experiment 2008, 10 (2008), P10008.
Johan Bollen, Bruno Gonc alves, Guangchen Ruan, and Huina Mao. 2011. Happiness is assortative in online social networks.
Arti cial life 17, 3 (2011), 237 251.
Pierre Bourdieu. 2011. The forms of capital.(1986). Cultural theory: An anthology (2011), 81 93.
Ronald S Burt. 2000. Decay functions. Social networks 22, 1 (2000), 1 28.
Michael Conover, Jacob Ratkiewicz, Matthew R Francisco, Bruno Gonc alves, Filippo Menczer, and Alessandro Flammini.
2011. Political polarization on twitter. ICWSM 133 (2011), 89 96.
Irene Cramer. 2008. How well do semantic relatedness measures perform?: a meta-study. In Proceedings of the 2008 Con-
ference on Semantics in Text Processing. Association for Computational Linguistics, 59 70.
David Crandall, Dan Cosley, Daniel Huttenlocher, Jon Kleinberg, and Siddharth Suri. 2008. Feedback effects between sim-
ilarity and social in uence in online communities. In Proceedings of the 14th ACM SIGKDD international conference
on Knowledge discovery and data mining. ACM, 160 168.
Munmun De Choudhury. 2011. Tie Formation on Twitter: Homophily and Structure of Egocentric Networks. 2011 IEEE
Third Int l Conference on Privacy, Security, Risk and Trust and 2011 IEEE Third Int l Conference on Social Computing
(Oct. 2011), 465 470. DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/PASSAT/SocialCom.2011.177
Munmun De Choudhury, Hari Sundaram, Ajita John, Doree Duncan Seligmann, and Aisling Kelliher. 2010.   Birds of
a Feather : Does User Homophily Impact Information Diffusion in Social Media? arXiv preprint arXiv:1006.1702
(2010).
Young-Ho Eom and Hang-Hyun Jo. 2014. Generalized friendship paradox in complex networks: The case of scienti c
collaboration. Scienti c reports 4 (2014).
Ernesto Estrada. 2011. Combinatorial study of degree assortativity in networks. Physical Review E 84, 4 (2011), 047101.
Manaal Faruqui and Chris Dyer. 2014. Community Evaluation and Exchange of Word Vectors at wordvectors.org. In Pro-
ceedings of the 52nd Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics: System Demonstrations. Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics, Baltimore, USA.
Scott L Feld. 1981. The focused organization of social ties. American journal of sociology (1981), 1015 1035.
Diane Felmlee, Susan Sprecher, and Edward Bassin. 1990. The dissolution of intimate relationships: A hazard model. Social
Psychology Quarterly (1990), 13 30.
Evgeniy Gabrilovich and Shaul Markovitch. 2007. Computing semantic relatedness using wikipedia-based explicit semantic
analysis.. In IJCAI, Vol. 7. 1606 1611.
Evgeniy Gabrilovich and Shaul Markovitch. 2009. Wikipedia-based semantic interpretation for natural language processing.
Journal of Arti cial Intelligence Research (2009), 443 498.
Giuseppe Attardi. 2015. Wikipedia Extractor. (April 2015). https://github.com/attardi/wikiextractor
Mark S Granovetter. 1973. The strength of weak ties. American journal of sociology 78, 6 (1973), 1360 1380.
Yosh Halberstam and Brian Knight. 2014. Homophily, group size, and the diffusion of political information in social net-
works: Evidence from twitter. Technical Report. National Bureau of Economic Research.
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:35
Sebastien Harispe, Sylvie Ranwez, Stefan Janaqi, and Jacky Montmain. 2015. Semantic similarity from natural language
and ontology analysis. Synthesis Lectures on Human Language Technologies 8, 1 (2015), 1 254.
Nguyen Trung Hieu, Mario Di Francesco, and Antti Yl a-J a aski. 2013. Extracting knowledge from wikipedia articles through
distributed semantic analysis. In Proceedings of the 13th International Conference on Knowledge Management and
Knowledge Technologies. ACM, 6.
Clayton J Hutto and Eric Gilbert. 2014. Vader: A parsimonious rule-based model for sentiment analysis of social media text.
In Eighth International AAAI Conference on Weblogs and Social Media.
Juhi Kulshrestha, Farshad Kooti, Ashkan Nikravesh, and P Krishna Gummadi. 2012. Geographic Dissection of the Twitter
Network.. In ICWSM.
Haewoon Kwak, Changhyun Lee, Hosung Park, and Sue Moon. 2010. What is Twitter, a social network or a news media?.
In Proceedings of the 19th international conference on World wide web. ACM, 591 600.
Timothy La Fond and Jennifer Neville. 2010. Randomization tests for distinguishing social in uence and homophily effects.
In Proceedings of the 19th international conference on World wide web. ACM, 601 610.
Paul F Lazarsfeld and Robert K Merton. 1954. Friendship as a social process: A substantive and methodological analysis.
Freedom and control in modern society 18 (1954), 18 66.
RTAJ Leenders. 1997. Longitudinal behavior of network structure and actor attributes: modeling interdependence of conta-
gion and selection. Evolution of social networks 1 (1997).
Adrienne Lehrer and Keith Lehrer. 1982. Antonymy. Linguistics and philosophy 5, 4 (1982), 483 501.
Gerhard E Lenski. 1954. Status crystallization: a non-vertical dimension of social status. American sociological review 19, 4
(1954), 405 413.
Jure Leskovec and Eric Horvitz. 2008. Planetary-scale views on a large instant-messaging network. In Proceedings of the
17th international conference on World Wide Web. ACM, 915 924.
Clement Levallois. 2013. Umigon: sentiment analysis for tweets based on terms lists and heuristics. In Second Joint Confer-
ence on Lexical and Computational Semantics (* SEM), Vol. 2. 414 417.
James R Lincoln and Jon Miller. 1979. Work and friendship ties in organizations: A comparative analysis of relation net-
works. Administrative science quarterly (1979), 181 199.
Frank J Massey Jr. 1951. The Kolmogorov-Smirnov test for goodness of  t. Journal of the American statistical Association
46, 253 (1951), 68 78.
M McPherson, L Smith-Lovin, and JM Cook. 2001. Birds of a feather: Homophily in social networks. Annual review of
sociology 27, 2001 (2001), 415 444. http://www.jstor.org/stable/10.2307/2678628
Kevin Meehan, Tom Lunney, Kevin Curran, and Aiden McCaughey. 2013. Context-aware intelligent recommendation system
for tourism. In Pervasive Computing and Communications Workshops (PERCOM Workshops), 2013 IEEE International
Conference on. IEEE, 328 331.
Folke Mitzlaff, Martin Atzmueller, Andreas Hotho, and Gerd Stumme. 2014. The social distributional hypothesis: a prag-
matic proxy for homophily in online social networks. Social Network Analysis and Mining 4, 1 (2014), 1 14.
M Lynne Murphy. 2003. Semantic relations and the lexicon: antonymy, synonymy and other paradigms. Cambridge Univer-
sity Press.
Seth A Myers, Aneesh Sharma, Pankaj Gupta, and Jimmy Lin. 2014. Information network or social network?: the structure
of the twitter follow graph. In Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on World Wide Web. ACM, 493 498.
A:36
S.  S cepanovi c et al.
Mark EJ Newman. 2003. Mixing patterns in networks. Physical Review E 67, 2 (2003), 026126.
Mark EJ Newman. 2006. Modularity and community structure in networks. Proceedings of the national academy of sciences
103, 23 (2006), 8577 8582.
Mark EJ Newman and Juyong Park. 2003. Why social networks are different from other types of networks. Physical Review
E 68, 3 (2003), 036122.
M. E. J. Newman. 2002. Assortative Mixing in Networks. Phys. Rev. Lett. 89 (Oct 2002), 208701. Issue 20.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.1103/PhysRevLett.89.208701
Hans Noel and Brendan Nyhan. 2011. The unfriending problem: The consequences of homophily in friendship retention for
causal estimates of social in uence. Social Networks 33, 3 (2011), 211 218.
F. Pedregosa, G. Varoquaux, A. Gramfort, V. Michel, B. Thirion, O. Grisel, M. Blondel, P. Prettenhofer, R. Weiss, V.
Dubourg, J. Vanderplas, A. Passos, D. Cournapeau, M. Brucher, M. Perrot, and E. Duchesnay. 2011. Scikit-learn:
Machine Learning in Python. Journal of Machine Learning Research 12 (2011), 2825 2830.
Mahendra Piraveenan, Mikhail Prokopenko, and Albert Zomaya. 2012. Assortative mixing in directed biological networks.
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Computational Biology and Bioinformatics (TCBB) 9, 1 (2012), 66 78.
Barbara Poblete, Ruth Garcia, Marcelo Mendoza, and Alejandro Jaimes. 2011. Do all birds tweet the same?: characterizing
twitter around the world. In Proceedings of the 20th ACM international conference on Information and knowledge
management. ACM, 1025 1030.
Alejandro Portes. 2000. Social capital: Its origins and applications in modern sociology. LESSER, Eric L. Knowledge and
Social Capital. Boston: Butterworth-Heinemann (2000), 43 67.
Filipe N Ribeiro, Matheus Ara ujo, Pollyanna Gonc alves, Marcos Andr e Gonc alves, and Fabr  cio Benevenuto. 2016.
SentiBench-a benchmark comparison of state-of-the-practice sentiment analysis methods. EPJ Data Science 5, 1 (2016),
1 29.
Giuseppe Rizzo and Rapha el Troncy. 2011. Nerd: evaluating named entity recognition tools in the web of data. (2011).
Everett M Rogers and Dilip K Bhowmik. 1970. Homophily-heterophily: Relational concepts for communication research.
Public opinion quarterly 34, 4 (1970), 523 538.
Martin Rosvall and Carl T Bergstrom. 2008. Maps of random walks on complex networks reveal community structure.
Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences 105, 4 (2008), 1118 1123.
Camille Roth. 2005. Generalized preferential attachment: Towards realistic socio-semantic network models. In ISWC 4th
Intl Semantic Web Conference, Workshop on Semantic Network Analysis, Vol. 171. 1613 0073.
Camille Roth and Jean-Philippe Cointet. 2010. Social and semantic coevolution in knowledge networks. Social Networks 32,
1 (2010), 16 29.
Hassan Saif, Yulan He, and Harith Alani. 2012. Semantic sentiment analysis of twitter. In International Semantic Web
Conference. Springer, 508 524.
Sanja Scepanovic. 2016.
DOI:http://dx.doi.org/{10.5281/zenodo.49750}
Implementation of ESA algorithm for
a Wikipedia SR database.
(April 2016).
Cosma Rohilla Shalizi and Andrew C Thomas. 2011. Homophily and contagion are generically confounded in observational
social network studies. Sociological Methods & Research 40, 2 (2011), 211 239.
Shujing Sun and Huaxia Rui. 2017. Link Formation on Twitter: The Role of Achieved Status and Value Homophily. In
Proceedings of the 50th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences.
Semantic homophily in online communication: evidence from Twitter
A:37
Jiliang Tang, Huiji Gao, Xia Hu, and Huan Liu. 2013. Exploiting homophily effect for trust prediction. In Proceedings of the
sixth ACM international conference on Web search and data mining. ACM, 53 62.
Liyang Tang, Zhiwei Ni, Hui Xiong, and Hengshu Zhu. 2015. Locating targets through mention in Twitter. World Wide Web
18, 4 (2015), 1019 1049.
Mike Thelwall. 2013. Heart and soul: Sentiment strength detection in the social web with sentistrength. Proceedings of the
CyberEmotions (2013), 1 14.
Crispin Thurlow, Laura Lengel, and Alice Tomic. 2004. Computer mediated communication. Sage.
Johan Ugander, Brian Karrer, Lars Backstrom, and Cameron Marlow. 2011. The anatomy of the facebook social graph.
arXiv preprint arXiv: . . . (Nov. 2011), 17. http://arxiv.org/abs/1111.4503
Christo Wilson, Bryce Boe, Alessandra Sala, Krishna PN Puttaswamy, and Ben Y Zhao. 2009. User interactions in social
networks and their implications. In Proceedings of the 4th ACM European conference on Computer systems. Acm,
205 218.
Jaewon Yang and Jure Leskovec. 2012. Community-af liation graph model for overlapping network community detection.
In Data Mining (ICDM), 2012 IEEE 12th International Conference on. IEEE, 1170 1175.
Jaewon Yang and Jure Leskovec. 2013. Overlapping community detection at scale: a nonnegative matrix factorization ap-
proach. In Proceedings of the sixth ACM international conference on Web search and data mining. ACM, 587 596.
Jaewon Yang and Jure Leskovec. 2014. Overlapping communities explain core periphery organization of networks. Proc.
IEEE 102, 12 (2014), 1892 1902.
Jaewon Yang and Jure Leskovec. 2015. De ning and evaluating network communities based on ground-truth. Knowledge
and Information Systems 42, 1 (2015), 181 213.
Jaewon Yang, Julian McAuley, and Jure Leskovec. 2014. Detecting cohesive and 2-mode communities indirected and undi-
rected networks. In Proceedings of the 7th ACM international conference on Web search and data mining. ACM,
323 332.
Mustafa Yavas  and G onenc  Y ucel. 2014. Impact of homophily on diffusion dynamics over social networks. Social Science
Computer Review (2014), 0894439313512464.
Xiaohua Zeng and Liyuan Wei. 2013. Social ties and user content generation: Evidence from Flickr. Information Systems
Research 24, 1 (2013), 71 87.
