An analytical framework to nowcast well-being using mobile
phone data
Luca Pappalardo *    Maarten Vanhoof     Lorenzo Gabrielli    
Zbigniew Smoreda     Dino Pedreschi *   Fosca Giannotti  
6
1
0
2
 
r
a
 
M
6
1
 
 
]
Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
1
v
9
7
2
6
0
.
6
0
6
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Abstract An intriguing open question is whether mea-
surements made on Big Data recording human activi-
ties can yield us high- delity proxies of socio-economic
development and well-being. Can we monitor and pre-
dict the socio-economic development of a territory just
by observing the behavior of its inhabitants through
the lens of Big Data? In this paper, we design a data-
driven analytical framework that uses mobility mea-
sures and social measures extracted from mobile phone
data to estimate indicators for socio-economic devel-
opment and well-being. We discover that the diversity
of mobility, de ned in terms of entropy of the individ-
ual users  trajectories, exhibits (i) signi cant correla-
tion with two di erent socio-economic indicators and
(ii) the highest importance in predictive models built
to predict the socio-economic indicators. Our analyti-
cal framework opens an interesting perspective to study
human behavior through the lens of Big Data by means
of new statistical indicators that quantify and possibly
 nowcast  the well-being and the socio-economic devel-
opment of a territory.
Keywords Complex Systems   Human Mobility  
Social Networks   Economic development
*Department of Computer Science
University of Pisa, Italy
E-mail: lpappalardo@di.unipi.it
 Institute of Information Science and Technologies (ISTI)
National Research Council (CNR), Italy
E-mail: fosca.giannotti@isti.cnr.it
 SENSE
Orange Labs, France
E-mail: zbigniew.smoreda@orange.com
1 Introduction
Big Data, the masses of digital breadcrumbs produced
by the information technologies that humans use in
their daily activities, allow us to scrutinize individual
and collective behavior at an unprecedented scale, de-
tail, and speed. Building on this opportunity we have
the potential capability of creating a digital nervous
system of our society, enabling the measurement, mon-
itoring and prediction of relevant aspects of the socio-
economic structure in quasi real time [21]. An intrigu-
ing question is whether and how measurements made
on Big Data can yield us high- delity proxies of socio-
economic development and well-being. Can we moni-
tor and possibly predict the socio-economic develop-
ment of our societies just by observing human behavior,
for example human movements and social relationships,
through the lens of Big Data?
This fascinating question, also stimulated by the
United Nations in recent reports [2,3], has attracted
the interest of researchers from several disciplines, who
started investigating the relations between human be-
havior and economic development based on large ex-
perimental datasets collected for completely di erent
purposes [15, 34]. As a  rst result along this line a sem-
inal work exploited a nationwide mobile phone dataset
to discover that the diversity of social contacts of the in-
habitants of a municipality is positively associated to a
socio-economic indicator of poverty, independently sur-
veyed by the o cial statistics institutes [15]. This result
suggests that social behavior, to some extent, is a proxy
for the economic status of a given territory. However,
little e ort has been put in investigating how human
mobility a ects, and is a ected by, the socio-economic
development of a territory. Theoretical works suggest
that human mobility is related to economic well-being,
as it could nourish economic and facilitate  ows of peo-
2
Luca Pappalardo *  et al.
ple and goods, whereas constraints in the possibilities to
move freely can diminish economic opportunities [29].
So, it is reasonable to investigate the role of human mo-
bility with respect to the socio-economic development
of a given territory.
Our paper provides a twofold contribution. First,
we design a data-driven analytical framework that uses
Big Data to extract meaningful measures of human be-
havior and estimate indicators for the socio-economic
development. The analytical framework we propose is
repeatable on di erent countries and geographic scales
since it is based on mobile phone data, the so-called
CDR (Call Detail Records) of calling and texting ac-
tivity of users. Mobile phone data, indeed, can be re-
trieved in every country due to their worldwide di usion
[7]: there are 6.8 billion mobile phone subscribers today
over 7 billion people on the planet, with a penetration
of 128% in the developed world and 90% in developing
countries. CDR data have proven to be a hi-  proxy for
individuals  movements and social interactions [22,37].
Second, we apply the analytical framework on large-
scale mobile phone data and quantify the relations be-
tween human mobility, social interactions and economic
development in France using municipality-level o cial
statistics as external comparison measurements. We  rst
de ne four individual measures over mobile phone data
which describe di erent aspects of individual human be-
havior: the volume of mobility, the diversity of mobility,
the volume of sociality and the diversity of sociality.
Each individual measure is computed for each of the
several million users in our dataset based on their loca-
tions and calls as recorded in the mobile phone data. In
a second stage, we aggregate the four individual mea-
sures at the level of French municipalities and explore
the correlations between the four aggregated measures
and two external indicators of socio-economic develop-
ment. We  nd that the aggregated mobility diversity of
individuals resident in the same municipality exhibits a
superior correlation degree with the socio-economic in-
dicators and we con rm these results against two di er-
ent null models, an observation that allows us to reject
the hypothesis that our discovery occurred by chance.
Next, we build regression and classi cation mod-
els to predict the external socio-economic indicators
from the population density and the social and mobil-
ity measures aggregated at municipality scale. We show
that the diversity of human mobility adds a signi cant
predictive power in both regression and classi cation
models, far larger than the diversity of social contacts
and demographic measures such as population density,
a factor that is known to be correlated with the inten-
sity of human activities [38,54]. The importance of this
 nding is twofold. On one side, it o ers a new stimulus
to social research: diversity is a key concept not only for
natural ecosystems but also for the social ecosystems,
and can be used to understand deeply the complexity
of our interconnected society. On the other side, our re-
sults reveal the high potential of Big Data in providing
representative, relatively inexpensive and readily avail-
able measures as proxies of economic development. Our
analytical framework opens an interesting perspective
to engineer o cial statistics processes to monitor hu-
man behavior through mobile phone data. New statis-
tical indicators can be de ned to describe and possibly
 nowcast  the economic status of a territory, even when
such measurements would be impossible using tradi-
tional censuses and surveys [2,3].
The paper is organized as follows. Section 2 revises
the scienti c literature relevant to our topic, Section 3
describes in detail the data-driven analytical framework
we propose. In Section 4, Section 5 and Section 6 we
apply our analytical framework on a nationwide mobile
phone dataset covering several weeks of call activity in
France. We introduce the mobile phone data in Sec-
tion 4.1, the measures of individual mobility behavior
and individual social behavior in Section 4.2, and the
computations of the measures on a nation-wide mobile
phone dataset in Section 4.3. In Section 5 we describe
the results of the correlation analysis and validate them
against two null models. In Section 6 we present and
validate predictive models for socio-economic develop-
ment. In Section 7 we discuss the results and  nally
Section 8 concludes the paper describing the opportu-
nities and the challenges that arise from our research.
2 Related work
The interest around the analysis of Big Data and the
possibility to compile them into a comprehensive pic-
ture of human behavior have infected all branches of
human knowledge, from sports [11] to economy [42].
However, two aspects in particular attracted the in-
terest of scientists in the last decade, due the striking
abundance of data in those contexts: human mobility
and social networks.
Studies from di erent disciplines document a stun-
ning heterogeneity of human travel patterns [22,39],
and at the same time observe a high degree of pre-
dictability [51,16]. The patterns of human mobility have
been used to build generative models of individual hu-
man mobility and human migration  ows [28, 48], meth-
ods for pro ling individuals according to their mobility
patterns [40], to discover geographic borders according
to recurrent trips of private vehicles [47], or to predict
the formation of social ties [10,53], and classi cation
An analytical framework to nowcast well-being using mobile phone data
3
Fig. 1 The data-driven analytical framework. Starting from mobile phone data (a) mobility and social measures are computed
for each individual in the dataset (b). Each individual is then assigned to the territory where she resides (c) and the individual
measures are aggregated at territorial level (d). Starting from the aggregated measures predictive models are constructed (e)
in order to estimate and predict the socio-economic development of the territories (f).
models to predict the kind of activity associated to indi-
viduals  trips on the only basis of the observed displace-
ments [31,27,46]. In the context of social network anal-
ysis the observation of social interactions data provided
by emails, mobile phones, and social media allowed to
reveal the complexity underlying the social structure
[6]: hubs exist in our social networks who strongly con-
tribute to the so-called small world phenomenon [5],
and social networks are found to have a tendency to
partition into social communities, i.e. clusters of densely
connected sets of individuals [17].
The last few years have also witnessed a growing
interest around the usage of Big Data to support of-
 cial statistics in the measurement of individual and
collective well-being [12,52]. Even the United Nations,
in two recent reports, stimulate the usage of Big Data to
investigate the patterns of phenomena relative to peo-
ple s health and well-being [2][3]. The vast majority of
works in the context of Big Data for o cial statistics
are based on the analysis of mobile phone data, the so-
called CDR (Call Detail Records) of calling and texting
activity of users. Mobile phone data, indeed, guaran-
tee the repeatability of experiments on di erent coun-
tries and geographical scales since they can be retrieved
nowadays in every country due to their worldwide dif-
fusion [7]. A set of recent works use mobile phone data
as a proxy for socio-demographic variables. Deville et
al., for example, show how the ubiquity of mobile phone
data can be exploited to provide accurate and detailed
maps of population distribution over national scales and
any time period [14]. Brea et al. study the structure of
the social graph of mobile phone users of Mexico and
propose an algorithm for the prediction of the age of
mobile phone users [9]. Another recent work uses mo-
bile phone data to study inter-city mobility and develop
a methodology to detect the fraction of residents, com-
muters and visitors within each city [19].
A lot of e ort has been put in recent years on the
usage of mobile phone data to study the relationships
between human behavior and collective socio-economic
development. The seminal work by Eagle et al. analyzes
a nationwide mobile phone dataset and shows that, in
the UK, regional communication diversity is positively
associated to a socio-economic ranking [15]. Gutierrez
et al. address the issue of mapping poverty with mo-
bile phone data through the analysis of airtime credit
purchases in Ivory Coast [24]. Blumenstock shows a pre-
liminary evidence of a relationship between individual
wealth and the history of mobile phone transactions
[8]. Decuyper et al. use mobile phone data to study
food security indicators  nding a strong correlation be-
tween the consumption of vegetables rich in vitamins
and airtime purchase [13]. Frias-Martinez et al. analyze
the relationship between human mobility and the socio-
economic status of urban zones, presenting which mo-
bility indicators correlate best with socio-economic lev-
els and building a model to predict the socio-economic
level from mobile phone traces [18]. Pappalardo et al.
4
Luca Pappalardo *  et al.
analyze mobile phone data and extract meaningful mo-
bility measures for cities, discovering interesting cor-
relation between human mobility aspects and socio-
economic indicators [41]. Lotero et al. analyze the ar-
chitecture of urban mobility networks in two Latin-
American cities from the multiplex perspective. They
discover that the socio-economic characteristics of the
population have an extraordinary impact in the layer
organization of these multiplex systems [33]. Amini et
al. use mobile phone data to compare human mobility
patterns of a developing country (Ivory Coast) and a
developed country (Portugal). They show that cultural
diversity in developing regions can present challenges
to mobility models de ned in less culturally diverse re-
gions [4]. Smith-Clarke at al. analyze the aggregated
mobile phone data of two developing countries and ex-
tract features that are strongly correlated with poverty
indexes derived from o cial statistics census data [49].
Other recent works use di erent types of mobility data,
e.g. GPS tracks and market retail data, to show that
Big Data on human movements can be used to sup-
port o cial statistics and understand people s purchase
needs. Pennacchioli et al. for example provide an em-
pirical evidence of the in uence of purchase needs on
human mobility, analyzing the purchases of an Italian
supermarket chain to show a range e ect of products:
the more sophisticated the needs they satisfy, the more
the customers are willing to travel [43]. Marchetti et
al. perform a study on a regional level analyzing GPS
tracks from cars in Tuscany to extract measures of hu-
man mobility at province and municipality level,  nding
a strong correlation between the mobility measures and
a poverty index independently surveyed by the Italian
o cial statistics institute [34].
Despite an increasing interest around this  eld, a
view on the state-of-the-art cannot avoid to notice that
there is no a uni ed methodology to exploit Big Data
for o cial statistics. It is also surprising that widely
accepted measures of human mobility (e.g. radius of
gyration [22] and mobility entropy [51]) have not been
used so far. We overcome these issues by providing an
analytical framework as support for o cial statistics,
which allows for a systematic evaluation of the relations
between relevant aspects of human behavior and the
development of a territory. Moreover, our paper shows
how standard mobility measures, not exploited so far,
are powerful tools for o cial statistics purposes.
3 The Analytical Framework
Our analytical framework is a knowledge and analyti-
cal infrastructure that uses Big Data to provide reliable
measurements of socio-economic development, aiming
at satisfying the increasing demand by policy makers
for continuous and up-to-date information on the geo-
graphic distribution of poverty, inequality or life condi-
tions. Figure 1 describes the structure of the methodol-
ogy we propose. The analytical framework is based on
mobile phone data, which guarantee the repeatability
of the process on di erent countries and geographical
scales. Mobile phone data are indeed ubiquitous and
can be retrieved in every country due to their worldwide
di usion: nowadays the penetration of mobile phones is
of 128% in developed countries and 90% in develop-
ing countries, with 6.8 billion mobile phone subscribers
today over 7 billion people on the planet [7]. In partic-
ular the call detail records (CDR), generally collected
by mobile phone operators for billing and operational
purposes, contain an enormous amount of information
on how, when, and with whom people communicate.
This wealth of information allows to capture di erent
aspects of human behavior and stimulated the creativ-
ity of scientists from di erent disciplines, who demon-
strated that mobile phone data are a high quality proxy
for studying individual mobility and social ties [22,37].
Starting from the collected mobile phone data (Fig-
ure 1(a)) a set of measures are computed which grasp
the salient aspects of individuals  mobility and social
behavior (Figure 1(b)). This step is computationally
expensive when the analytical framework is applied on
massive data such as the CDRs of an entire country
for a long period. To parallelize the computations and
speed up the execution a distributed processing plat-
form can be used such as Hadoop or Spark. A wide set
of mobility and social measures can be computed dur-
ing this phase, and the set can be enlarged with new
measures as soon as they are proven to be correlated
with socio-economic development aspects of interest. In
Section 4.2 we propose, as an example, a set of standard
measures of individual mobility and sociality and show
how they can be computed on mobile phone data.
As generally required by policy makers, o cial statis-
tics about socio-economic development are available at
the level of geographic units, e.g. regions, provinces,
municipalities, districts or census cells. Therefore, the
individuals in the dataset have to be mapped to the
corresponding territory of residence, in order to per-
form an aggregation of the individual measures into a
territorial measure (Figure 1(c) and 1(d)). When the
city of residence or the address of the users are avail-
able in the data, this information can be easily used
to assign each individual to corresponding city of resi-
dence. Unfortunately these socio-demographic data are
generally not available in mobile phone data for privacy
and proprietary reasons. This issue can be solved, with
a certain degree of approximation, by inferring the in-
An analytical framework to nowcast well-being using mobile phone data
5
formation from the data source. In literature the phone
tower where a user makes the highest number of calls
during nighttime is usually considered her home phone
tower [44]. Then with standard Geographic Information
System techniques it is possible to associate the phone
tower to its territory (see Section 4.3).
The obtained aggregated measures are compared
with the external socio-economic indicators to perform
correlation analysis, learn and evaluate predictive mod-
els (Figure 1(e)). The predictive models can be aimed
at predicting the actual value of socio-economic de-
velopment of the territory, e.g. by regression models
(Section 6.1), or to predict the class of socio-economic
development, i.e. the level of development of a given
geographic unit as done by classi cation models (Sec-
tion 6.2). Finally, the estimates and the predictions pro-
duced by the models are the output of the analytical
framework (Figure 1(f)). The measures, the territorial
aggregation and the predictive models of the analyti-
cal framework can be updated every time new mobile
phone data become available, providing policy makers
with up-to-date estimates of the socio-economic situ-
ation of a given territory, in contrast with indicators
produced by o cial statistics institutes with are gener-
ally released after months or even once a year.
In the following sections we apply the proposed an-
alytical framework on a large-scale nation-wide mobile
phone dataset and describe its implementation step by
step: from the de nition of measures on the data (Sec-
tions 4.1 and 4.2), to their computation and territorial
aggregation (Section 4.3), and the construction of pre-
dictive models (Sections 5.1, 6.1 and 6.2).
4 Measuring Human Behavior
We now discuss steps (a), (b) and (c) in Figure 1, pre-
senting the experimental setting which consists in the
computation of the individual measures on the data and
their aggregation at territorial level. First, we describe
the mobile phone data we use as proxy for individual be-
havior, together with details about data preprocessing
(Section 4.1). Then we de ne the individual measures
capturing diverse aspects of individual mobility and so-
cial behavior (Section 4.2). Finally we show how we
compute the individual measures and aggregate them
at municipality level (Section 4.3).
4.1 Mobile phone data
We have access to a set of Call Detail Records (CDR)
gathered for billing purposes by Orange mobile phone
operator, recording 215 million calls made during 45
days by 20 million anonymized mobile phone users.
CDRs collect geographical, temporal and interaction in-
formation on mobile phone use and show an enormous
potential to empirically investigate human dynamics on
a society wide scale [26]. Each time an individual makes
a call the mobile phone operator registers the connec-
tion between the caller and the callee, the duration of
the call and the coordinates of the phone tower commu-
nicating with the served phone, allowing to reconstruct
the user s time-resolved trajectory. Table 1 illustrates
an example of the structure of CDRs.
(a)
timestamp
tower
2007/09/10 23:34
2007/10/10 01:12
2007/10/10 01:43
...
36
36
38
...
caller
4F80460
2B01359
2B19935
callee
4F80331
9H80125
6W1199
...
...
(b)
latitude
49.54
48.28
48.22
...
tower
36
37
38
...
longitude
3.64
1.258
-1.52
...
Table 1 Example of Call Detail Records (CDRs). Every time
a user makes a call, a record is created with timestamp, the
phone tower serving the call, the caller identi er and the callee
identi er (a). For each tower, the latitude and longitude co-
ordinates are available to map the tower on the territory (b).
In order to focus on individuals with reliable statis-
tics, we carry out some preprocessing steps. First, we
select only users with a call frequency higher than the
threshold f = N/45 > 0.5, where N is the number
of calls made by the user and 45 days is the length of
our period of observation, we delete all the users with
less than one call every two days (in average over the
observation period).
Second, we reconstruct the mobility trajectories and
the social network of the  ltered users. We reconstruct
the trajectory of a user based on the time-ordered list
of cell phone towers from which she made her calls dur-
ing the period of observation (see Figure 2). We then
translate the CDR data into a social network represen-
tation by linking two users if at least one reciprocated
pair of calls exists between them during the period of
observation (i.e. A called B and B called A). This pro-
cedure eliminates a large number of one-way calls, most
of which correspond to isolated events and do not repre-
6
Luca Pappalardo *  et al.
4.2 Measure De nition
We introduce two measures of individual mobility be-
havior and two measures of individual social behavior,
dividing them into two categories: measures of volume,
and measures of diversity (see Table 4.2).
sociality
mobility
individual measures
SV
social volume
SD
social diversity
M V
mobility volume
mobility diversity M D
Fig. 2 The detailed trajectory of a single user. The phone
towers are shown as grey dots, and the Voronoi lattice in
grey marks approximate reception area of each tower. CDRs
records the identity of the closest tower to a mobile user; thus,
we can not identify the position of a user within a Voronoi
cell. The trajectory describes the user s movements during 4
days (each day in a di erent color). The tower where the user
made the highest number of calls during nighttime is depicted
in bolder grey.
sent meaningful communications [37]. Figure 3 shows a
fraction of the social network centered on a single user.
The resulting dataset contains the mobility trajectories
of 6 million users and a call graph of 33 million edges.
Fig. 3 A fraction of the call graph centered on a single user
u. Nodes represent users, edges indicate reciprocated calls
between the users, the size of the edges is proportional to the
total number of calls between the users during the 45 days.
demographic
development
socio-economic indicators
population density
deprivation index
per capita income
P D
DI
P CI
Table 2 Measures and indicators used in our study. Social
volume, social diversity, mobility volume and mobility diver-
sity are individual measures computed on mobile phone data.
Population density, deprivation index, and per capita income
are external socio-economic indicators provided by INSEE.
We de ne two measures that capture aspects of indi-
vidual social interactions: social volume (SV ), the num-
ber of social contacts of an individual; and social diver-
sity (SD), the diversi cation of an individual s calls
over the social contacts. Within a social network, we
can express the volume of social interactions by count-
ing the amount of links an individual possesses with
others. This simple measure of connectivity is widely
used in network science and is called the degree of an
individual [36]. In a call graph the degree of an indi-
vidual is the number of di erent individuals who are in
contact by mobile phone calls with her. We can there-
fore see the degree as a proxy for the volume of sociality
for each individual:
SV (u) = degree(u)
(1)
The degree distribution is well approximated by a power
law function denoting a high heterogeneity in social net-
works with respect to the number of friendships [30,37].
The social diversity of an individual u quanti es the
topological diversity in a social network as the Shannon
entropy associated with her communication behavior
[15]:
(cid:80)k
SD(u) =  
v=1 puv log(puv)
log(k)
where k is the degree of individual u, puv =
v=1 Vuv
and Vuv is the number of calls between individual u and
individual v during the period of observation. SD is a
(2)
Vuv(cid:80)k
An analytical framework to nowcast well-being using mobile phone data
7
measure for the social diversi cation of each individ-
ual according to its own interaction pattern. In a more
general way, individuals who always call the same few
contacts reveal a low social diversi cation resulting in
lower values for SD, whereas individuals who distribute
their call among many di erent contacts show high so-
cial diversi cation, i.e. higher SD. The distribution of
SD across the population is peaked, as measured in
GSM and landlines data [15].
very regular movement pattern possess a mobility di-
versity close to zero and their whereabouts are rather
predictable. Conversely, individuals with a high mobil-
ity diversity are less predictable. It is known that the
distribution of the mobility diversity is peaked across
the population and very stable across di erent social
groups (e.g. age and gender) [51].
Starting from the mobility trajectories of an indi-
vidual, we de ne two measures to describe individual
mobility: mobility volume (M V ), the typical travel dis-
tance of an individual, and mobility diversity (M D),
the diversi cation of an individual s movements over
her locations. The radius of gyration [22] provides with
a measure of mobility volume, indicating the charac-
teristic distance traveled by an individual (see Figure
4). In detail, it characterizes the spatial spread of the
phone towers visited by an individual u from the tra-
jectories  center of mass (i.e. the weighted mean point
of the phone towers visited by an individual), de ned
as:
(cid:115) 1
(cid:88)
N
i L
M V (u) =
ni(ri   rcm)2
(3)
of phone tower i, N = (cid:80)
where L is the set of phone towers visited by the in-
dividual u, ni is the individual s visitation frequency
i L ni is the sum of all the
single frequencies, ri and rcm are the vectors of coordi-
nates of phone tower i and center of mass respectively.
It is known that the distribution of the radius of gyra-
tion reveals heterogeneity across the population: most
individuals travel within a short radius of gyration but
others cover long distances on a regular basis, as mea-
sured on GSM and GPS data [22, 39].
Besides the volume of individual mobility, we de ne
the diversity of individual mobility by using Shannon
entropy of individual s trips:
M D(u) =  
e E p(e) log p(e)
(cid:80)
(4)
log N
(a)
(b)
Fig. 4 The radius of gyration of two users in our
dataset. The  gure shows the spatial distribution of phone
towers (circles). The size of circles is proportional to their vis-
itation frequency, the red location indicates the most frequent
location L1 (the location where the user makes the highest
number of calls during nighttime). The cross indicates the
position of the center of mass, the black dashed line indicates
the radius of gyration. User A has a small radius of gyra-
tion because she travels between locations that are close to
each other. User B has high radius of gyration because the
locations she visits are far apart from each other.
where e = (a, b) represents a trip between an origin
phone tower and a destination phone tower, E is the
set of all the possible origin-destination pairs, p(e) is
the probability of observing a movement between phone
towers a and b, and N is the total number of trajec-
tories of individual u (Figure 5). Analogously to SD,
M D is high when a user performs many di erent trips
from a variety of origins and destinations; M D is low
when a user performs a small number of recurring trips.
Seen from another perspective, the mobility diversity of
an individual also quanti es the possibility to predict
individual s future whereabouts. Individuals having a
(a)
(b)
Fig. 5 The mobility entropy of two users in our
dataset. Nodes represent phone towers, edges represent trips
between two phone towers, the size of nodes indicates the
number of calls of the user managed by the phone tower, the
size of edges indicates the number of trips performed by the
user on the edge. User X has low mobility entropy because
she distributes the trips on a few large preferred edges. User
Y has high mobility entropy because she distributes the trips
across many equal-sized edges.
8
4.3 Measure computation
We implement step (b) in Figure 1 by computing the
four behavioral measures for each individual on the  l-
tered CDR data. Due the size of the dataset, we use the
MapReduce paradigm implemented by Hadoop to dis-
tribute the computation across a cluster of coordinated
nodes and reduce the time of computation. We  nd no
relationship between the mobility and the social mea-
sures at individual level: the correlation between SV
and M V , as well as the correlation between the SD
and the M D, are close to zero. This suggests that the
mobility measures and the sociality measures capture
di erent aspects of individual behavior.
We apply step (c) in Figure 1 by aggregating the
individual measures at the municipality level through
a two-step process: (i) we assign to each user a home
location, i.e. the phone tower where the user performs
the highest number of calls during nighttime (from 10
pm to 7 am) [44]; (ii) based on these home locations, we
assign each user to the corresponding municipality with
standard Geographic Information Systems techniques.
Figure 6 shows the spatial distribution of Orange users
in French municipalities. We aggregate the SV , SD,
M V and M D at municipality level by taking the mean
values across the population of users assigned to that
municipality. We obtain 5, 100 municipalities each one
with the associated four aggregated measures.
5 Correlation Analysis
Here we realize step (d) in Figure 1 and study the
interplay between human mobility, social interactions
and socio-economic development at municipality level.
First, in Section 5.1 we introduce the external socio-
economic indicators and investigate their correlation
between the behavioral measures aggregated at munici-
pality level. Then in Section 5.2 we compare the results
with two null models to reject the hypothesis that the
correlations appear by chance.
5.1 Human Behavior versus Socio-Economic
Development
As external socio-economic indicators, we use a dataset
provided by the French National Institute of Statistics
and Economic Studies (INSEE) about socio-economic
indicators for all the French municipalities with more
than 1,000 o cial residents. We collect data on pop-
ulation density (P D), per capita income (P CI), and
a deprivation index (DI) constructed by selecting fun-
damental needs associated both with objective and sub-
Luca Pappalardo *  et al.
Fig. 6 The spatial distribution of users over French munic-
ipalities with more than 1,000 o cial residents. Each user is
assigned to a municipality according to the geographic posi-
tion of her home location. The color of municipalities, in a gra-
dient from blue to red, indicates the number of Orange users
assigned to that municipality. We observe that the number of
users in the municipalities varies according to the density of
the municipality.
jective poverty [45]. The deprivation index is constructed
by selecting among variables re ecting individual expe-
rience of deprivation: the di erent variables are com-
bined into a single score by a linear combination with
speci c choices for coe cients (see Appendix). There-
fore deprivation index is a composite index: the higher
its value, the lower is the well-being of the munici-
pality. Preliminary validation showed a high associa-
tion between the French deprivation index and both
income values and education level in French munici-
palities, partly supporting its ability to measure socio-
economic development [45].
We investigate the correlations between the aggre-
gated measures and the external socio-economic indica-
tors  nding two main results. First, the social volume
is not correlated with the two socio-economic indica-
tors (Figure 7(c) and (d)), while mobility volume is
correlated with per capita income (Figure 7(b)). Sec-
ond, we  nd that mobility diversity is a better predictor
for socio-economic development than social diversity.
Figure 7(e)-(h) shows the relations between diversity
measures and socio-economic indicators. For mobility
diversity clear tendencies appear: as the mean mobil-
ity diversity of municipalities increases, deprivation in-
An analytical framework to nowcast well-being using mobile phone data
9
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
Fig. 7 The relation between the aggregated diversity measures and the socio-economic indicators: (a) mobility volume vs
deprivation index; (b) mobility volume vs per capita income; (b) social volume vs deprivation index; (d) social volume vs per
capita income; (e) mobility diversity vs deprivation index; (f) mobility diversity vs per capita income; (g) social diversity vs
deprivation index; (h) social diversity vs per capita income. The color of a point indicates, in a gradient from blue to red, the
density of points around it. We split the municipalities into ten equal-sized groups according to the deciles of the measures
on the x axis. For each group, we compute the mean and the standard deviation of the measures on the y axis and plot them
through the black error bars.   indicates the Pearson correlation coe cient between the two measures. In all the cases the
p-value of the correlations is < 0.001.
dex decreases, while per capita income increases (Fig-
ure 7(e) and (f)). Social diversity, in contrast, exhibits
a weaker correlation with the deprivation index than
mobility diversity and no correlation with per capita
income (Figure 7(g) and (h)).
Figure 8 provides another way to observe the rela-
tions between the diversity measures and socio-economic
development. We split the municipalities in ten deciles
according to the values of deprivation index. For each
decile we compute the distributions of mean mobility
diversity and mean social diversity across the munici-
palities in that decile. For mobility diversity, the deciles
of the economic values increase while the mean de-
creases and the variance increases, highlighting a change
of the distribution in the di erent groups. This is con-
sistent with the observation made in the plots of Figure
7(e). Conversely, for social diversity distribution we do
not observe a signi cant change in the mean and the
variance. The observed variation of the mobility diver-
sity distribution in the di erent deciles is an interest-
ing  nding when compared to previous works such as
Song et al. [50] which states that mobile predictability
is very stable across di erent subpopulations delineated
by personal characteristics like gender or age group.
Figure 7 and 8 suggest us that the diversity of human
mobility aggregated at municipality level is better as-
sociated with the socio-economic indicators than socio-
demographic characteristics. The relation between mo-
bility diversity and deprivation index is stronger and
more evenly distributed over the di erent levels of de-
privation index for municipalities.
5.2 Validation against Null Models
In order to test the signi cance of the correlations ob-
served on the empirical data, we compare our  ndings
with the results produced by two null models.
In null model NM1, we randomly distribute the users
over the French municipalities. We  rst extract uni-
formly N users from the dataset and assign them to
a random municipality with a population of N users.
10
Luca Pappalardo *  et al.
6 Predictive Models
In this section we instantiate step (e) building and val-
idating both regression models (Section 6.1) and clas-
si cation models (Section 6.2) to predict the external
socio-economic indicators from the aggregated measures.
6.1 Regression Models
To learn more about the relationship between the ag-
gregated measures and the socio-economic indicators
we implement two multiple regression models M1 and
M2. We use deprivation index as dependent variable
in model M1, per capita income as dependent variable
for model M2, the four aggregated measures and popu-
lation density as regressors for both models. We deter-
mine the regression line using the least squared method.
The model M1 for deprivation index produces a coef-
 cient of determination R2 = 0.43, meaning that the
regressors explain the 43% of the variation in the depri-
vation index. The model M2 for per capita income ex-
plains the 25% of the variation in the per capita income
producing a a coe cient of determination R2 = 0.25.
Table 3 and Table 4 show the coe cients of the regres-
sion equations, the standard error of the coe cients
and the p-values of the regressors for model M1 and
model M2 respectively. For both model M1 and M2 we
have veri ed the absence of multicollinearity between
the regressors, the normality and the homoskedasticity
of regression residuals.
Model M1 (deprivation index), R2 = 0.4267
PD
MD
SD
MV
SV
intercept
coe cients
0.247
-2.980
-2.153
0.002
0.006
4.078
std. error
0.005
0.0575
0.2027
0.0002
0.0027
0.1281
p-value
< 2   10 16
< 2   10 16
< 2   10 16
5.35   10 16
0.013
< 2   10 16
Table 3 The linear regression model M1 for deprivation in-
dex. The coe cients column speci es the value of slope calcu-
lated by the regression. The std. error column measures the
variability in the estimate for the coe cients. The p-value
column shows the probability the variable is not relevant.
We quantify the contribution of each regressor to
the multiple regression model by computing a relative
importance metric [23]. Figure 10 shows the relative im-
portance of regressors produced by the LMG method
[32] for both model M1 and model M2. We observe
that mobility diversity gives the highest contribution
to the regression, accounting for the 54% and 65% of
the importance for M1 and M2 respectively, while so-
cial diversity provides a little contribution (0.7% for M1
(a)
(b)
Fig. 8 The distribution of mobility diversity (a) and social
diversity (b) in the deciles of deprivation index. We split the
municipalities into ten equal-sized groups computed accord-
ing to the deciles of deprivation index. For each group, we
plot the distributions of mean mobility diversity and mean
social diversity. The blue dashed curve represent a  t of the
distribution, the red dashed line represents the mean of the
distribution.
We then aggregate the individual diversity measures of
the users assigned to the same municipality. We repeat
the process 100 times and take the mean of the aggre-
gated values of each municipality produced in the 100
experiments.
In null model NM2, we randomly shu e the values
of the socio-economic indicators over the municipali-
ties. We perform this procedure 100 times and take, for
each municipality, the mean value of the socio-economic
indicators computed over the 100 produced values. In
contrast with empirical data, we  nd no correlation in
the null models between the diversity measures and the
socio-economic indicators, neither for mobility diversity
nor for social diversity (Figure 9). Such a clear di er-
ence between the correlations observed over empirical
data and the absence of correlations in observations on
randomized data allows us to reject the hypothesis that
our  ndings are obtained by chance.
An analytical framework to nowcast well-being using mobile phone data
11
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
Fig. 9 The relation between the socio-economic indicators and the diversity measures computed on null model NM1 (a-d)
and null model NM2 (e-h). The color of a point indicates, in a gradient from blue to red, the density of points around it. We
split the municipalities into ten equal-sized groups according to the deciles of the measures on the x axis. For each group, we
compute the mean and the standard deviation of the measure on the y axis (the black error bars).
Model M2 (per capita income), R2 = 0.25
p-value
< 2   10 16
< 2   10 16
7.82   10 13
< 2   10 16
3.56   10 8
< 2   10 16
coe cients
781.94
22,773.47
18,451.79
63.116
191.16
-18,933.66
std. error
74.84
729.05
2,569.05
3.64
34.62
1,624.36
PD
MD
SD
MV
SV
intercept
Table 4 The linear regression model M2 for per capita in-
come. The coe cients column speci es the value of slope cal-
culated by the regression. The std. error column measures
the variability in the estimate for the coe cient. The p-value
column shows the probability the variable is not relevant.
and 0.3% for M2). Population density provides an im-
portant contribution in both models, mobility volume
is an important variable to model M2 only (20% of the
variance).
To validate the models we implement a cross vali-
dation procedure by performing 1,000 experiments. In
each experiment we divide the dataset of municipalities
into a training set (60%) and a test set (40%), compute
model M1 and model M2 on the training set, and ap-
ply the obtained models on the test set. We evaluate
the performance of the models on the test set using the
(a)
(b)
Fig. 10 The relative importance of the aggregated measures
in the multiple regression models M1 (a) and M2 (b). We use
the Lindeman, Merenda and Gold (LMG) method to quan-
tify an individual regressor s contribution to the model. We
observe that mobility diversity is the most important variable
in the model with a contribution of about 54% and 65% for
model M1 and M2 respectively.
root mean square error RM SE =(cid:112)(cid:80)n
i ( yi   yi)2)/n,
where  yi is the value predicted by the model and yi
the actual value in the test set, and computing the
CV(RMSE), i.e. the RMSE normalized to the mean of
the observed values. Figure 11 shows the variation of
12
R2 and CV (RM SE) across the 1,000 experiments. We
observe that the prediction error of the models is stable
across the experiments (Figure 11(a) and (c)), and that
the error in the prediction is lower for model M1 (depri-
vation index). Finally, we compare the actual values of
Luca Pappalardo *  et al.
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
Fig. 11 Validation of regression models. We perform 1,000
experiments learning the model on a training set (60%) and
evaluating it on a a test set (40%). (a) The distribution of
the adjusted coe cient of determination R2 across the ex-
periments for model M1. (b) The distribution of the root
mean square error (RMSE) across the experiments for model
M1. (c) The distribution of the adjusted R2 across the ex-
periments for model M2. (d) The distribution of RMSE for
model M2.
socio-economic indicators and the values predicted by
the models by computing the relative error, i.e. for each
municipality i we compute ( yi   yi)/y. We observe that
the mean relative error computed across the municipal-
ities is close to zero for both model M1 and model M2
(Figure 12).
6.2 Classi cation Models
Here, instead of predicting the value of deprivation or
per capita income of municipalities we want to classify
the level of socio-economic development of municipali-
ties. To this purpose we build two supervised classi ers
C1 and C2 that assign each municipality to one of three
(a)
(b)
Fig. 12 The distribution of the relative error ( yi   y)/y
across the French municipalities for regression models M1 (a)
and M2 (b).
possible categories: low level, medium level or high level
of deprivation index (classi er C1) or per capita income
(classi er C2). To transform the two continuous mea-
sures deprivation index and per capita income into dis-
crete variables we partition the range of values using the
33th percentile of the distribution. This produced, for
each variable to predict, three equal-populated classes.
We perform the classi cation using Random Forest clas-
si ers on a training set (60% of the dataset) and val-
idate the results on a test set (40% of the dataset).
Classi er C1 for deprivation index reaches an overall
accuracy of 0.61, while the overall accuracy of classi er
C2 for per capita income is 0.54, against a random case
accuracy of 0.33. Table 5 shows precision, recall and
overall accuracy reached by classi er C1 and classi er
C2 on the three classes of socio-economic development.
We also evaluate the importance of every aggregated
measure in classifying the level of socio-economic devel-
opment of municipalities, using the Mean Decrease Gini
measure. Similarly to the Relative Importance metrics
for the regression models, in both classi er C1 and clas-
si er C2 the mobility diversity has the highest impor-
tance, followed by population density (Figure 13).
7 Discussion of Results
The implementation of the analytical framework on mo-
bile phone data produces three remarkable results.
First, the usage of the measures of mobility and
social behavior together with the standard and com-
monly available socio-demographic information actu-
ally adds predictive power with respect to the external
socio-economic indicators. Indeed, while a univariate
regression that predicts deprivation index from popula-
tion density is able to explains only the 11% of the vari-
ance, by adding the four behavioral measures extracted
An analytical framework to nowcast well-being using mobile phone data
13
sons. Mobile phone providers do not generally release,
for privacy reasons, information about the call inter-
actions between users, i.e. the social dimension. Our
result shows that this is a marginal problem since the
social dimension has a lower impact to the quality of
the models than the mobility dimension (Figures 10
and 13). Hence, the implementation of our analytical
framework guarantees reliable results even when, as of-
ten occurs because of privacy and proprietary reasons,
the social dimension is not available in the data.
The interpretation of the observed relation between
mobility diversity and socio-economic indicators is, with-
out a doubt, two-directed. It might be that a well-
developed territory provides for a wide range of activ-
ities, an advanced network of public transportation, a
higher availability and diversi cation of jobs, and other
elements that foster mobility diversity. As well as it
might be that a higher mobility diversi cation of indi-
viduals lead to a higher socio-economic development as
it could nourish economy, establish economic opportu-
nities and facilitate  ows of people and goods. In any
case this information is useful for policy makers, be-
cause a change in the diversi cation of individual move-
ments is linked to a change into the socio-economic sta-
tus of a territory.
Third remarkable result is that our regression and
classi cation models exhibit good performance when
used to predict the socio-economic development of other
municipalities, whose data where not used in the learn-
ing process (Figure 11 and Table 5). This result is evi-
dent from the cross validation procedure: the accuracy
and the prediction errors of the models are not depen-
dent on the training and test set selected. The models
hence give a real possibility to continuously monitor
the socio-economic development of territories and pro-
vide policy makers with an important tool for decision
making.
(a)
(b)
Fig. 13 The mean decrease in Gini coe cient of the variables
used to learn the classi ers, for deprivation index (a) and per
capita income (b). The mean decrease in Gini coe cient is a
measure of how each variable contributes to the homogeneity
of nodes and leaves in the resulting random forest.
Model C1: accuracy = 0.61
low deprivation
medium deprivation
high deprivation
recall
0.6230
0.4970
0.7089
precision
0.6657
0.4918
0.6721
Model C2, accuracy = 0.54
low income
medium income
high income
recall
0.6098
0.3590
0.6552
precision
0.5700
0.3993
0.6376
Table 5 Statistics by class for classi er C1 (deprivation in-
dex) and classi er C2 (per capita income). The recall is the
number municipalities for which the classi er predicts the
correct class divided by the number of municipalities in that
class. The precision is the number of municipalities for which
the classi er predicts the correct class divided by the number
of municipalities the classi er predicts to be in that class. We
observe that the classes  low  and  high  are the best predicted
classes.
from mobile phone data we can explain the 42% of the
variance (see Table 3). This outcome suggests that mo-
bile phone data are able to provide precise and realis-
tic measurements of the behavior of individuals in their
complex social environment, which can be used within a
knowledge infrastructure like our analytical framework
to monitor socio-economic development.
Second, the diversi cation of human movements is
the most important aspect for explaining the socio-
economic status of a given territory, far larger than the
diversi cation of social interactions and demographic
features like population density. This result, which is
evident from both the correlations analysis and the
contribution of mobility diversity in the models (Fig-
ures 7, 10 and 13), is also important for practical rea-
8 Conclusions and Future works
In this paper we design an analytical framework that
uses mobile phone data to extract meaningful measures
of human behavior and estimate indicators for socio-
economic development. We apply the analytical frame-
work on a nationwide mobile phone data covering sev-
eral weeks and  nd that the diversi cation of human
movements is the best proxy for indicators of socio-
economic development. We know that bio-diversity is
crucial to the health of natural ecosystems, that the
diversity of opinion in a crowd is essential to answer
di cult questions [20] and that the diversity of social
contacts is associated to socio-economic indicators of
14
Luca Pappalardo *  et al.
well-being [15]. The story narrated in this paper sug-
gests that diversity is a relevant concept also in mobility
ecosystems: the diversity of human mobility may be a
reliable indicator of the variety of human activities, and
a mirror of some aspects of socio-economic development
and well-being.
We are aware that the computation of individual
measures on CDR data (step (a) and (b) in Figure 1)
present privacy issues. An important next step will be
to incorporate a privacy-by-design approach. We intend
to use a method to assess the privacy risk of users in
order to detect risk cases where the privacy of users
is violated and apply privacy enhancing techniques for
data anonymization [35].
In our experiments we compare the measures of mo-
bility and sociality with two external socio-economic in-
dicators: per capita income and deprivation index. Per
capita income is a simple indicator indicating the mean
income of individuals resident in a given municipality,
without any information about the distribution of the
wealth and the inequality. In contrast deprivation in-
dex is a composite indicator obtained as linear combi-
nation of several di erent variables regarding economic
and ecological aspects (see Appendix). It would be in-
teresting, as future work, to investigate the relation be-
tween the behavioral measures and the socio-economic
development in a multidimensional perspective, using
the single variables composing the deprivation index to
understand which are the aspects of socio-economic de-
velopment that best correlate with the measures of hu-
man behavior. This multidimensional approach is fos-
tered by recent academic research and a number of
concrete initiatives developed around the world [25, 1]
which state that the measurement of well-being should
be based on many di erent aspects besides the mate-
rial living standards (income, consumption and wealth):
health, education, personal activities, governance, so-
cial relationships, environment, and security. All these
dimensions shape people s well-being, and yet many of
them are missed by conventional income measures. Of-
 cial statistics institutions are incorporating questions
to capture people s life evaluations, hedonic experiences
and priorities in their own surveys (see for example
the Italian BES project developed by Italian National
Statistics Bureau [1]). When these measures will be-
come available, they will allow us to re ne our study on
the relation between measures extracted from Big Data
and the socio-economic development of territories.
In the meanwhile, experiences like ours may con-
tribute to shape the discussion on how to measure some
of the aspects of socio-economic development with Big
Data, such as mobile phone call records, that are mas-
sively available everywhere on earth. If we learn how to
use such a resource, we have the potential of creating a
digital nervous system in support of a generalized and
sustainable development of our societies. This is crucial
because the decisions policy makers (and we as individ-
ual citizens) make depend on what we measure, how
good our measurements are and how well our measures
are understood.
Appendix
As described in [45], the value of deprivation index for
French municipalities is calculated in the following way:
deprivation =0.11   Overcrowding
+ 0.34   No access to electric heating
+ 0.55   Non-owner
+ 0.47   Unemployment
+ 0.23   Foreign nationality
+ 0.52   No access to a car
+ 0.37   Unskilled worker-farm worker
+ 0.45   Household with 6 + persons
+ 0.19   Low level of education
+ 0.41   Single-parent household.
Fig. 14 Distribution of deprivation index (a) and per capita
income (b) across French municipalities.
Acknowledgements The authors would like to thank Or-
ange for providing the CDR data, Giovanni Lima and Pier-
paolo Paolini for the contribution developed during their mas-
ter theses. We are grateful to Carole Pornet and colleagues
for providing the socio-economic indicators and for comput-
ing the deprivation index for the French municipalities.
This work has been partially funded by the following Eu-
ropean projects: Cimplex (grant agreement 641191), PETRA
(grant agreement 609042), SoBigData RI (grant agreement
654024).
An analytical framework to nowcast well-being using mobile phone data
15
References
1. Bes: il benessere equo e sostenibile in italia. Technical
report, ISTAT, 2014.
2. A world that counts: mobilizing the data revolution for
sustainable development. Technical report, United Na-
tions, 2014.
3. Indicators and a monitoring framework for the sustain-
able development goals. Technical report, United Na-
tions, 2015.
4. A. Amini, K. Kung, C. Kang, S. Sobolevsky, and C. Ratti.
The impact of social segregation on human mobility in
developing and urbanized regions. EPJ Data Science, 3,
2014.
5. L. Backstrom, P. Boldi, M. Rosa, J. Ugander, and S. Vi-
gna. Four degrees of separation. In Proceedings of the
4th Annual ACM Web Science Conference, WebSci  12,
pages 33 42, New York, NY, USA, 2012. ACM.
6. A.-L. Barabasi. Linked: The new science of networks.
Perseus Publishing, 2002.
7. V. D. Blondel, A. Decuyper, and G. Krings. A survey
of results on mobile phone datasets analysis, 2015. cite
arxiv:1502.03406.
8. J. Blumenstock. Calling for better measurement: Esti-
mating an individual s wealth and well-being. In ACM
KDD (Data Mining for Social Good), 2014.
9. J. Brea, J. Burroni, M. Minnoni, and C. Sarraute. Har-
nessing mobile phone social network topology to infer
users demographic attributes.
In Proceedings of the
8th Workshop on Social Network Mining and Analysis,
SNAKDD 14. ACM, 2014.
10. E. Cho, S. A. Myers, and J. Leskovec. Friendship and mo-
bility: user movement in location-based social networks.
In Proceedings of the 17th ACM SIGKDD International
Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining,
KDD 11, pages 1082 1090. ACM, 2011.
11. P. Cintia, L. Pappalardo, D. Pedreschi, F. Giannotti, and
M. Malvaldi. The harsh rule of the goals: data-driven per-
formance indicators for football teams. In Proceedings of
the 2015 IEEE International Conference on Data Sci-
ence and Advanced Analytics, DSAA 15. EEE, 2015.
12. P. J. H. Daas, M. J. Puts, and B. Buelens. Big data
and o cial statistics. In The 2013 New Techniques and
Technologies for Statistics conference, 2013.
13. A. Decuyper, A. Rutherford, A. Wadhwa, J. Bauer,
G. Krings, T. Gutierrez, V. D. Blondel, and M. A.
Luengo-Oroz. Estimating food consumption and poverty
indices with mobile phone data. CoRR, abs/1412.2595,
2014.
14. P. Deville, C. Linard, S. Martin, M. Gilbert, F. R.
Stevens, A. E. Gaughan, V. D. Blondel, and A. J. Tan-
dem. Dynamic population mapping using mobile phone
data. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
(PNAS), 111(45):15888 15893, 2014.
15. N. Eagle, M. Macy, and R. Claxton. Network diversity
and economic development. Science, 328(5981):1029 
1031, May 2010.
16. N. Eagle and A. S. Pentland. Eigenbehaviors: identifying
structure in routine. Behavioral Ecology and Sociobiol-
ogy, 63(7):1057 1066, 2009.
17. S. Fortunato. Community detection in graphs. Physics
Reports, 486(3-5):75   174, 2010.
18. V. Frias-martinez, V. Soto, J. Virseda, and E. Frias-
martinez. Can cell phone traces measure social devel-
opment? In Third Conference on the Analysis of Mobile
Phone Datasets, NetMob, 2013.
19. B. Furletti, L. Gabrielli, F. Giannotti, L. Milli, M. Nanni,
D. Pedreschi, R. Vivio, and G. Garofalo. Use of mobile
phone data to estimate mobility  ows. measuring urban
population and inter-city mobility using big data in an
integrated approach. In 47th SIS Scienti c Meeting of
the Italian Statistica Society, Cagliari, 06/2014 2014.
20. F. Galton. Vox populi. Nature, 75(7), 1907.
21. F. Giannotti, D. Pedreschi, A. Pentland, P. Lukowicz,
D. Kossmann, J. L. Crowley, and D. Helbing. A planetary
nervous system for social mining and collective aware-
ness. EPJ Special Topics, 214:49 75, 2012.
22. M. C. Gonz alez, C. A. Hidalgo, and A.-L. Barab asi. Un-
derstanding individual human mobility patterns. Nature,
453(7196):779 782, June 2008.
23. U. Groemping. Relative importance for linear regression
in r: The package relaimpo. Journal of Statistical Soft-
ware, 17(1):1 27, 2006.
24. T. Gutierrez, G. Krings, and V. D. Blondel. Evaluating
socio-economic state of a country analyzing airtime credit
and mobile phone datasets. CoRR, abs/1309.4496, 2013.
25. D. Helbing and S. Balietti. How to create an innovation
accelerator. EPJ Special Topics, (195):101 136, 2011.
26. C. A. Hidalgo and C. Rodriguez-Sickert. The dynamics
of a mobile phone network. Physica A: Statistical Me-
chanics and its Applications, 387(12):3017   3024, 2008.
27. S. Jiang, J. F. Jr, and M. Gonz alez. Clustering daily
patterns of human activities in the city. Data Mining
and Knowledge Discovery, 25:478 510, 2012.
28. D. Karamshuk, C. Boldrini, M. Conti, and A. Pas-
sarella. Human mobility models for opportunistic net-
works.
IEEE Communications Magazine, 49(12):157 
165, 2011.
29. M.-P. Kwan. Gender, the home-work link, and space-
time patterns of nonemployment activities. Economic
Geography, 75(4):370 394, 1999.
30. J. Leskovec and E. Horvitz. Planetary-scale views on a
large instant-messaging network. In WWW, pages 915 
924. ACM, 2008.
31. L. Liao, D. J. Patterson, D. Fox, and H. Kautz. Learn-
ing and inferring transportation routines. Artif. Intell.,
171(5-6):311 331, Apr. 2007.
32. R. Lindeman, P. Merenda, and R. Gold.
Introduction
to bivariate and multivariate analysis. Scott, Foresman,
1980.
33. L. Lotero, A. Cardillo, R. Hurtado, and J. Gomez-
Gardenes. Several multiplexes in the same city: The role
of socioeconomic di erences in urban mobility. Available
at SSRN 2507816, 2014.
34. S. Marchetti, C. Giusti, M. Pratesi, N. Salvati, F. Gi-
annotti, D. Pedreschi, S. Rinzivillo, L. Pappalardo, and
L. Gabrielli. Small area model-based estimators using big
data sources. Journal of O cial Statistics, 31(2), 2015.
35. A. Monreale, S. Rinzivillo, F. Pratesi, F. Giannotti, and
D. Pedreschi. Privacy-by-design in big data analytics and
social mining. EPJ Data Science, 2014.
36. M. E. J. Newman. The structure and function of complex
networks. SIAM Review, 45(2):167 256, 2003.
37. J. Onnela, J. Saramaki, J. Hyvonen, G. Szabo, D. Lazer,
K. Kaski, J. Kertesz, and A. L. Barabasi. Structure and
tie strengths in mobile communication networks. Proc.
Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 104(18):7332 7336, 2007.
38. W. Pan, G. Ghoshal, C. Krumme, M. Cebrian, and
A. Pentland.
Urban characteristics attributable to
density-driven tie formation. Nature Communications,
4, 2013.
39. L. Pappalardo, S. Rinzivillo, Z. Qu, D. Pedreschi, and
F. Giannotti. Understanding the patterns of car travel.
EPJ Special Topics, 215(1):61 73, 2013.
16
Luca Pappalardo *  et al.
40. L. Pappalardo, F. Simini, S. Rinzivillo, D. Pedreschi,
F. Giannotti, and A.-L. Barab asi. Returners and explor-
ers dichotomy in human mobility. Nature Communica-
tions, 6(8166), 2015.
41. L. Pappalardo, Z. Smoreda, D. Pedreschi, and F. Gian-
notti. Using big data to study the link between human
mobility and socio-economic development.
In Proceed-
ings of the IEEE International Conference on Big Data,
2015.
42. D. Pennacchioli, M. Coscia, S. Rinzivillo, F. Giannotti,
and D. Pedreschi. The retail market as a complex system.
EPJ Data Science, 3(1):33, 2014.
43. D. Pennacchioli, M. Coscia, S. Rinzivillo, D. Pedreschi,
and F. Giannotti. Explaining the product range e ect
in purchase data. In Proceedings of the IEEE Interna-
tional Conference on Big Data, IEEE Big Data 2015,
pages 648 656, 2013.
44. S. Phithakkitnukoon, Z. Smoreda, and P. Olivier. Socio-
geography of human mobility: A study using longitudinal
mobile phone data. PLoS ONE, 7(6):e39253, 06 2012.
45. C. Pornet, C. Delpierre, O. Dejardin, P. Grosclaude,
L. Launay, L. Guittet, T. Lang, and G. Launoy. Con-
struction of an adaptable european transnational ecolog-
ical deprivation index: the french version. Journal of Epi-
demiol Community Health, 66(11):982 9, 2012.
46. S. Rinzivillo, L. Gabrielli, M. Nanni, L. Pappalardo,
D. Pedreschi, and F. Giannotti. The purpose of motion:
Learning activities from individual mobility networks.
In Proceedings of the 2014 International Conference on
Data Science and Advanced Analytics, DSAA 14, 2014.
47. S. Rinzivillo, S. Mainardi, F. Pezzoni, M. Coscia, D. Pe-
dreschi, and F. Giannotti. Discovering the geographi-
cal borders of human mobility. K unstliche Intelligenz,
26(3):253 260, 2012.
48. F. Simini, M. C. Gonz alez, A. Maritan, and A.-L.
Barab asi. A universal model for mobility and migration
patterns. Nature, 484(7392):96 100, 2012.
49. C. Smith-Clarke, A. Mashhadi, and L. Capra. Poverty
on the cheap: Estimating poverty maps using aggregated
mobile communication networks. In Proceedings of the
SIGCHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems, pages 511 520. ACM, 2014.
50. C. Song, T. Koren, P. Wang, and A.-L. Barab asi. Mod-
elling the scaling properties of human mobility. Nature
Physics, 6(10):818 823, Sept. 2010.
51. C. Song, Z. Qu, N. Blumm, and A.-L. Barab asi.
Science,
Limits of predictability in human mobility.
327(5968):1018 1021, 2010.
52. P. Struijs and P. J. H. Daas. Quality approaches to
big data in o cial statistics. In European conference on
Quality in O cial Statistics, 2014.
53. D. Wang, D. Pedreschi, C. Song, F. Giannotti, and A.-L.
Barab asi. Human mobility, social ties, and link predic-
tion. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM SIGKDD Inter-
national Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data
Mining, KDD  11, pages 1100 1108, New York, NY, USA,
2011. ACM.
54. X.-Y. Yan, C. Zhao, Y. Fan, Z. Di, and W.-X. Wang. Uni-
versal predictability of mobility patterns in cities. Jour-
nal of The Royal Society Interface, 11(100), 2014.
