All Your Cards Are Belong To Us:
Understanding Online Carding Forums
Andreas Haslebacher, Jeremiah Onaolapo, and Gianluca Stringhini
University College London
andreas.haslebacher.14@ucl.ac.uk
{j.onaolapo,g.stringhini}@cs.ucl.ac.uk
7
1
0
2
 
n
a
J
 
4
2
 
 
]
R
C
.
s
c
[
 
 
2
v
7
1
1
0
0
.
7
0
6
1
:
v
i
X
r
a
Abstract Underground online forums are platforms that
enable trades of illicit services and stolen goods. Carding forums,
in particular, are known for being focused on trading  nancial
information. However, little evidence exists about the sellers that
are present on active carding forums, the precise types of products
they advertise, and the prices buyers pay. Existing literature
mainly focuses on the organisation and structure of the forums.
Furthermore, studies on carding forums are usually based on
literature review, expert interviews, or data from forums that
have already been shut down. This paper provides  rst-of-its-kind
empirical evidence on active forums where stolen  nancial data is
traded. We monitored  ve out of 25 discovered forums, collected
posts from the forums over a three-month period, and analysed
them quantitatively and qualitatively. We focused our analyses on
products, prices, seller proli cacy, seller specialisation, and seller
reputation, and present a detailed discussion on our  ndings.
Keywords carding forums   underground forums   CVV
I.
INTRODUCTION
 479 million of fraud losses on UK issued credit and
debit cards were recorded in 2014 [1]. Almost 70% of these
losses originate from  remote purchase fraud.  This category
of fraud denotes that card details obtained through illicit
methods such as phishing, skimming or hacking are used for
fraudulent online transactions. Since consumers have mostly
shifted from cash to transactions via payment cards and have
become accustomed to online payments, opportunities for theft
of payment card details have soared and they have attracted
the attention of cybercriminals.
Theft of card information is usually the  rst step in the
chain of credit card fraud. Further stages are resale, validation
and monetization of the stolen data. These deals and activities
take place in a massive underground economy, usually aided
by underground online forums. These forums are popular
platforms where card details are traded, thus generating huge
revenues for cybercriminals. On these forums, fraudsters typ-
ically open a thread and write an advertisement for their
products as a  rst posting. Potential buyers either reply within
that thread asking to contact them or they contact the seller
themselves using private message services or instant messaging
services like ICQ.
The sales volumes thus generated appear to be substantial.
It is estimated, for example, that the closure of several credit
card related forums in 2012 prevented international fraud to the
tune of  500 million [2]. It is therefore important to understand
the characteristics of these online forums and the activity of
cybercriminals using them.
The body of research into underground forums is growing
but still limited. In particular, there are only a few studies
available about credit card related forums. These studies
mainly focus on the organisation and the structure of the
forums but less on the content itself, that is, the products
traded and the activity of the traders on these forums [3] 
[5]. In addition, existing studies are usually based on either
expert interviews or examinations of forums that have been
shut down by law enforcement agents. Active forums are
rarely analysed. The examination of closed forums may be
problematic since they may differ from those still existing,
especially when this difference is the reason why they are
closed. Moreover, cybercrime evolves rapidly and tackling this
type of crime requires an understanding of the current situation
and activities.
In this paper, we collected data directly from the dis-
cussions on the underground forums that we studied, with
emphasis on product offers and advertisements posted by
potential sellers on the forums. Since sellers come earlier in
the fraud chain than the other actors, it might be more ef cient
to tackle credit card fraud by stopping sellers than buyers, for
example. As a result, we excluded buyers and money mules
from this study (we will study them in future work).
Research question. In order to overcome the literature gaps
and methodological concerns we highlighted earlier, this paper
aims to shed light on the current situation of underground
online forums by analysing real data collected from active
forums. We set out to answer the following research question:
What does the current situation of underground credit card
forums look like? That is, what are the typical features of the
forums, what products are sold and how can the activity of the
traders be characterised?
Hypotheses. After studying existing research literature, we
de ned the following hypotheses to guide our analyses:
 
 
 
 
Hypothesis 1 (H1). Prices of credit card numbers com-
bined with additional information about the cardholder
are higher than prices of credit card numbers alone.
Hypothesis 2 (H2). On active carding forums, a small
number of traders are responsible for a large propor-
tion of traf c.
Hypothesis 3 (H3). Specialisation is discernible on
carding forums, that is, most of the traders sell only
one product type.
Hypothesis 4 (H4). Specialised traders sell their prod-
ucts at lower prices than unspecialised traders.
 
 
Hypothesis 5 (H5). The carding forums under analysis
have working reputation systems that are sophisticated
as those of legal marketplaces.
Hypothesis 6 (H6). The vast majority of actors are not
operating on more than one forum.
Our analyses con rmed H1, H2 and H6. H4 was partially
rejected, while H3 and H5 were completely rejected. Details
of the analyses are in Section IV.
Contributions. In this paper, we established an outline of
active forums and their de ning features. To this end, we ana-
lyzed  ve carefully selected active forums in detail regarding
their traders and products. This investigation thus provides in-
sights into current underground online forums, unlike previous
work that studied forums that were shut down. This paper
provides some insights into product proportions on carding
forums, since existing literature does not provide any sound
information on that. Overall, we present a comprehensive
overview of carding forums. We identi ed various product
types with different prices. Our  ndings suggest that a small
number of traders are responsible for the majority of the traf c
observed on the underground forums. A distinct pattern of
seller specialisation is not yet discernible from our  ndings.
II. BACKGROUND AND RELATED WORK
In this section, we explore products sold on underground
forums, their prices, seller proli cacy, seller specialization, and
seller reputation, as presented in previous work. In addition, we
develop some hypotheses from the general  ndings presented
in existing literature. These hypotheses form the basis of our
analysis, presented later in this paper.
A. Products and prices
Products and services traded on carding forums can gener-
ally be classi ed as credit card information, bank account in-
formation, credentials or online payment services [6]. In 2011,
Motoyama et al. [7] analysed the records of six closed forums
and identi ed online payments, game-related accounts, credit
cards and  nancial accounts as being the items most traded.
Stone-Gross et al. analysed the Spamdot forum, studying the
tightly connected community of buyers and sellers that were
active on it [8]. Onaolapo et al. showed that cybercriminals
active on such forums actively look for free samples of
stolen credentials, and assess their quality before making a
purchase [9].
Credit card information is generally divided into three
groups: credit card numbers, dumps, and fullz [10]. Credit
card numbers (also known as  CVV ) include at least the
information printed on the card, that is, actual credit card
number, cardholder name, expiration date and security code
CCV2 on the back of the card (not to be confused with CVV),
and sometimes, the billing address and phone number. Dumps
denote information from the tracks on the magnetic stripe of
a card. These data are required to clone physical credit cards.
Fullz provide further information on the cardholder including,
for example, date of birth or social security number [10].
On the prices sought for products on carding forums,
Shulman [11] states that, in 2006, credit card numbers were
traded for $1-$25 each. Only two years later, credit card
numbers were available for $0.06. Shulman [11] mentions
three reasons that account for this decline: CVVs are becoming
a commodity, monetizing information is more dif cult and
credit cards are beset by stolen online credentials. In the April
2015 report on Internet security, Symantec [12] indicates a
price range of $0.50-$20 for CVVs. These rates, on the one
hand, con rm that there are details sold at low prices and, on
the other hand, show that there are still cards sold for $20.
Sood and Enbody [13] provide a more detailed estimation
of rates charged per credit card number. Numbers from the
USA cost $4-$10 on average, from Canada $5-$7 and from the
UK $6-$8. Classi ed according to credit card types, a classic
or standard credit card number from the USA or Canada costs
$8-$10, a gold card $15-$20 and an Amex $6-$10. Classic
and Amex cards are the cheapest in the listing of Sood and
Enbody [13]. Nevertheless, they are still more expensive than
the lower limits of their quoted price range ($4/$5). However,
it is not ideal that these rates have not been observed but
estimated and it remains unclear on which basis they have
been calculated.
Reasons for price differences include the types of cards
and countries of origin, as already mentioned, in addition to
the rarity and the quantity of the products to be purchased [14].
Discounts on purchases of large card quantities lower the price
per item. Furthermore, cards with more personal information
available, with high balances and extended expiration dates
and freshly acquired cards tend to be more expensive [6].
Since there is no sound information available on the
product proportions on carding forums so far,
this paper
provides some insights into that. Existing literature does not
state reliable prices for dumps or fullz. As cards containing
more information tend to be more expensive than those with
less information, however, we infer and hypothesise (H1) that
prices for fullz are higher than those for credit card numbers.
For dumps, no hypothesis can be formulated derived from ex-
isting research literature. Due to the effort needed to monetise
the information, low prices would be expected. However, once
copied and successfully used to conduct a transaction, such a
clone might be a lucrative means of payment. Also, the efforts
necessary to steal the data (e.g. skimming dumps in a restaurant
or collecting data on fake Internet sites) does not give a clear
indication of the expected price differences between dumps
and CVVs.
B. Seller proli cacy
interviews and literature review,
Generally, there are several types of participants on the
forums: sellers, buyers, intermediaries, mules, administrators,
and others. These roles are not mutually exclusive; sellers
may simultaneously be buyers. Although the total number
of participants is in unclear, Ablon et al. [6] argue that,
based on expert
the total
number of participants on the forums is likely to rise. The
increasing spread of different marketplaces and forums would
facilitate access to one of them. At
least from a historic
perspective, Christin [15] con rmed this growth of participants
on underground platforms as he observed a linear increase
of sellers during his half-year analysis of Silk Road, a large
underground marketplace. In the aftermath of Silk Road s
take-down in 2013, the number of sellers on competitor- and
newcomer-marketplaces has substantially increased, surpassing
the original number of sellers on Silk Road [16].
In terms of geographic location, forum users come from
all over the world. Regarding the sellers, De Carbonnel [17]
claims that Russian participants deliver the best quality, while
participants from China, Latin America and Eastern Europe
are the leaders with respect to quantity. These geographic
patterns, however, vary depending on the types of forums and
the services provided. An analysis of a marketplace offering
SEO services locates the sellers mainly in India, Bangladesh,
and the USA [18].
Examinations in relation to sales quantity reveal substantial
differences in seller proli cacy. Farooqi et al. [18] identi ed
an  insider ring  composed of several top sellers. This means
that a small number of traders account for a large proportion
of traf c on the marketplace. One common characteristic is
that they joined the community very early and are frequent
visitors to the pages. Christin [15] agrees on the existence of
several long-time sellers but also reports on a continual  come
and go  of sellers. It is unclear, however, whether they leave
the community after having made sales or due to unsuccessful
attempts.
In terms of seller proli cacy, Motoyama et al. [7] analysed
the records of 6 closed forums and concluded that 10% of
the sellers are responsible for 40%-50% of the goods traded.
More generally expressed, D ecary-H etu and Lepp anen [19]
reason that some sellers are more effective than others. Their
conclusion is based on counting of advertisements of sellers on
one underground forum. However, it is doubtful that counting
ads is the right approach of quantifying success. Moreover, the
analysis of several forums instead of one might have produced
more reliable results.
It is common ground among crime scientists that crime is
distributed neither randomly nor evenly [20]. That implies a
small group accounts for more offenses than its expected share
would be. As earlier stated, studies on marketplaces suggest
the presence of some highly proli c users. We hypothesise
(H2) that on active carding forums, a small number of traders
are responsible for a large proportion of traf c.
C. Seller specialisation
Looking at the products sold per seller, several studies
found evidence of specialisation amongst sellers. Derived from
literature review and expert
interviews, Kraemer-Mbula et
al. [21], for example, promote an ecosystem perspective to
understand the actions of underground traders. Comparable to
the legitimate business community, underground ecosystems
includes actors that compete against each other,
targeting
competitive advantage. They try to reach this advantage by
specialising in a particular type of product [21].
By applying a framework of social organisation, Holt [22]
identi ed specialisation on underground forums too. While one
third of sellers offered various products, two thirds focused
on only one product category. As the Symantec report [12]
illustrates, there are perpetrators specialising in writing viruses,
in distributing malware or in monetising credit cards, for
example. In recent years, Symantec has observed an increasing
professionalisation in all aspects in the underground economy.
Their  ndings are supported by research literature. Sood and
Enbody [13] also identi ed specialisation as a trend in under-
ground markets. They argue that these markets are increasingly
accessible to people with various technical skills. Hence,
there is a division of labour due to differing skills. While
analysing seller characteristics on black marketplaces, Soska
and Christin [16] discovered numerous specialised sellers,
though there was a notable number of vendors selling different
products as well.
These  ndings indicate that specialisation is present in the
underground ecosystem as in the legitimate business world.
Hence, we hypothesise (H3) that specialisation is also dis-
cernible on carding forums, that is, most of the traders sell
only one product type.
What does that mean in terms of product prices? We did not
 nd any association between specialisation and product prices
in existing literature. Resorting to economic theories [23],
there are long-established economic  laws  that basically state
that concentrating on one production task leads to a higher
ef ciency at that particular task. This ef ciency enables an
increase in production compared to unspecialised suppliers.
Due to such economies of scale, products and services can
be offered at signi cantly lower costs and prices can be cut.
Applying this to traders on carding forums, we expect cost-
and price-reducing effects when sellers specialise in trading
of a single product category (due to the economies of scale).
Thus, we hypothesise (H4) that specialised traders sell their
products at lower prices than unspecialised traders.
D. Seller reputation
One key aspect in the underground economy is reputa-
tion [6], [7], [19]. A reputable seller is more likely to be trusted
and thus more likely to engage in trades and to complete
transactions. On forums, reputation is usually established by
positive customer feedback. Buyers may rate their sellers
by giving positive ratings if the ordered products have been
successfully delivered, and negative ratings if the seller has
not delivered and was rather a ripper. Consequently, a seller s
positive reputation score presents his/her threads in a more
credible light, and these sellers have a higher chance of
acquiring multiple customers [22].
However, the effort to establish baseline reputation appears
to be laborious. Before half of traders receive their  rst
positive feedback, for example, they write approximately sixty
posts [7]. In this case, the reputation process is intrinsically
peer-driven. Sellers are dependent on recommendations by
buyers. Sometimes, forum administrators provide a vetting
process, often in addition to the peer-driven process and often
with intransparent criteria. In those cases, entry costs are
relatively high and access to higher tiers is tight [6].
The emphasis on reputation and trust means that it is in-
dispensable for competitive forums to have a well-functioning
reputation system. Again, since the above-mentioned  ndings
are widely based on expert interviews and therefore remain
relatively vague, the actual status regarding currently running
carding forums is not known. Since trades on carding forums
depend on relationships between mutually distrustful parties,
we argue that trust is even more important than in legitimate
trades. In the event of an unsuccessful deal, the parties hardly
have any legal remedies and countermeasures available, except
for a negative reputation rating. We thus hypothesise (H5) that
the carding forums to be analysed have working reputation
systems that are at least as sophisticated as those of legal
marketplaces, for instance eBay. This expectation applies only
to open forums where everybody can participate.
As discussed,
the efforts needed for gaining trust are
extensive. A consequence might be that sellers concentrate on
establishing reputation on one speci c forum instead of several
forums. It is therefore not expected that sellers are present on
multiple forums. By assuming this, we support Motoyama s
et al. [7] expectation of non-existing multiple accounts. In
contrast, we disagree with Ablon et al. [6] who argue without
providing any reasons that sellers would advertise on multiple
marketplaces. We hypothesise (H6), therefore, that the vast
majority of actors are not operating on more than one forum.
III. METHODOLOGY
In this section, we describe our data collection approach.
We collected names of underground forums from various
sources, and selected 5 forums that matched our selection
criteria for examination. Data spanning a period of three
months was collected from the forums, and we tested our
hypotheses on the data.
A. Forum search
The  rst step of the examination is the forum search.
We took the following steps to  nd carding forums: First,
we collected names of
forums that were mentioned by
research literature. Second, we carried out searches via
Google. Third, we used other search engines and informa-
tion pages, namely Onion.city search via Tor network,
webstatsdomain.org and  The Hidden Wiki.  Finally,
we searched forums that we already found for references to
other forums. In the latter case, we adopted the method of
snowball sampling [24]. The only selection criterion at this
point was that, due to the authors  language abilities, the
forums had to be at least partly in English or in German.
By this means, we found 25 forums, 15 of them via
Google. The 25 forums are listed in Table I. The forum names
mentioned in existing literature research were of little use
since all the mentioned forums had already been shut down.
We found  ve forums through other forums, and  ve from
listings and other search pages. Although numerous forums
were listed, most of them did not exist anymore. Two of the
forums discovered during the  rst search in February 2015
were shut down at the beginning of the analysis in June 2015.
Notwithstanding, the carding underworld seems to be dynamic.
We found one active forum containing posts dating back to
2008.
Besides forums, we discovered more than two dozen stores
(e.g. Globalcards and Dexter, offering mainly credit card
numbers). We did not include these single-vendor marketplaces
in our analysis since they differ signi cantly from forums.
They do not gather multiple sellers, they have no reputation
systems, and users normally do not communicate with each
other. Hence, they do not meet our interest in interactions
between forum members.
Forum name
Agoraforum
Altenen
Crdpro
Crimenetwork
Cardingforum
Hackingforum
Unixorder
Crdclub
Carderscave
Infraud
Lampeduza
Blackstuff
Bus1Nezz
Cardingma a
Bpcsquad
Procarder
Cardersforum
Crimes
Carderbase
Carder
Darkstuff
Coinodeal
Tuxedocrew
Privatemarket
Omerta
Forum address (http://...)
lacbzxobeprssrfx.onion/
www.altenen.com
crdpro.su
crimenc5wxi63f4r.onion
www.cardingforum.org
hackingforum.ru
www.unixorder.com
crdclub.ws
www.carderscave.ru
infraud.cc
lampeduza.so
www.blackstuff.net/forum.php
bus1nezz.biz
www.cardingma a.ws
www.bpcsquad.com
www.procarder.ru
www.cardersforum.se/
crimes.ws/
carderbase.su
carder.me
www.darkstuff.net
coinodeal.com
www.tuxedocrew.biz
privatemarket.us
omerta.cm
TABLE I: Names and web addresses of discovered forums.
The ones we focused on are highlighted in boldface text.
To narrow down the analyses, we chose  ve out of the
25 forums (see Table II) for detailed examination: Altenen,
Crdpro, Crimenetwork, Bpcsquad, and Tuxedocrew. The  rst
three are the largest forums we found (as measured by number
of posts) and should thus be the most fruitful ones. We
excluded Agoraforum despite possessing the greatest number
of posts, because 99% of its posts are requests for referral
links for registration on Agora Marketplace. Tuxedocrew is
included as it is one of the smallest forums and has existed
for around two years. Thus, it is not entirely new and it might
provide interesting insights when its content is compared to
that of larger forums. Finally, we chose Bpcsquad since it
is a medium-sized forum. It is remarkable to note that it
is the largest one of the very new forums. To sum up, our
selection criteria are forum size, founding date, and,
to a
lesser degree, content. These criteria should ensure a good mix.
Altenen, Bpcsquad and Tuxedocrew are mainly or exclusively
in English, Crimenetwork in German and Crdpro half in
English, half in Russian.
B. Temporal sampling
In order to have a comparable time-coverage of all  ve
forums, we monitored activity on them over a period of three
months, speci cally from April to June 2015. This means that
a snapshot was made by the end of June and data of the
previous three months was collected. This three-month period
was determined by the largest forum, Altenen.
This limitation to three months meant that no full activity-
record could be recorded. Furthermore, it introduced the risk
of catching three  special  months instead of a whole year s
coverage. However, we argue that the current situation is of
interest and not the past, and that three months are still more
advantageous than shorter periods. Moreover, the collected
data showed that a substantial volume of posts can be captured
in three months, especially from the larger forums. Admittedly,
a longer period would be bene cial for the smaller forums.
In summary, a consistent and thus comparable time period is
favoured over a larger number of posts from small forums.
C. Data collection
We collected information on the numbers of members and
posts, content, forum-accessibility, languages, and founding
dates. For the selected forums, threads where potential sellers
advertise their products were collected. A systematic review
of the entirety of these forums was not possible. No activity
records, copies of databases or web crawler services were
available. The analysis was effected from the user s perspec-
tive. For instance, we did not analyse private messages used
to arrange and complete trades. Nevertheless, this method pro-
vides an enlightening snapshot of the current carding situation.
Where necessary and possible, we set up login credentials to
gain wider access to the forums.
Threads published between April and June 2015 were
collected for further analysis. Ads that were created before the
three-month observation period were not collected. However,
it is likely that older threads were still successfully promoting
products and generating sales. Therefore, we captured older
threads in cases where an activity in the form of answer
postings or vouchings during the three months was registered.
Such activity suggests that deals had taken place. Indeed, it was
crucial to consider such older threads since it was expected that
long-established insider rings existed on the forums, as pointed
out by Farooqi et al. [18].
The threads usually describe the advertised products and
their prices. Whenever an unspeci ed price range was in-
dicated in an ad, we chose the lowest price for analysis.
Calculating the mean value may distort the picture presuming
that, for example, if only one high-priced gold card is offered
in addition to many low-priced standard cards. In cases where
various products were advertised in a single thread, each entry
was considered equally.
To keep the focus on carding, we limited the spectrum
of investigation to typical  nancial cybercrime related data:
credit card numbers (CVVs), dumps, fullz, PayPal-credentials
and Western Union (WU) payment transfers. We excluded
other carding-related services such as ordinary online store
credentials or monetisation-services.
In order to operationalise  traf c  on the forums, as nec-
essary for hypothesis H2, D ecary-H etu and Lepp anen [19]
counted advertisements as indicators. In our view, however, the
consideration of vouchings would be more promising to obtain
an accurate impression of a seller s  performance.  Vouchings
are evident signs that successful transactions have been made.
Yet, since probably not every buyer vouches for the seller,
counting the number of vouchings tends to underestimate the
traf c. Conversely, there might be rippers vouching for each
other without having made any transaction. Since Farooqi
et al. [18] and Christin [15] also relied on vouchings and
member feedbacks, using them to calculate revenues, counting
vouchings seems to be an appropriate method.
To determine whether users are specialised in one product
category, as a prerequisite to be able to test H3 and H4, we
checked their personal pro le sites. These pages display com-
plete lists of all threads and posts written by the correspond-
ing users. This method enabled us to see whether multiple
products were advertised. The de nition of specialisation is
relatively strict. For instance, if users sold credit card numbers
and PayPal-credentials, we did not consider them as being
specialised. Only very narrowly related categories, for instance
credit card numbers and fullz, were treated as identical product
categories in this respect.
Hypothesis H6 requires us to determine whether the same
users are present on several forums. We carried out searches
for users throughout the selected forums, and compared their
identity details. Where applicable, these are username, email
address, ICQ-number and Yahoo-ID. These details were col-
lected from the postings and the users  pro le pages.
Finally, we gathered information on the reputation system
of each forum from various sources. Depending on the forum,
these are the FAQs, specially installed forum threads, terms and
conditions or customer information sites. Also own observation
and interpretation were employed to grasp how the reputation
systems functioned.
In total, we collected 388 threads. They advertised 987
individual products in total, that is, on average, each thread
promoted 2.5 individual products (e.g. CVV USA Classic).
The  gures for the individual forums are in Table II.
Forum
Altenen
Crdpro
Crimenetwork
Bpcsquad
Tuxedocrew
Threads
206
57
96
25
4
Individual products
431
270
136
130
20
TABLE II: Threads and individual products per forum
D. Analytical strategy
Monitoring of the forums required a combined methodical
approach. We analysed the content we collected both qual-
itatively and quantitatively. Qualitative analysis was applied
for content categorisation and analysis of reputation, while
quantitative analysis was applied for comparisons of products
and prices and determination of traf c per seller.
To prepare the data for analysis, a categorisation of thread
content was necessary. This procedure required a qualitative
research approach and was thus done manually in Excel
using content analysis method. We stuck to clear coding
rules in order to avoid subjective and inconsistent categori-
sations. Some approximate categories were already provided
by existing research literature (e.g.  credit cards ). However,
these categories were somewhat too coarse and further sub-
categories had to be created (e.g.  CVV  or  dumps ). Hence,
The categorisation process is a combined product of deductive
practice (assigning content to given categories) and inductive
practice (building new categories based on content) [25]. Yet,
it is important to ensure that the categories do not become
too small and thus render subsequent quantitative calculations
impossible. For example, dumps are sometimes advertised
divided into track 1 or track 2 dumps. Since the aim of
the categorisation is to obtain meaningful product categories,
we avoided such  ne distinctions. Therefore, credit card data
was coded according to product category, country and product
type (e.g. CVV, UK, gold). Visa and Mastercard details were
not explicitly differentiated since they are usually treated
interchangeably by the traders.
Next, we imported the data into SPSS software for statis-
tical analyses. At  rst, we ran general frequency calculations.
In order to test Hypothesis 2, the number of traders in relation
to the generated traf c was quantitatively computed in the
shape of a Lorenz curve. For H3,
the frequencies of the
specialised users were compared to the unspecialised ones.
H1 and H4 required the application of inference statistics.
Since their price distributions resembled Poisson rather than
a normal distribution, we performed Mann-Whitney-U tests
to test whether there were signi cant differences between
the values. Regarding H5,
the reputation systems of the
forums were evaluated qualitatively. To assess the degree
of sophistication in relation to legitimate marketplaces, we
compared them to eBay s system. Strictly speaking, eBay is
not a forum and thus not fully comparable. However, we
found no suitable legitimate large-scale forum set up to enable
trading. Furthermore, eBay comes close to the system of
advertising, trading, and buying exercised on forums. Finally,
in order to examine whether sellers operated on more than one
forum (H6), we reproduced and interpreted the proportions of
multiple representations across all forums.
We carried out all these calculations both for the entirety
of the threads and for each forum separately. Therefore, the
results (Section IV) are reported in aggregated form, and
where applicable, and if enough cases are available, for every
individual forum.
IV. DATA ANALYSIS
In this section, we describe our analyses of the  ve selected
forums, and our  ndings.
A. Overview
We discovered 25 forums, out of which we selected  ve
forums for analyses. In this section, we describe general
attributes of the 25 discovered forums. The attributes are name,
members, total posts, accessibility, languages, and founding
date.
Name. The names and full website addresses of the discovered
forums are listed in Table I. They have a wide array of
top-level domains, for example .com, .ws (Samoa), and .so
(Somalia). The locations that the forums really operate from
are usually unclear, and apart from two German-speaking
platforms, cannot be derived from the forum content.
Members. As of June 2015, the smallest forum had 1,100
members, while the largest had 148,800 members. A com-
parison between the  rst search in February 2015 and the
second in June 2015 revealed some substantial increases in
members. Cardersforum, for example, grew from 44,200 to
45,700 members (3.4% increment), and Cardingma a grew
from 98,700 to 121,500 members (23.1% increment). Altenen,
already a large forum in February, was more than twice as large
four months later (from 60,700 to 148,800 members, 145.1%
increment).
It is not clear how many of the members on each forum
were actually contributing. Two forums indicated in their
forum statistics that only a fraction of members were really
active. On Altenen, these were 38,300 of its 148,800 members
(25.7%); on Carder, these were 1,500 of 10,200 (14.7%). Nei-
ther forum disclosed what  active members  actually meant.
Total posts. The number of posts varied between 150
and 15,778,599. Besides advertisements, the posts comprised
mainly answers to advertisements or contributions to discus-
sions. Typical answers to offers for sale are  interested please
contact me  or  made deal and worked.  In line with the
increase in number of members, the number of posts also
increased between the two searches (e.g. Cardingma a from
31,900 to 37,600 posts, 17.9% increment). On Altenen, the
number of posts doubled (from 607,100 to 1,265,500 posts,
108.5% increment).
Accessibility. Nine forums were completely open. This means
that everybody could access them for free or even without
registration. More than half of the forums had private VIP
areas that required special registration to join. Access to these
areas usually required a recommendation or an invitation by
other members. Three forums charged registration fees, $50 in
the case of Lampeduza, and $100 in the cases of Infraud and
Omerta respectively.
Languages. The forums were mostly in English and Russian,
with two in German. Some forums contained international
sections in various languages. However, the number of posts
in such sections were consistently small.
Founding date. We estimated the founding dates of the forums
from the oldest posts found on them, mostly in the introduc-
tion or announcement sections. These are not necessarily the
founding dates as older posts might have been deleted in the
meantime. In addition, forums might have been shut down
and reopened under another name (e.g. Crdpro was formerly
Carderpro). We estimated founding dates between 2008 and
2014. A large number of the forums were launched in 2013.
In terms of size, the median number of members was
28,850, while the median number of posts was 58,150. Ex-
cluding the special case of Agoraforum, the number of posts
per member varied between 0.1 (Privatemarket) and 18.6
(Crimenetwork). There are thus forums where only a fraction
of the members post messages and there are some where
members post numerous messages on average. However, these
results have to be treated with caution as posts or members
might have been deleted during the existence of the forums.
B. Detailed analysis
In this section, we present the results of hypotheses testing
for the  ve selected forums.
Products and prices. Table III presents the numbers, pro-
portions (in %) and prices (in US$) per product category.
CVVs are further divided by product type. Credit card numbers
cost on average $10, dumps and fullz more than $30. PayPal
credentials are advertised for $3. Western Union payments of
$100 are sold for $15. As hypothesised (H1), prices for fullz
are higher than those for credit card numbers (CVV: mean =
10.08, median = 10.00; fullz: mean = 31.82, median = 30.00).
The difference is statistically signi cant (Mann-Whitney-U =
4011, z = -12.86, p < 0.01).
Products
CVVs
Classic
Gold
Amex
others
unspeci ed
Dumps
Fullz
PayPal
WU ($100)
Total
Number
465
98
14
66
16
271
234
140
133
15
987
Proportion (%)
47.1
9.9
1.4
6.7
1.6
27.5
23.7
14.2
13.5
1.5
100.0
Price ($)
10.08
9.93
16.86
12.34
13.00
9.06
34.52
31.82
3.01
15.00
TABLE III: Products and prices (mean) in total.
Examined per individual forum, prices of CVVs do not
vary substantially, those for the other products show consider-
able variation. Besides price differences, the product propor-
tions alsi vary per forum. On Altenen, for example, dumps
have a share of 8% of the products analysed. On Crdpro, their
proportion is 52%. Yet the absolute numbers are partly very
low and the values may thus lack reliability.
The prices per product category depend widely on the
effective composition of these categories, that is, on the relative
frequencies per product
type and country of origin. Since
the absolute numbers are too low to display these values
for each forum, Table IV shows them summarised across all
forums. Only product types consisting of at least 10 cases
are considered. There is indeed substantial variation between
different product types and countries. Amex and Gold cards are
consistently more expensive than classic VISA or Mastercard
cards. US products are the cheapest, while European products
tend to be more expensive.
Seller proli cacy. The products are not sold evenly throughout
all sellers on the forums. The Lorenz curve in Figure 1a shows
that around 70% do not generate any obvious traf c as seller,
whereas a single user generates 44% of all traf c. This user
joined Altenen in summer 2014 and sells CVVs of various
countries.
Disentangling the individual forums from the total results
in similar pictures (Figures 1b, 2a and 2b). Altenen has the
most unequal distribution. Crimenetwork s distribution is not
as extreme but still far from being equal. Bpcsquad and
CVV
Australia
Canada
UK
USA
Dumps
Canada
EU
USA
Classic
Amex
Classic
Amex
Classic
Amex
Classic
Classic
Gold
Classic
Gold
Classic
Gold
Number
12
10
14
10
17
25
31
14
12
20
20
29
27
Price ($)
12.75
14.20
10.92
15.10
11.94
7.02
5.46
31.43
45.25
41.75
58.50
19.17
30.93
TABLE IV: Products and prices (mean) per product type with
at least 10 cases.
Tuxedocrew have too few vouchings to calculate a Lorenz
curve. However, Tuxedocrew has posts dating back to 2013
that still receive vouchings but only in small numbers. Crdpro
does not diverge from these distributions.
it
Considering the total amount of traf c, however,
is
striking that the  gures are low, both in the English and in
the Russian speaking part. Although Crdpro has 17 times as
many users as Bpcsquad, for example, it produced only twice
as many advertising threads during the time of observation.
Detailed analysis revealed that a substantial number of these
threads contain links to shops. Furthermore, there have been
no new entries in the two VIP areas since 2013 and the forum
appeared to have been disconnected during some summer
months in 2013.
In terms of products, the top three sellers on Altenen sell
CVVs and WU payments, on Crdpro they sell dumps and on
Crimenetwork again CVVs. As far as reputation is concerned,
the high-pro le sellers have usually high reputation ratings. To
conclude this section, the hypothesis (H2) that a small number
of traders are responsible for a large proportion of traf c is
accepted. However, we could not con rm the presence of an
insider ring, as proposed by Farooqi et al. [18]. Overall, only
 ve out of the twenty most proli c users registered in the
founding year of the according forum. The others joined later.
However, it is possible that some sellers have more than one
account and have thus several  joining-dates.  This possibility
does not seem to be very likely, mainly due to the expected
effort needed for establishing reputation for each account.
Seller specialisation. In total, the majority of the users on the
forums are not specialised (see Table V), that is, most users
sell more than one type of product and Hypothesis 3 has to
be rejected.
Regarding Crdpro, Bpcsquad and Tuxedocrew,
the hy-
pothesis would be true. However, a closer look on Crdpro
reveals that its users generally sell a large variety of the same
product category, instead, for instance credit cards from many
different countries. This pattern is exactly the opposite of
Crimenetwork s. Users on Crimenetwork usually sell different
product categories but not various types within the same
product category, for example only CVVs from Germany.
The results for H3 raise the question about differences be-
tween specialised and unspecialised sellers. Building upon H2
and taking into account the number of vouchings these users
receive, no major differences are discernible. Regarding Al-
tenen, for example, seven out of the twenty users with the
most vouchings are specialised. This equals approximately the
calculated specialisation rate of 31%.
In terms of prices per product,
there are some differ-
ences. CVVs, dumps, and PayPal-credentials advertised by
specialised users are cheaper than those of unspecialised users;
fullz are more expensive (see Table VI). However, only the
price difference for dumps is statistically signi cant at the
95% con dence level (Mann-Whitney-U = 1643, z = -4.83,
p < 0.01). Hypothesis 4 thus has to be partially rejected.
That said, it is delicate to summarise product types be-
cause every type and country has its own price. A careful
comparison would only contain a single product type. Hence,
we made such a price comparison for US Classic CVVs, the
(a) All forums.
(b) Altenen forum.
Fig. 1: Lorenz curves indicating cumulative percentage of traders against cumulative percentage of traf c on all forums, and
Altenen forum.
(a) Crdpro forum.
(b) Crimenetwork forum.
Fig. 2: Lorenz curves indicating cumulative percentage of traders against cumulative percentage of traf c on Crdpro and
Crimenetwork forums.
most prevalent product type. The result shows no signi cant
difference (Mann-Whitney-U = 54, z = -0.63, n.s.).
delivery [27]. Furthermore, a seller protection service identi es
high-risk buyers in order to avoid non-payments [28].
A striking aspect that Table VI reveals is the distribution
of advertised product categories among specialised and unspe-
cialised users. Unspecialised users hardly advertise any dumps
(7.5% of all products). In contrast, dumps are almost half of
the products (45.4%) that specialised users advertise.
Seller reputation. We hypothesised (H5) that carding forums
have working reputation systems at least as sophisticated as
those of legal marketplaces. The reputation systems are as
follows:
eBay: Buyers on eBay can leave feedback for a seller after
a purchase and transaction ends. These ratings determine the
 feedback score.  Positive feedback gives one point, neutral
feedback does not change the score, and negative feedback
subtracts one point [26]. As an additional protection measure,
eBay refunds the purchase price in the event of a non-
Altenen: Altenen s basic reputation system works in the
same way as eBay s. A user s  reputation power  consists of
the number of positive minus the number of negative feedback
points. The median score of the observed sellers was 1. In
addition, users are allowed to rate threads. Sellers also have
the opportunity of paying $50 to the  Altenen buyer protection
reserve  that is used as backup payment service. In case of
non-delivery, buyers receive their money back out of this fund.
Altenen also offers an escrow service that protects buyers
from non-delivery and sellers from non-payment. In using that
service, a buyer pays the money plus a transaction fee of $5-
$30 to Altenen. Once the requested products are delivered, the
amount is released to the seller.
Crdpro: In theory, Crdpro has a feedback system identical
to Altenen s. However, the system was disabled during our
observation. As a consequence, apart from some long-standing
Specialised users
Unspecialised users
Altenen
Crdpro
Crimenetwork
Bpcsquad
Tuxedocrew
Total
Number
64
41
24
15
3
147
Proportion (%)
31.1
73.2
25.0
60.0
100.0
38.1
Number
142
15
72
10
0
239
Proportion (%)
68.9
26.8
75.0
40.0
0.0
61.9
TABLE V: Number and proportion of specialised and unspecialised users per forum and in total.
CVV
Dumps
Fullz
Paypal
Total
Number
166
193
45
21
425
Specialised users
Proportion (%)
39.1
45.4
10.6
4.9
100.0
Price ($)
9.28
32.56
35.86
1.99
Number
299
41
95
112
547
Unspecialised users
Proportion (%)
54.7
7.5
17.4
20.5
100.0
Price ($)
10.46
42.61
30.20
3.17
TABLE VI: Number, proportion, and price of product categories per specialised and unspecialised users.
members, all other members had neutral feedback scores. An
escrow service was not provided.
Crimenetwork: Crimenetwork s reputation system was
based on  likes,  similar to Facebook. Members may  like 
other members. Like-scores between 0 and 857 were recorded
with a median of 36 likes. Crimenetwork s escrow service is
comparable to Altenen s. A fee of 4% of the purchase price is
charged for successful transactions.
Bpcsquad: As seen with Altenen and Crdpro, members
may rate other members on Bpcsquad by giving positive,
neutral or negative feedback. The scores ranged from 0 to
80, with a median of 0. Furthermore, there is a thread rating
possibility. Bpcsquad also activated an escrow service but did
not provide information on transaction fees.
Tuxedocrew: Tuxedocrew s reputation system differed from
those seen so far. Users could only rate threads but could
not give any feedback for other users. Instead, the forum
administrator could award users with special titles. The criteria
that had to be met to receive these titles were not published
on the forum. Tuxedocrew also offered an escrow service and
charged a 15% fee.
Overall, only Altenen s system appeared to be similarly
elaborated as eBay s. However, it had an amateurish touch,
especially the $50 buyer protection reserve which is not able to
cover substantial amounts. The other forums had fewer features
than eBay and even those were not always working. H5 is thus
rejected.
Presence of sellers on multiple forums. Finally, we examined
whether users were present on several forums. This was done
for all kind of sellers including high- and low-pro le traders.
In total, only six sellers were found trading on more than one
forum, namely two on Altenen and Crdpro, two on Altenen
and Bpcsquad, and two on Bpcsquad and Crdpro. A detailed
analysis of these sellers showed that
they were not high-
pro le but rather low-pro le unsuccessful traders trying their
luck on several platforms. Hypothesis 6 is thus con rmed;
concentration on a single forum was expected.
V. DISCUSSION
In this section, we summarise our  ndings on the carding
forums that we studied. The apparent lack of specialisation of
forum users is also described. Finally, we highlight limitations
of the study.
Summary of our  ndings. The prices sought for the products
offered on the forums lie within the range given by the
reviewed literature. Dumps and fullz are relatively expensive;
they are more than three times as expensive as credit card
numbers (CVVs). This may be due to the effort needed to gain
or monetise the data, the amount of information available, the
higher rewarding potential, and differing demand and supply.
Brison [29] argues, for example, that dumps generally promise
a higher payoff than CVVs. In contrast, CVVs are well-
represented on the forums and thus seem to be available in
abundance, which might push prices downwards. However,
contrary to Shulman s assumption [11], the prices of CVVs
are still solid. Taking into account the large proportion of
CVVs on the investigated forums, trading credit card numbers
is presumably still a lucrative business. PayPal-credentials are
well-represented on some forums as well, but so far do not
seem to replace credit cards as the most attractive trading
goods. Western Union money transfer services play only a
marginal role on most of the forums.
The products are advertised by sellers with varied success.
Even though some users complete hundreds of transactions,
most users do not sell anything at all. This means that the
trading sections of the forums are pro table distribution chan-
nels for high-pro le actors. This domination by a few traders
implies that the forums are not typical forums characterised
by mutual exchanging and participating users. In the carding
world, there is somewhat a clash of proli cacy and - arguably
- professionalism observable.
Referring back to the methodology part, counting of vouch-
ings instead of ads, the latter [19] was probably more suitable
to determine criminal performance. Some proli c sellers had
only one ad but received dozens of vouchings. Counting of
ads would have overlooked that.
Specialisation is not a key characteristic of sellers, even not
of high-pro le traders. Specialisation was observed mostly on
Crdpro. This might be due to the high proportion of dumps sold
on this forum. Dumps constitute almost half of the products
sold by specialised users on Crdpro. Dealing with dumps ap-
pears to demand a higher degree of specialisation than dealing
with only electronically obtainable products. Unlike CVVs or
credentials, the acquisition of dumps requires a connection to
the physical world. Therefore, perpetrators cannot stay in the
underground cyberworld only. As a result, it might be costlier
for unspecialised users to acquire dumps, thus forcing them
to sell dumps at higher prices, which would con rm Smith s
economic theory [23].
Yet the majority of sellers are not specialised. It could be
argued that if they are apt or have valuable data sources, they
know and distribute other types of illicit products and services.
On the contrary, unsuccessful sellers try their luck with another
product if it does not work with the  rst. These users, though,
might as well be rippers. Advertising a large array of products
might be done to give the impression of a prosperous seller,
or they just try various products in the hope that somebody
would engage in a trade eventually.
Overall, it is possible that the scope of analysis regarding
specialisation was too narrow. There may be a specialisation in
the underground world in larger terms where carding itself is
already a specialisation. Another reason might be that carding
is not as complicated as other cybercrimes like DDoS-attacks
or large-scale spam campaigns. Regarding DDoS-attacks, for
example, taking advantage of security vulnerabilities and ma-
nipulating compromised machines to send huge amounts of
data may require more time and skills than stealing and
trading credit card data. Therefore, it makes more sense to
be specialised in those domains.
At least on the investigated forums, and given the available
details, users are not present on more than one forum. It might
thus be true that the effort needed to reach a certain reputation
level deters users from establishing themselves on multiple
forums, as Motoyama et al. [7] proposed. This effort could
also be the reason why most users do not have any ratings at
all, as the analysis showed. Another reason for this, however,
might be the presence of rippers. Regarding users with high
reputation and many vouchings, it is highly unlikely to  nd
any rippers among them. Among users without any reputation
scores and vouchings, the proportion of rippers could be large.
It is interesting to note that an expert interviewed by Ablon et
al. [6] estimates that around 30% of all sellers are rippers.
In general, and if not stated otherwise, all our  ndings
apply to all  ve examined forums. However, there are some
differences. Sales on Crimenetwork are not distributed as
extremely unevenly as on other forums, neither are there
numerous specialised users present. Various people sell various
goods. Crimenetwork is thus more forum-like in terms of
mutual exchange and participation than the other forums. The
high number of posts per member con rms this perception.
In addition, the forum gives the impression of being well-
maintained. It has a myriad of banned users and the admin-
istrators comment rigorously if users do not stick to the rules
(e.g. in case a post does not  t into a thread).
Crdpro is the obvious opposite. Its best times were probably
in the past. It appears to be in decline. It does not seem to be
monitored by the administrators, there is no escrow service,
the reputation system does not work, and there is in general
not much traf c. It might be a question of time until the entire
forum will be closed.
On Tuxedocrew, the smallest forum, there are only four
recorded threads receiving any vouches. However, the number
of vouchings are low and it is thus questionable how fruitful
the business really is. What might be possible is that some
recurring customers buy a lot and do not always vouch. A
reason for the small size of this forum might be the high
charges for the escrow service or, even more likely, the lack
of a user-based reputation system. Only the administrator is
able to assess other users, based on intransparent criteria. This
might be too little to build trust among the users and to boost
trade.
Bpcsquad and Altenen do not particularly diverge from
the general  ndings. Bpcsquad is relatively small and the low
number of ratings may denote unsuccessful deals. It is thus
uncertain how strongly this forum will grow in the future.
In contrast, the enormous increase in members on Altenen
is impressive. Apparently, it is attractive to be part of this
large community. Forums with numerous users usually have
diverse products, and a multitude of potential buyers, that
is, high supply and demand. Both platforms have reasonable
and working basic reputation systems. Altenen provides an
additional, arguably pseudo-protection measure.
Limitations. We encountered a number of limitations during
the study, and they are mentioned in this section. Firstly,
the three-month period does not allow long-term conclusions.
After all, due to the technique of considering the vouchings
of this time period, older and often very pro table ads were
included in the analysis. Secondly, the examination was carried
out from a user s perspective. That is, no private messages
could be studied. In addition, VIP sections on the forums had
to be ignored. Thus, the  ndings of this study do not give
a complete picture of the forums. Nevertheless, we gathered
substantial amounts of data that allowed some analyses and
conclusions. The third limitation concerns the internal validity
of the data. It cannot be excluded that other investigators,
for instance, law enforcement agents engage in trades on the
forums for research and investigative purposes. This might
bias the data. However, we do not consider this possibility
a substantial threat.
Another threat to internal validity is the recorded product
prices. The prices advertised are not necessarily the prices
that buyers eventually paid. No post was found where the
possibility of price negotiations was mentioned. Nevertheless,
it cannot be excluded that users pay other, probably lower
prices than those advertised.
Finally, given that the examined forums trade different
goods or attract certain types of users, the  ndings are an
artefact of the forums in question and do not represent the
entire carding underworld. The results are only valid for the
 ve forums we analysed. The selection of the forums is
thus a threat to external validity. This limitation concerns all
hypotheses but especially H6 where an explicit cross-forum
comparison was executed. In principle, this limitation was
overcome by selecting  ve different forums based on various
selection criteria.
[11] A. Shulman,  The underground credentials market,  Computer Fraud
& Security, vol. 2010, no. 3, pp. 5 8, 2010.
[12] S. Corporation,  2015 internet security threat report, vol. 20,  technical
report, Symantec Corporation, Tech. Rep., 2015.
[13] A. K. Sood and R. J. Enbody,  Crimeware-as-a-servicea survey of
commoditized crimeware in the underground market,  International
Journal of Critical Infrastructure Protection, vol. 6, no. 1, pp. 28 38,
2013.
[14] A. Hutchings and T. J. Holt,  A crime script analysis of the online
stolen data market,  British Journal of Criminology, p. azu106, 2014.
[15] N. Christin,  Traveling the silk road: A measurement analysis of a
the 22nd
International World
large anonymous online marketplace,  in Proceedings of
international conference on World Wide Web.
Wide Web Conferences Steering Committee, 2013, pp. 213 224.
[16] K. Soska and N. Christin,  Measuring the longitudinal evolution of the
online anonymous marketplace ecosystem,  in 24th USENIX Security
Symposium (USENIX Security 15), 2015, pp. 33 48.
[17] A. de Carbonnel,  Hackers for hire: Ex-Soviet tech geeks play outsized
role in global cyber crime,  http://www.nbcnews.com/technology/
hackers-hire-ex-soviet-tech-geeks-play-outsized-role-global-6C10981346,
2013, [Online: Accessed 23-February-2016].
[18] S. Farooqi, M. Ikram, G. Irfan, E. De Cristofaro, A. Friedman, G. Jour-
jon, M. A. Kaafar, M. Z. Sha q, and F. Zaffar,  Characterizing seller-
driven black-hat marketplaces,  arXiv preprint arXiv:1505.01637, 2015.
[19] D. D ecary-H etu and A. Lepp anen,  Criminals and signals: An assess-
ment of criminal performance in the carding underworld,  Security
Journal, 2013.
[20] M. Felson and R. L. Boba, Crime and everyday life. Sage, 2010.
[21] E. Kraemer-Mbula, P. Tang, and H. Rush,  The cybercrime ecosystem:
Online innovation in the shadows?  Technological Forecasting and
Social Change, vol. 80, no. 3, pp. 541 555, 2013.
[22] T. J. Holt,  Exploring the social organisation and structure of stolen
data markets,  Global Crime, vol. 14, no. 2-3, pp. 155 174, 2013.
[23] A. Smith, An Inquiry into the Nature and Causes of the Wealth of
Nations. Random House, 1937.
[24] P. Biernacki and D. Waldorf,  Snowball sampling: Problems and tech-
niques of chain referral sampling,  Sociological methods & research,
vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 141 163, 1981.
Feedback
works, 
[25] S. Kluge,  Empirisch begr undete typenbildung: Zur konstruktion von
typen und typologien in der qualitativen forschung,  Opladen: Leske+
Budrich, 1999.
 How
howitworks.html, [Online: Accessed 23-February-2016].
 eBay
ebay-money-back-guarantee/, [Online: Accessed 23-February-2016].
 eBay Seller Protection,  http://portal.ebay.co.uk/seller-protection/,
[Online: Accessed 23-February-2016].
http://pages.ebay.co.uk/help/feedback/
http://pages.ebay.co.uk/
Guarantee, 
Money
Back
[26]
[27]
[28]
[29] B. Uri,   Fullz ,
 Dumps , and more: Here s what hackers are
selling on the black market,  http://venturebeat.com/2015/02/08/
fullz-dumps-and-cvvs-heres-what-hackers-are-selling-on-the-black-market/,
2015, [Online: Accessed 23-February-2016].
Future work. Sellers were focus of this study. Future re-
search should also consider their counterparts, the buyers. The
reviewed literature did not cover buyers and they were also
neglected in this paper. It might be useful to examine whether
there are high-pro le buyers and observe what they buy, and
whether they resell the products, and to whom, if they resell.
Regarding research design and methodology, a long-term or
a follow-up study might be able to identify trends or con rm
the patterns found in this study, respectively. Researchers could
also consider engaging in trades and getting in touch with the
traders, subject to ethical considerations. This method would
allow researchers to collect more information on traders and
gain better understanding of their roles within the fraud chain.
These  ndings would help to shed more light on how to
counter  nancial cybercrime in the future.
VI. CONCLUSION
This paper presented an overview of 25 existing online
carding forums and an in-depth analysis of  ve of these
forums, covering a three-month period of monitoring. What
differentiates this study from others is,  rst, we investigated
real data instead of drawing conclusions based solely on ex-
isting literature or expert opinion, second, we examined active
forums instead of closed forums, and third, we applied a low-
level focus on products, prices and sellers. Our  ndings suggest
that the market of carding forums is dynamic. However, it
is not clear how promising the future of carding forums is,
especially with the emergence of single-vendor stores which
could imply that high-pro le sellers would leave existing
carding forums to open their own single-vendor stores.
REFERENCES
[1] F. F. A. UK,  Fraud The Facts 2015,  http://www. nancialfraudaction.
23-
[Online: Accessed
2015,
org.uk/Fraud-the-Facts-2015.asp,
February-2016].
[2] S. Gold,  Identity crisis?  Engineering Technology, vol. 8, no. 10, pp.
32 35, November 2013.
[3] L. Allodi, M. Corradin, and F. Massacci,  Then and now: on the
maturity of the cybercrime markets (the lesson that black-hat marketeers
learned),  2015.
[4] S. Afroz, V. Garg, D. McCoy, and R. Greenstadt,  Honor among thieves:
A common s analysis of cybercrime economies,  in eCrime Researchers
Summit (eCRS), 2013.
IEEE, 2013, pp. 1 11.
[5] M. Yip, N. Shadbolt, and C. Webber,  Why forums?: an empirical
analysis into the facilitating factors of carding forums,  in Proceedings
of the 5th Annual ACM Web Science Conference. ACM, 2013, pp.
453 462.
[6] L. Ablon, M. C. Libicki, and A. A. Golay, Markets for Cybercrime
Tools and Stolen Data: Hackers  Bazaar. Rand Corporation, 2014.
[7] M. Motoyama, D. McCoy, K. Levchenko, S. Savage, and G. M. Voelker,
 An analysis of underground forums,  in Proceedings of the 2011 ACM
SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement conference. ACM,
2011, pp. 71 80.
[8] B. Stone-Gross, T. Holz, G. Stringhini, and G. Vigna,  The underground
economy of spam: A botmaster s perspective of coordinating large-scale
spam campaigns,  in USENIX Workshop on Large-Scale Exploits and
Emerging Threats (LEET), 2011.
J. Onaolapo, E. Mariconti, and G. Stringhini,  What happens after you
are pwnd: Understanding the use of leaked webmail credentials in the
wild,  in ACM SIGCOMM Internet Measurement Conference (IMC),
2016.
[9]
[10] T. J. Holt and E. Lampke,  Exploring stolen data markets online:
products and market forces,  Criminal Justice Studies, vol. 23, no. 1,
pp. 33 50, 2010.
