 Open Innovation  and  Triple Helix  Models of Innovation:  
Can Synergy in Innovation Systems Be Measured? 
Journal of Open Innovations: Technology, Market and Complexity, 2(1) (2016) 1-12; 
doi:10.1186/s40852-016-0039-7 
 
Loet Leydesdorff a * & Inga Ivanova b 
 
Abstract 
The model of  Open Innovations  (OI) can be compared with the  Triple Helix of University-
Industry-Government Relations  (TH) as attempts to find surplus value in bringing industrial 
innovation closer to public R&D. Whereas the firm is central in the model of OI, the TH adds 
multi-centeredness: in addition to firms, universities and (e.g., regional) governments can take 
leading roles in innovation eco-systems. In addition to the (transversal) technology transfer at 
each moment of time, one can focus on the dynamics in the feedback loops. Under specifiable 
conditions, feedback loops can be turned into feedforward ones that drive innovation eco-
systems towards self-organization and the auto-catalytic generation of new options. The 
generation of options can be more important than historical realizations ( best practices ) for the 
longer-term viability of knowledge-based innovation systems. A system without sufficient 
options, for example, is locked-in. The generation of redundancy the Triple Helix indicator 
can be used as a measure of unrealized but technologically feasible options given a historical 
configuration. Different coordination mechanisms (markets, policies, knowledge) provide 
different perspectives on the same information and thus generate redundancy. Increased 
redundancy not only stimulates innovation in an eco-system by reducing the prevailing 
uncertainty; it also enhances the synergy in and innovativeness of an innovation system. 
 
Keywords: innovation, redundancy, knowledge, code, options 
                                                 
a University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam School of Communication Research (ASCoR), PO Box 15793, 1001 NG 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands; email: loet@leydesdorff.net; * corresponding author 
b Institute for Statistical Studies and Economics of Knowledge, National Research University Higher School of 
Economics (NRU HSE), 20 Myasnitskaya St., Moscow, 101000, Russia; and School of Economics and 
Management, Far Eastern Federal University, 8, Sukhanova St., Vladivostok 690990, Russia; inga.iva@mail.ru  
 
1 
Introduction 
 
The model of  Open Innovations  (OI; Chesbrough, 2003) and the  Triple Helix of University-
Industry-Government Relations  (TH; Etzkowitz & Leydesdorff, 1995 and 2000) seem at first 
sight to have much in common in terms of their stated objectives to bring industrial innovation 
closer to public R&D. On closer inspection, however, they differ in terms of their disciplinary 
backgrounds and policy objectives. As Chesbrough formulated (at p. xxiv),  Open innovation is 
a paradigm that assumes that firms can and should use external ideas as well as internal ideas, 
and internal and external paths to market, as the firms look to advance their technology.  Firms 
are thus the principal agents. The TH focuses on the knowledge infrastructure of innovations 
provided by university-industry-government relations.  
 
How can innovation eco-systems be improved? The transformation of the university toward an 
 entrepreneurial university  (Clark, 1998; Etzkowitz, 2002) and the role of innovation policies 
can be analyzed in terms of social coordination mechanisms that function differently from and 
beyond the market (Luhmann, 1995). From this perspective, the firm is one agent among others 
in networks of relations. In the OI model, however, the existing public/private divide in a 
political economy is more or less taken for granted, whereas the TH model calls attention to the 
newly emerging coordination mechanism of organized knowledge production in a knowledge-
based economy (Leydesdorff, 2006; Whitley, 1999).  
 
How is a knowledge-based economy different from a political economy?  A political or 
industrial economy assumes markets and political institutions as the two most relevant 
2 
coordination and selection mechanisms, while a knowledge-based economy is based on adding 
knowledge production as a third coordination mechanism to the mix. However, the generation of 
 wealth from knowledge  or  knowledge from wealth  requires knowledge-based mediation by 
management or intervention by government to change the institutional conditions (Freeman & 
Perez, 1988). The public/private divide is reconstructed in a knowledge-based economy, for 
example, in terms of intellectual property rights. A policy intervention such as the Bayh-Dole 
Act, for example, brings the industrial aspiration as a third mission into the core of the 
institutional arrangements between federal or national governments and national or state 
universities.  
 
Arguing that applied research should be driven commercially and the university should not spend 
public money by investing in market development, the University of Amsterdam, for example, 
decided in the mid-90s to sell its science park to the Zernicke group (www.zernikegroup.com) 
which at that time was expanding internationally. In the meantime, however, the natural science 
faculty has been concentrated in a large park (of 70 ha), called the  Amsterdam Science Park.  
More than 120 (startup) companies have been incubated on this campus. However, in a recent 
study of the technology transfer performance of Dutch universities, Vinig & Lips (2015, at p. 
1047) conclude that  (w)ith the exception of Dutch technical universities and academic medical 
centers, all Dutch research universities fail to translate their high research output into successful 
technology transfer and commercialization.  While engaging in social relations, the traditional 
( ivory-tower ) university has become increasingly competent in shielding its intellectual 
research agendas against external interventions (van den Daele & Weingart, 1975). Incentives 
are considered as opportunities for funding. 
3 
 
The neo-evolutionary turn of the TH 
 
How do these three selection environments (economic, scientific, and political) interact with one 
another? Selection environments operating upon one another reduce uncertainty (variation) 
potentially by orders of magnitude. Bruckner, Ebeling, Monta o, & Scharnhorst (1994) consider 
such markets as so  hyper-selective  that niches are needed to protect the incubation of 
innovation. Two layers of interactions are thus shaped: structural interactions among selection 
environments on top of ongoing interactions generating variation at the bottom level (e.g., new 
products and processes). The resulting system is vertically layered and horizontally 
differentiated. Because of this complex structure, the system can be considered nested (e.g., 
national, regional, etc.; Braczyk, Cooke, & Heidenreich, 1998) from one perspective, while 
clustered in overlapping sets from another (e.g., sectors; Breschi, Lissoni, & Malerba, 2003). 
Ivanova & Leydesdorff (2015) use the term  fractal manifold  to describe this fuzzy structure of 
innovation systems. 
 
The two models OI and TH both depart from linear models such as  technology push  or 
 demand pull  in favor of a focus on interactions and further development. Relations are no 
longer fixed and given, as in a channel between a supply and a demand side (Kline & Rosenberg, 
1986). The driving force in one phase may become a dependent variable in a next one; feedback 
and feedforward arrows co-determine longer-term development. A system with three interacting 
sources of variation cannot be expected to remain in equilibrium (Leydesdorff, 1994; 
Leydesdorff & Van den Besselaar, 1998). This  upsetting of the equilibria  (Nelson & Winter, 
4 
1982; Schumpeter [1939], 1964, p. 428) tends to become structural in a knowledge-based 
economy. Therefore, economic assumptions have to be reformulated in this neo-evolutionary 
framework (Andersen, 1994). 
 
In the TH-model the relationships (among universities, industry, and government) were first 
conceptualized in terms of institutional relations, such as bilateral relations between universities 
and industries which may require administrative mediation or policy intervention. One can draw 
a triple helix as a triangle (S bato, 1975) or as Venn diagrams (circles) that represent partly 
overlapping institutional spheres (Figure 1).  
 
 
 
 
Figure 1: Representations of the Triple Helix in terms of a Venn diagram (Fig. 1a; source: 
Etzkowitz & Leydesdorff, 2000, p. 111) or as a triangle (Fig. 1b; source: Petersen et al., 2016, 
p. 667)  
At the intersections in Figure 1a, one can pencil in relations such as funding of university 
research by government or industry, technology transfer, or priority programs formulated 
5 
strategically, for example, at national levels. Institutional relations, however, tend to be sticky. 
For example, the Japanese government has promoted university-industry relations for decades, 
but individual researchers tend to prioritize the internationalization of their co-authorship 
relations more than their relevance at the national level (Leydesdorff & Sun, 2009). In other 
words, one can expect a tension between (i) integration and differentiation and (ii) the local and 
global dimensions. Korean firms, for example, are not always open to university initiatives 
because the knowledge base develops internationally. Knowledge-intensive firms (e.g., big 
pharma) tend to choose their university-partners globally, that is, in terms of the functionality of 
specific collaborations. 
 
Historical trajectories and evolutionary regimes 
 
In Figure 1b, agents and institutions are no longer in focus, but the TH model is generalized in 
terms of the three main functions in the innovation process: demand, supply, and technological 
capabilities. This model is no longer neo-institutional that is, about networks of agents but 
neo-evolutionary, since it is about the interactions among selection environments. How do 
markets interact with technologies in ways that are different from their interactions with 
institutions in a political economy? How are the institutional relations endogenously transformed 
by technological trajectories and emerging technological regimes i.e., longitudinal selection 
mechanisms and their interactions?  
 
Technological trajectories and regimes can be considered as a dually layered selection process 
(Dosi, 1982; Hayami & Ruttan, 1970; Nelson & Winter, 1982). A trajectory is historically 
6 
observable along an  innovation avenue  (Sahal, 1985). The innovativeness of an eco-system, 
however, is also determined by absorptive capacities on the demand side and the skill structure 
of the labor force in the environment of the firm (Cooke & Leydesdorff, 2006). Technological 
innovation may make some natural resources (e.g., coal mines) obsolete and others (e.g., rare-
earth metals) most valuable at the level of the global system.  
 
Whereas each selection environment operates on specific variations, mutual selections may lead 
to co-evolution along trajectories in processes of  mutual shaping.  In the case of three 
interacting selection environments, a technological regime can be expected additionally. This 
regime reorganizes the relevant variation beyond the control of the carrying agencies entertaining 
relations along historical trajectories. Each mutual relation (e.g., between  supply  and 
 demand ) can be spuriously influenced by a third functionality pending as another possible 
selection context. 
 
For example, highly industrialized countries and regions may be locked into dominant 
technologies or institutional arrangements and lose the flexibility to absorb new options. Are 
other arrangements possible? The neo-evolutionary version of the TH model considers 
 the functions that are integrated and differentiated in the institutional relations. The institutional 
networks provide a knowledge-infrastructure, which from an evolutionary perspective can also 
be considered as a retention mechanism.  
 
7 
Interactions among the helices 
 
The three main functionalities in the TH-triangle can be considered as (i) knowledge production 
(carried primarily by academia), (ii) wealth generation (industry), (iii) and normative control 
(governance). Since variations in these three dimensions can be considered as analytically 
independent, the three coordination mechanisms can be represented as orthogonal axes of a 
Cartesian coordinate system (Figure 2). Each agent or specific relation in an innovation system 
can be positioned in this space. From the perspective of the knowledge production system, for 
example, a university patent can be considered as relevant output; but patents are at the same 
time input to the economy. In the third dimension of governance and control, the patent may be 
filed under different national or international regimes such as USPTO, WIPO, EPO, etc. 
Figure 2: The Triple Helix as three functions in a system of Cartesian coordinates. Source: 
Ivanova & Leydesdorff, 2014a.  
 
 
8 
Unlike the institutions, the functions are not directly observable, but must be inferred as 
hypotheses by an analyst. The specification of these expectations shapes models that can be 
improved by systematic observation and thus exhibit a dynamics of knowledge-production that is 
different from market incentives or normative reasoning in political discourse (Hajer, Hoppe, 
Jennings, Fischer, & Forester, 1993). Because of the reflexivity involved, the knowledge 
dynamics can itself be expected to become part of the system that it models. The gradual 
transformation of a political economy into a knowledge-based economy can be expected to 
depend on the reflective capacities of this knowledge-based system: can the models be 
improved? Can other solutions be found? Has the loop added by scholarly reflections been self-
reinforcing? Is a new specialty, for example, developing? (Rosenberg, 1982) The frame of 
reference is no longer the individual firms, but the knowledge-based reconstruction and 
transformation of the system of relations among innovation agents. 
 
One can easily assume more than three dimensions to be relevant (Carayannis & Campbell, 
2010; Leydesdorff, 2012). However, before we move to modeling an n-dimensional system, a 
three-dimensional one is worth further investigation: a TH can be expected to behave very 
differently from the sum of three double helices because the relations in a TH can loop forward 
or backward and thus generate fruition of or lock-in into an innovation eco-system (Ulanowicz, 
2009). In other words, the third party may catalyze or inhibit the relations between the other two 
parties. Since each corner of the triangle can have this spurious function in relation to the other 
two, such a TH system can be considered as auto-catalytic or self-organizing.  
 
9 
The self-organization generates a next-order or global layer of communications on top of the 
local organization in terms of institutions and their relatively stable relations. This global layer 
(regime) can be considered as an order of expectations. The viability of options is first specified 
in terms of expectations. The specification of the expectations triggers and stimulates knowledge 
production processes to come to the fore when the discourse is further developed. 
 
Measurement 
 
The TH functionalities can be specified more abstractly (as latent dimensions) than the 
observable institutions and their relations. One moves from descriptive to inferential statistics 
when specifying expectations (before proceeding to the observations). In a recent paper, Petersen 
et al. (2016), for example, applied the TH methodology to the three main functions in the 
innovation process: (i) supply, (ii) demand, and (iii) technological capabilities (Figure 1b). In a 
series of studies of national systems of innovation, Leydesdorff and various co-authors modeled 
the TH as distributions of firms with (i) a geographical address (postal code), (ii) a technological 
knowledge base (using the NACE codes of the OECD as a proxy), and (iii) an economic weight 
(firm size). When observable distributions (variables) can be attributed to units of analysis 
firms in this case as independent (orthogonal) dimensions, the question can be raised of 
whether one would expect a synergy to emerge or would the system become locked into a 
vicious circle.1  
 
                                                 
1 The model and the measurement enable us to specify this expectation for any three- or higher-dimensional system. 
One can find a routine for the computation of mutual redundancy in three or four dimensions at 
http://leydesdorff.net/software/th4/ . 
10 
Using firms as units of analysis in a series of studies, we decomposed a number of national 
systems of innovation: Germany (Leydesdorff & Fritsch, 2006), the Netherlands (Leydesdorff, 
Dolfsma, & van der Panne, 2006), Sweden (Leydesdorff & Strand, 2014), Norway (Strand & 
Leydesdorff, 2014), Italy (Cucco & Leydesdorff, manuscript), Hungary (Lengyel & Leydesdorff, 
2011), the Russian Federation (Leydesdorff, Perevodchikov, & Uvarov, 2015), and China 
(Leydesdorff & Zhou, 2014). In the case of the Netherlands, Sweden, and China, the national 
level adds to the sum of the regions. In Sweden, the knowledge-based economy is heavily 
focused in three regions (Stockholm, Gothenburg, and Malm /Lund); in China, four 
municipalities which are administered at the national level participate in the knowledge-based 
economy more than comparable regions.  
 
In Norway, foreign-driven investment along the west coast seems to drive the transition from a 
political to a knowledge-based economy. Hungary s western part is transformed by the 
integration into the European Union, whereas the eastern part has remained a state-led innovation 
system. The capital Budapest occupies a separate position. In Germany, the generation of 
synergy is mainly at the level of the States (L nder) and not at the national level. In Italy, the 
main division is between the northern and southern parts of the country, and less so among 
regions as primarily administrative units. In the Russian Federation, the national level tends to 
disorganize synergy development at lower levels; knowledge-intensive services cannot circulate 
freely because of their integration in the Russian state apparatuses. 
 
11 
Path-dependency, transition, regime change 
 
The transition from a dyad (supply/demand) to a triad (supply/demand/capability) is 
fundamental, as the sociologist Simmel already noted in 1902 (Simmel, 1950). A triad may be 
commutative or not: are the friends of my friends also my friends? The directionality of the 
arrows the order of the communications can generate asymmetries in triads: two loops in one 
direction and one in the other can be expected to lead to a path different from one loop in the first 
direction and two in the opposite. In other words, this system becomes path-dependent ( non-
Abelian ): one cannot go back without friction to a previous state, as in an equilibrium system. 
In other words, a TH system is no longer in an equilibrium state, but necessarily in transition and 
developing (Etkzowitz & Leydesdorff, 1998). 
 
Each point in the Cartesian space of Figure 2 can be considered as representing a three-
dimensional vector in terms of its x, y, and z-coordinates. In the case of an event and one 
expects events, since the system is developing the corresponding vectors change. For example, 
University A may become more involved in industrial activities in the form of new startups. This 
can first be considered as a variant. If all or many universities move in this same direction, one 
would at a next moment have to rethink the choice of the axes in the vector space. For example, 
the axis of knowledge production could be rotated so that it points to the center of the cloud of 
points representing the universities.  
 
In other words, a rotation of the structure is brought about by an aggregate of actions in a 
specific direction. This rotation can be clock-wise or counter-clockwise as illustrated in Figure 
12 
1b. Historical organization prevails in one direction and evolutionary self-organization in the 
other; but both organization and self-organization remain continuously relevant. In other words, 
historical organization and evolutionary self-organization are not an  either/or,  but a question of 
extent or, in other words, a variable. This variable can be positive or negative (or zero); the 
question becomes one of measurement. How can one measure this variable? 
 
Historically realized systems are measurable; but hypothesized systems are not yet necessarily 
realized. Information theory provides us with a language to express this: the realized options 
provide the observed uncertainty (in Shannon-type notation: Hobs), while our specifications of the 
system(s) provide us with an expectation of all possible states; that is, the maximum entropy 
Hmax. The difference between the two (Hmax - Hobs) is non-information or redundancy R.2 
Redundancy is a measure of the options that could have been realized (given the definition of the 
system), but have not been realized hitherto. R can be considered as the footprint of the next-
order (possible) system in a historical configuration. For the viability of an innovation system, 
the availability of options other than the already realized ones may be more important than prior 
achievements. Redundancy is thus critical for innovation. 
 
Because of Shannon s choice to couple the information measure H to the entropy S,3 the Second 
Law of thermodynamics is equally valid for H: entropy can only increase with time. In an 
                                                 
2 Shannon (1948) defined the redundancy relative to the maximum information as follows:   =
(             )     
3 H is a mathematical measure of uncertainty which Shannon (1948) coupled to the H in Gibbs  formulation of the 
entropy: S =          =              log(  )
. In this formula,    denotes the Boltzmann constant. When base 2 is 
used for the logarithm, H is measured in bits, whereas S (and   ) are defined in Joule/Kelvin. 
 
. 
 
13 
evolving system such as a TH system the Hmax can also be expected to increase with time. 
Brooks & Wiley (1986, at p. 43) have visualized this as follows (Figure 3a): 
 
 
 
 
 
Figure 3a: The development of entropy (Hobs), 
maximum entropy (Hmax), and redundancy 
(Hmax   Hobs). Source: Brooks & Wiley (1986, 
at p. 43). 
 
Figure 3b: Hitherto impossible 
options are made possible because of 
cultural and technological evolution. 
Source: Leydesdorff et al. (in press).  
 
In other words, the generation of new options that is, increase of redundancy is at first a 
natural process. However, technological evolution adds to the redundancy by making the 
historically  impossible  as indicated in the top-right corner of Figure 3a feasible, and thus 
one adds non-natural (that is, humanly constructed) options to the system. We have added this 
domain in Figure 3b and colored the redundancy green. Note that more redundancy reduces 
uncertainty because the relative information (         
 
) is reduced. Reduction of uncertainty, 
for example, may shape niches in the complex system that are favorable to innovation more than 
when hyper-complexity and hyper-selectivity prevail. 
 
14 
The generation of redundancy in TH systems 
 
How does one add redundancy (new options) to a system by producing knowledge? In addition 
to the functional dimensions represented as a vector space in Figure 2 above, one can consider 
the axes also as different perspectives on similar events: the academic perspective, the industrial 
one, and the political one. The overlaps in the Venn diagrams of Figure 1 in that case no longer 
indicate mutual information, but redundancy. One reads the same information, but from a 
different perspective.  
 
 
Figure 4: Overlapping uncertainties in two variables x1 and x2. 
 
In Figure 4, the overlap between two variables x1 and x2 is depicted as two circles representing 
sets of values of each variable. The mutual information or transmission (T12) is then defined in 
accordance with the rules of set theory as follows:  
 
 
 
(1) 
15 
One corrects for the overlap by subtracting H12. Alternatively, one can consider the overlap as 
redundancy: the same information is appreciated twice. In addition to H1 and H2, the overlap 
contains a surplus of information since both sides appreciate the overlap. This leads to an 
additional information as follows: 
 
 12 =  1 +  2 +  12 =   12 + 2 12 
(2) 
  
The mutual redundancy R12 at the interface between the two sets can now be found by using Y12 
instead of H12 in Eq. 1, as follows:  
 
 
 12 =  1 +  2    12 
        =  1 +  2   ( 12 + 2 12) 
=    1 +  2   ([ 1 +    2    12] + 2 12) 
=   12 
 
(3) 
Since T12 is necessarily positive (Theil, 1972, pp. 59 ff.), it follows from Eq. 3 that R12 is 
negative and therefore cannot be anything other than the consequence of an increased 
redundancy. Consequently, R12 can be expressed in terms of negative amounts (e.g., bits) of 
information, that is, as reduction of uncertainty. 
 
Leydesdorff, Petersen, and Ivanova (in press) derive in the case of more than two dimensions, n 
> 2: 
 
16 
   = ( 1)1+   1234   = [ ( 1,   ,   )      (  
 
1
)]  
     +[     
( 
2)
  
          
( 
3)
   
+    
( 
4)
    
          + ( 1)1+  
 
(  
  1)
     (  1)
     ...(  1)
] 
(4) 
 
The left-bracketed term of Eq. 4 is necessarily negative entropy (because of the subadditivity of 
the entropy), while the configuration of the remaining mutual information relations contribute a 
second term on the right which is positive.4 In other words, we model here the generation of 
redundancy on the one side versus the historical process of uncertainty generation on the other, 
as an empirical balance in a system that operates with more than two codes (e.g., alphabets; 
Abramson, 1963, pp. 127 ff.). When the resulting R is negative, self-organization prevails over 
organization in the configuration under study, whereas a positive R indicates conversely a 
predominance of organization over self-organization as two different subdynamics.  
 
The multiplication of options in social systems 
 
Using biological or engineering metaphors, one often assumes that systems are  naturally  given 
and therefore have a maximum capacity. In other words, there are  limits to growth  (Club of 
Rome; Meadows, Meadows, & Randers, 1972) when the carrying capacity of a system is 
assumed to be  given  instead of specified in a scholarly discourse. For example, the capacity of 
transport across the Alps could be considered as constrained by the capacity of roads and 
railways such as at the Brenner Pass. As soon as one invents new channels, however, other 
                                                 
4 The alternating sign in the right-hand term of Eq. 4 corrects for the alternating sign following from the Shannon 
formulas (Krippendorff, 2009, at p. 670). 
17 
options become available such as, for example, air transport across the Alps which is not 
constrained by the geological or weather conditions on the ground.  
 
The new options are not just added, but the number of options is multiplied with each new 
channel. Let us clarify this implication by using the following formalization: a network can be 
represented as a matrix (n x m). Thus, its capacity is determined both by the number of units (n) 
and by the number of communications among these nodes (m). As long as m is low, the 
aggregate number of units (n) can be used as an indicator of the capacity of the system. But with 
each increase of m, the influence of the number of units (n) on the product (n x m) decreases.  
 
For example, compare New York City with Calcutta in terms of  sustainability : living 
conditions in Calcutta are largely determined by the number of inhabitants because of the poor 
infrastructure. In New York, whether the city has ten or twelve million inhabitants does not 
particularly matter. The structure of this city is determined by its communication infrastructure 
(including such things as sewage systems, telephone lines, subways, etc.). A system which has 
changed the basis of its carrying capacity from actors to their interactive communications can 
grow exponentially. Each new column representing another dimension of communication 
multiplies the system s carrying capacity. However, the various columns represent also a 
differentiation of the communication into channels of communication. Thus, the number of 
options for innovation can rapidly increase if communication among the different codes of 
communication is appreciated in the model.  
 
18 
Summary and conclusions 
 
Beyond opening the innovation process to third parties, the Triple Helix provides a model of 
innovation in which these third parties are specified in terms of selection environments and the 
interaction processes among them. Unlike the carrying layer in which innovation is understood to 
have developed historically, these different contexts provide meaning to innovation from specific 
perspectives. At the supra-individual level, these perspectives can be considered as differently 
coded communication systems. The codes are not present otherwise than as a structuration of the 
expectations (Giddens, 1984); yet the way and the extent to which these constructs interact 
matters for the innovation climate in terms of the numbers of options available for innovation 
and hence the reduction of uncertainty. These seemingly elusive processes can be modeled, 
measured, and simulated using the formulas that we submit (see also: Ivanova & Leydesdorff, 
2014b). 
 
Redundancy generation operates  against the arrow of time  or, in other words, in the direction 
opposite to the generation of Shannon-type information (that is, probabilistic entropy). In 
biological systems, pockets of  neg-entropy  (Brillouin, 1953; Schr dinger, 1944) can be 
expected as temporary niches in the entropy flux (Von Foerster, 1960). Differentiation among 
the codes of communication can be functional to the emergence of a cultural-technological 
evolution, which can tilt the balance between historical organization and evolutionary self-
organization. Evolutionarily, the possible is no longer constrained by  adjacent others  in a 
historically defined universe (Kauffman, 2000), but by the quality of the models that one can 
entertain in the knowledge base (Luhmann, 1982). From a longer-term perspective, models of 
anticipatory systems (Dubois, 1998; Rosen, 1985) in which the arrow of time is also reversed, 
19 
provide options for the simulation (Leydesdorff, 2010; Leydesdorff, Johnson, & Ivanova, 2014), 
while Triple-Helix models enable us to measure the efficiency of the anticipatory mechanisms 
that can be exploited for technological developments and innovations. 
 
Both OI and TH models invite us programmatically to examine processes of exchange of 
information and knowledge among partners with different perspectives and other institutional 
roles. We have argued that exchanges at the level of the codes of communication can lead to 
redundancies that enrich the innovation process by making more and new options available. The 
richer context of a knowledge-based regime (at the supra-individual level) forces us in a 
feedback loop to specificity in the selections and to the knowledgeable legitimation of decisions. 
The realization of this additional loop stimulates the transition from a framework of politics 
(power) and economics (money) to one that contains organized knowledge production and 
innovation as a third mechanism of social coordination.  
 
References 
 
Abramson, N. (1963). Information Theory and Coding. New York, etc.: McGraw-Hill. 
Andersen, E. S. (1994). Evolutionary Economics: Post-Schumpeterian Contributions. London: 
Pinter. 
Bathelt, H. (2003). Growth regimes in spatial perspective 1: innovation, institutions and social 
systems. Progress in Human Geography, 27(6), 789-804.  
Braczyk, H.-J., Cooke, P., & Heidenreich, M. (Eds.). (1998). Regional Innovation Systems. 
London/ Bristol PA: University College London Press. 
Breschi, S., Lissoni, F., & Malerba, F. (2003). Knowledge-relatedness in firm technological 
diversification. Research Policy, 32(1), 69-87.  
Brillouin, L. (1953). The negentropy principle of information. Journal of Applied Physics, 24(9), 
1152-1163.  
Brooks, D. R., & Wiley, E. O. (1986). Evolution as Entropy. Chicago/London: University of 
Chicago Press. 
Bruckner, E., Ebeling, W., Monta o, M. A. J., & Scharnhorst, A. (1994). Hyperselection and 
Innovation Described by a Stochastic Model of Technological Evolution. In L. 
20 
Leydesdorff & P. Van den Besselaar (Eds.), Evolutionary Economics and Chaos Theory: 
New Directions in Technology Studies (pp. 79-90). London: Pinter. 
Carayannis, E. G., & Campbell, D. F. J. (2010). Triple Helix, Quadruple Helix and Quintuple 
Helix and how do knowledge, innovation, and environment relate to each other? 
International Journal of Social Ecology and Sustainable Development 1(1), 41 69. 
Chesbrough, H. W. (2003). Open Innovation: The new imperative for creating and profiting 
from technology. Boston: Harvard Business School Press. 
Clark, B. R. (1998). Creating Entrepreneurial Universities: Organization Pathways of 
Transformation. Guildford, UK: Pergamon. 
Cooke, P., & Leydesdorff, L. (2006). Regional Development in the Knowledge-Based Economy: 
The Construction of Advantages. Journal of Technology Transfer, 31(1), 5-15.  
Dosi, G. (1982). Technological Paradigms and Technological Trajectories: A Suggested 
Interpretation of the Determinants and Directions of Technical Change. Research Policy, 
11(3), 147-162.  
Dubois, D. M. (1998). Computing Anticipatory Systems with Incursion and Hyperincursion. In 
D. M. Dubois (Ed.), Computing Anticipatory Systems, CASYS-First International 
Conference (Vol. 437, pp. 3-29). Woodbury, NY: American Institute of Physics. 
Etzkowitz, H. (2002). MIT and the Rise of Entrepreneurial Science. London: Routledge. 
Etzkowitz, H., & Leydesdorff, L. (1995). The Triple Helix---University-Industry-Government 
Relations: A Laboratory for Knowledge-Based Economic Development. EASST Review 
14(1), 14-19.  
Etzkowitz, H., & Leydesdorff, L. (2000). The Dynamics of Innovation: From National Systems 
and  Mode 2  to a Triple Helix of University-Industry-Government Relations. Research 
Policy, 29(2), 109-123.  
Freeman, C., & Perez, C. (1988). Structural crises of adjustment, business cycles and investment 
behaviour. In G. Dosi, C. Freeman, R. Nelson, G. Silverberg & L. Soete (Eds.), Technical 
Change and Economic Theory (pp. 38-66). London: Pinter. 
Giddens, A. (1984). The Constitution of Society. Cambridge: Polity Press. 
Hajer, M. A., Hoppe, R., Jennings, B., Fischer, F., & Forester, J. (1993). The argumentative turn 
in policy analysis and planning. Durham, NC: Duke University Press. 
Hayami, Y., & Ruttan, V. W. (1970). Agricultural Productivity Differences among Countries. 
The American Economic Review, 60(5), 895-911.  
Ivanova, I. (2014). Quadruple Helix systems and symmetry: a step towards helix innovation 
system classification. J. Know. Econ. 5(2), 357-369. 
Ivanova, I. & Leydesdorff, L. (2014a).  Rotational Symmetry and the Transformation of 
Innovation Systems in a Triple Helix of University-Industry-Government Relations. 
Technological Forecasting and Social Change 86, 143-156. 
Ivanova, I. A., & Leydesdorff, L. (2014b). Redundancy Generation in University-Industry-
Government Relations: The Triple Helix Modeled, Measured, and Simulated. 
Scientometrics, 99(3), 927-948. doi: 10.1007/s11192-014-1241-7 
Ivanova, I. A., & Leydesdorff, L. (2015). Knowledge-generating efficiency in innovation 
systems: The acceleration of technological paradigm changes with increasing complexity. 
Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 96, 254-265. doi: 
10.1016/j.techfore.2015.04.001 
Kauffman, S. A. (2000). Investigations. Oxford, etc.: Oxford University Press. 
21 
Kline, S., & Rosenberg, N. (1986). An overview of innovation. In R. Landau & N. Rosenberg 
(Eds.), The Positive Sum Strategy: Harnessing Technology for Economic Growth (pp. 
275-306). Washington, DC: National Academy Press. 
Krippendorff, K. (2009). Information of Interactions in Complex Systems. International Journal 
of General Systems, 38(6), 669-680.  
Lengyel, B., & Leydesdorff, L. (2011). Regional innovation systems in Hungary: The failing 
synergy at the national level. Regional Studies, 45(5), 677-693. doi: DOI: 
10.1080/00343401003614274 
Leydesdorff, L. (1994). Epilogue. In L. Leydesdorff & P. v. d. Besselaar (Eds.), Evolutionary 
Economics and Chaos Theory: New directions for technology studies (pp. 180-192). 
London/New York: Pinter. 
Leydesdorff, L. (2006). The Knowledge-Based Economy: Modeled, Measured, Simulated. Boca 
Raton, FL: Universal Publishers. 
Leydesdorff, L. (2010). Communicative Competencies and the Structuration of Expectations: the 
Creative Tension between Habermas  Critical Theory and Luhmann s Social Systems 
Theory. Complicity: An International Journal of Complexity and Education, 7(2), 66-76; 
available at 
http://ejournals.library.ualberta.ca/index.php/complicity/article/view/8915/7178.  
Leydesdorff, L. (2010). The Communication of Meaning and the Structuration of Expectations: 
Giddens   Structuration Theory  and Luhmann s  Self-Organization . Journal of the 
American Society for Information Science and Technology, 61(10), 2138-2150.  
Leydesdorff, L. (2012). The Triple Helix, Quadruple Helix  , and an N-tuple of Helices: 
explanatory models for analyzing the knowledge-based economy. Journal of the 
Knowledge Economy, 3(1), 25 35. 
Leydesdorff, L., & Fritsch, M. (2006). Measuring the Knowledge Base of Regional Innovation 
Systems in Germany in terms of a Triple Helix Dynamics. Research Policy, 35(10), 
1538-1553.  
Leydesdorff, L., & Ivanova, I. A. (2014). Mutual Redundancies in Inter-human Communication 
Systems: Steps Towards a Calculus of Processing Meaning. Journal of the Association 
for Information Science and Technology, 65(2), 386-399.  
Leydesdorff, L., & Strand,  . (2013). The Swedish System of Innovation: Regional Synergies in 
a Knowledge-Based Economy. Journal of the American Society for Information Science 
and Technology, 64(9), 1890-1902; doi: 1810.1002/asi.22895.  
Leydesdorff, L., & Van den Besselaar, P. (1998). Technological developments and factor 
substitution in a complex and dynamic system. Journal of Social and Evolutionary 
Systems, 21(2), 173-192.  
Leydesdorff, L., & Zhou, P. (2014). Measuring the Knowledge-Based Economy of China in 
terms of Synergy among Technological, Organizational, and Geographic Attributes of 
Firms. Scientometrics, 98(3), 1703-1719. doi: 10.1007/s11192-013-1179-1. 
Leydesdorff, L., Dolfsma, W., & Van der Panne, G. (2006). Measuring the Knowledge Base of 
an Economy in terms of Triple-Helix Relations among  Technology, Organization, and 
Territory . Research Policy, 35(2), 181-199.  
Leydesdorff, L., Johnson, M., & Ivanova, I. A. (2014). The Communication of Expectations and 
Individual Understanding: Redundancy as Reduction of Uncertainty, and the Processing 
of Meaning. Kybernetes, 43(9/10), 1362-1371.  
22 
Leydesdorff, L., Park, H. W., & Lengyel, B. (2014). A Routine for Measuring Synergy in 
University-Industry-Government Relations: Mutual Information as a Triple-Helix and 
Quadruple-Helix Indicator. Scientometrics, 99(1), 27-35. doi: 10.1007/s11192-013-1079-
4 
Leydesdorff, L., Perevodchikov, E., & Uvarov, A. (2015). Measuring triple-helix synergy in the 
Russian innovation systems at regional, provincial, and national levels. Journal of the 
Association for Information Science and Technology, 66(6), 1229-1238.  
Luhmann, N. (1982). Systems Theory, Evolution Theory, and Communication Theory. In S. 
Holmes & C. Larmore (Eds.), The Differentiation of Society (pp. 255-270). New York: 
Columbia University Press. 
Luhmann, N. (1995). Social Systems. Stanford, CA: Stanford University Press. 
Nelson, R. R., & Winter, S. G. (1982). An Evolutionary Theory of Economic Change. 
Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press. 
Rosen, R. (1985). Anticipatory Systems: Philosophical, mathematical and methodological 
foundations. Oxford, etc.: Pergamon Press. 
Rosenberg, N. (1982). How exogenous is science? Inside the Black Box: Technology and 
Economics. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 
S bato, J. (1975). El pensamiento latinoamericano en la problem tica ciencia technolog a 
desarrollo-dependencia. Buenos Aires: Paid s. 
Sahal, D. (1985). Technological guideposts and innovation avenues. Research Policy, 14, 61-82.  
Schr dinger, E. (1944). What is Life? Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. 
Schumpeter, J. ([1939], 1964). Business Cycles: A Theoretical, Historical and Statistical 
Analysis of the Capitalist Process. New York: McGraw-Hill. 
Shannon, C. E. (1948). A Mathematical Theory of Communication. Bell System Technical 
Journal, 27, 379-423 and 623-656.  
Simmel, G. (1950). Individual and society. In K. H. Wolf (Ed.), The Sociology of Georg Simmel. 
New York: Free Press. 
Strand,  ., & Leydesdorff, L. (2013). Where is Synergy in the Norwegian Innovation System 
Indicated? Triple Helix Relations among Technology, Organization, and Geography. 
Technological Forecasting and Social Change, 80(3), 471-484. 
Theil, H. (1972). Statistical Decomposition Analysis. Amsterdam/ London: North-Holland. 
Ulanowicz, R. E. (2009). The dual nature of ecosystem dynamics. Ecological modelling, 
220(16), 1886-1892. 
van den Daele, W., & Weingart, P. (1975). Resistenz und Rezeptivit t der Wissenschaft--zu den 
Entstehungsbedingungen neuer Disziplinen durch wissenschaftliche und politische 
Steuerung. Zeitschrift fuer Soziologie, 4(2), 146-164.  
Vinig, T., & Lips, D. (2015). Measuring the performance of university technology transfer using 
meta data approach: the case of Dutch universities. The Journal of Technology Transfer, 
40(6), 1034-1049.  
von Foerster, H. (1960). On Self-organizing Systems and Their Environments. In M. C. Yovits & 
S. Cameron (Eds.), Self-Organizing Systems (pp. 31-50). London: Pergamon Press. 
Whitley, R. D. (1999). Divergent Capitalisms: The Social Structuring and Change of Business 
Systems. New York: Oxford University Press. 
 
23 
