Mining of health and disease events on Twitter:  

validating search protocols within the setting of Indonesia 

Aditya L. Ramadonaa,b*, Rendra Agustac, Sulistyawatid, Lutfan Lazuardie, Anwar D. Cahyonof,  

Åsa Holmnerg, Fatwa S.T. Dewih, Hari Kusnantoi, Joacim Rocklöva,j 

aDepartment of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Epidemiology and Global Health, Umeå University, Umeå 90187, Sweden 

bCenter for Environmental Studies, Universitas Gadjah Mada, Yogyakarta 55281, Indonesia 

cDepartment of Psychology, Universitas Mercu Buana, Yogyakarta 55753, Indonesia 

dDepartment of Public Health, Universitas Ahmad Dahlan, Yogyakarta 55164, Indonesia 

eDepartment of Health Policy and Management, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Gadjah Mada, Yogyakarta 55281, Indonesia 

fDistrict Health Office, Yogyakarta 55165, Indonesia 

gDepartment of Radiation Sciences, Umeå University, Umeå 90187, Sweden 

hDepartment of Health Behavior, Environment and Social Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Gadjah Mada, Yogyakarta 55281, Indonesia 

iDepartment of Community and Family Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Universitas Gadjah Mada, Yogyakarta 55281, Indonesia 

jHeidelberg University Medical School, Institute of Public Health, Heidelberg 69120, Germany 

 

Abstract 

This study seeks to validate a search protocol of ill health-related terms using Twitter data which can later be used to understand if, and how, 
Twitter  can  reveal  information  on  the  current health  situation.  We  extracted  conversations  related  to health  and  disease  postings  on  Twitter 
using a set of pre-defined keywords, assessed the prevalence, frequency, and timing of such content in these conversations, and validated how 
this search protocol was able to detect relevant disease tweets. Classification and Regression Trees (CART) algorithm was used to train and 
test search protocols of disease and health hits comparing to those identified by our team. The accuracy of predictions showed a good validity 
with AUC beyond 0.8. Our study shows that monitoring of public sentiment on Twitter can be used as a real-time proxy for health events. 

Keywords: social media analytics; public health surveillance; digital epidemiology. 

relevant content from Twitter Search API [7]. Since this study 
is  intended  to  reveal  the  relationships  in  the  setting  of 
Indonesia,  we  only  considered  and  filtered  tweets  in  Bahasa 
by using the following keywords. 

 
"rumah OR sakit OR rawat OR inap OR demam OR panas  
-cuaca OR berdarah OR pendarahan OR tombosit OR badan 

OR muntah OR badan OR tua OR ':('". 

 
We  removed  retweets  and,  therefore,  only  collected  390 
tweets in Bahasa. We obtained 1,632 unique words from such 
tweets  after  removing  punctuation,  numbers,  capitalization, 
and the Bahasa stop-words (e.g., kamu and aja). Many words 
appeared  infrequently  and  we  considered  only  the  22  highest 
words  frequencies  (i.e.,  words  that  appear  at  least  10  times, 
Fig. 1). 

 

 

1. Introduction  

Twitter  is  a  free  social  networking  and  micro-blogging 
service  that  enables  its  users  to  read  and  share  messages  no 
longer than 140-characters.  As of May 2016, there are 24.34 
million  Indonesian,  or  around  10%  of  the  population  being 
active monthly on Twitter [1], sharing news, events, as well as 
their  personal  feelings  and  experiences  including  health-
related information. Twitter offers a potential for data mining 
of public information flows [2] and these massive data sources 
may  be  exploited 
for  public  health  monitoring  and 
surveillance purposes [3]. 

Previous  studies  have  explored  the  use  of  Twitter,  for 
example,  to  track  levels  of  disease  activity  [4],  to  predicts 
heart  disease  mortality  [5],  and  for  measuring  health-related 
quality  of  life  [6].  However,  the  validity  of  twitter  mining 
protocols  to  correctly  detect  health  and  disease  events  is  one 
methodological  challenge  of  this  media.  This  study  seeks  to 
validate  a  search  protocol  of  ill  health-related  terms  using 
real-time  Twitter  data  which  can  later  be  used  to  understand 
if,  and  how,  twitter  can  reveal  information  on  the  current 
health situation in Indonesia.  

In  this  validation  study  of  mining  protocols,  we:  1) 
extracted  geo-located  conversations  related  to  health  and 
disease  postings  on  Twitter  using  a  set  of  pre-defined 
keywords, 2) assessed the prevalence, frequency and timing of 
such content in these conversations, and 3) validated how this 
search protocol was able to detect relevant disease tweets.  

2. Materials and Methods 

We  started  by  developing  groups  of  words  and  phrases 
relevant  to  disease  symptoms  and  health  outcomes  to  extract 

Fig. 1. Words that appear more than 10 times 

 

 
We developed a model of twitter search term protocol hits 
to  our  team  assigned  positive  or  neutral  tweets  content  in 
respect  to  health  events.  We used  the  rpart  package  [8],  in  R 
software environment [9], to implement the  CART algorithm 
[10].  Predictors  were  generated  from  the  22  words  with 
highest frequency, i.e. by counting the number of such words 
in  a  tweet.  The  model  was  trained  and  validated  by  dividing 
the  390  tweets  from  the  historical  feeds  from  Twitter  search 
API  randomly,  into  two  datasets  were  273  tweets  (70%)  was 
used  for  training,  and  117  tweets  (30%)  was  used  for 
validating the model. 

For  further  investigation,  we  tested  the  model  to  the 
Twitter  real-time  feeds  collecting  a  total  of  1,145,649  tweets 
using  Twitter  stream  API  [2]  by  recording  conversations 
within Indonesia region (between latitudes 11°S and 6°N, and 
longitudes  95°E  and  141°E),  for  one  week  (26th  July  –  1st 
August  2016).  For  this,  we  selected  randomly  100  True  and 
100  False  predictions  from  all  hits  to  be  further  checked  for 
accuracy. 

 

 

Fig. 2. Classification and regression trees 

 
To  evaluate  the  feasibility  of  quantifying  and  using  this 
protocol to detect disease trends, we calculate its performance 
in  term  of  sensitivity,  specifity,  positive  predictive  value 
(PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV). 

3. Results and Discussion 

We found that  hati (heart), rasa (feel) and perut (stomach) 
are  the  most  highly  correlated  words  with  sakit  (sick,  ill, 
pain).  Other  words  showed  a  lower  correlation  to  sakit 
(correlation<0.1).  We  further  explored  the  classification  and 
regression  trees  model  (Fig.  2)  and  found  that  if  the  word 
orang (person), hati, lemah (weak), or rasa are in a tweet, then 
the  model  predicted  FALSE  more  often.  On  the  contrary,  if 
the  word  nak  (son,  daughter),  pendarahan  (hemorrhage, 
bleeding),  demam  (fever),  or  sakit  are  in  a  tweet,  then  it 
predicts  TRUE  more  often.  This  tree  makes  sense  intuitively 
since orang, hati, lemah, and rasa are generally seen as words 
represent  the  state  of  broken  heart  (sakit  hati),  while  nak, 
pendarahan,  demam,  or  sakit  are  words  represents  a  state  of 
pain and illness. 

Furthermore,  we  were  also  able  to  extract  geo-located 
conversations  related 
to  disease  symptoms  and  health 
outcomes, as well as its prevalence, frequency, and timing, by 
aggregating  daily  geo-located  tweets.  Figure  3  shows  6,109 
tweets  of  predicted  hits  from  the  model,  within  Indonesia 

* Corresponding author. Tel.:+62 8522 9394 370. 
Email: alramadona@ugm.ac.id, alramadona@outlook.com 

region  during  July  26th  -  August  1st,  2016.  We  found  that 
most  of  health  or  disease  risk  signal  appeared  in  the  western 
part of Indonesia, e.g. Sumatera and Java Island. 

 

 

 
 

Fig. 3. Geo-located conversations related to health (or disease) 

 

As  was  to  be  expected,  the  majority  of  tweets  came  from 
Java  island,  the  most  densely  populated  island  in  Indonesia. 
Other  areas  included  some  of  the  capital  of  districts  and 
provinces in Sumatra, Kalimantan and Sulawesi (Fig. 3). The 
availability  of  telecommunications  infrastructure  and  the 
characteristics  of  the  people  who  live  in  a  region  is  likely  to 
influence  the  number  of  Twitter  users  in  such  region. 
Although  this  study  did  not  examine  and  compare  the 
distribution  of  the  number  of  Twitter  users  in  each  region  of 
Indonesia, the methods developed in this study has been able 
to  detect  the  signal,  i.e.  the  tweet  containing  a  health  risk 
information, in nearly real-time. 

The  accuracy  of  the  prediction  (Table  1)  to  categorize  the 
extracted  tweets  appear  good,  both  in  validation  and  testing 
dataset  (AUC,  0.82,  0.70).  However,  we  found  that  the 
sensitivity and NPV were decreased, meanwhile, specifity and 
PPV were increased (Table 1). 

The  predictions  based  on  the  tweets  contain  information 
that refers to someone  whose being unhealthy, and therefore, 
we  only  detected  6,109  TRUE  results  of  1,145,649  tweets 
from  Twitter  real-time  feeds.  This  means  the  number  of 
tweets  that  may  contain  the  conversations  related  to  disease 
symptoms  and  health  outcomes  was  very  small  (0.5%) 
compared  to  the  entire  tweets  stream.  We  believe  its 
unbalanced dataset may contribute in decreasing the ability of 
the  model  to  correctly  classify  a  tweet.  Therefore,  in 
subsequent  research,  it  is  necessary  to  investigate  and 
compare  the  current  results  with  a  more  robust  algorithm  in 
term  of  dealing  with  an  unbalanced  dataset  (e.g.,  anomaly 
detection algorithm). 

 

Table 1. Model Accuracy 

 

Validation 

Testing 

Sensitivity 

Specifity 

Positive Predictive Value 

Negative Predictive Value 

AUC 

80.0 

84.6 

86.7 

77.2 

0.82 

42.0 

98.0 

95.5 

62.8 

0.70 

of Disease Activity and Public Concern in the U.S. during the Influenza A 

H1N1 Pandemic. PLoS One. 6(5):e19467. 

5.   Eichstaedt JC, Schwartz HA, Kern ML, Park G, Labarthe DR, Merchant 

RM,  et  al.  Psychological  Language  on  Twitter  Predicts  County-Level 

Heart Disease Mortality. Psychol Sci 26(2):159–69. 

6.   Strom DE,  Sheen  V,  Arnold C,  Spiegel  BM,  van  Oijen  MG.  Measuring 

Health  Related  Quality  of  Life  (HRQoL)  in  Crohn’s  Disease  Using 

Twitter: A Pilot Study of Social Media As a Novel Tool to Assess Disease 

Burden. Gastroenterology. 144(5):S-378. 

7.   Twitter.  The  Search  API  [Internet].  2016  [cited  2016  Aug  7].  Available 

from: https://dev.twitter.com/rest/public/search 

8.   Therneau  T,  Atkinson  B,  Ripley  B.  rpart:  Recursive  Partitioning  and 

Regression  Trees  [Internet].  2015  [cited  2016  Aug  7].  Available  from: 

https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/rpart/index.html 

9.   R Core Team. R: A Language and Environment for Statistical Computing 

[Internet]. Vienna, Austria: R Foundation for Statistical Computing; 2016  

[cited 2016 Aug 7]. Available from: https://www.r-project.org/ 

10.  Breiman  L,  Friedman  JH,  Olshen  RA,  Stone  C.  Classification  and 

Regression Trees. Wadsworth, Belmont, 1983.  

11.  Wikipedia. Languages of Indonesia [Internet]. 2016 [cited 2016 Aug 14]. 

Available from: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Languages_of_Indonesia 

12.  Karyanti MR, Uiterwaal CS, Kusriastuti R, Hadinegoro SR, Rovers MM, 

Heesterbeek  H,  et  al.  The  changing  incidence  of  Dengue  Haemorrhagic 

Fever in  Indonesia: a  45-year  registry-based analysis.  BMC  Infect  Dis. 

14(1):412.  

13.  Anastuti  RA.  Implementasi  Program  Pengendalian  Demam  Berdarah 

Dengue  (DBD)  di  Kelurahan  Sorosutan  dan  Kelurahan  Semaki  Kota 

Yogyakarta. Skripsi, Universitas Gadjah Mada; 2013. 

14.  Dirjen  Pengendalian  Penyakit  dan  Penyehatan  Lingkungan.  Modul 

Pengendalian  Demam  Berdarah  Dengue.  Handoko  D,  Prasetyowati  EB, 

Hartoyo  S,  editors.  Jakarta:  Direktorat  Jenderal  Pengendalian  Penyakit 

dan Penyehatan Lingkungan; 2011. 

A  number  of  limitations  are  apparent  for  this  study, 
especially,  for  example,  the  team  member  involved  in 
building  the  dataset  to  train  the  model  were  mainly  from 
academics and speakers of local languages used in the western 
region  of  Indonesia.  Considering  the  complexity  of  how 
people  express  ideas  on  Twitter,  especially  the  nature  of 
Indonesians who has a broad variety of local languages [11], it 
is necessary to involve additional team member from another 
discipline, such as  Linguistic, as  well as health  workers  from 
the eastern region of Indonesia in order to make a more robust 
validation of the mining protocol. 

Previous  studies  have  shown  that  the  implementation  of 
disease control programs has not given satisfactory result due 
to,  among  others,  surveillance  program  implementation  in 
Indonesia  which  are  mostly  passive  [12],  and  the  different 
levels  of  public  knowledge  about  a  particular  disease  in  the 
community  [13].  Therefore,  despite  some  of  the  limitations 
mentioned  above,  this  case  study  highlight  the  wealth  of 
information  in  Twitter  conversation  that  might  be  utilized  to 
develop an early warning to identify disease trend, as a part to 
enhance  the  surveillance  system  has  been  running.  The 
models  allowed  some  recognition,  although  not  perfect,  of 
health  risk  signal  at  nearly  real-time.  Thus,  development  of 
early  warning  system  could  benefit  from  these  predictions 
since  one  of  the  main  reason  for  disease  control  being  less 
successful  is  related  to  the  poor  and  reactive  management 
targeting  interventions  too  late  in  the  epidemics  [14].  It  may 
target high-risk people and periods, for when health education 
and  public  health  interventions  can  effectively  prepare 
communities and potentially curb the epidemic. 

4. Conclusion 

In  this  study,  we  validated  a  search  protocol  of  health-
related terms using real-time Twitter data within the setting of 
Indonesia.  Our  study  shows  that  monitoring  of  public 
sentiment  on  Twitter,  combined  with  contextual  knowledge 
about  the  disease,  can  detect  health  and  disease  tweets  and 
potentially  be  used  as  a  valuable  nearly  real-time  proxy  for 
health-related  indicators.  Furthermore,  social  media  analysis 
might be used to identify a user or community with increased 
health risks over a specific spatial and temporal range.  

Acknowledgements 

The  authors  gratefully  acknowledge  use  of  Azure  cloud 

computing platform, sponsored by Microsoft. 

References 

1.   Statista.  Number  of  active  Twitter  users  in  leading  markets  as  of  May 

2016  (in  millions)  [Internet].  2016  [cited  2016  Aug  7].  Available  from: 

http://www.statista.com/statistics/242606/number-of-active-twitter-users-

in-selected-countries/ 

2.   Twitter.  The  Streaming  APIs  [Internet].  2016  [cited  2016  Aug  7]. 

Available from: https://dev.twitter.com/streaming/overview 

3.   Paul MJ, Sarker A, Brownstein JS, Nikfarjam A, Scotch M, Smith KL, et 

al. Social Media Mining for Public Health Monitoring and Surveillance. 

Pac Symp Biocomput. 21:468–79. 

4.   Signorini A, Segre AM, Polgreen PM. The Use of Twitter to Track Levels 

