Shared urbanism: Big data on accommodation 
sharing in urban Australia 

Somwrita Sarkar and Nicole Gurran  

 
Abstract 

As affordability pressures and tight rental markets in global cities mount, 
online shared accommodation sites proliferate. Home sharing arrangements 
present dilemmas for planning that aims to improve health and safety stand-
ards, while supporting positives such as the usage of dormant stock and the 
relieving of rental pressures on middle/lower income earners. Currently, no 
formal data exists on this internationally growing trend. Here, we present a 
first quantitative glance on shared accommodation practices across all major 
urban centers of Australia enabled via collection and analysis of thousands 
of online listings. We examine, countrywide, the spatial and short time scale 
temporal characteristics of this market, along with preliminary analysis on 
rents, dwelling types and other characteristics. Findings have implications 
for housing policy makers and planning practitioners seeking to monitor and 
respond to housing policy and affordability pressures in formal and informal 
housing markets.      
_______________________________________________________ 
S. Sarkar (Corresponding author) 
Architecture, Design and Planning, The University of Sydney, NSW 2006 
Australia.   
Email:  somwrita.sarkar@sydney.edu.au 
 
N. Gurran 
Architecture, Design and Planning, The University of Sydney, NSW 2006 
Australia.   
Email: nicole.gurran@sydney.edu.au 

1. Introduction 
A city is a sum total of its physical-spatial structure and the social, techno-
logical,  and  economic  processes  that  occur  within  this  structure  (Batty, 
2013). While some aspects of these processes are planned, or regulated, 
most processes are self-organised, shaped by local peer-to-peer interactions. 
A particular example of self-organised processes can be observed in the ris-
ing phenomenon of the shared economy or what we term as shared urban-
ism: peer-to-peer sharing of resources enabling functions such as mobility 
(car sharing or pooling practices) and accommodation (flatsharing or house-
sharing). Such phenomenon present profound but largely unknown and un-
explored implications for both mobility as well as housing policy and plan-
ning and urban regulation. They represent what may be termed as an “infor-
mal sector”. The self-organised behavior of shared urbanism promises more 
adaptive, more responsive and more resilient cities on the one hand, by 
“freeing up and using” dormant resources in a largely market driven manner 
(i.e. no central regulation or control). On the other hand, concerns arise on 
aspects such as health, equity, discrimination, or distribution outcomes that 
seem  to  be  simultaneously  embedded  inherently  in  these  processes,  tied 
deeply to their relationship with the sizes of urban systems (Cottineau, 2016; 
Sarkar, Phibbs, Simposon and Wasnik, 2016). A natural question arises: as 
the world urbanises faster than ever, and urban agglomertions grow in num-
ber and absolute size, what is the role played by these self-organised peer-
to-peer processes? To resolve this dilemma, a deep data-driven understand-
ing is needed. Unfortunately, due to their fast-changing, short term and dy-
namic nature, they also represent a large data gap in terms of enhancing our 
understanding of this specific class of socio-economic urban processes and 
their relationship to spatial structure, since national statistical bodies [such 
as the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) for Australia] do not have many 
surveys or programs to capture this type of data. 
 
In line with the major theme of this conference, shared mobility and accom-
modation practices in cities represent one of the key areas of “big urban 
data” generation with a very specific characteristic: the data on sharing is 
big (in the sense of weekly or daily volumes), but it is also big because of 
its temporal continuity (Santi, 2014). The websites for each of these services 
witness hourly, daily and weekly changes, with the added caveat that this 
data is also extremely ephemeral: listings can disappear as soon as a property 
is let out. Capturing such data can provide a wealth of information and pol-
icy relevant evidence for urban planning, especially because it represents a 
facet of continuous and ephemeral urban data that is not captured at all 

through the more traditional and official data collection mechanisms. Exist-
ing official data collection channels are much more infrequent and depend-
ent on samples, and therefore ill-suited to capture the rich temporal dynam-
ics of such processes. Facilitated by the web footprint, it is now possible to 
capture very large samples of this class of data, more or less continuously, 
thereby overriding the problem of small or infrequent samples in traditional 
surveys.  
 
However, with any new data type, strengths as well as limitations should be 
discussed. In this case too, there are limitations. First, this type of data does 
pose quality and reliability questions, which is why the large sample size is 
important for making any informed analysis. With a large sample size, even 
with the presence of noise certain statistical trends and regularities may be 
derived. However, the analysis has to be carefully performed to ensure that 
the design of analytics is sound. We will discuss this limitation more clearly 
later in the paper when we analyse rents and geography in the shared ac-
commodation sector. Second, the availability and analysis of this big data 
does not completely exclude the need for a more human, in-depth examina-
tion of the related issues, through more traditional means such as interviews. 
This human aspect will be especially relevant for understanding issues such 
as social tie formation, discrimination, overcrowding, health aspects and 
other such concerns. For example, deep qualitative studies can bring out the 
more human dimensions, but are restricted by the small sample size to spe-
cific areas of a single city (McNamara and Connell, 2007). As research pro-
gresses, it will be very useful to develop methodologies that can combine 
the best of big data-driven approaches, quantitative modelling, and in-depth 
qualitative explorations.        
 
In  this  paper,  we  focus  specifically  on  Internet  enabled  accommodation 
sharing web platforms in Australia, that facilitate the phenomenon of flat or 
house sharing through peer-to-peer direct interactions of those who want to 
rent with those who want to share or rent out their homes. Studies on this 
phenomenon are extremely sparse, though there is now evidence on differ-
ent parts of the world on engaging with different socio-economic questions 
related to this phenomenon (Kim, 2016; Carlsson, 2015; Ahrentzen, 2003; 
McNamara and Connell, 2007). We have previously presented a preliminary 
analysis of this phenomenon in Sydney (Gurran, Phibbs, Sarkar, 2016), and 
now we extend our analysis to the whole of Australia.  
 
Internet platforms reduce search and transaction costs associated with find-
ing a place to stay (for the new renter), and attracting a lodger or flatmates 

(for  the  existing  renter  or  owner  in  a  property).  Platforms  such  as  flat-
mates.com are flourishing and could radically expand housing choices for 
renters and home purchasers. However, any evidence on the housing bene-
fits or otherwise of such practices is limited, and there are growing questions 
about potential risks to public health and safety (e.g. overcrowding), resi-
dential amenity, and the supply of affordable rental housing. In this paper, 
we present a first and preliminary quantitative glance on shared accommo-
dation practices across all major urban centres of Australia enabled via ana-
lytics of thousands of online listings. We examine, countrywide, the spatial 
and short time scale temporal characteristics of the phenomenon, along with 
preliminary analysis on rents, dwelling types and other dwelling character-
istics. Findings have implications for housing policy makers and planning 
practitioners seeking to monitor and respond to housing policy and afforda-
bility pressures in formal and informal housing markets. 

 

2. Methodology 
We begin by providing a short description of the methodology we followed 
to collect data on shared accommodation in Australia. We focused on two 
accommodation sharing sites, gumtree.com.au and flatmates.com.au, that 
post regular listings for shared homes. We reviewed carefully the legal and 
privacy notices on both websites, ensuring that no laws are breached in the 
collection of this data. We also called or emailed representatives from both 
these organizations. All of these efforts confirmed that the data is provided 
and accessed freely in the public domain by all parties. 
Data was collected by writing Python based scripts that were used weekly, 
over 8 weeks from October 2016 to December 2016, to collect listings data 
from both these sites. The same designated day of the week was used to 
mine this data for all the 6 weeks. 26,864 unique listings were collected for 
the 5 major urban centres of Australia: Sydney (8 weeks), Melbourne, Bris-
bane, Perth and Adelaide (all 7 weeks), Figure 1. Due to limitations of space, 
in this paper we focus only on the data from flatmates.com.au.  
 
We note here that it is not reliable to converge data from the two sites: 
amongst thousands of listings, we found principally through manually track-
ing image data and suburb/address data in some specific listings, that there 
could be double listings. That is, a person could choose to list their place on 
both gumtree and flatmates, but would be assigned unique ids on each plat-
form. Thus, we have kept the data from the two sources separated.  

  

(a)

4000
3000
2000
1000

(c)

4000
3000
2000
1000

Sydney

(b)
4000
3000
2000
1000

(d)

2000
1000

(e)

1000

City

Sydney

Melbourne
Brisbane

Perth
Adelaide

Total

Unique listing 

count
8913
7625
6347
2664
1315
26864

Melbourne

Perth

Brisbane

Adelaide

 
Figure 1. Unique weekly listings over 2 months (8 weeks for Sydney and 7 weeks 
for  the  other  cities)  compiled  from  Flatmates.com.  Each  coloured  bar  shows  a 
week’s data.   
The data was collected in the form of JSON (Java Script Object Notation) 
variables, and was then parsed and cleaned (to ensure only unique listings 
are being collected) to produce a final csv (Comma Separated Values) text 
file, one for each week. Data points that were collected included unique list-
ing ids, city, postcode, suburb, street address, latitude, longitude, dwelling 
condition information (eg. parking characteristics, bedroom, bathroom and 
occupancy counts, dwelling type, internet availability, bills included or not 
included in rent etc.), information on owners, weekly rent, bonds, gender 
preferences, maximum and minimum number of days of stay, and a text de-
scription that provided insight into the demographics of the people renting 
out the property and the desired demographics of future renters. Matlab and 
Excel were then used to analyse the data in different ways, the results of 
which we present in the next section. 

3. Results 
Each of the main results focusses on a target research question that is cur-
rently unanswered by traditional data sources. We note here that from the 
volume of data collected, a wealth of different analytics is possible, but we 
focus on the most primary of questions in this paper, as exemplars to the 
variety of possible analytics. All the analysis presented here has been per-
formed for all the 5 major cities, but the results from Sydney are discussed 

more in a couple of instances, since the highest volume of listings were rec-
orded in Sydney.   

3.1 What is the spatial spread and geography of the shared 
accommodation market in Australia?  
It is usually assumed that shared accommodation across Australia would be 
particularly dense around inner city areas and specific areas such as Univer-
sities or business districts. However, as Figures 2, 3, and 4, show for Sydney, 
Melbourne and Brisbane, the shared accommodation market is spread com-
pletely over the greater metropolitan regions, albeit getting sparser with dis-
tances from the city center. Analysis of Perth and Adelaide show similar 
patterns. The larger urban regions show evidence of listings in regional areas 
away from the main city too, e.g. Gosford, Kincumber, Woy Woy in NSW, 
etc. Although the highest density of listings is recorded around the major 
CBD areas, newly emerging business districts or educational areas are likely 
to show a high density of listings as well. For example, the area around Par-
ramatta in Sydney shows a density of listings comparable to Sydney CBD, 
Figure 3. Particularly important is the dependence of the spatial pattern on 
the major transit and road routes. For example, in Sydney, the highest num-
bers of listings occur around Sydney CBD, Eastern Suburbs, and Parramatta, 
but the trend is most prominent along the major train routes and roads, show-
ing conclusively that transport accessibility is a major determinant of the 
spatial spread of the shared accommodation market.  
 
A particularly interesting observation can be made around the issue of geo-
graphic granularity here. While in our previous analysis of Sydney (Gurran, 
Phibbs, Sarkar, 2016), we analysed the data at the Local Government Area 
(LGA) level, in this paper we have adopted a finer granularity and per-
formed the analysis over suburbs and postcodes. We had earlier found that 
at the LGA level, the City of Sydney and Waverley localities showed the 
highest density of listings (accounting for 8-14% of all dwellings that were 
shared homes between non-related adults), while the Parramatta LGA ac-
counted for only 4% of all dwellings accommodating rental sharing. On the 
other hand, at the suburb level or post code level granularity, it is seen that 
the suburb of Parramatta alone is in the top 10 suburbs ordered by the num-
ber of listings. This is extremely significant since this brings out that there 
are potentially sharing “hot-spots” that can only be brought out at a finer 
level of data granularity at the suburb or post code level and that will be 
missed by coarser LGA level analysis. Further, it also brings out the uneven 
geography of distribution that may be affecting inner, middle and outer ur-
ban  areas,  where  potentially  different  social  and  economic  “attractors” 

might be governing the dynamics of the shared market. For example, while 
it can be expected that areas near universities and holiday hotspots (e.g. 
Bondi in Sydney) will attract younger home sharers, middle ring shared ac-
commodation patterns (e.g. Parramatta) could instead be shaped by young 
working families or new migrants who may share because they find rents to 
be too high or unaffordable at the single-family level. This has potential im-
plications for shared accommodation practices being viewed from two com-
pletely different lenses: one from a perspective of the young person transi-
tioning through this particular but temporary phase of housing in their lives, 
another from a perspective of long term sharing between young, working or 
migrant families for whom the situation may last several years or become a 
semi-permanent way of life. Even to explore these hypotheses on long term 
and short term behaviors and typologies, the starting point is the ready avail-
ability  of  such  data  and  related  robust  analytic,  empirical  and  modeling 
mechanisms. 
 

Figure 2. Unique listings by latitude-longitude positions on Flatmates.com, Syd-
ney, October 2016.   

 

 

 
Figure 3. Counts of 8913 unique listings on Flatmates.com, Sydney over 8 weeks 
from October 2016 to December 2016. An interactive version of the map is availa-
ble at: https://public.tableau.com/shared/HR5FMF9JM?:display_count=yes. 

 

 

 

Figure 4. Counts of 7625 and 6347 unique listings, respectively, on Flatmates.com, 
for Melbourne (above) and Brisbane (below) over 7 weeks from November 2016 to 
December 2016. Melbourne (above) Dark blue: 1 postcode, 3000 (203 - 619 list-
ings), Turquoise blue: 13 postcodes (104-203 listings), Light green: 47 postcodes 
(37-104 listings), Yellow: 164 postcodes (1-37 listings). Brisbane (below) Red: 2 
postcodes (266 - 452 listings), Orange: 14 postcodes (115-266 listings), Green: 29 
postcodes (39-115 listings), Blue: 84 postcodes (1-39 listings). Maps produced us-
ing AURIN portal. 

 

Pyrmont 
Randwick 
Maroubra 
Sydney 
Surry Hills 
Parramatta 
Ultimo 
Kingsford 
Newtown 
Chippendale 
Coogee 

weeks 
201 
198 
174 
167 
155 
154 
154 
151 
150 
142 
140 

Top 10 Sydney suburbs 

Unique listing counts over 8 

Table 1. Top 10 suburbs of Sydney by number of listings. 

3.2 What are the temporal flow characteristics of the shared 
accommodation market in Australia?   
One particular dimension that could greatly change the perception of the 
volume occupied by the shared accommodation market is the temporal di-
mension. 
 
Consider that there are a number of unique listings captured in Week i. Three 
outcomes can occur over time to Week i+1: (i) a previous property is rented 
out, and/or the listing is removed and does not appear in Week i+1, (ii) a 
previous property continues to be on the market, in which case it reappears 
in the Week i+1 listings, and (iii) some new properties are advertised in 
Week i+1. An overall analysis of these trends will show the rates of how 
quickly properties are entering or leaving the market, or the rate of their 
persistence. 7-8 weeks is too short a time to compute conclusive quantitative 
numbers like the average number of weeks on the market, or the clearing 
rate of properties. However, we make a beginning to this type of stock and 
flow analysis here with our preliminary data. Figure 4 shows the analysis 
for Sydney, where it is seen that the number of properties entering or leaving 
each  week  remains  more  or  less  consistent  over  the  short  time  scale  of 
weeks, though over the 8 weeks a small rise is seen (from 2745 to 3401 
listings). Moreover, the number of listings that are removed is roughly equal 
to the number of listings that are new each week. Further, there seems to be 
a high degree of persistence of properties on the market. For example, 69% 
of the listings of Week 1 reappear in Week 2, and 24% of the listings of 
Week 1 still appear in Week 8. Moreover, the patterns of these percentages 

are fairly stable, that is, the weekly overlap, the two-weekly overlap, the 
three-weekly overlap, and so on, all hover around similar percentage values, 
showing that at least over the short time scale of weeks, the process may be 
treated as a stationary one. We performed the same analysis for the other 4 
cities, and found similar patterns for all of them, with little fluctuation. 
 

2785   2709   2706   2841   3008   3132   3239   3401

863     785     757     753     893     869     1075     0
   0     787     782     892     920     1017     976     1237

69%

71%

72%

74%

70%

72%

67%

52%

53%

42%

53%

43%

36%

55%

43%

37%

32%

51%

54%

44%
36%

31%
28%

42%

36%

29%
27%
24%

 

Figure 4. Temporal analysis of unique weekly listings for Sydney, 8 weeks from 
October 2016 to December 2016. Top row of numbers shows total unique listings 
per week. Second row of numbers, shown as black bars, corresponds to the number 
of listings that were removed, i.e., number of properties let out that week. Third row 
of numbers, shown as grey bars, corresponds to the number of listings that were 
new in that week, i.e., number of properties advertised that week. The coloured bars 
show the number of listings that persist over the weeks. They are to be read as fol-
lows: (i) 69% of 2785 properties in Week 1 continue to be listed in Week 2, 51% of  
2785 properties in Week 1 continue to be listed in Week 3, and so on. The time 
series for listings out weekly, new listings in weekly, and weekly overlaps (that is a 
measure of the time listings remain on the market) show fairly stable behaviors over 
the 8 weeks, and therefore the process may be treated as a stationary one in short 
time scales of weeks or months.  

3.3 What are the dwelling characteristics and typologies of the 
shared accommodation market in Australia?   
In the formal housing market, housing a larger number of people has a direct 
correlation to the production of new dwellings. In the shared accommoda-
tion or the informal sector on the other hand, it is the existing dwelling stock 
that “expands” to accommodate a higher number of people. Thus, the dwell-
ing  typologies  and  distributions  appeared  to  be  governed  largely  by  the 
physical characteristics of the existing dwelling stocks in the 5 cities. Figure 
5 shows the breakdown of the dwelling types across the 5 cities. Shared flats 

and shared houses come out to be the most prominent categories, but other 
typologies are present in all of the cities (e.g., one bedroom properties, stu-
dios, granny flats, etc.). “Whole property” forms a separate class because 
these are primarily shared accommodation platforms, and thus, it is rarer for 
entire properties to be advertised here. 
 
There is a subtle difference between the patterns observed in Sydney versus 
the other cities. In Sydney, flatshare forms the dominant mode of sharing 
(51% of listings) while housesharing comes at a close second (48% of list-
ings). In all the other cities, the trend is opposite: housesharing forms the 
most prominent form of sharing with flatsharing the second most prominent. 
It is worth noting that in Perth and Adelaide househaring is the only promi-
nent mode. Figure 6 shows the same data but broken down by the number 
of bedrooms. Again, there is a prominent trend: 2 and 3 bedroom properties 
form the largest components of the shared housing market. Thus, the size of 
the city seems to have a direct correlation with the available dwelling stock 
typologies, and is therefore shaping behavior in the shared accommodation 
market.  
 
Since one of the main concerns raised for the shared accommodation market 
is the possibility of overcrowding, we compared the number of bedrooms 
with the occupancy count variables of the listings. We counted all dwellings 
where the occupant count was listed as higher than the number of bedrooms, 
under the assumption that this could serve as a measure of potential over-
crowding. Table 2 shows the results. Again, the size of the city seems to 
play a central role, with Sydney showing the largest rates of potential over-
crowding, and Adelaide the least. In a few individual examples, it would 
appear from the listing data that as many as 6 to 7 occupants are sharing 
dwellings with 2 or 3 bedrooms, although there are also a small number of  
examples where 6 bedroom dwellings have upto 7 occupants.  

Sydney (8193)

53%

48%

Melbourne (7625)

32%

61%

Brisbane (6347)

29%

63%

Perth (2664)

80%

Adelaide (1315)

82%

One-bedroom property
Flatshare
Granny Flat
Homestay
Share house
Student accommodation
Studio
Whole property

 

Figure 5. Dwelling Types Analysis: 26864 unique listings across 5 major urban 
centres 

Sydney (8193)

41%

31%

Melbourne (7625)

35%

36%

Brisbane (6347)

26% 38%

Perth (2664)

41%

Adelaide (1315)

1 Bed
2 Bed
3 Bed
4 Bed
5 Bed
6 Bed

 

Figure 6. Bedroom Type Distribution: 26864 unique listings across 5 major urban 
centres 

 

City 

Actual number of list-
ings where occupant 
count is higher than the 
number of bedrooms 

Percentage of the total 

number of listings (Note: in 
computing total number of 
listings, all those listings 
where the occupant count 
information was not availa-
ble and had entry: “None” 

were excluded) 

13% 
9% 
7% 
4% 
4% 

Sydney 
Melbourne 
Brisbane 
Perth 
Adelaide 

945 out of 7478 
580out of 6420 
385 out of 5553 
93 out of 2228 
48 out of 1130  

Table 2. Occupant Count versus No. of Bedrooms analysis to predict po-

tential overcrowding 

3.4 What are the rental characteristics of the shared accommodation 
market in Australia?   
The primary hypothesis that needs to be examined with regard to rental 
trends is whether the presence of shared accommodation in an area can ac-
tually push up the local rents for individual (i.e. non-shared) renting, and at 
the same time increase the risk of overcrowding in the locality. There is 
sufficient motivation for this hypothesis. First, the localities that are the most 
popular and have the highest access characteristics to local education and 
employment opportunities will attract the largest number of shared proper-
ties. Second, these could the very localities where investors are motivated 
to purchase the most, with the result, that when the owner of a property is 
not living in the dwelling (i.e., the property is an investment property), they 
will have incentive to encourage overcrowding to maximize the rents that 
can be gained from a single property. Indeed, in our dataset, an extremely 
high proportion of the dataset recorded the “owner” category as “false”, im-
plying that either most people in these listings are likely to be a renter rather 
than owner, or that these properties are managed by agents or investor own-
ers. Thus, a detailed and careful framework of analysis would need to be 
developed to ensure that the analysis of rents is sound, and not based on 
simplifying assumptions, and produces a correct estimate of rents per dwell-
ing in the area based on the data. This is likely a topic of future research, 
given the complexity of the data, but we have made some preliminary anal-
ysis here through a case study on Pyrmont in Sydney as an exemplar, the 
suburb with the highest number of listings. We note here, as we have before, 
that middle and outer ring suburbs could have driving dynamics that are dif-
ferent from the inner suburbs.  
 
For example, consider the following quote from one of the listings from 
Pyrmont, Sydney, for a 2 bedroom flat being shared by 7 people, and looking 
for the 8th person (noting that there are multiple entries of this “type”, i.e. 
this case is not a unique exception but presents an example of a class with 
several similar database entries):   
 
ONLY  FEMALE  UNIT~~NO  MINIMUM  STAY~!Masterbedroom  4persons 
room $135 per week. Second room 4 persons room $125 per week- Very 
friendly family-like girls~- People are from Australia German French Korea 
China Japan- Very Clean and spacious 
 
As per realestate.com.au (accessed December 2016 – March 2017), the cur-
rent median rent for 2 bedroom dwellings in Pyrmont is $775/week, for 3 
bedroom dwellings is $990/week, and for 4 bedrooms is $2000/week. If 
there are 8 people in a 2 bedroom dwelling with the rates mentioned above, 

this implies a total weekly rent of $1040/week, which is far higher than the 
median of $775/week.  
 
Thus, in carrying out a rent analysis, the actual distribution of the number of 
bedrooms and the number of occupants per dwelling at a fine geographic 
granularity would need to be accurately considered. For example, the aver-
age number of bedrooms in Pyrmont listings, over all the two and three bed-
room listings that form the dominant share, was computed to be 2, whereas 
the average occupant count came to 3. Thus, the rent per room per dwelling 
would need to be tripled on average to get an approximate idea of the aver-
age rent being gained from a 2 bedroom property in Pyrmont. Figure 7 
shows a tree map with the rent data for the top 20 Sydney suburbs. For Pyr-
mont, the average weekly per room rent for all 2 and 3 bedroom properties 
was computed as $300, which shows an average of about $900/week for a 2 
bedroom property, as compared to the $775/week for a 2 bedroom property 
via individual non-shared renting.  
 
A further observation can be made regarding the geographic distribution of 
rents from Figure 7. It is seen that the volume of listings (i.e. a measure of 
“supply”) in a suburb does not correlate as highly with the average and me-
dian rents (i.e., a measure of “price”), as does the distance from the city 
center. For the case of Sydney, Figure 7 shows that the suburbs located in 
the inner city and the eastern suburbs show the highest rents, whereas rents 
go down progressively for the high volume middle income suburbs.   
 
 

 

Figure 7. Average and Median rents for 2 and 3 bedroom shared accommodation 
in the top 20 Sydney suburbs by listing counts. In the treemap, the size of a box 
corresponds to the number of listings, and the colour corresponds to the average 
rent. There seems to be no correlation between number of listings and rents, instead, 
the  distance  from  the  CBD  emerges  as  a  principal  factor:  rents  are  the  highest 
around the CBD and the eastern suburbs, and gradually go down towards the west 
and southwest of of Sydney.  

4. Conclusions and Discussion 
In  this  paper,  we  studied  the  “data”  opportunity  provided  by  the  online 
shared accommodation market in Australia, across its 5 major urban centres. 
We reported on the methodology used for data collection, and presented a 
preliminary analysis of the spatial, temporal and structural characteristics of 
this market as revealed by the data. We explored four specific research ques-
tions related to (a) the geography, (b) the temporal flow characteristics, and 
(c)  the  dwelling  characteristics,  and  (d)  the  rental  characteristics  of  the 
shared accommodation market in Australia.  
 
Shared economies and shared urbanism are self-organised phenomena. The 
most  pertinent  theoretical  question  that  arises  from  the  investigation  is 

whether these processes have the capacity to make cities more adaptive, re-
sponsive and resilient, or whether, they also simultaneously work to increase 
inequitable distributions of resources in cities that get spatially embedded 
over time as a result of these processes. While it would be too early to an-
swer this question now, the hope is that the facility of having access to more 
and more datasets of this nature will trigger new patterns of research and 
methodology development, that could help us answer questions of resili-
ence, adaptive and responsive urban dynamics in the future.  

 
 

of 

Planning 

References 
Ahrentzen, S. (2003). Double indemnity or double delight? The health con-
sequences of shared housing and “doubling up”. Journal of Social Issues, 
59(3), 547-568.  
 
Batty, M. (2013). The New Science of Cities. MIT Press, Massachussetts. 
 
Carlsson, M. and Eriksson, S. (2015). Ethnic discrimination in the London 
market for shared housing. Journal of Ethnic and Migration Studies, 41(8), 
pp.1276-1301. 
 
Cottineau, C., Finance, O., Hatna, E., Arcaute, E., and Batty, M. (2016). 
Defining urban agglomerations to detect agglomeration economies, arXiv 
preprint: arXiv: 1601.05664.  
 
Gurran, N., Phibbs, P. and Sarkar, S. (2016). Shared urbanism? Internet en-
abled accommodation sharing and urban planning, Association of Collegiate 
Schools 
(ACSP), 
https://c.ymcdn.com/sites/www.acsp.org/resource/resmgr/confer-
ence/Presentation_Schedule__10.15.pdf    
 
Kim,  A.M.  (2016).  The  extreme  primacy  of  location  –  Beijing’s  under-
ground rental housing market. Cities, 52, pp. 148-158. 
 
McNamara, S. and Connell, J. (2007). Homeward Bound? Searching for 
home in Inner Sydney’s share houses. Australian Geographer, 38(1), pp. 
71-91.  
 
Rae, A. (2015). Online housing search and the geography of submarkets. 
Housing Studies, 30(3), pp. 453-472.  
 
Santi, P., Resta, G., Szell, M., Sobolevsky, S., Strogatz, S. H. and Ratti, C. 
(2014). Quantifying the benefits of vehicle pooling with shareability net-
works. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences (PNAS), 111(37), 
pp. 13290-13294.  
 
Sarkar, S., Phibbs, P., Simpson, R. and Wasnik, S. (2016). The scaling of 
income distribution in Australia: Possible relationships between urban al-
lometry, city size and economic inequality, Environment and Planning B: 

Conference 

Urban  Analytics  and  City  Science, 
nals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/0265813516676488.   

early 

access:  http://jour-

