A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

A Conceptual Model for the Organisational Adoption of 

Information System Security Innovations  

 

 

Technovation Consulting and Training (Private) Limited. 1/33, Chandhani Magu, Male’. 

Mumtaz Abdul Hameed 

20-03. Maldives 

mumtazabdulhameed@gmail.com 

 

 

Nalin Asanka Gamagedara Arachchilage 

Australian Centre for Cyber Security. University of New South Wales (UNSW 

Canberra),  

The Australian Defence Force Academy. Australia 

nalin.asanka@adfa.edu.au 

 

 

Corresponding Author: 

Mumtaz Abdul Hameed 

Technovation Consulting and Training (Private) Limited. 1/33, Chandhani Magu, Male’. 

20-03. Maldives 

mumtazabdulhameed@gmail.com 

 

1 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

A Conceptual Model for the Organisational Adoption of 

Information System Security Innovations 

Abstract 

Information System (IS) Security threats is still a major concern for many organisations. 

However, most organisations fall short in achieving a successful adoption and 

implementation of IS security measures. In this paper, we developed a theoretical model for 

the adoption process of IS Security innovations in organisations. The model was derived by 

combining four theoretical models of innovation adoption, namely: Diffusion of Innovation 

theory (DOI), the Technology Acceptance Model (TAM), the Theory of Planned Behaviour 

(TPB) and the Technology-Organisation-Environment (TOE) framework. The model depicts 

IS security innovation adoption in organisations, as two decision proceedings. The adoption 

process from the initiation stage until the acquisition of innovation is considered as a decision 

made by organisation while the process of innovation assimilation is assumed as a result of 

the user acceptance of innovation within the organisation. In addition, the model describes 

the IS Security adoption process progressing in three sequential stages, i.e. pre-adoption, 

adoption- decision and post-adoption phases. The model also introduces several factors that 

influence the different stages of IS Security innovation adoption process. This study 

contributes to IS security literature by proposing an overall model of IS security adoption that 

includes organisational adoption and user acceptance of innovation in a single illustration. 

Also, IS security adoption model proposed in this study provides important practical 

implications for research and practice. 

Keywords: Diffusion of innovation; User Acceptance of Innovation; Innovation Adoption 

Process; Information System Security; Information System Security Adoption. 

 

2 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

1. 

Introduction 

Information and computer resources (hardware, software, database, networks, etc.) 

collectively be referred as Information System (IS) assets [3] that need to be protected against 

malicious attacks such as unauthorised access and improper use. Thus, safeguard of IS assets 

is a widespread concern for individuals and organisations. Research on the preservation of IS 

assets falls under the theme of IS Security. There are numerous technical measures (software 

and hardware tools) and non-technical safeguards (physical defences and security procedure) 

available that provides protection for IS assets. Nevertheless, organisations are still struggling 

to keep up with threats to their IS assets and security breach incidents that have cost them 

tens of thousands of dollars in loss [34]. Previous scholarly contributions have constantly 

argued that the weakest link in any security plan is the computer users themselves [4, 7, 62]. 

As a matter of fact, computer security education needs to be considered as a means to combat 

against ISs threats [4, 5, 6, 7].   

The main focus of IS security is to deploy strategies to protect and safeguard IS assets 

from vulnerabilities [3]. However, adoption and implementation of IS security measures in an 

organisation is a complex process [26]. Besides, adoption of IS security measures by the 

individuals and organisations is exceptionally low, considering the efforts put in for 

developing and implementing such systems [37, 57]. Hence, it is critically important to 

understand what causes the users accept or reject the organisations IS security measures [32]. 

As far as we can tell from the IS security literature that there is no model that fully explains 

the IS security adoption in organisations. Nonetheless, research on IS innovation has 

introduced models, theories and frameworks related to the adoption and implementation of IS 

innovations in organisations [30]. IS scholars define innovation as an idea, a method, a 

product, a program or a technology that is new to the adopting unit [17, 30]. Hence, the 

 

3 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

measures of IS security, undoubtedly, be considered as an IS innovation and the theories 

based on innovation adoption may obviously be applied in an empirical study on IS security 

adoption process. 

In this research, we aimed to theoretically construct a model for IS security innovation 

adoption process in organisations, which includes organisational adoption process and the 

user acceptance of innovation. To this end, we explore the past literature on the stages of 

innovation adoption, theories of innovation adoption, models of technology acceptance and 

popular frameworks developed by researchers for organisational adoption, with factors 

considered to influence IS innovation adoption. This study, then utilised the most suitable 

concepts and relationships of prominent IS innovation adoption theories and user acceptance 

models, to explain the process of adoption of IS security innovations in organisations.  In 

addition, this study suggests a number of factors from different context that would either 

assist or inhibit the process of IS security innovation adoption.  

The current study focuses on IS security adoption in organisations. The research makes 

several contributions to the theory and practice of IS security and innovation adoption 

research. First, it draws upon and synthesize the rich literature in IS innovation adoption 

theories and applied it in the context of IS security innovations. The IS security innovation 

adoption model proposed is based on the theoretical perspective of four innovation adoption 

theories. The integrated illustration of these models could methodically be used to examine 

the adoption process and user acceptance of IS security innovations in organisations. 

Secondly, the proposed IS security adoption model encompasses both the organisational 

adoption process and user acceptance of innovation. It is evident from the literature that 

previous scholarly IS security adoption contributions have on no account addressed 

organisational adoption process and user acceptance of innovation in a single investigation. 

 

4 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

Past studies on IS security adoption either examine the processes of adoption of IS security 

innovation until the acquisition of innovation with no assessment on whether the innovation 

grows to be part of their regular practice [36, 51]. On the other hand, studies on user 

acceptance have only examined the behaviour and attitude of individuals accepting an IS 

security innovation [41, 52]. Combining the organisational adoption process and user 

acceptance of innovation in a single model allows illustrating the overall adoption process 

more comprehensively compare to any of the past IS security adoption frameworks. Thirdly, 

the proposed model has introduced several determinants that could possibly influence IS 

security adoption in organisations. The suggested association, the study draws between 

various technological, organisational, environmental, and user acceptance characteristics for 

IS security adoption provides an abundant opportunity for potential future research. 

Furthermore, the IS security adoption model proposed in this study provides important 

practical implications for researchers and organisations. 

The remainder of this paper will proceed as follows. First, the theoretical background 

relating to IS security and different IS security innovations in organisations will be presented. 

Then, in the ‘Methodology’ section, we briefly discuss the methods used to identify 

theoretical elements for the development of model for IS Security innovation adoption in 

organisations. Following this, in the section 4 ‘Models and processes of IS Innovation 

Adoption’, we identify the processes of innovation adoption in organisations and the most 

prominent models use in the IS innovation adoption research. In the ‘IS Security Innovation 

Adoption Model’ section, we discuss innovation adoption theories that are most relevant to IS 

security adoption. In addition, in this section we discuss the synthesis of the IS security 

innovation adoption model by integrating innovation adoption models. Furthermore, in this 

section, we presented the proposed model for IS security innovation adoption for 

organisations. In section 6, 'Determinants of IS security adoption, we suggest a number of 

 

5 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

factors hypothetically influence adoption of IS security innovation. Conclusion and future 

research regarding the model were then presented in section 7. 

2. 

Theoretical Background 

IS security is, unquestionably, a major concern for most organisations and the risk of 

computer crimes has become an increasing threat for many companies [14]. As organisations 

depend more on IS to succeed in their businesses, the management is obliged to invest more 

on improving their IS reliability [26].  ISs need to be secure if they are to be reliable [35]. 

Safeguard and the management of Confidentiality, Integrity and Availability (CIA) of 

information are the most important IS security concerns for an organisation [21].  

Security of IS encompass both technical and non‐technical concerns for safeguarding IS 

assets  against  a  variety  of  threats  such  as  phishing,  botnet,  virus,  worms,  Trojans  etc.  As  a 

safeguard  measure,  organisations  are  required  to  implement  policies,  practices  and 

technologies that protect against unauthorized access, use, disclosure, disruption, modification 

or  destruction  of  information  [21].  Although  there  is  no  such  a  standard  mechanism  to 

completely safeguard all of the IS assets of an organisation, a handful of measures can be put 

in practice to limit the number of attacks [2]. Recent developments have created new tools and 

techniques that help organisations effectively secure their IS assets. 

A comprehensive range of security measures in the form of physical controls, procedural 

controls and technical controls would thwart almost all forms of security breaches to ensure 

CIA of information in an organisation [21]. A wide range physical, procedural and technical 

security controls can be used to provide security in a number of different ways in an 

organisation. As a physical control, an organisation may install doors, locks, smoke and fire 

alarms, fire suppression systems, cameras, flood fences and numerous others. As procedural 

measures organisation may possibly put in practice data security standards (e.g. use of the IS 

 

6 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

Management System to keep secure the sensitive company information), the corporate 

security policies (e.g. restricting access to sensitive personal information to a small number of 

human resources personnel), password policies (e.g. all system-level passwords must be 

changed on at least a quarterly basis) and disciplinary procedures (e.g. in case of data breach, 

the Chief Executive Officer [CEO] will make a decision to inform any external organisation, 

such as the police or other appropriate regulatory body). To control access to ISs, an 

organisation may implement technologies such as antivirus, anti-spyware, firewalls, malware 

programs, filters, network Intrusion Detection Systems (IDS), Intrusion Prevention Systems 

(IPS), data encryption standards (e.g. Advance Encryption Standards) and authentication-

authorization devices. These measures have the potential to reduce and possibly prevent any 

security risks or vulnerabilities to organisations IS assets. 

Any physical, procedural or technical security control put in place in an organisation to 

protect information and computer resources may possibly be characterized as IS security 

innovation. As previously outlined, an innovation is the possession of ideas, systems, 

practices, products or technologies that are new to the adopting organisation. What's more, 

adoption of innovation is a process that results in the introduction and use of products, 

processes, or practices that are new to the adopting organisation [18, 30]. Damanpour [17] 

defines adoption of innovation as the initiation, development and implementation of new 

initiatives. Hence, implementation and the use of physical, procedural or technical security 

control may be considered as the adoption of IS security innovation in an organisation. 

Correct IS security measures in organisations have long been recognized, however, the 

empirical research in this area is still at its early stage [8, 9]. Although there are a number of 

IS security innovations available, an organisation can only benefit if those innovations are 

adopted and implemented properly. The main hindrance for organisations from attaining a 

 

7 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

successful implementation of IS security innovation is the lack of appropriate models of IS 

security adoption. Therefore, this research attempts to examine IS security adoption process 

in organisations. 

3.  Research Methodology 

The study involved identifying from literature the relevant models and frameworks that 

could be employed to frame the components that will be used to assess the adoption process 

of IS security innovations in organisations. Hence, we initially performed a literature search 

to identify theoretical models utilised in examining adoption and user acceptance of IS 

innovations. Based on this search result, the study, then identified the most commonly used 

innovation adoption and user acceptance models. The IS security adoption studies that used 

IS innovation adoption models in their empirical investigations were then selected.  The IS 

security literature extracted includes studies conducted for both individual and organisational 

contexts. The most prominent innovation adoption models used in IS security adoption were 

then drawn together, to synthesize the conceptual model presented in this study. In addition, 

we extracted the factors from different categories that were examined in the IS security 

adoption literature. 

4.  Models and Processes of IS Innovation Adoption 

A significant amount of research has been conducted in examining the process and the 

factors influencing the adoption and user acceptance of innovations in organisations [28, 29, 

31]. However, there is no organisational innovation adoption theory that is in existence for 

researchers to utilis e [30]. Up till now, researchers have been utilising theories and 

theoretical models from other subjects appropriate to explain the adopter’s attitude and 

innovation adoption behaviour of IS innovation adoption. In addition, innovation adoption 

research has tailored theories from disciplines such as psychology, sociology and 

 

8 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

organisational behaviour propose several theoretical models related to the adoption and user 

acceptance of IS innovations in organisations [30].  

The most common theoretical models used to examine adoption and user acceptance of 

innovation are Diffusion of Innovation Theory (DOI) [49], Perceived Characteristics of 

Innovation (PCI) [43], Theory of Reasoned Action (TRA) [23], Theory of Planned Behaviour 

(TPB) [1], Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) [19], Technology Acceptance Model 2 

(TAM2) [59], Technology Acceptance Model 3 (TAM3) [58], Technology, Organisation, 

Environment (TOE) Model [55] and the Unified Theory of Acceptance and Use of 

Technology (UTAUT) model [60]. Amongst all of these models, DOI, TAM, TRA, TPB and 

TOE have been widely used in innovation adoption research [30]. DOI, TAM, TRA and TPB 

are primarily utilised in examining the user behaviour of innovation adoption and TOE 

framework has widely been exploited in organisational level studies of IS innovation 

adoption. 

Innovation adoption processes in an organisation are considered to be successful only if 

the innovation is implemented in the organisation and individuals continue to use the 

innovation over a period of time [25, 30]. Based on this perception, the model presented by 

Hameed et al. [30] for IT innovation adoption for organisations considered both 

organisational level analysis and individual level assessment.  

Researchers have described the process of adoption of innovation into a number of 

sequences of stages. According to Hameed et al. [30], the cycle of stages illustrated by 

different research falls more or less into the initiation, adoption-decision and implementation 

stage. These three phases of initiation, adoption-decision and implementation are more often 

referred to as pre-adoption, adoption-decision and post-adoption in the IS literature.   

5. 

IS Security Innovation Adoption Model 

9 

 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

This study seeks to develop a conceptual model for IS security adoption that includes the 

process of adoption and user acceptance of IS security innovations in organisations. A search 

in literature confirmed that there is hardly any distinct theoretical model with the aim of 

explaining IS security adoption. IS security research generally utilised IS innovation adoption 

and user acceptance models [16, 36]. In addition, researchers have applied models from other 

disciplines such as health belief model to examine user behaviour of IS security adoption [15, 

44]. 

Meanwhile, innovation adoption literature suggests that researchers have been utilising 

several theories and theoretical models that explain the adopter’s attitude and organisational 

innovation adoption's behaviour to examine different types of innovation such as IS security. 

As a result, a suitable model or models in the IS field that is general enough may be exploited 

and perhaps be sufficient to explain IS security adoption in organisations. Indeed, a number 

of studies have introduced adoption and user acceptance models in the organisational context 

for various other innovations [28, 31].  

5.1. 

Innovation Adoption Models relevant for IS Security 

Most of the research on innovation adoption of organisational surrounding conducts their 

analysis by integrating innovation adoption and user acceptance theories with frameworks 

that consists of determinants that are relevant to the study context. For example, Teo et al. 

[53] empirically examined adopters and non-adopters of e-procurement in Singaporean 

organisations, incorporating two innovation adoption theories and a framework consisting 

determinant of TOE model. Moreover, Hameed et al. [30] proposed a more general IS 

innovation adoption model for organisations by combining innovation adoption and user 

acceptance theories, and major frameworks used in IS innovation studies. Their model is a 

combination of DOI, TRA, TAM, TPB and a framework that consists of determinants of 

 

10 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

TOE and CEO characteristics. The model exploited DOI model and the TOE framework with 

CEO characteristics to illustrate the organisational adoption process until the acquisition of 

innovation and TRA, TAM and TPB were utilised to construct user acceptance of innovation. 

Here, TOE framework takes account of the various determinants relevant to IS innovation 

adoption in organisations.   

Consistent with extant research on IS security, we developed the IS Security adoption 

model by replicating the theories of IS innovation adoption. Based on innovation adoption 

literature, the study draws together a conceptual model for IS security innovation adoption by 

integrating multiple theoretical depictions of innovation adoption and user acceptance of IS 

with popular frameworks. The model is a combination of DOI, TAM, TPB models together 

with the TOE framework. 

5.1.1.  Diffusion of Innovation (DOI) 

DOI model introduced by Rogers [49] is the most commonly used theoretical 

foundations to study innovation adoption. According to Rogers [49], diffusion is a process by 

which an innovation is communicated through certain channels over a period of time among 

the members of a group. The DOI theory explains how the individuals or groups adopt 

innovations and the process involve in their decision towards it. DOI model suggests a 

number of attributes of innovation that were perceived to assist the diffusion of technological 

innovation. Rogers [50] suggests that relative advantage, compatibility, complexity, 

trialability and observability of the innovation plays a key role in an individual’s attitudes 

towards innovation adoption.   

The literature shows that the DOI has a solid theoretical basis and the five characteristics 

suggested in DOI have successfully explained a number of IS adoption behaviours [47]. As 

 

11 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

for the IS security studies, Lee and Kozar [37] applied DOI to empirically investigate the 

anti-spyware adoption of computer users of the United State of America.  

Nevertheless, Hameed et al. [30] identified two major limitations of the DOI, in its 

application for organisational innovation adoption. First, the model mainly focuses on the 

behaviour and attitude of individuals in the adoption of innovation. Another obvious 

drawback of DOI which Hameed et al. [30] suggested was its inability to address the full 

innovation adoption process. Hence, the DOI model is inadequate to fully explain IS adoption 

in organisations. Lee and Kozar [37] argued that DOI model does not clearly explain how an 

attitude is formed, how it leads to adoption intention and to actual adoption. Nevertheless, the 

DOI can explain the individual level adoption process in the pre-adoption and adoption-

decision stages of innovation adoption. In addition, some researchers have integrated DOI 

with other theories allowing it to address the interaction between attitude, intention and 

behaviour [47, 48]. 

5.1.2.  Technology Acceptance Model (TAM) 

TAM is a persuasive extension or modification of TRA introduced by [19] that aims to 

explain and predict user acceptance of IS. TAM posits that two cognitive attributes, namely: 

‘perceived usefulness’ and ‘perceived ease of use’ influences the actual use of IS innovations 

[19, 20]. According to Davis [19], perceived usefulness is ‘the degree to which a person 

believes that using a particular system would enhance his or her job performance’ and 

perceived ease of use is ‘the degree to which a person believes that using a particular system 

would be free of effort’. Furthermore, TAM articulates that perceived usefulness and 

perceived ease of use affect a user’s attitude towards using an IS and a user’s attitude directly 

relates to a user’s intention which eventually determines the system usage of an IS. Among 

the different models that have been proposed, the TAM appears to be the most widely 

 

12 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

accepted innovation adoption model among IS researchers [29, 61]. Significantly, TAM has 

consistently outperformed the TRA in terms of explaining variances across many studies [20, 

60]. In addition, TAM has been validated as a powerful and parsimonious framework for 

explaining user acceptance of IS innovations [19, 20]. Notably, as far as this study is 

concerned, TAM may possibly be utilized to investigate IS security implementation. 

Meanwhile, in a research to examine the factors that influence employee acceptance of IS 

security measures, Jones et al. [32] extended the TAM. 

While IS researchers have investigated and replicated TAM, and agreed that it is suitable 

in predicting the individual acceptance of IS innovations, the TAM’s fundamental constructs 

do not fully unveil the influence of contextual factors that may affect the users’ acceptance of 

IS innovation [30]. Further, Legris et al. [38] argued that TAM needed to be integrated into a 

larger model that includes technological and social factors to enhance its analytical capability 

to predict innovation acceptance of IS innovations. One of the shortcoming of TAM is that it 

only considers the individual level acceptance and neglects group level aspects of decision 

making [30]. Another limitation of TAM is that, it theorises user's adoption decision based 

purely on voluntary situations, neglecting users' judgement influenced by their peers or in 

response to social pressure. To overcome these limitations, researchers have incorporated 

TAM with other IS adoption models to examine organisational adoption process [48, 53]. 

5.1.3.  Theory of Planned Behaviour (TPB) 

TRA envisaged that the individual acceptance behaviour is purely voluntary, however, 

many decisions by an individual does not appear fully volitional. Hence, to address the non-

voluntary actions of user acceptance behaviour, Ajzen [1] revised TRA by adding a new 

component to develop an improved replica known as the TPB. According to TPB, human 

action is guided by three kinds of thoughts: (1) behavioural beliefs - one's opinions about the 

 

13 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

likely consequence of the behaviour, (2) normative beliefs - one's perception about the 

normative expectation of others and (3) control beliefs - one's judgments about the presence 

of factors that may facilitate or impede the performance of the behaviour. TPB's behavioural 

belief intends to produce a favourable or unfavourable attitude towards the behaviour and 

normative belief is the result of perceived social pressure or subjective norm to perform the 

action. In addition, TPB's control beliefs, namely Perceived Behavioural Control (PBC), 

foresees the decisions regarding the absence or presence of factors that might facilitate or 

impede the performance of the behaviour [1].  

TPB proposes that a combination of attitude toward the behaviour, subjective norm, and 

PBC may lead to the formation of a behavioural intention to perform the behaviour. TPB 

suggests that PBC affects behaviour directly or indirectly through behavioural intention. 

Ajzen [1] argued that in conditions where behavioural intention has minimal effect on the 

actual behaviour, PBC alone can be used to predict the behaviour. Armitage and Conner [10] 

showed that PBC was a significant factor in the prediction of behavioural intention and actual 

behaviour in TPB, regardless of the effects of attitude toward the behaviour and subjective 

norm. 

In a meta-analytic review of TPB, Armitage and Connor [10] concluded that the theory is 

an effective model to validate user acceptance of innovation and the three antecedents of TPB 

model directly and indirectly predict individual behaviour for a number of innovations. TPB 

has been used in numerous IS innovation adoption contexts to predict and explain individual 

behavioural intentions as well as the actual use of innovation [12, 60].  

TPB model has also been used to examine IS security innovation adoption studies. For 

example, Lee and Kozar [36] used TPB model to identify the factors influencing the user 

adoption of anti-spyware systems. The research examines the influence of three constructs of 

 

14 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

TPB i.e. attitude, social influence and Perceived Behavioural Control (PBC) for anti-spyware 

adoption of individuals. Similarly, in a review to observe the user behaviour to conscious care 

behaviour in the domain of information security, Safa et al. [51] utilised TPB model. Lee and 

Kozar [37] applied DOI and TPB model for an empirical investigation of anti-spyware 

adoption of computer users. The study investigates the attributes of DOI and TPB for user’s 

anti-spyware adoption intention. 

Like all other innovation adoption models discussed above, TPB has certain limitations, 

which needs to be considered when applied in the innovation adoption research. Albeit TPB 

considers normative influences, it still does not take into account the influence of 

environmental or organisational factors that may influence the innovation adoption. As a 

result, researchers extend TPB by combining its constructs with the components from other 

contextual frameworks such as TOE.  

5.1.4.  TOE Model  

Tornatzky and Fleischer [55] synthesized a structure for organisational innovation 

adoption based on the Contingency Theory of Organisations. The framework identified 

determinants of technology, organisation and environment as three dimensions of a firm that 

affects organisational adoption. Hence, the framework was named as “TOE” framework. In 

this framework, the technological context relates to both internal and external technologies 

available to an organisation. Its main focus is on how the existing technologies within the 

organisation as well as the available innovations external to the firm influences the 

innovation adoption process. The organisational context describes the impact of the 

characteristics of firms on innovation adoption process. Common organisation characteristics 

include firm size, degree of centralization and formalization, the complexity of its 

management structure, the quality of its human resources, and the amount of slack resources 

 

15 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

available internally. The external environmental context is the arena, in which an organisation 

conducts its business [55]. This includes the industry, competitors, regulations, and 

relationships with the government.  

TOE framework unravels the limitations of other innovation adoption and user 

acceptance models to predict innovation adoption in organisations. TOE model describes the 

impact of specific attributes in the three contextual domains of organisations towards the 

innovation adoption process. TOE framework can be combined with other theories to better 

explain IS innovation adoption in organisations.   

5.2. 

Synthesizing IS Security Innovation Adoption Model 

The model for the adoption of IS security innovation in organisations we presented in 

this study consist of a combination of innovation adoption and user acceptance theories 

jointly with contextual frameworks of IT innovation adoption. It is evident from the literature 

that previous scholarly IS security adoption contributions have on no account addressed 

organisational adoption process and user acceptance of innovation in a single investigation. 

By and large, IS security adoption studies have examined individual attitudes and behaviour 

towards innovation [32, 37, 51]. Research on IS security rarely considers the adoption 

process at the organisational level. 

5.2.1. 

IS Security Innovation Adoption Process 

Establishing the views of IS innovation literature and consistent with the model 

presented by Hameed et al. [30], the model we presented in this study discusses IS security 

innovation adoption for organisations as a two level adoption process, an organisational level 

analysis and individual or user level evaluation. The developments the organisations undergo 

from the introduction of the IS security innovation until the actual acquisition of the 

 

16 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

innovation is regarded as an organisational level adoption process. Following that, the user 

acceptance of innovation and the continuous use of the innovation as an IS security 

application within the organisation is classified as an individual level adoption process. 

To concur with the basics of much of the previous research in IS innovation adoption 

[30, 45, 50] this study considered IS security innovation adoption process in organisations as 

a three stage process of pre-adoption, adoption-decision and post-adoption. The study deems 

that the pre-adoption stage consisting of activities related to recognizing a need, acquiring 

knowledge or awareness, forming an attitude towards the innovation and proposing 

innovation for adoption [25, 50]. The adoption-decision stage described by Hameed et al. 

[30] reflects the decision to accept the idea and evaluates the proposed ideas from a technical, 

financial and strategic perspective, together with the allocation of resources for its acquisition 

and implementation. The study also considered the post-adoption stage, which involves the 

acquisition of innovation, preparing the organisation for the use of the innovation, performing 

a trial for confirmation of innovation, acceptance of the innovation by users and continued 

actual use of the innovation [50]. 

5.2.2. 

Integrating Innovation Adoption Models 

The study synthesized the conceptual model for IS security innovation adoption in 

organisations by integrating four theoretical replicas of innovation adoption and user 

acceptance of IS. The model is an integrated combination of DOI, TAM, TPB models 

together with the TOE framework. DOI is the most generally accepted model for identifying 

the main characteristics of IS innovation adoption [30, 47, 54]. However, the model cannot be 

used to explain full IS security innovation adoption process as it does not include the post-

adoption behaviour of the innovation adoption. In addition, DOI only explicates the 

individual level adoption process which inhibits the model to utilise in explaining IS security 

 

17 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

innovation adoption in organisations. Combining DOI with TAM and TPB helps us to derive 

a model that reflects pre-adoption, adoption-decision and post-adoption stages of IS security 

innovation adoption. TAM and TPB have been used in empirical investigations to predict and 

explain user acceptance of IS innovation [29]. TPB complements TAM's constructs at the 

same time TPB explanatory and predictive power enhances further by integrating with TAM 

[11]. Furthermore, TAM combined with TPB constructs would allow predicting user 

acceptance of innovations for both volitional and non-volitional conditions [30]. DOI, TAM 

and TPB models have been successfully exploited and effectively been used in explaining 

and predicting either the adoption or user acceptance of IS innovations by individuals [30]. In 

order for our IS security adoption model to address organisational level adoption process, 

integrative illustration of DOI, TAM and TPB have to be combined with a contextual 

framework. The TOE model has been extensively adapted for the studies of IS adoption in 

organisations [47, 48, 53]. Thus, an integrative model consisting of DOI, TAM, TPB and 

TOE would fully explain IS security innovation adoption in organisations. 

Use of DOI and TOE in the proposed model could successfully explicate the adoption 

process at organisation perspective. In light of the technology, organisation and environment 

attributes that facilitate the adoption, both DOI and TOE competently elucidate pre-adoption 

and adoption-decision stages of IS security adoption in organisations. The proposed model 

uses the constructs of TAM and TPB to account for the user acceptance of IS security 

innovation. Hence, the user acceptance attributes of TAM and TPB affects the IS security 

adoption process at the post-adoption stage. TPB has been a particularly useful model to 

predict user acceptance of IS innovations in organisations, where the use of IS is not entirely 

under the volitional control of the user. 

5.3. 

Proposed Model of IS Security Innovation in Organisation 

 

18 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

Figure 1 illustrates our proposed conceptual model for the IS security innovation adoption in 

organisations.

Figure 1: Model for the Adoption of Information System Security Innovation in Organisations 

6.  Determinants of IS Security Innovation Adoption 

For the IS security adoption model shown in the Figure 1, we considered technology, 

organisation, environment and user acceptance attributes that were examined in the past IS 

innovation adoption literature. In addition, each of the factors included in proposed model 

have been examined and found to have a significant influence on IS security innovation 

adoption research.  

6.1. 

Technology Characteristics 

 

19 

 A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

Technological context of TOE model outlines a number of attributes of technologies 

inside the organisation and the innovations available outside the firm. The importance of 

technology attributes for the adoption and implementation of IS and the perception of 

innovations influencing the pre-adoption and adoption-decisions have been documented in 

the IS literature [49]. Specific characteristics of innovation are examined as factors that 

explain innovation adoption in organisations. DOI theory provides a set of innovation 

attributes that may affect the adoption decision [50]. 

For this study, we considered the relative advantage, compatibility, complexity, 

trialability and observability in terms of technology characteristics. Lee and Kozar [36] and 

Lee and Kozar [37] examined anti spyware software adoption and found that relative 

advantage, compatibility, trialability and visibility (observability) as important determinants. 

Salleh et al. [52] suggests that perceived complexity and perceived compatibility of 

innovation are important attributes of big data security solutions adoption.  

6.1.1.  Relative Advantage 

Relative Advantage is the degree to which the innovation is perceived as better than the 

idea it supersedes [28]. Relative advantage refers to the degree to which the innovation is 

more productive, costs saving, less maintenance, efficient compared to the existing practices 

[50]. Indeed, relative advantage is one of the key determinant that would influence a person 

or an organisation to adopt an IS innovation [28, 43]. Hence, we suggest that organisations 

are more likely to adopt IS security innovation when they perceive that it is a valuable and 

effective means of protecting their IS assets. 

6.1.2.  Compatibility 

 

20 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

Compatibility is the degree to which an innovation is perceived as being consistent with 

the existing values, past experiences and needs of the users [28, 50]. An innovation must be 

considered generally acceptable if it is to be implemented successfully. The more compatible 

the new innovation is with the existing processes and systems, the more easily the innovation 

gets implemented and integrated into the organisation [28]. According to Lee and Kozar [36], 

if the IS security innovation is compatible with the current system, the less resistance the 

organisation will experience accepting the innovation. Hence, compatibility of an IS security 

innovation is positively related to adoption and implementation within the organisation. 

6.1.3.  Complexity 

Complexity is the degree to which the innovation is perceived as difficult to understand 

and use [50]. Innovations that are simple to comprehend are more likely to be adopted by 

organisations. The complexity of an innovation is expected to inﬂuence negatively for the 

adoption of IS innovations in organisations [28, 56]. Hence, less complex IS security 

innovations are believed to adopt faster and propagates a smooth implementation process, 

thereby achieving the efﬁciency anticipated.  

6.1.4.  Trialability 

Rogers [50] deﬁnes “trialibility” as the degree to which the innovation may be 

experimented with. Hence, IS innovations are likely to be adopted if they can be tried out on 

a temporary basis. Being able to try an innovation before adoption reduces the uncertainty of 

potential adopters [56]. Trialability is important in the initiation stages of innovation 

adoption, however, its implication will affect the usage of the innovation. The literature 

suggests a positive relationship between trialability and innovation adoption [28, 50]. In this 

model, we assume that the better exposure one gets to a particular IS security innovation, the 

more likely that it will be adopted and used in an organisation. 

 

21 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

6.1.5.  Observability 

Observability is the degree to which the results and the advantages of an innovation are 

visible to others [50]. Hence, observability is sometimes referred to as “visibility.” Lee and 

Kozar [37] investigated the adoption of anti-spyware software and found that observability 

has a significant impact on the probability of adoption. The more visible or observable the 

usage and the outcome of an IS security innovation, the more likely the innovation will be 

adopted and implemented in an organisation. Observability is expected to have a positive 

relationship with adoption of innovations [50]. 

6.2.  Organisational Characteristics 

The organisational context of TOE model has been the most frequently examined 

attributes in adoption of IS innovations in organisations. The organisational attributes, 

addresses the facilitating and inhibiting factors in the area of operations in a firm. 

Researchers have advocated the primary importance of organisational determinants compared 

to other contexts as predictors for innovation adoption [17, 31]. Organisations are adopting 

innovations in response to an external demand or to achieve an advantage of an 

environmental opportunity [27]. For this study, we propose top management support, 

organisational size, organisational IS readiness, IS expertise and IS culture as organisational 

attributes that influence IS security adoption.  

To verify IS conscious care behaviour formation in organisations, Safa et al. [51] found 

IS awareness, IS experience and organisation policy as important factors. IS awareness and 

IS experience described by Safa et al. [51] is often described as a single attribute in the IS 

literature, namely: IS expertise [31]. Hence, for the proposed model of IS security adoption, 

we refer IS expertise that takes account of the organisational awareness and experience of the 

innovation. Li [41] verified that the size of the organisations impacts on online security 

 

22 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

performance in organisations. Salleh et al. [52] utilised the TOE framework to explore top 

management support, IS culture and organisational learning culture as security determinants 

of big data solutions. According to Leidner and Kayworth [39], IS culture is a variable that 

explains how social groups interacts with IS in the development, adoption, use and its 

management. Hence, IS policy suggested by Safa et al. [51] and IS learning culture described 

by Salleh et al. [52] could simply be classified under IS culture. In our proposed model, we 

included IS culture as a determinant that accounts the perception of IS policy and IS learning 

culture. Lee and Kozar [36] and Lee and Kozar [37] found that computing capacity of the 

organisation significantly influence anti-spyware systems adoption. In the IS literature, 

computing capacity is termed as IS readiness and we adopt this terminology in our model. 

6.2.1.  Top Management Support 

A recurring, organisational factor studied by IS researchers is top management support. 

Top management support is one of the consistently found and a highly critical factor that 

influence IS implementation [54]. It is commonly believed that top management support 

plays a vital role in all stages of adoption of IS [31]. There is also evidence in the innovation 

literature that suggests top management support is positively related to the adoption of new 

technologies in organisations [56]. For IS security adoption, top management’s role in 

allocating the required resource to safeguard IS asserts and to provide a supportive climate in 

the user acceptance of innovations are vital. 

6.2.2.  Organisational Size 

Organisational size has been the most frequently examined factor in the study of 

organisational innovation adoption [47]. Organisational size is the most important factor 

influencing IS adoption, since, the size of an organisation determines other organisational 

aspects, particularly slack resources, decision making and organisational structure [50]. As 

 

23 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

the size of the organisation gives a good indication of the slack resources available, we 

suggest that organisational size has a positive influence on the adoption of IS security 

innovation. 

6.2.3.  Organisational IS Readiness 

Organisational IS readiness is defined as the degree to which an organisation has the 

knowledge, resources, commitment and governance to adopt IS innovations [31]. Adoption of 

IS has often been positively associated with organisational IS readiness. IS infrastructure and 

computing resources are essential to successfully implement and gain advantages from any IS 

adoption [46]. Prior studies revealed a positive association between the existence of IS 

readiness and adoption of IS [31]. We suggest that the existence of IS infrastructure and the 

availability of financial and technological resources within an organisation influence the 

adoption of IS security innovations. 

6.2.4. 

IS Expertise 

In an organisation, knowledge of IT is a major factor in the adoption of new technologies 

[22]. An organisation with existing knowledge of new innovation makes adoption effortless 

and retains knowledge of innovation adoption [40]. For the study, firm's possession of the 

awareness of IS security and expertise of IS security threats within an organisation helps the 

adoption of IS security innovations. 

6.2.5. 

IS Culture 

Introduction of a new IS fundamentally changes the way the organisation solves 

problems and this process results in the creation of a new IS culture. Organisational culture 

has also been shown to play a significant role in IS management policies [13]. Organisational 

 

24 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

culture can support IS adoption and can thus be a critical success factor for the development 

and implementation of IS innovations.  

 Furnell and Thomson [24] investigated IS culture and found to have a positive effect on 

IS security adoption. We propose that organisational beliefs and values regarding IS security 

and the existing IS security policies play an important role in the IS behaviour of an 

organisation.  

6.3.  Environmental Characteristics 

IS has not only been used for internal needs; instead, organisations often communicate 

with customers, suppliers and other trading partners [27]. Hence, environmental factors are 

increasingly being studied in innovation adoption studies. The recommended attribute of this 

study in terms of environmental context is government regulation [27, 33]. Li [41] verified 

that the existence of government regulation significantly influences online security adoption 

in organisations.  

6.3.1.  Government Regulations 

The regulatory environment and governmental institutions enforce policies on taxes, 

trade, investment, patents, product liability, consumer protection and human resources that 

may have a powerful effect on technology adoption. Numerous researchers have highlighted 

the role of government regulations on the adoption decision of IS innovation [27]. This study 

suggests that government's support and regulatory policies may have a huge impact on IS 

security adoption and implementation. 

6.4.  User Acceptance Characteristics 

 

25 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

Constructs of TAM and TPB contribute most towards user acceptance attributes. The 

two attributes of TAM, perceived usefulness and perceived ease of use were key determinants 

of user IS acceptance [29]. The constructs of TPB namely: attitude, subjective norm and PBC 

were also key determinants of user acceptance of IS innovations [10]. Furthermore, two sub-

constructs of PBC, computer self-efficacy and facilitating conditions which predicts the non-

volitional behaviours were also found to be important characteristics [29].  

Lee and Kozar [36] found that user acceptance attributes of attitude, social influence and 

PBC significantly influence anti-spyware systems adoption. Lee and Kozar [37] examined 

anti-spyware software adoption and found that user acceptance attributes of attitude, 

subjective norm and self-efficacy are important determinants. Jones et al. [32] examined 

TAM attributes and found perceived usefulness; perceived ease of use and subjective norm 

had a significant impact on user intention to use IS security measures. To verify IS conscious 

care behaviour formation in organisations, Safa et al. [51] found an important relationship 

with user attitude, subjective norm and self-efficacy. 

As our proposed model uses the constructs of TAM and TPB to account for the user 

acceptance of IS security innovation, the factors included were perceived usefulness, 

perceived ease of use, subjective norm, computer self-efficacy and facilitating condition. 

Venkatesh and Davis [59] and Hameed and Counsell [29] also considered these five 

characteristics to determine user acceptance of IS innovation. 

6.4.1.  Perceived Usefulness 

Perceived usefulness is defined as "the degree to which a person believes that using a 

particular system would enhance his or her job performance [19]. Perceived usefulness is a 

major determinant of intention to use the innovation and were found to have a direct effect on 

the usage behaviour. Much of the previous research has investigated TAM, and confirmed 

 

26 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

that perceived usefulness is the strongest predictor of an individual’s intention to use an 

innovation [59, 60]. In our proposed model, we define perceived usefulness as the degree 

which as an individual believes that the use of IS security innovation will virtually secure his 

or her IS assets. 

6.4.2.  Perceived Ease of Use 

Perceived ease of use is "the degree to which a person believes that using a particular 

system would be free of effort [19]. TAM suggests that perceived ease of use has a 

significant influence on perceived usefulness, behavioural attitude, intention, and actual use 

of an innovation [20]. In this research, we define perceived ease of use as the extent to which 

an individual perceives that the interaction with the IS security innovations is effortless. 

6.4.3.  Subjective Norm 

Fishbein and Ajzen [23] described subjective norm as the pressure enforce on individuals 

by people or organisations important to them, to perform or not to perform a particular 

behaviour. For our proposed model, subjective norm is the social pressure on the employee of 

an organisation by the management, supervisor, head of department and colleagues to accept 

or reject an IS security innovation. This pressure affects the employee's acceptance decision 

and the use of IS security innovations. 

6.4.4.  Computer Self-efficacy 

Computer self-efficacy is defined as an individual’s self-confidence in one's ability to 

perform a behaviour [29]. In the context of IS security adoption, the dimension of self-

efficacy is defined as an individual’s beliefs about their ability to proficiently implement 

preventive security behaviours and use preventive security tools [62]. In the information 

security adoption literature, self-efficacy has been found to be significantly associated with 

 

27 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

both intentions [42] and use [44] of IS security innovations. Hence, it is expected that higher 

levels of computer self-efficacy will cause higher levels of PBC, thus with increased 

intentions to use IS security innovation. 

6.4.5.  Facilitating Condition 

Facilitating conditions is the degree to which an individual believes that an 

organisational and technical infrastructure exists to support the use of the innovation [60]. IS 

security requires preventive software and tools in addition to technical supports to the user 

[62]. This study suggests that the more support services available to the users, the better 

chance that the users accept and trust the IS security innovation. 

7.  Conclusions and Future Research  

Effective adoption of IS security innovation is critical in protecting organisation’s IS 

assets from malicious attacks. In this study, we developed and proposed a model for the 

process of IS security innovation adoption in organisations. The study considered the IS 

security innovation adoption process to be successful only if the innovation is accepted and 

integrated into the organisation and the individual users continue using the innovation. The 

study described IS innovation adoption process as a two level decision proceeding: an 

organisational level adoption judgement followed by the verdict of the users regarding the 

innovation. Thus, the model exemplifies a two levels of evaluation, i.e. from the initiation 

stage until the acquisition of innovation was assessed as organisational process and the 

process of user acceptance of the innovation is analysed in terms of the behaviour of the 

individuals within the organisation. Furthermore, the proposed model portrayed the IS 

security adoption process, as progressing in three distinct phases, from pre-adoption through 

adoption-decision and then post-adoption stages. 

 

28 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

The basis of the model is derived by replicating theories and models used in the studies 

of innovation adoption and user acceptance of IS innovation. The study integrated 

perspectives from DOI, TAM, TPB and TOE to depict IS security innovation adoption 

process in organisations. The model exploited DOI model and TOE framework to 

characterize the organisational adoption process until the acquisition of innovation and the 

constructs of TAM and TPB explains the user acceptance of IS security innovation. The 

model also included several factors from different contexts that is perceived to impact IS 

security innovation adoption in organisations. The study suggests that relative advantage, 

compatibility, complexity, trialability and observability of the innovation influences the IS 

security adoption in an organisation. In terms of organisation characteristics the study 

proposes top management support, the size of the firm, IS readiness, IS expertise and IS 

culture to impact IS security innovation adoption process. In addition, the study advocates 

that government regulations are key to the adoption decision of IS security adoption in 

organisations. The study suggests that perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, subjective 

norm, computer self-efficacy and facilitating conditions are factors that enables users to 

accept IS security innovations.       

The proposed model presented have considerable significance in understanding the 

process involved in the adoption of IS security innovation in organisations. Also, it allows to 

highlight the key steps to navigate to achieve a successful adoption of IS security 

innovations. Equally, the study provides researchers and practitioners with a set of factors 

that affect the adoption of IS security in organisations. It serves as a guideline for 

practitioners to identify and address the facilitating and inhibiting issues in the context of 

technology, organisation, environment and user acceptance attributes in the process of IS 

security adoption. Managers need to consider these issues when embarking on IS security 

adoption in their organisations. 

 

29 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

The contribution of the study includes an enhancement of our understanding of IS 

security adoption and implementation process in organisations. It draws upon and merged 

from the rich literature in IS innovation adoption theories and applies it in the context of IS 

security where, it has seldom been examined. To overcome the shortcomings of individual IS 

innovation adoption models such as the DOI and TAM; the proposed model combined a 

number of innovation adoption models. Combining different innovation adoption models 

allows the individual model to complement each other, strengthening the analytical ability of 

the proposed model. Another important contribution of this research is that the proposed IS 

security model considers both the organisational adoption process and the user acceptance of 

innovation in a single illustration. Incorporating the organisational adoption process and the 

user acceptance of innovation in a single representation allows to explain IS security 

innovation adoption process more thoroughly. In addition, the proposed model introduces 

several determinants from technology, organisation, environment and user acceptance 

characteristics that may influence IS security adoption in organisations.  

The IS security adoption model proposed in this study provides important implications 

for practice as well as for further research. This study has a number of implications for 

managers and IS researchers. Managers can draw up this model and assess the condition of 

the IS security adoption process and possible factors that would lead to a successful adoption 

of IS security innovations in their organisations. In addition, managers can utilise the model 

to plan and prepare for the adoption process and establish smooth conditions for the user 

acceptance in the IS security implementation process. IT practitioners may utilise this model 

to investigate the factors influencing the adoption of IS security innovations in various 

demographic settings; the model could be tested by organisations from different sectors and 

different countries.   

 

30 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

The study has some limitations that need to be considered when interpreting the results. 

As this is a theoretical model, unavailability of any empirical insights of the model limits us 

to drawing causal implications of the findings. Another limitation is that this research 

obtained technology, organisation, environment and user acceptance attributes from a small 

number of studies. This could result in a narrow scope that does not adequately capture all 

determinants relating to IS security adoption.  

In terms of future research, the proposed model may be empirically tested to verify the 

effectiveness in predicting IS security adoption in organisations. Another obvious addition to 

this study would be to experimentally examine the impact of the attributes identified in the 

proposed model. As the model gives no indication of the significance of each factor for 

different stages of IS security adoption, the researchers could extend this study by analysing 

the interaction between different characteristics at different stages of the IS security adoption 

process. Furthermore, future research may refine the relationships using an empirical 

investigation to enable researchers to establish causal relationships. 

References 

1.  Ajzen I. The Theory of Planned Behaviour. Organisational Behavior and Human 

Decision Processes, 1991, 50(2): 179-211. 

2.  Albuquerque-Junior A E, Santos E M. Adoption of Information Security Measures in 

Public Research Institutes. Journal of Information Systems and Technology 

Management, 2015, 12(2): 289-316. 

3.  Alshboul A. Information Systems Security Measures and Countermeasures: Protecting 

Organisational Assets from Malicious Attacks. Communications of the IBIMA, 2010, p.9. 

 

31 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

4.  Arachchilage N A G. Serious Games for Cyber Security Education. LAP Lambert 

Academic Publishing, 2016, eprint arXiv: 1610.09511. https://arxiv.org/abs/1610.09511 

(accessed 15.11.2016).  

5.  Arachchilage N A G, Love S. A Game Design Framework for Avoiding Phishing Attack. 

Computers in Human Behavior, 2013, 29(3): 706-714. 

6.  Arachchilage N A G, Love S. Security Awareness of Computer Users: A Phishing Threat 

Avoidance Perspective. Computers in Human Behavior, 2014, 38: 304-312. 

7.  Arachchilage N A G, Love S, Beznosov K. Phishing Threat Avoidance Behaviour: An 

Empirical Investigation. Computers in Human Behavior, 2016, 60: 185-197. 

8.  Arachchilage N A G, Martin A. A Trust Domains Taxonomy for Securely Sharing 

Information: A Preliminary Investigation. In HAISA, 2014, 53-68. 

9.  Arachchilage N A G, Namiluko C, Martin A. A Taxonomy for Securely Sharing 

Information among Others in a Trust Domain. In: Internet Technology and Secured 

Transactions (ICITST). 8th International Conference for 2013 IEEE 2013, 296-304. 

10.  Armitage C J, Conner M. Efficacy of the Theory of Planned Behaviour: A Meta-analysis 

Review. British Journal of Social Psychology, 2001, 40(4): 471-499.  

11.  Awa H O, Ojiabo O U, Emecheta B C. Integrating TAM, TPB and TOE Frameworks and 

Expanding their Characteristic Constructs for E-commerce Adoption by SMEs. Journal 

of Science and Technology Policy Management, 2014, 6(1): 76-94. 

12.  Brown S A, Venkatesh V. A Model of Adoption of Technology in the Household: A 

Baseline Model Test and Extension Incorporating Household Life Cycle. MIS Quarterly, 

2005, 29(3): 399-426. 

 

32 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

13.  Cabrera A, Cabrera E F, Barajas S. The Key Role of Organizational Culture in a Multi-

System View of Technology-Driven Change. International Journal of Information 

Management, 2001, 21(3): 245-261. 

14.  Chatterjee S, Sarker S, Valacich J S. The Behavioral Roots of Information Systems 

Security: Exploring Key Factors Related to Unethical IT Use. Journal of Management 

Information Systems, 2015, 31(4): 49-87. 

15.  Claar C L, Johnson J. Analyzing the Adoption of Computer Security Utilizing the Health 

Belief Model. Issues in Information Systems, 2010, 11(1): 286-291. 

16.  Claar C L, Johnson J. Analyzing Home PC Security Adoption Behaviour. Journal of 

Computer Information Systems, 2012, 52(4): 20-29. 

17.  Damanpour F. Organisational Innovation: A Meta-analysis of Effects of Determinants 

and Moderators. Academy of Management Journal, 1991, 34(3): 555-590. 

18.  Damanpour F, Wischnevsky J D. Research on Organisational Innovation: Distinguishing 

Innovation-Generating from Innovation-Adopting Organisations. Journal of Engineering 

and Technology Management, 2006, 23(4): 269-291. 

19.  Davis F D. Perceived Usefulness, Perceived Ease of Use, Acceptance of Information 

Technology. MIS Quarterly, 1989, 13(3): 319-340. 

20.  Davis F D, Bagozzi R P, Warshaw P R. User Acceptance of Computer Technology: A 

Comparison of Two Theoretical Models. Management Science, 1989, 35(8): 982-1003. 

21.  Feruza Y S, Kim T. IT Security Review: Privacy, Protection, Access Control, Assurance 

and System Security. International Journal of Multimedia and Ubiquitous Engineering, 

2007, 2(2): 17-32. 

 

33 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

22.  Fichman R G, Kemerer C F. The Assimilation of Software Process Innovations: An 

Organizational Learning Perspective. Management Science, 1997, 43(1): 1345-1363. 

23.  Fishbein M, Ajzen I. Belief, Attitude, Intention and Behaviour: An Introduction to 

Theory and Research. MA: Addison-Wesley; 1975. 

24.  Furnell S M, Thompson K L. From Culture to Disobedience: Recognising the Varying 

User Acceptance of IT Security. Computer Fraud and Security, 2009, 2009(2): 5-10. 

25.  Gopalakrishnan S, Damanpour F. A Review of Innovation Research in Economics, 

Sociology and Technology Management. Omega, International Journal of .Management 

Science, 1997, 25(1): 15-28. 

26.  Hameed M A, Arachchilage N A G. A Model for the Adoption Process of Information 

System Security Innovations in Organisations: A Theoretical Perspective. In Proc. The 

27th Australasian Conference on Information Systems (ACIS), December 2016, 

https://arxiv.org/abs/1609.07911 (accessed 16.11.2016).  

27.  Hameed M A, Counsell S. Assessing the Influence of Environmental and CEO 

Characteristics for Adoption of Information Technology in Organizations. Journal of 

Technology Management and Innovation, 2012, 7(1): 64-84. 

28.  Hameed M A, Counsell S. Establishing Relationship between Innovation Characteristics 

and IT Innovation Adoption in Organisations: A Meta-analysis Approach. International 

Journal of Innovation Management, 2014a, 18(1): 41. 

29.  Hameed M A, Counsell S. User Acceptance Determinants of Information Technology 

Innovation in Organisations. International Journal of Innovation and Technology 

Management, 2014b, 11(5): 17. 

 

34 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

30.  Hameed M A, Counsell S, Swift S. A Conceptual Model for the Process of IT Innovation 

Adoption in Organisations. Journal of Engineering and Technology Management, 2012a, 

29(3): 358-390. 

31.  Hameed M A, Counsell S, Swift S. A Meta-analysis of Relationships between 

Organisational Characteristics and IT Innovation Adoption in Organisations. Information 

and Management, 2012b, 49(5): 218-232. 

32.  Jones C M, McCarthy R V, Halawi L, Mujtaba B. Utilizing the Technology Acceptance 

Model to Access the Employee Adoption of Information System Security Measures. 

Issues in Information System, 2010, 11(1): 9-16. 

33.  Jeon B N, Han K S, Lee M J. Determining Factors for the Adoption of E-Business: the 

Case of SMEs in Korea. Applied Economics, 2006, 38(16): 1905-1916. 

34.  Kaspersky lab. Damage Control: The Cost of Security Breaches. 2015, 

https://media.kaspersky.com/pdf/it-risks-survey-report-cost-of-security-breaches.pdf 

(accessed 15.11.2016)  

35.  Kim H, Lee D, and Ham S. Impact of Hotel Information Security on System Reliability. 

International Journal of Hospitality Management, 2013, 35: 369-379. 

36.  Lee Y, Kozar K A. Investigating Factors Affecting Adoption of Anti-spyware Systems. 

Communications of the ACM, 2005, 48(8): 72-77. 

37.  Lee Y, Kozar K A. An Empirical Investigation of Anti-spyware Software Adoption: A 

Multi-theoretical Perspective. Information and Management, 2008, 45(2): 109-119. 

 

35 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

38.  Legris P, Ingham J, Collerette P. Why do People Use Information Technology? A 

Critical Review of the Technology Acceptance Model. Information and Management, 

2003, 40(3): 191-204. 

39.  Leidner D E, Kayworth T. Review: A Review of Culture in Information Systems 

Research: Towards a Theory of Information Technology Culture Conflict. MIS 

Quarterly, 2006, 30(2): 357-399. 

40.  Lertwongsatien C, Wongpinunwatana N. E-commerce Adoption in Thailand: An 

Empirical Study of Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). Journal of Global 

Information Technology Management, 2003, 6(3): 67-83. 

41.  Li D C. Online Security Performances and Information Security Disclosures. Journal of 

Computer Information Systems, 2015, 55(2): 20-28. 

42.  Liang H, Xue Y. Understanding Security Behaviours in Personal Computer Usage: A 

Threat Avoidance Perspective. Journal of the Association for Information Systems, 2010, 

11(7).   

43.  Moore G C, Benbasat I. Development of an Instrument to Measure the Perceptions of 

Adopting an Information Technology Innovation. Information Systems Research, 1991, 

2(3): 173-191. 

44.  Ng B Y, Kankanhalli A, Xu Y C. Studying Users' Computer Security Behavior: A Health 

Belief Perspective. Decision Support System, 2009, 46(4): 815-825. 

45.  Pierce J L, Delbecq A L. Organisation Structure, Individual Attitudes and Innovation. 

Academy of Management Review, 1977, 2(1): 27-37. 

 

36 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

46.  Premkumar G, Ramamurthy K. The Role of Inter-organizational and Organizational 

Factors on the Decision Mode for the Adoption of Inter-organizational Systems. 

Decision Science, 1995, 26(3): 303-336. 

47.  Premkumar G, Roberts M. Adoption of New Information Technologies in Rural Small 

Businesses. Journal of Management Science, 1999, 27(4): 467-484. 

48.  Quaddus M, Hofmeyer G. An Investigation into the Factors Influencing the Adoption of 

B2B Trading Exchanges in Small Businesses. European Journal of Information Systems, 

2007, 16(3): 202-215. 

49.  Rogers E M. Diffusion of Innovations. 3rd Ed. New York: The Free Press; 1983. 

50.  Rogers E M. Diffusion of Innovations. New York: The Free Press; 1995.  

51.  Safa N S, Sookhak M, Solms R V, Furnell S, Abdul-Ghani N, Herawam T. Information 

Security Conscious Care Behaviour Formation in Organisations. Computers and 

Security, 2015, 53: 65-78. 

52.  Salleh K A, Janczewski L, Beltran F. SEC-TOE Framework: Exploring Security: 

Determinants in Big Data Solutions Adoption. In Proc, of the Pacific Asia Conference on 

Information Systems (PACIS), 2015, 203. 

53.  Teo T S H, Lin S, Lai K. Adopters and Non-adopters of E-Procurement in Singapore: An 

Empirical Study. Omega, International Journal of Management Science, 2009, 37(5): 

972-987. 

54.  Thong J Y L, Yap C, Raman K S. Top Management Support, External Expertise and 

Information Systems Implementation in Small Businesses. Information Systems 

Research, 1996, 7(2): 248-267. 

 

37 

A Model for the Adoption of IS Security Adoption 

55.  Tornatzky L G, Fleischer M. The Process of Technological Innovation. Lexington books, 

MA: Lexington; 1990. 

56.  Tornatzky L G, Klein K J. Innovation Characteristics and Innovation Adoption 

Implementation: A Meta-analysis of Findings. IEEE Transactions on Engineering 

Management, 1982, 29(1): 28-45. 

57.  Tuncalp D. Diffusion and Adoption of Information Security Management Standards 

across Countries and Industries. Journal of Global Information Technology 

Management, 2014, 17(4): 221-227. 

58.  Venkatesh V, Bala H. Technology Acceptance Model 3 and a Research Agenda on 

Interventions. Decision Sciences, 2008, 39(2): 273-315. 

59.  Venkatesh V, Davis F D. A Theoretical Extension of the Technology Acceptance Model: 

Four Longitudinal Field Studies. Management Science, 2000, 46(2): 186-204. 

60.  Venkatesh V, Morris M G, Davis G B, Davis F D. User Acceptance of Information 

Technology: Toward a Unified View. MIS Quarterly, 2003, 27(3): 425-478. 

61.  Wang Y, Wang Y, Lin H, Tang T. Determinants of User Acceptance of Internet 

Banking: An Empirical Study. International Journal of Service Industry Management, 

2003, 14(5): 501-519. 

62.  Wynn Jr D, Karahanna E, Williams C K, Madupalli R. Preventive Adoption of 

Information Security Behaviours. In: Proc. the 33rd International Conference on 

Information Systems, Orlando 2012.  

 

38 

