7
1
0
2

 

y
a
M
2
2

 

 
 
]

Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 

1
v
7
4
7
7
0

.

5
0
7
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

What does it all mean?

Capturing Semantics of Surgical Data and

Algorithms with Ontologies

Darko Kati´c1, Maria Maleshkova2, Sandy Engelhardt3, Ivo Wolf3, Keno M¨arz3,
Lena Maier Hein3, Marco Nolden3, Martin Wagner4, Hannes Kenngott4, Beat

Peter M¨uller-Stich4, R¨udiger Dillmann1, and Stefanie Speidel1

Institute for Anthropomatics and Robotics, Karlsruhe Institute of Technology1
Institute of Applied Informatics and Formal Description Methods, Karlsruhe

Institute of Technology2

Division of Medical and Biological Informatics, German Cancer Research Center

(DKFZ), Heidelberg3

Department of General, Abdominal and Transplantation Surgery, University of

Heidelberg4

darko.katic@kit.edu

Abstract. Every year approximately 234 million major surgeries are
performed, leading to plentiful, highly diverse data. This is accompanied
by a matching number of novel algorithms for the surgical domain.
To garner all beneﬁts of surgical data science it is necessary to have
an unambiguous, shared understanding of algorithms and data. This in-
cludes inputs and outputs of algorithms and thus their function, but also
the semantic content, i.e. meaning of data such as patient parameters.
We therefore propose the establishment of a new ontology for data and
algorithms in surgical data science. Such an ontology can be used to
provide common data sets for the community, encouraging sharing of
knowledge and comparison of algorithms on common data. We hold that
this is a necessary foundation towards new methods for applications such
as semantic-based content retrieval and similarity measures and that it
is overall vital for the future of surgical data science.

Keywords: Ontology, Semantic, Knowledge Engineering, Surgery

1 Problem Statement

An estimated 234 million major surgeries are performed every year world-wide
[1]. The data created during these surgeries is plentiful and highly diverse. In-
traoperative information artifacts alone range from instrument applications and
trajectories over images from microscopes, endoscopes or ultrasound. Postop-
eratively further diagnoses, plannings and outcomes need to be included. The
technical challenge is the heterogeneity of the data. Time variant states (e.g.
time-series coming from laboratory results or follow-up images of disease pro-
gression), processes (e.g. intraoperative workﬂows) and device states need to be
considered in a combined analysis.

2

The amount of data is matched by the availability of algorithms. There
is a vast amount of approaches for surgical data science applications ranging
from preoperative decision support over intraoperative assistance generation and
workﬂow optimization to post-operative skill assessment. Current algorithms use
a variety of possible inputs. Even algorithms solving similar problems often use
diﬀerent data. Amongst others, this is evident in the modeling of intraoperative
workﬂows where there is no ultimate agreement on relevant features [2].

A deep, clear and machine-readable understanding of the underlying data is
also important for machine learning. This is best articulated by the No-Free-
Lunch-Theorem [3]. The theorem states that, under very general conditions,
there is no universally better algorithm for machine learning. Instead, the algo-
rithm to be used needs to be chosen speciﬁcally for the data and the problem at
hand. A clear, formal description of data and algorithms is therefore necessary.
The quantity, heterogeneity and interconnectedness of algorithms and data
are salient challenges to surgical data science. To truly realize its potential of
holistic analysis, a language for data and algorithms needs to be found. A shared
understanding on the semantic level is necessary to cope with the large amount of
data and algorithms. Especially in a collaborative community this is important
as it supports sharing of data and helps avoid misunderstandings.

To this end, we propose the development of an ontology for algorithms and
data in surgery. Speciﬁcally, we aim to capture semantics, e.g. what the data is
about. The usefulness of such ontologies is apparent in other domains, e.g. data
mining [4]. Current medical ontologies like OntoSPM [5], the Foundational Model
of Anatomy (FMA) [6] and SNOMED-CT [7] focus only on medical knowledge
itself, yet not on data and algorithms, while OntoDM [4] is not directly applicable
to medical use-cases without further development.

2 Potential Beneﬁts and Uses

Assuming suﬃcient acceptance, such an ontology oﬀers a community-wide con-
sensus on terms, algorithms and data structures. This greatly facilitates com-
parison of proposed approaches and encourages sharing of knowledge and data.
These steps are not only desirable but salient staples of good scientiﬁc practice.
The ontology inherently models provenance, i.e. origin of data. This allows
to estimate trust to arbitrate between conﬂicting assessments. For instance it
can be queried whether a segmentation was obtained purely algorithmically, by
an experienced clinician or a novice one.

On a methodological level, such an ontology supports the development of
novel data interpretation techniques. It can be used for content-based retrieval of
images or cohorts. Furthermore, it lends itself to use in similarity based retrieval
over diﬀerent modalities. For machine learning applications, such an ontology
is very beneﬁcial as it allows ﬁne-granular, semantic selection of training data
based on the semantic description. It also aids in the selection of machine learning
approaches as it allows a better understanding of processes and data generation.

3

Further applications include easier search for algorithms tailored to speciﬁc
purposes, improved understanding as well as documentation. Reasoning tech-
niques can be used to provide even more advanced functions such as automatic
proposals of algorithms or even of entire pipelines in speciﬁc use-cases [8].

3 Requirements and Challenges

The development of such an ontology is challenging. For once, it must be ac-
cepted by the research community. The problem is including many stakeholders
during the development and ﬁnding a consensus. Furthermore the proposed on-
tology needs to include relevant ontologies such as SNOMED-CT [7] and FMA
[6]. This is crucial for interoperability with system using such established ontolo-
gies. Content-wise, the ontology needs to contain rich semantics and allow for
reasoning. A mere taxonomy is insuﬃcient. The associated challenge is to gather,
combine and formalize expert knowledge from clinicians and technicians.

To reap the beneﬁts of the ontology, real-world data sets and algorithms must
be described with it. This requires considerable eﬀort. Methodically, the anno-
tation can be created by a mix of manual work, crowd-sourcing and automatic
labeling. Thus it can be parallelized and partly automated.

Due to these challenges and the large scope, we propose to ﬁrst create a
mid-level ontology to ensure general agreement. It can then be reﬁned to appli-
cation ontologies for speciﬁc purposes. Because of the large amount of eﬀort and
coordination required, widespread collaboration is mandatory.

4 Technical Feasibility Analysis

Such an ontology is diﬃcult yet feasible to attain. Reusability and adherence
to standards can be ensured using an upper-ontology. Upper-ontolgies deﬁne
general terms which are further specialized for concrete domains. The main ad-
vantage is that diﬀerent ontologies built with the same upper-ontology can be
connected rather easily, as they already share a foundation. Furthermore they
improve the quality of ontologies oﬀering a well thought-out basic categorization.
We propose the use of Basic Formal Ontology (BFO) as the upper-ontology
[9]. BFO is mature and used in many existing (bio-)medical ontologies. Further-
more, we aim to include the Information Artefact Ontology [10] and the the
Ontology of Biomedical Investigation [11].

An idea of the ontology is shown in Fig. 1. The example from the domain
of heart surgery illustrates the representation of a DICOM-ﬁle showing the mi-
tral valve in the long axis plane, captured using ultrasound with the surface of
the valve segmented via an implementation of a segmentation algorithm. Al-
gorithms and their implementations are modeled separately. The processing of
data is modeled by expressing the process of execution of the implementation
with inputs and outputs modeled as participants. For applications needing user
input, e.g. interactive segmentations, additional participant can be added. This
way the creation of data and thus provenance is modeled.

4

Fig. 1. Representation of a ﬁle showing the mitral valve in the long axis plane, captured
using ultrasound used to create a segmentation of the mitral valve surface.

Overall, we believe the development of the ontology is a feasible and very

fruitful endeavour.

Acknowledgements The present research was supported by the “SFB TRR 125”
funded by the DFG.

References

1. Weiser ,T.G., Regenbogen, S.E., Thompson, K.D., Haynes, A.B., Lipsitz, S.R., Berry
W.R., Gawande A.A. An estimation of the global volume of surgery: a modelling
strategy based on available data. Lancet. (9633):139–44 (2008)

2. Lalys, F., Jannin, P. Surgical process modelling: a review. Int J Comput Assisted

Radiol Surg. 1-17 (2013)

3. Wolpert, D.H. The lack of a priori distinctions between learning algorithms. Neural

Computation, 8(7):1341–1390. (1996)

4. Panov, P., Soldatova, L., Deroski, S. Ontology of core data mining entities. Data

Mining and Knowledge Discovery 28(5-6):1222-1265 (2014)

5. Gibaud, B., Penet, C., Pierre, J. OntoSPM: a core ontology of surgical procedure

models, SURGETICA (2014)

6. Rosse, C., Mejino, J.L. Jr. A reference ontology for biomedical informatics: the

Foundational Model of Anatomy. J Biomed Inform 36(6):478500 (2003)

7. Cornet, R., de Keizer, N. Forty years of SNOMED: a literature review BMC Medical

Informatics and Decision Making (2008)

8. Philipp, P., Maleshkova, M., Katic, D., Weber, C., G¨otz, M., Rettinger, A., Speidel,
S., K¨ampgen, B., Nolden, M., Wekerle, A.L., Dillmann, R., Kenngott, H., M¨uller,
B., Studer, R. Toward cognitive pipelines of medical assistance algorithms. Int J
Comput Assist Radiol Surg. (2015)

9. Grenon, P., Smith, B. SNAP and SPAN: towards dynamic spatial ontology. Spat

Cognit Compuat 1(4):69103 (2004)

10. IAO Information Artifact Ontology https://github.com/information-artifact-

ontology/IAO Last accessed: 09.05.2016

11. Brinkman, R.R., Courtot, M., Derom, D., Fostel, J.M., He, Y., Lord, P., Malone, J.,
Parkinson, H., Peters, B., Rocca-Serra, P., Ruttenberg, A., Sansone, S.A., Soldatova,
L.N., Stoeckert, C.J. Jr, Turner, J.A., Zheng, J.: Modeling biomedical experimental
processes with OBI. J Biomed Semantics. (2010)

:DICOM fileencoded withhas type:ultrasoundimage:visibilityFMA:mitral valve:long axis view planeshowsstructureviewedin planeencoded with:voxel encodinghas input:algorithm executionprocesshas output:stl file:polygon meshencoding:visibilityhas typehas type:surfacesegmentationshowsstructurehas participant:segmentationalgorithm implementation