 
 

 

MOBILITY21: Strategic Investments for  
Transportation Infrastructure & Technology 

Rahul Mangharam 

University of Pennsylvania 

Megan Reyerson 

University of Pennsylvania 

Steve Viscelli 

University of Pennsylvania 

Hamsa Balakrishanan 

MIT 

Alexandre Bayen 
UC Berkeley, ITS 

Surabh Amin 

MIT 

 

Leslie Richards 

PennDOT 

Leo Bagley 
PennDOT 

George Pappas 

University of Pennsylvania 

 
 
America’s transportation infrastructure is the backbone of our economy. A strong infrastructure means a strong America – 
an  America  that  competes  globally,  supports  local  and  regional  economic  development,  and  creates  jobs.  Strategic 
investments in our transportation infrastructure are vital to our national security, economic growth, transportation safety 
and our technology leadership.1 This document outlines critical needs for our transportation infrastructure, identifies new 
technology drivers and proposes strategic investments for safe and efficient air, ground, rail and marine mobility of people 
and  goods.  Three  axes  drive  fundamental  changes  into  how  we  will  plan,  deploy  and  use  our  transportation  networks 
through the century: 

1. New Vehicle Platforms: With the rapid development of Connected/Automated Vehicles, Delivery Drones and 
Commercial  Space  we  identify  the  need  for  (i)  a  smart  rebuild  of  the  interstate  system,  (ii)  an  integrated 
transportation  communications  infrastructure  and  (iii)  a  nation-wide  network  of  autonomous  truck  ports  to 
substantially  reduce  the  need  to  build  expensive  new  roads.  This  is  infrastructure  that  can  be  built  faster, 
encourages innovation and unleashes the next revolution in mobility. 
2.  Infrastructure  Integrated  with  Internet-of-Things:  Widespread  sensor  deployment  within  transportation 
networks  will enable  new  services such  as smart parking,  matching drivers  with spots, and congestion pricing, 
matching  road  capacity  to  trip  demand  to  achieve  shorter,  more  predictable  travel.  Real-time  data  on  use  and 
changing transportation needs will provide scalable analytics for making existing transportation networks resilient 
to aging and natural disasters. The use of such sensors, real-time data and Artificial Intelligence in our vehicles 
and transportation networks requires policy and infrastructure for (i) ensuring autonomous systems make safe, fair 
and predictable decisions, (ii) efficient exchange of travel data while ensuring user privacy and asset security, and 
(iii) co-existence of private and public autonomous systems with an integrated technology roadmap. 
3. New Transportation  Users:  New  shared and flexible mobility models  such  as  “Mobility  as  a  Service”  and 
“When-I-Want-It/Where-I-Want-It  Logistics”  require 
infrastructure  service 
partnerships in air, ground, marine and rail, and (ii) technology services for wider adoption of “sharing economy” 
transportation modes to leverage underutilized assets and put them to productive use. 	

technology  platforms  (i)  for 

 
As transportation technology evolves, we propose an “Integrated Deployment” approach for performance-based regulations 
rather  than  the  current  prescriptive  policy  and  planning.  This  approach  includes  the  clustering  of  innovations  within 
technology  ecosystems,  and  in  the  case  of  many  infrastructure-based  technologies,  through  public-private  partnerships. 
Such integrated deployments represent investments where the productivity gains produced are greater than the sum of their 
individual technology parts. 
																																																													
1 Mynatt et al. (2017) “A National Research Agenda for Intelligent Infrastructure” CCC Led Whitepapers 
http://cra.org/ccc/resources/ccc-led-whitepapers/, last accessed April 12, 2017. 
	

1 

 
A.1. Ground Transportation: Safe Autonomous Platforms 
As the rapid introduction of partially autonomous “Autopilot” Advanced Driver Assistance Systems (ADAS) are already 
outpacing  current  safety  certification  and  regulatory  standards,  there  is  a  need  to  build  public  confidence  prior  to  the 
mainstream  introduction  of  autonomous  vehicles.  The  Transportation  and  Infrastructure  Committee  must  establish  a 
technology and policy foundation for the deployment of automated vehicles by achieving broad industry participation in the 
NHTSA  Automated  Vehicles  Policy  development  process.  This  approach  will  require  engaging  with  States,  safety 
regulators, and advocates in establishing processes that would help the transition from testing to larger scale deployment. 
The  development  of  a  clear  technology  and  policy  roadmap  in  the  Federal  Motor  Vehicle  Safety  Standards  (e.g.  for 
Automated  Vehicle,  ADAS,  visibility,  lighting,  etc.)  will  fast  track  innovations  such  as  the  development  of  machine 
learning algorithms which make safe, fair and predictable decisions, scalable verification of software and software updates 
in AVs, and an insurance framework for AVs. 
 
A.2. Ground Transportation: Smart Rebuild of the Interstate System 
The  states  and  the  nation  face  a  50+  year  old  46,000-mile  interstate  system  in  need  of  major  reconstruction  and 
rehabilitation  but  without  the  adequate  funding  necessary  to  plan  and  execute  a  comprehensive,  multi-year,  multi-state 
program. The Smart Rebuild of the Interstate System should bring the system up to modern highway and bridge design 
standards, include critical operational and safety improvements, plan strategic widenings and advanced traffic management 
where appropriate geared toward eliminating or reducing major commuter and freight bottlenecks, and include connected 
and autonomous vehicle infrastructure necessary for the next generation of vehicles.  
 
A.3. Ground Transportation: Communications Infrastructures for Smart Cities 
Smart  City  developments  are  attractive  as  they  enhance  the  quality  of  life  in  ultra-dense  urban  areas,  create  jobs  and 
facilitate high throughput economic activity with rural regions. A foundation for such 21st Century data-driven Smart Cities 
is to have an integrated Broadband Infrastructure and Secure Shared Spectrum to support connected vehicles and flexible 
logistics. It is essential to include broadband 5G and wide area low-rate (LoRa) networks in any infrastructure legislation, 
including broadband funding for rural or otherwise hard-to-serve areas and support for technology-driven approaches to 
spectrum  sharing  between  fixed  and  vehicular  networks  for  coordinated  safety,  improved  utilization  and  adaptation  to 
disruptive technologies. 
 
A.4. Ground Transportation: Freight Infrastructure Investment 
Autonomous trucks are poised to revolutionize the work of the freight industry, resulting in dramatic productivity gains and 
fundamental changes to trucking operations. This unprecedented opportunity for public investments in infrastructure offers 
foster faster, safer and cleaner trucking through the more efficient use of existing road capacity. The U.S. should build a 
network of Urban Truck Ports at key points of road congestion around our major cities. Like a port where the ocean meets 
the land, truck ports would be placed where the urban meets the rural. Ports would be a place where different tractors—one 
designed for rural areas and one for urban areas—can meet up to swap trailers. By splitting up trips by the type of driving 
required and the best tractor for each, these ports would allow the industry to invest in the best technology for each kind of 
driving, avoid driving through rush hour, and bring drivers home more often. Truck ports could save the industry billions of 
dollars annually in fuel, congestion, and driver turnover costs. And by utilizing our most congested roads at off-peak times, 
a nation-wide network of ports would substantially reduce the need to build new roads. 
 
A.5. Ground Transportation: Addressing Security & Privacy Gaps which put American Drivers at Risk  
Today’s vehicle functionality, safety, and privacy all depend on the functions of more than 50 separate electronic control 
units within the vehicle, as well as communication between vehicles for active networked safety. As vehicles continue to 
capture  and  transmit  driving  data  across  vehicular  networks,  there  are  more  avenues  through  which  a  hacker  could 
introduce  malicious  code,  and  through  which  a  driver’s  basic  right  to  privacy  could  be  compromised.  Currently,  most 
automobile manufacturers were unaware of, or unable to report on past hacking incidents. Security measures to prevent 
remote  access  to  vehicle  electronics  are  inconsistent  and  haphazard  across  all  automobile  manufacturers.  The 
Transportation  and  Infrastructure  Committee  must  guide  robust  vehicle  security  policies  to  ensure  every  vehicle 
manufacturer adopt a common set of security and privacy principles which include (1) transparency, (2) choice, (3) respect 
for  context,  (4)  data  minimization,  de-identification  and  retention,  (5)  data  security,  (6)  integrity  and  access,  and  (7) 
accountability.  
 
B.1. Rail Transportation: Intercity Passenger and Freight Rail Service 
The  nation  needs  a  complement  to  our  interstate  system  to  carry  passengers  and  freight.  Investments  in  improving 
passenger rail, primarily in the Amtrak Northeast Corridor where significant planning has occurred, but also necessary to 
support the efforts of some states to improve Amtrak service or establish high speed rail. Rail freight improvements, in 
partnership with Amtrak and the major railroads and seaports, would benefit the new on-demand national and international 

	

2 

economy. Rail freight bottlenecks can affect not only freight movements but passenger traffic and should be mitigated as 
part of strategic transportation investments.  
 
B.2. Rail Transportation: Integrated Technology Plan 
The Rail Industry is undergoing a silent revolution with system-wide sensors for real-time equipment monitoring and the 
use  of  drones  for  inspection  and  crash  analysis  of  rail  assets  for  hazard  monitoring.  Sensor  technologies  such  as  wheel 
encoders  for  early  warning  of  railcar  maintenance  and  wayside  visual  and  ultrasound  detectors  for  detecting  rail  flaws 
enable the same assets to last longer. The Transportation and Infrastructure Committee must focus efforts on how to stretch 
current infrastructure by the widespread use of Electronically Controlled Pneumatic Braking for coordinated braking across 
multiple  cars, remote inspection of brake health, and for  graduated release in  challenging weather conditions. A second 
coordinated  effort  is  needed  on  Rail  System  Data  Analytics  to  enhance  safety  and  throughput  with  rail-to-rail  trip 
optimizers,  network  level  movement  optimizers,  monitoring  the  health  of  rolling  stock,  and  with  the  use  of  uniquely 
identified freight cars and locomotives.  
 
C. Air Transportation 
In 2013, the FAA reported that the 485 commercial airports in the U.S. support 9.6 million jobs; create an annual payroll of 
$358  billion;  and  produce  an  annual  output  of  $1.1  trillion.  However,  the  cost  of  delay  due  to  supply  and  demand 
imbalances and the lack of air traffic control efficiency cost the entire system $32.9 billion (in 2007), over half of which 
was  borne  by  U.S.  air  passengers  ($16.7  billion).  As  42%  of  aircraft  delays  are  due  to  maintenance,  supply  chain, 
operations  and  ground  handling  issues  and  25%  come  from  airport  and  airspace  congestion,  the  benefits  of  improved 
infrastructure and connectivity across components of the airport infrastructure are clear. 
 
C.1. Air Transportation: Improving aviation infrastructure 
The system of U.S. airports does not universally struggle from a lack of infrastructure, but rather, from a mismatch between 
supply  and  demand.  The  nation’s  biggest  airports,  our  international  hubs,  struggle  with  surging  demand  and  inefficient 
ground and landside infrastructure; these airports clearly need investment in terms of new hard infrastructure, particularly 
as other countries look to build up their own international airport hubs. Yet, recent findings show that small cities within 
300 miles of a major hub airport are unable to build their own air service if their somewhat proximate hub airport grows 
service; travelers find it more attractive to drive to the hub airport and take advantage of higher levels of service. We must 
make  investments  in  airport  infrastructure  with  the  understanding  that  airports  are  nodes  in  a  larger,  interconnected 
multimodal  transportation  system;  moreover,  that  investments  in  one  airport  may  be  detrimental  to  the  air  service  and 
economic development of a neighboring region. In considering modernization efforts, a careful analysis of the question of 
whether or not (and to what extent) to privatize ATC functions, the associated risks and benefits, and the technological 
approach is much needed. 
 
C.2. Air Transportation: Unmanned Aerial Systems 
Unmanned aerial systems also hold the potential to revolutionize urban and rural parcel delivery; medical device testing and 
drug  delivery;  the  agricultural  sector  through  precision  farming;  and  the  oil  and  gas  industry  through  efficient  pipeline 
inspections and infrastructure maintenance. While the FAA has not yet approved the certification of such UAS vehicles for 
commercial  operations,  both  the  public  and  private  sectors  are  hard  at  work  developing  certifications  and  UAS 
technologies. The integration of UAS into the nation’s airspace system has been estimated to have an economic benefit of 
more than $13.6 billion in the first three years alone, in addition to creating 34,000 manufacturing jobs and 70,000 new 
jobs. There must be research and investment in the air traffic control infrastructures – hard infrastructures such as landing 
locations and new distribution centers, as well as communications, navigation and surveillance infrastructure – so that cities 
can ensure their competitiveness in the future.  
 
Actions and Recommendations 
Based on the preceding discussion, we offer the following recommended actions: 

1.  Analyze skills and education requirements to facilitate new technical jobs for shared, autonomous and data-driven 
technologies in road and air technology management and maintenance due to a looming talent and skills shortage 
in the planning, design and construction of transportation technologies.  
 

2.  Regulate safe autonomous systems, Vehicle-to-Vehicle (V2V) and Vehicle-to-Infrastructure (V2I) security and 

privacy in a way that aligns with National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA). 
 

3.  Expand freight mobility by establishing Unmanned Systems, such as Ground Delivery “Bots” and Unmanned 

Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), as a new freight mode. Address constraints to UAVs in next Federal aviation 
reauthorization and encourage testing and safety/traffic management models for industry and public sector 
cooperation. For ground delivery unmanned robots, encourage a “complete streets” design approach to their 

	

3 

4.  Bridge gaps between research & development and deployment (R&D&D) of shared, autonomous and data-driven 
technologies: Advocate for more collaborative investment in high-risk/high-reward R&D and operational testing. 
Use “challenges” and other competitions to foster innovation in getting new technologies and integrated systems 
deployed. Establish a clear roadmap for architecture and standards that are needed to accelerate technology 
deployment from a commercial/public procurement perspective. Identify needs to create or maintain architecture 
and standards that assure quality, safety, security, accessibility, interoperability, and reliability of products, 
processes, and services for critical initiatives—such as connected and automated vehicles, or systems that address 
vulnerable road users (e.g. pedestrians, cyclists, etc.). 
 
Increase overall investments in transportation with a greater focus on technology: Support new and long-term 
sustainable funding and financing in transportation infrastructure that expand technology-driven mobility 
investments and preserves the broad ITS eligibilities under the Fixing America’s Surface Transportation Act 
(FAST Act) to fund technology capital projects and operations and maintenance. 
 

6.  Leverage technology to address the problem of Distracted Driving with practical solutions, which work on 

5. 

integration. 
 

changing driving culture. Encourage more research to understand the complexity of Distracted Driving and the 
factors that elevate crash risk (or potentially reduce crash risk as in the case of safety technologies). Where 
necessary, establish industry guidelines for new types of driver interfaces, such as voice command systems. 

 
 
This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. 1136993. Any opinions, 
findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not necessarily 
reflect the views of the National Science Foundation. 

	

4 

