Community Identity and User Engagement in a Multi-Community Landscape

Justine Zhang∗
Cornell University

jz727@cornell.edu

William L. Hamilton∗

Stanford University

wleif@stanford.edu

Cristian Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil

Cornell University

cristian@cs.cornell.edu

Dan Jurafsky
Stanford University

jurafsky@stanford.edu

Jure Leskovec
Stanford University

jure@cs.stanford.edu

7
1
0
2

 

y
a
M
6
2

 

 
 
]
I
S
.
s
c
[
 
 

1
v
5
6
6
9
0

.

5
0
7
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Abstract

A community’s identity deﬁnes and shapes its internal dy-
namics. Our current understanding of this interplay is mostly
limited to glimpses gathered from isolated studies of individ-
ual communities. In this work we provide a systematic ex-
ploration of the nature of this relation across a wide variety
of online communities. To this end we introduce a quantita-
tive, language-based typology reﬂecting two key aspects of a
community’s identity: how distinctive, and how temporally
dynamic it is. By mapping almost 300 Reddit communities
into the landscape induced by this typology, we reveal reg-
ularities in how patterns of user engagement vary with the
characteristics of a community.
Our results suggest that the way new and existing users en-
gage with a community depends strongly and systematically
on the nature of the collective identity it fosters, in ways
that are highly consequential to community maintainers. For
example, communities with distinctive and highly dynamic
identities are more likely to retain their users. However,
such niche communities also exhibit much larger accultura-
tion gaps between existing users and newcomers, which po-
tentially hinder the integration of the latter.
More generally, our methodology reveals differences in how
various social phenomena manifest across communities, and
shows that structuring the multi-community landscape can
lead to a better understanding of the systematic nature of this
diversity.

1

Introduction

“If each city is like a game of chess, the day when I have
learned the rules, I shall ﬁnally possess my empire, even if I
shall never succeed in knowing all the cities it contains.”

— Italo Calvino, Invisible Cities
A community’s identity—deﬁned through the common
interests and shared experiences of its users—shapes vari-
ous facets of the social dynamics within it (Ren, Kraut, and
Kiesler 2007; Tajfel 2010; Ren et al. 2012). Numerous in-
stances of this interplay between a community’s identity and
social dynamics have been extensively studied in the context
of individual online communities (Bryant, Forte, and Bruck-
man 2005; Lampe et al. 2010; Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et
∗The two ﬁrst authors contributed equally and are ordered non-
alphabetically to balance ordering in another collaboration.
Copyright c(cid:13) 2017, Association for the Advancement of Artiﬁcial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.

al. 2013). However, the sheer variety of online platforms
complicates the task of generalizing insights beyond these
isolated, single-community glimpses. A new way to reason
about the variation across multiple communities is needed
in order to systematically characterize the relationship be-
tween properties of a community and the dynamics taking
place within.

One especially important component of community dy-
namics is user engagement. We can aim to understand
why users join certain communities (Panciera, Halfaker, and
Terveen 2009), what factors inﬂuence user retention (Dror
et al. 2012), and how users react to innovation (Danescu-
Niculescu-Mizil et al. 2013). While striking patterns of user
engagement have been uncovered in prior case studies of
individual communities (Postmes, Spears, and Lea 2000;
Huffaker et al. 2006; Fugelstad et al. 2012; Otterbacher and
Hemphill 2012; McAuley and Leskovec 2013), we do not
know whether these observations hold beyond these cases,
or when we can draw analogies between different commu-
nities. Are there certain types of communities where we can
expect similar or contrasting engagement patterns?

To address such questions quantitatively we need to pro-
vide structure to the diverse and complex space of online
communities. Organizing the multi-community landscape
would allow us to both characterize individual points within
this space, and reason about systematic variations in patterns
of user engagement across the space.
Present work: Structuring the multi-community space.
In order to systematically understand the relationship be-
tween community identity1and user engagement we intro-
duce a quantitative typology of online communities. Our ty-
pology is based on two key aspects of community identity:
how distinctive—or niche—a community’s interests are rel-
ative to other communities, and how dynamic—or volatile—
these interests are over time. These axes aim to capture the
salience of a community’s identity and dynamics of its tem-
poral evolution.

1We use “community identity” and “collective identity” inter-
changeably to refer to the shared deﬁnition of a group, derived
from members’ common interests and shared experiences. We
are not directly concerned with the more sociopolitical and psy-
chological connotations of these terms (Polletta and Jasper 2001;
Simon and Klandermans 2001; Ashmore, Deaux, and McLaughlin-
Volpe 2004).

Our main insight in implementing this typology auto-
matically and at scale is that the language used within
a community can simultaneously capture how distinctive
and dynamic its interests are. This language-based ap-
proach draws on a wealth of literature characterizing lin-
guistic variation in online communities and its relationship
to community and user identity (Cassell and Tversky 2005;
Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al. 2013; Bamman, Eisenstein,
and Schnoebelen 2014; Tran and Ostendorf 2016; Eisenstein
2017). Basing our typology on language is also convenient
since it renders our framework immediately applicable to a
wide variety of online communities, where communication
is primarily recorded in a textual format.

Using our framework, we map almost 300 Reddit com-
munities onto the landscape deﬁned by the two axes of our
typology (Section 2). We ﬁnd that this mapping induces con-
ceptually sound categorizations that effectively capture key
aspects of community-level social dynamics. In particular,
we quantitatively validate the effectiveness of our mapping
by showing that our two-dimensional typology encodes sig-
nals that are predictive of community-level rates of user re-
tention, complementing strong activity-based features.
Engagement and community identity. We apply our
framework to understand how two important aspects of user
engagement in a community—the community’s propensity
to retain its users (Section 3), and its permeability to new
members (Section 4)—vary according to the type of col-
lective identity it fosters. We ﬁnd that communities that
are characterized by specialized, constantly-updating con-
tent have higher user retention rates, but also exhibit larger
linguistic gaps that separate newcomers from established
members.

More closely examining factors that could contribute to
this linguistic gap, we ﬁnd that especially within distinctive
communities, established users have an increased propensity
to engage with the community’s specialized content, com-
pared to newcomers (Section 5). Interestingly, while estab-
lished members of distinctive communities more avidly re-
spond to temporal updates than newcomers, in more generic
communities it is the outsiders who engage more with
volatile content, perhaps suggesting that such content may
serve as an entry-point to the community (but not necessarily
a reason to stay). Such insights into the relation between col-
lective identity and user engagement can be informative to
community maintainers seeking to better understand growth
patterns within their online communities.

More generally, our methodology stands as an example
of how sociological questions can be addressed in a multi-
community setting. In performing our analyses across a rich
variety of communities, we reveal both the diversity of phe-
nomena that can occur, as well as the systematic nature of
this diversity.

2 A typology of community identity

A community’s identity derives from its members’ com-
mon interests and shared experiences (Ashmore, Deaux, and
McLaughlin-Volpe 2004; Ritzer 2007).
In this work, we
structure the multi-community landscape along these two
key dimensions of community identity: how distinctive a

community’s interests are, and how dynamic the community
is over time.

We now proceed to outline our quantitative typology,
which maps communities along these two dimensions. We
start by providing an intuition through inspecting a few
example communities. We then introduce a generalizable
language-based methodology and use it to map a large set
of Reddit communities onto the landscape deﬁned by our
typology of community identity.
2.1 Overview and intuition
In order
to illustrate the diversity within the multi-
community space, and to provide an intuition for the under-
lying structure captured by the proposed typology, we ﬁrst
examine a few example communities and draw attention to
some key social dynamics that occur within them.

We consider four communities from Reddit: in Seahawks,
fans of the Seahawks football team gather to discuss games
and players; in BabyBumps, expecting mothers trade advice
and updates on their pregnancy; Cooking consists of recipe
ideas and general discussion about cooking; while in pics,
users share various images of random things (like eels and
hornets). We note that these communities are topically con-
trasting and foster fairly disjoint user bases. Additionally,
these communities exhibit varied patterns of user engage-
ment. While Seahawks maintains a devoted set of users from
month to month, pics is dominated by transient users who
post a few times and then depart.

Discussions within these communities also span varied
sets of interests. Some of these interests are more speciﬁc to
the community than others: risotto, for example, is seldom a
discussion point beyond Cooking. Additionally, some inter-
ests consistently recur, while others are speciﬁc to a partic-
ular time: kitchens are a consistent focus point for cooking,
but mint is only in season during spring. Coupling speciﬁcity
and consistency we ﬁnd interests such as easter, which isn’t
particularly speciﬁc to BabyBumps but gains prominence in
that community around Easter (see Figure 1.A for further
examples).

These speciﬁc interests provide a window into the nature
of the communities’ interests as a whole, and by extension
their community identities. Overall, discussions in Cooking
focus on topics which are highly distinctive and consistently
recur (like risotto). In contrast, discussions in Seahawks are
highly dynamic, rapidly shifting over time as new games oc-
cur and players are traded in and out. In the remainder of this
section we formally introduce a methodology for mapping
communities in this space deﬁned by their distinctiveness
and dynamicity (examples in Figure 1.B).
2.2 Language-based formalization
Our approach follows the intuition that a distinctive commu-
nity will use language that is particularly speciﬁc, or unique,
to that community. Similarly, a dynamic community will
use volatile language that rapidly changes across successive
windows of time. To capture this intuition automatically,
we start by deﬁning word-level measures of speciﬁcity and
volatility. We then extend these word-level primitives to
characterize entire comments, and the community itself.

Figure 1: A: Within a community certain words are more community-speciﬁc and temporally volatile than others. For instance,
words like onesies are highly speciﬁc to the BabyBumps community (top left), while words like easter are temporally ephemeral.
B: Extending these word-level measures to communities, we can measure the overall distinctiveness and dynamicity of a
community, which are highly associated with user retention rates (colored heatmap; see Section 3). Communities like Seahawks
(a football team) and Cooking use highly distinctive language. Moreover, Seahawks uses very dynamic language, as the
discussion continually shifts throughout the football season. In contrast, the content of Cooking remains stable over time, as
does the content of pics; though these communities do have ephemeral fads, the overall themes discussed generally remain
consistent.

Our characterizations of words in a community are moti-
vated by methodology from prior literature that compares
the frequency of a word in a particular setting to its fre-
quency in some background distribution, in order to iden-
tify instances of linguistic variation (Monroe, Colaresi, and
Quinn 2008; Eisenstein 2017). Our particular framework
makes this comparison by way of pointwise mutual infor-
mation (PMI).
In the following, we use c to denote one community
within a set C of communities, and t to denote one time
period within the entire history T of C. We account for
temporal as well as inter-community variation by comput-
ing word-level measures for each time period of each com-
munity’s history, ct. Given a word w used within a particular
community c at time t, we deﬁne two word-level measures:
Speciﬁcity. We quantify the speciﬁcity Sc(w) of w to c by
calculating the PMI of w and c, relative to C,

Sc(w) = log

Pc(w)
PC(w)

,

where Pc(w) is w’s frequency in c. w is speciﬁc to c if it oc-
curs more frequently in c than in the entire set C, hence dis-
tinguishing this community from the rest. A word w whose
occurrence is decoupled from c, and thus has Sc(w) close to
0, is said to be generic.
We compute values of Sct(w) for each time period t in T ;
in the above description we drop the time-based subscripts
for clarity.

Volatility. We quantify the volatility Vct(w) of w to ct as
the PMI of w and ct relative to cT , the entire history of c:

Vct(w) = log

Pct(w)
PcT (w)

.

A word w is volatile at time t in c if it occurs more frequently
at t than in the entire history T , behaving as a fad within
a small window of time. A word that occurs with similar
frequency across time, and hence has V close to 0, is said to
be stable.
Extending to utterances. Using our word-level primitives,
we deﬁne the speciﬁcity of an utterance d in c, Sc(d) as
the average speciﬁcity of each word in the utterance. The
volatility of utterances is deﬁned analogously.

2.3 Community-level measures
Having described these word-level measures, we now pro-
ceed to establish the primary axes of our typology:
Distinctiveness. A community with a very distinctive iden-
tity will tend to have distinctive interests, expressed through
specialized language. Formally, we deﬁne the distinctive-
ness of a community N (ct) as the average speciﬁcity of all
utterances in ct. We refer to a community with a less dis-
tinctive identity as being generic.
Dynamicity. A highly dynamic community constantly shifts
interests from one time window to another, and these tem-
poral variations are reﬂected in its use of volatile language.

A. Within-community, word-level measuresB. Community-level measuresdynamic

generic
BabyBumps
IAmA
Libertarian
australia

distinctive

CollegeBasketball
Seahawks
formula1
yugioh

consistent AdviceAnimals Cooking

funny
news
pics

Guitar
MakeupAddiction
harrypotter

Table 1: Examples of communities on Reddit which occur
at the extremes (top and bottom quartiles) of our typology.

Formally, we deﬁne the dynamicity of a community D(ct)
as the average volatility of all utterances in ct. We refer to a
community whose language is relatively consistent through-
out time as being stable.

In our subsequent analyses, we focus mostly on examing
the average distinctiveness and dynamicity of a community
over time, denoted N (c) and D(c).
2.4 Applying the typology to Reddit
We now explain how our typology can be applied to the par-
ticular setting of Reddit, and describe the overall behaviour
of our linguistic axes in this context.
Dataset description. Reddit is a popular website where
users form and participate in discussion-based communi-
ties called subreddits. Within these communities, users post
content—such as images, URLs, or questions—which often
spark vibrant lengthy discussions in thread-based comment
sections.

The website contains many highly active subreddits with
thousands of active subscribers. These communities span
an extremely rich variety of topical interests, as represented
by the examples described earlier. They also vary along a
rich multitude of structural dimensions, such as the number
of users, the amount of conversation and social interaction,
and the social norms determining which types of content be-
come popular. The diversity and scope of Reddit’s multi-
community ecosystem make it an ideal landscape in which
to closely examine the relation between varying community
identities and social dynamics.

Our full dataset consists of all subreddits on Reddit from
January 2013 to December 2014,2 for which there are at
least 500 words in the vocabulary used to estimate our mea-
sures, in at least 4 months of the subreddit’s history. We
compute our measures over the comments written by users
in a community in time windows of months, for each suf-
ﬁciently active month, and manually remove communities
where the bulk of the contributions are in a foreign lan-
guage. This results in 283 communities (c), for a total of
4,872 community-months (ct).3

2https://archive.org/details/2015_reddit_

comments_corpus

3While we chose these cutoffs on the dataset to ensure robust
estimates of the linguistic measures, we note that slight relaxations
produce qualitatively similar results in the later analyses.

Estimating linguistic measures. We estimate word fre-
quencies Pct(w), and by extension each downstream mea-
sure, in a carefully controlled manner in order to ensure we
capture robust and meaningful linguistic behaviour. First,
we only consider top-level comments which are initial re-
sponses to a post, as the content of lower-level responses
might reﬂect conventions of dialogue more than a com-
munity’s high-level interests. Next, in order to prevent a
few highly active users from dominating our frequency es-
timates, we count each unique word once per user, ignoring
successive uses of the same word by the same user. This
ensures that our word-level characterizations are not skewed
by a small subset of highly active contributors.4

In our subsequent analyses, we will only look at these
measures computed over the nouns used in comments. In
principle, our framework can be applied to any choice of
vocabulary. However, in the case of Reddit using nouns pro-
vides a convenient degree of interpretability. We can eas-
ily understand the implication of a community preferentially
mentioning a noun such as gamer or feminist, but interpret-
ing the overuse of verbs or function words such as take or of
is less straightforward. Additionally, in focusing on nouns
we adopt the view emphasized in modern “third wave” ac-
counts of sociolinguistic variation, that stylistic variation is
inseparable from topical content (Eckert 2012). In the case
of online communities, the choice of what people choose to
talk about serves as a primary signal of social identity. That
said, a typology based on more purely stylistic differences is
an interesting avenue for future work.
Accounting for rare words. One complication when using
measures such as PMI, which are based off of ratios of fre-
quencies, is that estimates for very infrequent words could
be overemphasized (Turney and Littman 2003). Words that
only appear a few times in a community tend to score at
the extreme ends of our measures (e.g. as highly speciﬁc
or highly generic), obfuscating the impact of more frequent
words in the community. To address this issue, we discard
the long tail of infrequent words in our analyses, using only
the top 5th percentile of words, by frequency within each ct,
to score comments and communities.5
Typology output on Reddit. The distribution of N and D
across Reddit communities is shown in Figure 1.B, along
with examples of communities at the extremes of our ty-
pology. We ﬁnd that interpretable groupings of communi-
ties emerge at various points within our axes. For instance,
highly distinctive and dynamic communities tend to focus
on rapidly-updating interests like sports teams and games,
while generic and consistent communities tend to be large
“link-sharing” hubs where users generally post content with
no clear dominating themes. More examples of communi-
ties at the extremes of our typology are shown in Table 1.

4Understanding the role that highly active users (Hamilton et
al. 2017) play in shaping a community’s dynamics is an interesting
direction for future work.

5For the purposes of the present analyses, this method produces
reasonable output that is robust to small variations in our choice of
parameters. However, it would be fruitful in future work to con-
sider other methods, e.g., (Monroe, Colaresi, and Quinn 2008), for
capturing linguistic variation.

Figure 2: A: The monthly retention rate for communities differs drastically according to their position in our identity-based
typology, with dynamicity being the strongest signal of higher user retention (x-axes bin community-months by percentiles; in
all subsequent plots, error bars indicate 95% bootstrapped conﬁdence intervals). B: Dynamicity also correlates with long-term
user retention, measured as the number of months the average user spends in the community; however, distinctiveness does not
correlate with this longer-term variant of user retention.

We note that these groupings capture abstract properties
of a community’s content that go beyond its topic. For in-
stance, our typology relates topically contrasting communi-
ties such as yugioh (which is about a popular trading card
game) and Seahawks through the shared trait that their con-
tent is particularly distinctive. Additionally, the axes can
clarify differences between topically similar communities:
while startrek and thewalkingdead both focus on TV shows,
startrek is less dynamic than the median community, while
thewalkingdead is among the most dynamic communities,
as the show was still airing during the years considered.

3 Community identity and user retention

We have seen that our typology produces qualitatively sat-
isfying groupings of communities according to the nature
of their collective identity. This section shows that there is
an informative and highly predictive relationship between a
community’s position in this typology and its user engage-
ment patterns. We ﬁnd that communities with distinctive and
dynamic identities have higher rates of user engagement,
and further show that a community’s position in our identity-
based landscape holds important predictive information that
is complementary to a strong activity baseline.

In particular user retention is one of the most crucial as-
pects of engagement and is critical to community mainte-
nance (Ren et al. 2012). We quantify how successful com-
munities are at retaining users in terms of both short and
long-term commitment. Our results indicate that rates of
user retention vary drastically, yet systematically according
to how distinctive and dynamic a community is (Figure 1).
We ﬁnd a strong, explanatory relationship between the
temporal consistency of a community’s identity and rates
of user engagement: dynamic communities that continu-
ally update and renew their discussion content tend to have
far higher rates of user engagement. The relationship be-
tween distinctiveness and engagement is less universal, but
still highly informative: niche communities tend to engender
strong, focused interest from users at one particular point in
time, though this does not necessarily translate into long-
term retention.

3.1 Community-type and monthly retention
We ﬁnd that dynamic communities, such as Seahawks or
starcraft, have substantially higher rates of monthly user
retention than more stable communities (Spearman’s ρ =
0.70, p <0.001, computed with community points averaged
over months; Figure 2.A, left). Similarly, more distinctive
communities, like Cooking and Naruto, exhibit moderately
higher monthly retention rates than more generic communi-
ties (Spearman’s ρ = 0.33, p <0.001; Figure 2.A, right).

Importantly, we ﬁnd that

Monthly retention is formally deﬁned as the proportion of
users who contribute in month t and then return to contribute
again in month t + 1. Each monthly datapoint is treated as
unique and the trends in Figure 2 show 95% bootstrapped
conﬁdence intervals, cluster-resampled at the level of sub-
reddit (Field and Welsh 2007), to account for differences in
the number of months each subreddit contributes to the data.
in the task of predicting
community-level user retention our identity-based typology
holds additional predictive value on top of strong baseline
features based on community-size (# contributing users) and
activity levels (mean # contributions per user), which are
commonly used for churn prediction (Dror et al. 2012). We
compared out-of-sample predictive performance via leave-
one-community-out cross validation using random forest re-
gressors with ensembles of size 100, and otherwise default
hyperparameters (Pedregosa et al. 2011). A model predict-
ing average monthly retention based on a community’s av-
erage distinctiveness and dynamicity achieves an average
mean squared error (MSE) of 0.0060 and R2 = 0.37,6 while
an analogous model predicting based on a community’s size
and average activity level (both log-transformed) achieves
MSE = 0.0062 and R2 = 0.35. The difference between
the two models is not statistically signiﬁcant (p = 0.99,
Wilcoxon signed-rank test). However, combining features
from both models results in a large and statistically signif-
icant improvement over each independent model (MSE =
0.0038, R2 = 0.60, p < 0.001 Bonferroni-corrected pair-
wise Wilcoxon tests). These results indicate that our typol-
ogy can explain variance in community-level retention rates,
and provides information beyond what is present in standard
activity-based features.

6We measure out-of-sample R2 relative to a baseline that pre-
dicts the mean of the training data (Campbell and Thompson 2008).

ABFigure 3: A: There is substantial variation in the direction and magnitude of the acculturation gap, which quantiﬁes the extent
to which established members of a community are linguistically differentiated from outsiders. Among 60% of communities
this gap is positive, indicating that established users match the community’s language more than outsiders. B: The size of the
acculturation gap varies systematically according to how dynamic and distinctive a community is. Distinctive communities
exhibit larger gaps; as do relatively stable, and very dynamic communities.

3.2 Community-type and user tenure
As with monthly retention, we ﬁnd a strong positive rela-
tionship between a community’s dynamicity and the average
number of months that a user will stay in that community
(Spearman’s ρ = 0.41, p <0.001, computed over all commu-
nity points; Figure 2.B, left). This veriﬁes that the short-term
trend observed for monthly retention translates into longer-
term engagement and suggests that long-term user retention
might be strongly driven by the extent to which a community
continually provides novel content.
Interestingly, there is
no signiﬁcant relationship between distinctiveness and long-
term engagement (Spearman’s ρ = 0.03, p = 0.77; Figure
2.B, right). Thus, while highly distinctive communities like
RandomActsOfMakeup may generate focused commitment
from users over a short period of time, such communities
are unlikely to retain long-term users unless they also have
sufﬁciently dynamic content.

To measure user tenures we focused on one slice of data
(May, 2013) and measured how many months a user spends
in each community, on average—the average number of
months between a user’s ﬁrst and last comment in each com-
munity.7 We have activity data up until May 2015, so the
maximum tenure is 24 months in this set-up, which is ex-
ceptionally long relative to the average community mem-
ber (throughout our entire data less than 3% of users have
tenures of more than 24 months in any community).

4 Community identity and acculturation

The previous section shows that there is a strong connection
between the nature of a community’s identity and its basic
user engagement patterns. In this section, we probe the re-
lationship between a community’s identity and how perme-
able, or accessible, it is to outsiders.

We measure this phenomenon using what we call the ac-
culturation gap, which compares the extent to which en-
gaged vs. non-engaged users employ community-speciﬁc
language. While previous work has found this gap to
be large and predictive of future user engagement in two
beer-review communities (Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al.

7Analogous results hold for other reasonable choices of month.

2013), we ﬁnd that the size of the acculturation gap de-
pends strongly on the nature of a community’s identity, with
the gap being most pronounced in stable, highly distinctive
communities (Figure 3).

This ﬁnding has important implications for our under-
standing of online communities. Though many works have
analyzed the dynamics of “linguistic belonging” in on-
line communities (Cassell and Tversky 2005; Nguyen and
Rose 2011; Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al. 2013; Bamman,
Eisenstein, and Schnoebelen 2014), our results suggest that
the process of linguistically ﬁtting in is highly contingent
on the nature of a community’s identity. At one extreme,
in generic communities like pics or worldnews there is no
distinctive, linguistic identity for users to adopt.

To measure the acculturation gap for a community, we fol-
low Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al (2013) and build “snap-
shot language models” (SLMs) for each community, which
capture the linguistic state of a community at one point of
time.8 Using these language models we can capture how lin-
guistically close a particular utterance is to the community
by measuring the cross-entropy of this utterance relative to
the SLM:

(cid:88)

bi∈d

H(d, SLMct) =

1
|d|

SLMct(bi),

(1)

where SLMct(bi) is the probability assigned to bigram bi
from comment d in community-month ct. We build the
SLMs by randomly sampling 200 active users—deﬁned as
users with at least 5 comments in the respective community
and month. For each of these 200 active users we select 5
random 10-word spans from 5 unique comments.9 To ensure
robustness and maximize data efﬁciency, we construct 100
SLMs for each community-month pair that has enough data,
bootstrap-resampling from the set of active users.

8We use Katz-Backoff bigram language models with Good-
Turing smoothing (Chen and Goodman 1999) and vocabularies of
size 50,000.

9Using ﬁxed-length spans controls for spurious length-effects
(Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et al. 2013); the same controls are used
in the cross-entropy calculations.

ABWe compute a basic measure of the acculturation gap for a
community-month ct as the relative difference of the cross-
entropy of comments by users active in ct with that of sin-
gleton comments by outsiders—i.e., users who only ever
commented once in c, but who are still active10 in Reddit
in general:

Ed∼Vs [H(d, SLMct)] − Ed∼Va [H(d, SLMct)]

A(ct) =

Ed∼Va [H(d, SLMct)]

.
(2)
Vs denotes the distribution over singleton comments, Va de-
notes the distribution over comments from users active in ct,
and E the expected values of the cross-entropy over these re-
spective distributions. For each bootstrap-sampled SLM we
compute the cross-entropy of 50 comments by active users
(10 comments from 5 randomly sampled active users, who
were not used to construct the SLM) and 50 comments from
randomly-sampled outsiders.

Figure 3.A shows that the acculturation gap varies sub-
stantially with how distinctive and dynamic a community is.
Highly distinctive communities have far higher accultura-
tion gaps, while dynamicity exhibits a non-linear relation-
ship: relatively stable communities have a higher linguistic
‘entry barrier’, as do very dynamic ones. Thus, in communi-
ties like IAmA (a general Q&A forum) that are very generic,
with content that is highly, but not extremely dynamic, out-
siders are at no disadvantage in matching the community’s
language. In contrast, the acculturation gap is large in sta-
ble, distinctive communities like Cooking that have consis-
tent community-speciﬁc language. The gap is also large in
extremely dynamic communities like Seahawks, which per-
haps require more attention or interest on the part of active
users to keep up-to-date with recent trends in content.

These results show that phenomena like the acculturation
gap, which were previously observed in individual commu-
nities (Nguyen and Rose 2011; Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil et
al. 2013), cannot be easily generalized to a larger, hetero-
geneous set of communities. At the same time, we see that
structuring the space of possible communities enables us to
observe systematic patterns in how such phenomena vary.
5 Community identity and content afﬁnity
Through the acculturation gap, we have shown that commu-
nities exhibit large yet systematic variations in their perme-
ability to outsiders. We now turn to understanding the divide
in commenting behaviour between outsiders and active com-
munity members at a ﬁner granularity, by focusing on two
particular ways in which such gaps might manifest among
users: through different levels of engagement with speciﬁc
content and with temporally volatile content.

Echoing previous results, we ﬁnd that community type
mediates the extent and nature of the divide in content afﬁn-
ity. While in distinctive communities active members have a
higher afﬁnity for both community-speciﬁc content and for
highly volatile content, the opposite is true for generic com-
munities, where it is the outsiders who engage more with
volatile content.

10Users must comment at least 5 times in a month to be consid-

ered active in Reddit.

We quantify these divides in content afﬁnity by measuring
differences in the language of the comments written by ac-
tive users and outsiders. Concretely, for each community c,
we deﬁne the speciﬁcity gap ∆Sc as the relative difference
between the average speciﬁcity of comments authored by
active members, and by outsiders, where these measures are
macroaveraged over users. Large, positive ∆Sc then occur
in communities where active users tend to engage with sub-
stantially more community-speciﬁc content than outsiders.
We analogously deﬁne the volatility gap ∆Vc as the rela-
tive difference in volatilities of active member and outsider
comments. Large, positive values of ∆Vc characterize com-
munities where active users tend to have more volatile inter-
ests than outsiders, while negative values indicate commu-
nities where active users tend to have more stable interests.
We ﬁnd that in 94% of communities, ∆Sc > 0, indicating
(somewhat unsurprisingly) that in almost all communities,
active users tend to engage with more community-speciﬁc
content than outsiders. However, the magnitude of this di-
vide can vary greatly: for instance, in Homebrewing, which
is dedicated to brewing beer, the divide is very pronounced
(∆Sc = 0.33) compared to funny, a large hub where users
share humorous content (∆Sc = 0.011).

The nature of the volatility gap is comparatively more var-
In Homebrewing (∆Vc = 0.16), as in 68% of com-
ied.
munities, active users tend to write more volatile comments
than outsiders (∆Vc > 0). However, communities like funny
(∆Vc = -0.16), where active users contribute relatively sta-
ble comments compared to outsiders (∆Vc < 0), are also
well-represented on Reddit.

To understand whether these variations manifest system-
atically across communities, we examine the relationship
between divides in content afﬁnity and community type. In
particular, following the intuition that active users have a rel-
atively high afﬁnity for a community’s niche, we expect that
the distinctiveness of a community will be a salient mediator
of speciﬁcity and volatility gaps. Indeed, we ﬁnd a strong
correlation between a community’s distinctiveness and its
speciﬁcity gap (Spearman’s ρ = 0.34, p < 0.001).

We also ﬁnd a strong correlation between distinctiveness
and community volatility gaps (Spearman’s ρ = 0.53, p <
0.001). In particular, we see that among the most distinctive
communities (i.e., the top third of communities by distinc-
tiveness), active users tend to write more volatile comments
than outsiders (mean ∆Vc = 0.098), while across the most
generic communities (i.e., the bottom third), active users
tend to write more stable comments (mean ∆Vc = -0.047,
Mann-Whitney U test p < 0.001). The relative afﬁnity of
outsiders for volatile content in these communities indicates
that temporally ephemeral content might serve as an entry
point into such a community, without necessarily engaging
users in the long term.

6 Further related work

Our language-based typology and analysis of user engage-
ment draws on and contributes to several distinct research
threads, in addition to the many foundational studies cited
in the previous sections.

Multicommunity studies. Our investigation of user en-
gagement in multicommunity settings follows prior litera-
ture which has examined differences in user and commu-
nity dynamics across various online groups, such as email
listservs. Such studies have primarily related variations in
user behaviour to structural features such as group size and
volume of content (Butler 2001; Jones, Ravid, and Rafaeli
2004; Backstrom et al. 2008; Kairam, Wang, and Leskovec
2012). In focusing on the linguistic content of communities,
we extend this research by providing a content-based frame-
work through which user engagement can be examined.

Reddit has been a particularly useful setting for study-
ing multiple communities in prior work. Such studies have
mostly focused on characterizing how individual users en-
gage across a multi-community platform (Tan and Lee 2015;
Hessel, Tan, and Lee 2016), or on speciﬁc user engagement
patterns such as loyalty to particular communities (Hamilton
et al. 2017). We complement these studies by seeking to un-
derstand how features of communities can mediate a broad
array of user engagement patterns within them.
Typologies of online communities. Prior attempts to ty-
pologize online communities have primarily been qualitative
and based on hand-designed categories, making them difﬁ-
cult to apply at scale. These typologies often hinge on hav-
ing some well-deﬁned function the community serves, such
as supporting a business or non-proﬁt cause (Porter 2004),
which can be difﬁcult or impossible to identify in mas-
sive, anonymous multi-community settings. Other typolo-
gies emphasize differences in communication platforms and
other functional requirements (Preece 2001; Stanoevska-
Slabeva and Schmid 2001), which are important but pre-
clude analyzing differences between communities within the
same multi-community platform. Similarly, previous com-
putational methods of characterizing multiple communities
have relied on the presence of markers such as afﬁxes in
community names (Hessel, Tan, and Lee 2016), or platform-
speciﬁc affordances such as evaluation mechanisms (Lee,
Jin, and Mimno 2016).

Our typology is also distinguished from community de-
tection techniques that rely on structural or functional cat-
egorizations (Leskovec et al. 2008; Yang and Leskovec
2015). While the focus of those studies is to identify
and characterize sub-communities within a larger social
network, our typology provides a characterization of pre-
deﬁned communities based on the nature of their identity.
Broader work on collective identity. Our focus on com-
munity identity dovetails with a long line of research on
collective identity and user engagement, in both online and
ofﬂine communities (Allen and Meyer 1996; Tajfel 2010;
Ren et al. 2012). These studies focus on individual-level
psychological manifestations of collective (or social) iden-
tity, and their relationship to user engagement (Allen and
Meyer 1996; Meyer et al. 2002; Utz 2003; Ren, Kraut, and
Kiesler 2007).

In contrast, we seek to characterize community identities
at an aggregate level and in an interpretable manner, with the
goal of systematically organizing the diverse space of online
communities. Typologies of this kind are critical to these
broader, social-psychological studies of collective identity:

they allow researchers to systematically analyze how the
psychological manifestations and implications of collective
identity vary across diverse sets of communities.

7 Conclusion and future work

Our current understanding of engagement patterns in online
communities is patched up from glimpses offered by several
disparate studies focusing on a few individual communities.
This work calls into attention the need for a method to sys-
tematically reason about similarities and differences across
communities. By proposing a way to structure the multi-
community space, we ﬁnd not only that radically contrasting
engagement patterns emerge in different parts of this space,
but also that this variation can be at least partly explained by
the type of identity each community fosters.

Our choice in this work is to structure the multi-
community space according to a typology based on com-
munity identity, as reﬂected in language use. We show that
this effectively explains cross-community variation of three
different user engagement measures—retention, accultura-
tion and content afﬁnity—and complements measures based
on activity and size with additional interpretable informa-
tion. For example, we ﬁnd that in niche communities es-
tablished members are more likely to engage with volatile
content than outsiders, while the opposite is true in generic
communities. Such insights can be useful for community
maintainers seeking to understand engagement patterns in
their own communities.

One main area of future research is to examine the tempo-
ral dynamics in the multi-community landscape. By averag-
ing our measures of distinctiveness and dynamicity across
time, our present study treated community identity as a
static property. However, as communities experience inter-
nal changes and respond to external events, we can expect
the nature of their identity to shift as well. For instance,
the relative consistency of harrypotter may be disrupted by
the release of a new novel, while Seahawks may foster dif-
ferent identities during and between football seasons. Con-
versely, a community’s type may also mediate the impact
of new events. Moving beyond a static view of community
identity could enable us to better understand how temporal
phenomena such as linguistic change manifest across differ-
ent communities, and also provide a more nuanced view of
user engagement—for instance, are communities more wel-
coming to newcomers at certain points in their lifecycle?

Another important avenue of future work is to explore
other ways of mapping the landscape of online communities.
For example, combining structural properties of communi-
ties (Leskovec et al. 2008) with topical information (Hessel,
Tan, and Lee 2016) and with our identity-based measures
could further characterize and explain variations in user en-
gagement patterns. Furthermore, extending the present anal-
yses to even more diverse communities supported by dif-
ferent platforms (e.g., GitHub, StackExchange, Wikipedia)
could enable the characterization of more complex behav-
ioral patterns such as collaboration and altruism, which be-
come salient in different multicommunity landscapes.

Acknowledgements

The authors thank Liye Fu, Jack Hessel, David Jurgens and
Lillian Lee for their helpful comments. This research has
been supported in part by a Discovery and Innovation Re-
search Seed Award from the Ofﬁce of the Vice Provost
for Research at Cornell, NSF CNS-1010921, IIS-1149837,
IIS-1514268 NIH BD2K, ARO MURI, DARPA XDATA,
DARPA SIMPLEX, DARPA NGS2, Stanford Data Sci-
ence Initiative, SAP Stanford Graduate Fellowship, NSERC
PGS-D, Boeing, Lightspeed, and Volkswagen.

References

Allen, N. J., and Meyer, J. P. 1996. Affective, continuance,
and normative commitment to the organization: An exami-
nation of construct validity. J. Vocational Behavior.
Ashmore, R. D.; Deaux, K.; and McLaughlin-Volpe, T.
2004. An organizing framework for collective identity: Ar-
ticulation and signiﬁcance of multidimensionality. Psych.
Bulletin.
Backstrom, L.; Kumar, R.; Marlow, C.; Novak, J.; and
Tomkins, A. 2008. Preferential behavior in online groups.
In Proceedings of WSDM.
Bamman, D.; Eisenstein, J.; and Schnoebelen, T. 2014. Gen-
der identity and lexical variation in social media. J. Sociolin-
guistics.
Bryant, S. L.; Forte, A.; and Bruckman, A. 2005. Becoming
Wikipedian: Transformation of participation in a collabora-
tive online encyclopedia. In Proceedings of GROUP.
Butler, B. S. 2001. Membership size, communication ac-
tivity, and sustainability: A resource-based model of online
social structures. Info. Sys. Research.
Campbell, J. Y., and Thompson, S. B. 2008. Predicting
excess stock returns out of sample: Can anything beat the
historical average? Review of Financial Studies.
Cassell, J., and Tversky, D. 2005. The language of online
intercultural community formation. J. CMC.
Chen, S., and Goodman, J. 1999. An empirical study
of smoothing techniques for language modeling. Comp.
Speech & Lang.
Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, C.; West, R.;
Jurafsky, D.;
Leskovec, J.; and Potts, C. 2013. No country for old mem-
bers: User lifecycle and linguistic change in online commu-
nities. In Proceedings of WWW.
Dror, G.; Pelleg, D.; Rokhlenko, O.; and Szpektor, I. 2012.
Churn prediction in new users of Yahoo! answers. In Pro-
ceedings of WWW.
Eckert, P. 2012. Three waves of variation study: The emer-
gence of meaning in the study of sociolinguistic variation.
Annu. Rev. Anthro.
Eisenstein, J. 2017. Written dialect variation in online social
media.
In Boberg, C.; Nerbonne, J.; and Watt, D., eds.,
Handbook of Dialectology. Wiley.
Field, C. A., and Welsh, A. H. 2007. Bootstrapping clustered
data. J. Royal Stat. Soc.: Series B (Statistical Methodology).

Fugelstad, P.; Dwyer, P.; Filson Moses, J.; Kim, J.; Mannino,
C. A.; Terveen, L.; and Snyder, M. 2012. What makes users
rate (share, tag, edit...)?: Predicting patterns of participation
in online communities. In Proceedings of CSCW.
Hamilton, W.; Zhang, J.; Danescu-Niculescu-Mizil, C.; Ju-
rafsky, D.; and Leskovec, J. 2017. Loyalty in online com-
munities. In Proceedings of ICWSM.
Hessel, J.; Tan, C.; and Lee, L. 2016. Science, AskScience,
and BadScience: On the coexistence of highly related com-
munities. In Proceedings of ICWSM.
Huffaker, D.; Jorgensen, J.; Iacobelli, F.; Tepper, P.; and
Cassell, J. 2006. Computational measures for language sim-
ilarity across time in online communities. In Proceedings of
NAACL-HLT WKSP on Analyzing Conversations in Text &
Speech.
Jones, Q.; Ravid, G.; and Rafaeli, S. 2004. Information over-
load and the message dynamics of online interaction spaces:
Info. Sys.
A theoretical model and empirical exploration.
Research.
Kairam, S. R.; Wang, D. J.; and Leskovec, J. 2012. The life
and death of online groups: Predicting group growth and
longevity. In Proceedings of WSDM.
Lampe, C.; Wash, R.; Velasquez, A.; and Ozkaya, E. 2010.
In Pro-
Motivations to participate in online communities.
ceedings of CHI.
Lee, M.; Jin, S. H.; and Mimno, D. 2016. Beyond exchange-
ability: the Chinese Voting Process. In Proceedings of NIPS.
Leskovec, J.; Lang, K. J.; Dasgupta, A.; and Mahoney,
M. W. 2008. Statistical properties of community structure
in large social and information networks. In Proceedings of
WWW.
McAuley, J., and Leskovec, J. 2013. From amateurs to con-
noisseurs: Modeling the evolution of user expertise through
online reviews. In Proceedings of WWW.
Meyer, J. P.; Stanley, D. J.; Herscovitch, L.; and Topol-
nytsky, L. 2002. Affective, continuance, and normative
commitment to the organization: A meta-analysis of an-
tecedents, correlates, and consequences. J. Vocational Be-
havior.
Monroe, B. L.; Colaresi, M. P.; and Quinn, K. M. 2008.
Fightin’words: Lexical feature selection and evaluation for
identifying the content of political conﬂict. Pol. An.
Nguyen, D., and Rose, C. 2011. Language use as a reﬂection
In Proceedings of
of socialization in online communities.
ACL WKSP on Languages in Soc. Media.
Otterbacher, J., and Hemphill, L. 2012. Learning the lingo?
Gender, prestige and linguistic adaptation in review commu-
nities. In Proceedings of CSCW.
Panciera, K.; Halfaker, A.; and Terveen, L. 2009. Wikipedi-
ans are born, not made: A study of power editors on
Wikipedia. In Proceedings of CSCW.
Pedregosa, F.; Varoquaux, G.; Gramfort, A.; Michel, V.;
Thirion, B.; Grisel, O.; Blondel, M.; Prettenhofer, P.; Weiss,
R.; Dubourg, V.; Vanderplas, J.; Passos, A.; Cournapeau, D.;
Brucher, M.; Perrot, M.; and Duchesnay, E. 2011. scikit-
learn: Machine learning in Python. JMLR.

Polletta, F., and Jasper, J. M. 2001. Collective identity and
social movements. Annu. Rev. Soc.
Porter, C. E. 2004. A typology of virtual communities: A
multidisciplinary foundation for future research. J. CMC.
Postmes, T.; Spears, R.; and Lea, M. 2000. The formation of
group norms in computer-mediated communication. Hum.
Comm. Res.
Preece, J. 2001. Sociability and usability in online com-
munities: Determining and measuring success. Behavior &
Info. Tech.
Ren, Y.; Kraut, R.; Kiesler, S.; and Resnick, P. 2012. En-
couraging commitment in online communities. Building
successful online communities: Evidence-based social de-
sign.
Ren, Y.; Kraut, R.; and Kiesler, S. 2007. Applying common
identity and bond theory to design of online communities.
Organization studies.
Ritzer, G. 2007. The Blackwell Encyclopedia of Sociology.
Blackwell Publishing Malden, MA.
Simon, B., and Klandermans, B. 2001. Politicized collective
identity: A social psychological analysis. American Psy-
chologist.
Stanoevska-Slabeva, K., and Schmid, B. F. 2001. A typol-
ogy of online communities and community supporting plat-
forms. System Sciences.
Tajfel, H. 2010. Social identity and intergroup relations.
Cambridge University Press.
Tan, C., and Lee, L. 2015. All Who Wander: On the preva-
lence and characteristics of multi-community engagement.
In Proceedings of WWW.
Tran, T., and Ostendorf, M. 2016. Characterizing the lan-
guage of online communities and its relation to community
reception. In Proceedings of EMNLP.
Turney, P. D., and Littman, M. L. 2003. Measuring praise
and criticism: Inference of semantic orientation from asso-
ciation. ACM TOIS.
Utz, S. 2003. Social identiﬁcation and interpersonal attrac-
tion in MUDs. Swiss J. Psych.
Yang, J., and Leskovec, J. 2015. Deﬁning and evaluating
network communities based on ground-truth. Knowledge &
Info. Sys.

