Finding Bottlenecks: Predicting Student Attrition with 

Unsupervised Classifier 

Seyed Sajjadi, Bruce Shapiro, Christopher McKinlay, Allen Sarkisyan, Carol Shubin, Efunwande Osoba 

seyed.sajjadi.947@my.csun.edu, bruce.e.shapiro@gmail.com, chris.mckinlay@gmail.com, programminglinguist@gmail.com, 

carol.shubin@csun.edu, eosoba@gmail.com 

California State University, Northridge 

Abstract—With  pressure  to  increase  graduation  rates  and 
reduce  time  to  degree  in  higher  education,  it  is  important  to 
identify at-risk students early. Automated early warning systems 
are therefore highly desirable. In this paper, we use unsupervised 
clustering techniques to predict the graduation status of declared 
majors  in  five  departments  at  California  State  University 
Northridge  (CSUN),  based  on  a  minimal  number  of  lower 
division  courses  in  each  major.  In  addition,  we  use  the  detected 
clusters to identify hidden bottleneck courses. 

Author Keywords—Machine learning; Educational data mining; 

unsupervised methods; classifier; K-means; clustering  

Policy  makers, 

INTRODUCTION 

I. 
the  public,  university  administrators, 
students and their families are concerned about low graduation 
rates  and  lengthy  times  to  degree  in  higher  education.  The 
median time to graduation is six years at CSUN (1). The four-
year  and  the  six-year  graduation  rates  are  13%  and  50%, 
respectively 
(2).  With  an  enrollment  of  over  6000 
undergraduate  students,  CoBaE  is  one  of  largest  business 
schools  in  the  nation.  CoBaE  confers  the  second  most 
undergraduate degrees at CSUN (behind the College of Social 
and  Behavioral  Science),  and  it  has  three  of  the  top  ten  most 
popular  majors  (Management,  Finance,  and  Marketing)  at 
CSUN.  We  focused  our  analysis  on  three  departments  within 
the  CoBaE  because  of  the  commonality  of  core  curriculum. 
We  also  studied  two  departments  from  the  College  of 
Engineering because of pre-requisite curriculum. 

We  trained  K-means  classifiers  on  grade  data  from 
undergraduate  majors 
in  Business  Law,  Management, 
Marketing,  Civil  and  Electrical  Engineering.  We  found 
strongly  predictive  clusters  in  each  of  the  five  departments. 
Cluster  separation  was  driven  disproportionately  by  a  small 
number  of  courses  which  we  consider  the  bottlenecks  to 
graduation.  In  fact,  the  first  three  classes  of  the  graduation 
pathway  give  an  effective  early  indication  of  student  success 
or failure. 

II.  RELATED WORK 

Educational  data  mining 

is  an  emerging  discipline, 
concerned  with  developing  methods  for  exploring  the  unique 
types of data that come from the educational sphere. The field 
encompasses  various  subdomains  such  as  modeling  student 
learning to better optimize performance, to detecting outliers, 

 
 

 

to  developing  automated  tutoring  systems  that  intelligently 
adapt lesson plans to the individual learning styles (11). 

the  main  attributes 

Luan  (9)  studied  clustering  aspects  of  data  mining  and 
offers  comprehensive  characteristic  analysis  of  students  and 
likelihood  estimates  for  a  variety  of  outcomes  such  as 
transferability,  persistence,  retention,  and  success  in  classes. 
Al-Radaideh  et  al.  (3)  applied  classification  techniques  to 
determine 
that  may  affect  student 
performance.  Tair  and  El-  Halees  (13),  used  K-means  to 
predict  graduate  students’  performance,  and  overcome  the 
problem of low grades of graduate students. Ayesha, Mustafa, 
Sattar  and  Khan  (4)  have  also  used  K-  means  clustering  to 
predict  student  performance  in  a  particular  course.  Romero, 
Ventura  and  Garca  (12)  described  the  full  process  of 
clustering,  classification,  visualization  and  statistics  in  the 
context of mining Moodle (e-learning) data. Our current work 
uses  unsupervised  clustering  methods  to  address  the  issue  of 
large  scale  student  behavior,  and  attempts  to  identify  student 
successes and failure through predictive clustering. 

III.  METHOD 

A.  Data Collection and Preprocessing 
We  obtained 

records 

academic 

containing  grade 
information  from  declared  majors  in  five  departments  in  the 
College  of  Business  and  Economics  and  College  of 
Engineering  at  CSUN.  The  majors  we  inspected  were 
Management,  Marketing  and  Business  Law,  Civil  and 
Electrical  Engineering.  The  data  spans  a  ten-year  period 
between  2004  and  2014  containing  9,088  student  records  in 
total  and  contains  only  the  courses  required  for  each  major. 
The  grade  data  for  each  course  were  encoded  with  the 
following normalized GPA scale prior to statistical analysis: 

TABLE I. GRADE ENCODING SCHEME 

 
Not  taking  a  required  course  for  a  specific  major  will 
prevent students from graduating. This has the same effect as 
failing  the  course;  therefore,  such  a  course  was  assigned  a 
grade  of  ‘F’.   The  datasets  were  separated  by  majors,  with 
columns  for  graduation,  number  of  semesters  in  the  major, 
number  of  credits  for  the  major,  number  of  transfer  credits 
earned, followed by the course names. 

1 | Page 

B.  Cluster Analysis 
There  are  a  few  fundamental  issues  involved  in  cluster 
analysis,  notably  determining  whether  discrete  clusters  are 
present  (8)  and  choosing  the  appropriate  number  of  clusters 
(7)  (6).  We  applied  the  K-means  algorithm  (10)  to  the  grade 
data  and  used  the  Calinski-Harabasz  (CH)  index  (5)  to 
determine  the  optimal  number  of  clusters  on  fivefold  cross-
validated datasets (Figure 1). 

logistic  regression  classifiers 

We then established the predictive power of the clusters by 
testing them on a classification task. We compared the cluster-
based  classifiers  with 
in 
predicting  the  graduation  status  of  held-out  samples  for  each 
department.  A  very  common  technique  to  measure  the 
classifier  performance  is  Receiver  Operating  Characteristic 
(ROC)  curves  which  display  the  sensitivity  of  the  model  by 
plotting  the  true  positive  rate  versus  the  false  positive 
predictions  and  depicting  their  relative  trade-offs.  We  then 
used  ROC  curves 
to  evaluate  and  compare  predictive 
performance of clustering and logistic regression methods for 
each  department  (Table  2).  Finally,  we  performed  the  same 
steps  to  predict  graduation  status  based  on  the  first  three 
courses in each major. 

Fig. 1. 

Calinski-Harabasz indices for all three datasets 

 

TABLE II. 

ROC PLOTS FOR BOTH CLASSIFIERS ON THE FULL 
COURSE SET AND THE FIRST THREE COURSES FOR BUSINESS 

MAJORS AND ENGINEERING MAJORS 

 

 

 

TABLE III. 

ACCURACY, PRECISION, RECALL, 

AND F1 SCORES 

 

 

2 | Page 

can be seen as the beginning of the bottleneck for each major. 
Lower  division  coursework  with  relatively  high  separation  in 
average grades between clusters are the best indicators for the 
separation between students that graduate and those which do 
not,  and  therefore  act  as  bottlenecks  in  the  major.  These 
courses are excellent features to include into an early-warning 
system classifier as they are the most well separated vectors. 

VI.  LIMITATIONS AND FUTURE WORK 

Students  may  fail  to  graduate  in  CoBaE  because  they 
either change majors or discontinue their education at CSUN. 
Hierarchical  clustering  methods  could  provide  more  detailed 
information  on  student  outcomes,  such  as  predicting  which 
department  a  student  might  change 
to. 
Collaborative  filtering  methods  could  also  give  departmental 
recommendations  to  students  considering  a  change  of  major. 
These  methods  could  be  used  to  develop  early  warning  and 
recommendation  systems  for  automated  advisement,  which 
would  be  especially  beneficial  to  over-taxed  advisement 
systems at comprehensive state universities such as CSUN. 

their  major 

Another  related  issue  is  the  incidence  of  major-switching 
is  an  important  factor,  since  re-declaring  a  major  is  time-
consuming and costly. Approximately 24% of CSUN students 
re-declare  their  major,  and  the  plurality  of  these  changes 
involve  departments  in  the  David  Nazarian  College  of 
Business and Economics (CoBaE) (1). 

Our  results  can  be  further  refined  by  adding  student 
metadata,  for  example:  college  year  the  major  was  declared, 
number  of  transfer  credits,  number  of  classes  per  term, 
financial  aid,  student  demographics  (such  as  age,  gender, 
ethnicity,  zip  code)  and  various  measures  of  student 
preparedness  like  SAT  scores.  With  a  more  detailed  feature 
space,  our  methods  might  be  able  to  identify  patterns  and 
more well defined clusters. 

VII.  CONCLUSION 

We  trained  unsupervised  classifiers  on  grade  data  from 
four  undergraduate  majors  at  CSUN.  In  each  case  we  found 
strongly  predictive  clusters,  and  found  that  cluster  separation 
was driven disproportionately by a small number of bottleneck 
courses.  We  also  found  that  training  classifiers  on  the  first 
three classes on the graduation pathway was an effective early 
detection method. We argue that reforming, or at the very least 
investigating, 
to 
understanding student attrition 

these  bottleneck  courses  are  crucial 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

We  gratefully  acknowledge  support  from  CSUN’s  Office 
of the Provost and Academic Affairs. We thank Provost Harry 
Hellenbrand  and  Vice-Provost  Michael  Neubauer  for  their 
institutional  support,  and  Bettina  Huber,  CSUN  Director  of 
Institutional Research, for making the data available. We also 
thank  Yauheniya  (Gina)  Lahoda  and  Dr.  Bruce  Shapiro  for 
numerous  conversations  during  the  Spring  2015  Machine 
Learning seminar. 

[1]  Csun colleges: "Changes and grades." 
[2]  Csun 

office 

REFERENCES 

of 

institutional 

research 

report. 

3 | Page 

IV.  RESULTS 

 

two 

The  optimal  number  of  clusters  was 

in  all 
departments,  s  determined  by  CH-index  (Figure  1).  The 
Management  and  Marketing  departments  showed  better 
between-cluster separation than Economics and Business Law. 
We  applied  the  same  approach  to  the  first  three  classes  that 
students would normally take within their first year at school. 
(Table  3)  shows  the  Accuracy,  Precision,  Recall  and  F1 
Scores  resulting  from  the  two  classifiers  when  trained  on  the 
full  feature  set  (approximately  113  courses)  and  on  the  first 
three courses in each major. 

We  expected  that  a  predictive  model  trained  on  the  full 
feature  set  of  course  grades  would  be  more  effective  than  a 
model  using  cluster  labels  from  unsupervised  clustering.  To 
test  this  hypothesis,  we  compared  the  performance  of  a 
logistic  regression  classifier  trained  on  the  full  feature  set  to 
the  performance  of  a  classifier  that  used  co-membership 
information  from  the  clusters  on  a  classification  task:  to 
predict  whether  the  student  had  in  fact  graduated  with  that 
major.  The  cluster-based  classifier  estimated  the  probability 
that  a  student  belonged  to  a  particular  category  using  the 
fraction  of  co-clustered  samples  that  also  belonged  to  the 
category of interest. 

In  each  case  we  identified  strongly  predictive  clusters. 
Though outperformed, the cluster- based classifiers compared 
surprisingly well with the logistic regression models (Table 2). 
Heuristically  speaking,  students  in  the  same  cluster  tended  to 
drop out at the same times after getting the same grades in the 
same courses. 

V.  DISCUSSION 

Cluster  analysis  can  also  help  to  identify  common  traits 
among  students  within  each  cluster.  For  each  department  the 
second cluster spends on average four semesters enrolled with 
that  major  declared  (Table  4).  However,  the  probability  of 
these  students  graduating  with  the  major  is  quite  low  (Table 
3). Bottlenecks can be visually depicted as courses  which are 
most well separated by predictive clusters. The average course 
grades seen in (Table 5) are further apart between clusters for 
upper  division  courses,  as  expected  due  to  their  requirement 
for graduation. Examination of the lower division course work 

 

http://www.csun.edu/institutional-research 

[3]  Al-Radaideh,  Q.  A.,  Al-Shawakfa,  E.  M.,  and  Al-Najjar,  M.  I.  Mining 
student  data  using  decision  trees.  In  International  Arab  Conference  on 
Information  Technology  (ACIT  2006),  Yarmouk  University,  Jordan 
(2006). 

[5]  Cali ́nski,  T.,  and  Harabasz,  J.  A  dendrite  method  for  cluster  analysis. 

[6]  Duda,  R.  O.,  Hart,  P.  E.,  and  Stork,  D.  G.  Pattern  classification.  John 

[4]  Ayesha,  S.,  Mustafa,  T.,  Sattar,  A.  R.,  and  Khan,  M.  I.  Data  mining 
model  for  higher  education  system.Europen  Journal  of  Scientific 
Research 43, 1 (2010), 24–29. 
Communications in Statistics-theory and Methods 3, 1 (1974), 1–27. 
Wiley & Sons, 2012. 
Monographs on Statistics & Applied Probability. CRC Press, 1999. 

[7]  Gordon,  A.  Classification,  2nd  Edition.  Chapman  &  Hall/CRC 

[8]  Knights,  D.,  Ward,  T.  L.,  McKinlay,  C.  E.,  Miller,  H.,  Gonzalez,  A., 
McDonald,  D.,  and  Knight,  R.Rethinking  enterotypes.  Cell  host  & 
microbe 16, 4 (2014), 433–437. 

[9]  Luan,  J.  Data  mining  and knowledge  management  in higher  education-

potential applications. 

[10]  MacQueen,  J.,  et  al.  Some  methods  for  classification  and  analysis  of 
multivariate  observations.  In  Proceedings  of 
the  fifth  Berkeley 
symposium  on  mathematical  statistics  and  probability  (1967),  vol.  1, 
Oakland, CA, USA., pp. 281–297.7 

[11]  Romero,  C.,  and  Ventura,  S.  Educational  data  mining:  A  review  of  the 
state-of-the-art. Systems, Man,and Cybernetics, Part C: Applications and 
Reviews, IEEE Transactions on 40, 6 (2010), 601–618.  

[12]  Romero,  C.,  Ventura,  S.,  and  Garc ́ıa,  E.  Data  mining  in  course 
management  systems:  Moodle  case  study  and  tutorial.  Computers  & 
Education 51, 1 (2008), 368–384. 

[13]  Tair,  M.  M.  A.,  and  El-Halees,  A.  M.  Mining  educational  data  to 
improve  students  performance:  A  case  study.  International  Journal  of 
Information 2, 2 (2012). 

TABLE IV. 

NUMBER OF SEMESTERS AND UNITS SPENT AT CSUN ACROSS THREE MAJORS OF BUSINESS LAW, MARKETING AND 

MANAGEMENT, ALSO SHOWING TRANSFER CREDITS FROM OTHER INSTITUTES WITH CLUSTER “1” REFERS TO THE STUDENTS WHO GRADUATED 

AND CLUSTER “2” TO THOSE WHO DID NOT 

 

 

 

 

4 | Page 

 

TABLE V. 

AVERAGES GRADES FOR EACH CLASS BY CLUSTER FOR BUSINESS AND ENGINEERING MAJORS 

 

 

5 | Page 

 

 

 

6 | Page 

 

 

7 | Page 

 

