XVI th Scientific Conference 
RESOURCES OF THE REGION - EFFECTIVE USE 
March 31, 2016, Korolev, Moscow Region, Russia 
 

ANALYSIS OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGIES USED TO INSURE 

WORKING EFFICIENCY OF PERSONNEL 

V.Ya. Vilisov, D.A. Dyatlova   
University of Technology, Russia, Moscow Region, Korolev 
vvib@yandex.ru 

 

Abstract.  The  work  is  devoted  to  a  modern  state,  methods  and  tools  of  monitoring,  assessment  and 
prediction of the indicators showing physical condition of a person and his/her capabilities to perform 
work duties. The work contains an analysis of existing gadgets and software that allow tracking physical 
condition  of  personnel  at  the  working  place.  The  analysis  showing  significant  interconnections  and 
factors  that  determine  a  necessary  level  of  working  capacity  and  productivity  of  personnel  allows 
organizing Work & Rest Schedule of employees in an effective manner.  
Keywords: personnel, health indicators, monitoring, biomarkers, predictors, forecasting.  
 
Introduction 
Apart from current programs devoted to the 
near and deep space exploration, space agencies of 
different  countries  also  perform  advance  research 
with  a  longer  time  lag.  The  advance  research 
projects  include  manned  explorations  of  remote 
planets, including  Mars.  One  of the  problems  that 
should  be  solved  is  the  creation  of  systems  and 
technologies that allow astronauts to maintain their 
physical  condition  and  working  capacity  at 
necessary level.  

some 
methodological  aspects  of  working  with  the  data 
that,  within 
the  monitoring  process,  enters 
corresponding  storage  places  as  well  as  some 
objectives  and  tasks  that  can  be  solved  at  the 
obtained data field. 

 
Performance  Review 

of  Health 

also 

  professional,  when 

is  an 
employee, whose vital signs should comply to some 
standard requirements. 
authors 

the  person 

consider 

The 

Even  the  richest  countries  of  the  world 
cannot  boast  of  a  perfect  health  care  system.  No 
matter  how  heavily  medicine  is  invested,  there  is 
always a lack of skilled personnel. In some cases, 
the  doctors  simply  do  not  have  time  to  help  an 
injured person. Unfortunately, critical condition of 
a chronic disease cannot be predicted. However, if 
all medical measures are taken in time, the patient 
can survive. 

In  order  to  perform  a  constant  monitoring 
of  the  patient's  health  condition,  the  modern 
medicine needs the devices that would take certain 
readings from the person's body on a real time basis. 
Should  there  occur  any  threatening  changes,  the 
device would alert the patient or his/her physician. 
Some countries have already been introducing such 
devices into medical sphere [3]. 

The objective of the work is to perform an 
analysis  of  existing  gadgets,  applications  and 
technologies  that  help  people  to  track  their  health 
state. At that we consider two aspects:  

  purely  medical,  within  which 

the 
physiological  indicators  of  a  person  are  assessed 
and  certain  measures  are  taken  in  case  of  an 
abnormality or a certain prognosis; 

 

Monitoring Pilot Projects 

Monitoring people with various diseases is 
a  market  segment  that  grows  very  quickly.  The 
number of patients that have one or several chronic 
diseases  and  who  require  remote  monitoring 
services constitutes 200 mln people only in Western 
Europe and the USA [1]. The researchers predict [2] 
that  more  than  60  mln  of  devices  monitoring 
people's  health  will  have  functioned  within  the 
mobile  network  by  2020,  with  the  market  volume 
reaching 18 billion US Dollars. Remote monitoring 
devices  targeted  at  the  patients  with  an  irregular 
heartbeat,  diabetes  and  chronic  lung  diseases  are 
going to be in a maximum demand. 

Mobile  telehealth  (mHealth)  is  one  of  the 
most  promising  directions  in  the  sphere  of  new 
medical technologies [4-12]. Health care industry is 
of  substantial  interest  for  the  network  operators 
because here they can provide their customers with 
additional  digital  medical  services.  Lately  mobile 
operators have been increasing their presence in this 
sphere.  Due  to  a  better  network  capacity,  new 
generation networks are significantly expanding the 
capability  of  transferring  medical  data  via  mobile 
network  channels,  thus  securing  their  prompt 
delivery,  integrity  and  confidentiality.  Moreover, 
modern communication channels allow organizing 

1 

 

App Description 

Heartbeat Measurement 

Hearing Check 

Vision Check 

Android 

Instant Heart Rate 

  Heart Rate Monitor 
 
  Runtastic Heart Rate 
  Hearing Check 

 

  Vision Check 

(andrew.brusentsov) 

  Vision Check 

(healthcare4mobile) 

iOS 

  Runtastic Heart Rate 
  Cardiio – Pulsimeter 

  Petralex Hearing Device 
  Hearing Check 
  Hearing Aid 
  HD Vision Check 
  Nearsightedness Check 

  Free Medicines 
  Medicines from A to Z 

videoconferencing  between  a  patient  and  his/her 
doctor or an operator who performs psychological 
testing or who measures physiological indicators. 

Development  of  new  generation  networks 
(LTE) and current smartphone expansion provide a 
reliable technological base for the development of 
such  projects.  In  this  case,  mobile  medicine 
provides  patients  with  different  medical  devices 
that  they  can  use  independently  thus  controlling 
their health and transmitting the monitoring results 
to medical centers. 

There are thousands of applications created 
for  iOS  and  Android  platforms  that  can  solve 
various  medical  tasks.  Various  additional  devices 
and  sensors  transform  a  usual  smartphone  into  a 
medical  device  that  can  take  readings  with  a  due 
precision. 
take  an 
electrocardiogram,  measure  your  blood  pressure, 
check your eyesight or assess the risk of possessing 

iPhone  can  help  you 

to 

skin  cancer.  And  it  is  necessary  to  note  that  all 
above mentioned is done with an acceptable level of 
accuracy. The obtained data can be sent online to a 
subject matter expert who will provide you with his 
opinion of the matter.  

Today,  owners  of  smartphones  and  other 
mobile devices can already install applications that 
control  their  physiological  parameters.  Thus,  for 
example,  there  is  an  application  that  performs  an 
analysis of the birthmarks the person may have. One 
only needs to take a photo of the birthmark. Such an 
application  would  help  you  to  go  to  the  doctor  in 
time to prevent skin cancer.  

There are special applications that help you 
to check your hearing or eyesight, monitor pulse or 
get  yourself 
thoroughly  acquainted  with  any 
medicine.  

Some applications that can be downloaded 

by users are shown in Table 1.    

Table 1 - Health Monitoring Applications 

Information about Medicines 

  Medicines and Their 

Analogues 

  Reference Book of Medicines 

and Diseases 

  MedBox – Reference Book 

of Medicines 

 
Many  science  &  research  institutes  and 
medical companies have actively started developing 
devices  and  special  applications  for  smartphones 
and tablets. 

Experts predict that the burden of medical 
institutions  will  be  significantly  decreased  in  the 
future due to a mass usage of medical gadgets. Such 
devices  shall  release  medical  staff  from  standard 
and  scheduled  examinations,  allowing  them  to 
allocate their time for those patients who are acutely 
in need of medical help. 

Currently we already have the devices that 
allow the cardiologist, in real time and in any place 
of  the  world,  to  see  at  his/her  smartphone  the 
electrocardiogram of the patient and to monitor the 
rhythm.  

We  already  have 

that 
continuously measure the blood sugar level. Today 

the 

sensors 

 

they are implanted under the skin. Still, we are not 
going to need the implants in the future, because the 
only  necessary  thing  will  be  to  set  the  maximum 
blood  sugar  level  (higher  than  75  and  lower  than 
200);  then  the  situation  shall  be  controlled  due  to 
regular  sampling  performed  by  the  sensor  that 
would  measure  the  blood  level  on  a  continuous 
basis, thus providing substantial help to people who 
suffer from diabetes. 

There  are  more  and  more  various  tools  in 
the  field  of sensor  devices.  And in  most  cases  the 
technology becomes non-invasive, i.e. the one that 
does not need to be implanted into the body. 

Table  2  contains  examples  of  the  devices 

that are available today. 

Today,  the  speed  of  modern  technology 
development allows providing medical services that 
are  specifically  tailored  for  each  person.  The 

2 

approach  presents  us  with  the  following  main 
possibilities: 

  a prompt diagnosis and an earlier detection 

of a disease;  

  choosing 

an 

treatment, 
including usage of safe and effective medicines for 
each person;  

appropriate 

  a  more  effective 

therapy, 

treatment 

monitoring and a diagnosis setting. 

 

Device 

Zephyr BioPatch™ 
Wireless Device 

Digital Thermometer Patch 

Fitbit Force 

iHealth BP5 

Lumoback 

Table 2 - Health Monitoring Gadgets and Their Description 

Summary 

A wireless device used for the patient monitoring (electrocardiogram; real heartbeat and 
its trend; a bio-conductor that measures water retention, which is critical when 
monitoring cardiac insufficiency; checking temperature, breathing, oxygen level, body 
position and movement). 
A device that continuously measures temperature of a human body because even light 
variations can demonstrate the vessel work, thus helping to detect cardiovascular 
diseases. 
An elegant bracelet made from a very light plastic. Its soft, but determined vibration at 
your wrist will wake you up in the morning. During the day it will count your steps, 
mounted stairs, walked kilometers and spent calories, while at night it will remember 
how many hours you were asleep and how often you tossed and turned in your sleep 
(sleep quality). Statistics, dynamics analysis and all social network functions are 
available. 
A wireless blood pressure monitor. iHealth BP5 is put on the forearm like an armband 
without any additional modules. An iOS-device connected with iHealth BP5 via a free 
application becomes its monitor, showing the data of the current blood pressure together 
with the statistics in general. 
A posture monitor that can control and inform. Its main objective is to send you an 
occasional reminder regarding correcting your posture, which is controlled continuously. 

 
Tasks of Health Performance Review 
Apart  from  using  the  above  mentioned 
devices for medical purposes, they can also be used 
to  monitor  physiological  and  psychological 
indicators of healthy people whose work can cause 
risk  for  the  lives  of  other  people  and/or  risk  of 
significant man-made accidents. Such jobs include 
bus  drivers,  electric  train  operators,  air  pilots, 
nuclear  plant  operators,  astronauts  etc.  The 
parameters  of  Work  &  Rest  Schedule  (WRS)  are 
very important for these work categories. We know 
many cases when non-compliance with a due WRS 
led to major accidents caused by tiredness or other 
factors  that  decrease  the  working  capacity  of 
personnel. 

Therefore,  the  tasks  of  monitoring  and 
forecasting  of  the  personnel  health  deem  very 
important  for  the  purpose  of  maintaining  the 
significant  indicators  at  levels  not  lower  than  the 
acceptable ones.  

The  American  and  European  [3]  science 
area  dealing  with  technical  applications  is  called 
Prognostics  &  Health  Management  (PHM).  The 
area contains a significant amount of information on 
discovering,  recognizing  and  forecasting  certain 
defects,  which  allows,  without  waiting  for  the 
failures  and  malfunctions,  to  provide  a  necessary 
level  of  the  systems'  working  capacity.  The 
"technocratic"  approach  can  also  be  used  in  the 
sphere of medical and psychological monitoring of 

personnel.  We  shall  call  this  direction  Personnel 
PHM (PPHM).  

It can solve the following tasks: 

1.  indicator monitoring; 
2.  maintaining  indicators  within  a  set  range 

(stabilization); 

3.  assessment 

of 
capacities of personnel: 

potential 

(maximum) 

4.  maintenance  of  extreme  capacities  of 

personnel. 

The  1st  and  3rd  group  tasks  are  used  for 
evaluation but they can also contain a testing impact 
upon 
thus  obtaining  necessary 
assessments. 

the  person, 

Apart from the assessment, the 2nd and 4th 
group tasks contain the elements that are aimed at 
the development of controlling actions that provide 
necessary indicator values.  

As a rule, the expanded list of the 1st and 2nd 

group sub-tasks includes the following: 

  measurement  of  health  state  indicators  in 
real time, accumulating the statistics for large time 
intervals together with a regular self-testing; 

  processing  measurement  data  in  real  time 

using special algorithms; 

  integration  of  measurement  data  that  was 
obtained  from  various  sensors  and  psychological 
tests,  computation  of  significant  correlations 
existing between the indicators; 

 

3 

  computation  of  predictors  and  biomarkers 
demonstrating  health  deterioration  together  with  a 
corresponding change of the Work & Rest Schedule 
(diet, sleep etc.); 

  discovering  and  tracking  negative  trends, 
providing  a  preliminary  notice  to  the  monitoring 
subject or his/her managers;  

  monitoring 

friendly 
interface  and  its  provision to  a  user  who  does  not 
possess medical knowledge and skills. 

result  output  via 

Biomarkers 

the 
important elements that influence the effectiveness 
of solving the sub-tasks in the list. 

and  Predictors 

are 

Biomarkers  are  the  indicators  that  can  be 
measured in an objective manner and which could 
indicators  of  physiological  and 
be  used  as 
psychological 
as 
pharmacological  responses  to  some  therapeutic 
interventions. For example, they can include values 
of  weight,  blood  pressure,  pulse  frequency,  blood 
analysis,  ultrasonic  imaging,  magnetic  resonance 
imaging etc.    

biological 

processes 

or 

A substance that was introduced or found in 
the  body  can  serve  as  a  biomarker,  thus  being 
indicative  of  a  specific  illness  or  a  presence  of 
foreign  bodies  (for  example,  presence  of  specific 
antibodies can be indicative of a specific infection). 
Currently,  thousands  of  biomarkers  are 
used  to  assess  the  health  state,  with  their  number 
constantly increasing. 
 

Depending on the objectives of the subject 
types  of 

following  main 

examination, 
biomarkers are distinguished: 

the 

  preventive biomarkers are used to discover 

a predisposition to contraction of a disease; 

  verificatory  biomarkers  confirm  presence 

of a disease at the subclinical stage; 

  explorative biomarkers are used to identify 

a certain disease; 

  state biomarkers are used to define a stage 

of the disease; 

  prognostic biomarkers are used to evaluate 
the  prognosis  of  the  disease  development,  its 
possible outcome and assessment of the treatment's 
effectiveness; 

  pharmacodynamic  biomarkers  are  used  to 
discover a specific pharmacological response that is 
necessary  for  the  dosage  optimization  of  the 
medicine, for example. 

Predictor is a biomarker that can predict a 
favourable or unfavourable outcome of the disease 
or of the treatment's effectiveness. 

 
Health Monitoring Data Processing and 

Presenting Methods 

The  logic  of  using  biomarkers  in  a  static 
condition  (during  separate  and  not  interconnected 
time periods) is provided at Picture 1:  

a)                                                   b)                                                c) 

 

Picture 1 - Normal and Abnormal Biomarker Values a) acceptable levels of the confidence coefficient;  

b) discriminatory limits of normal and abnormal; c) risk threshold 

 
However,  in  practice,  when  monitoring 
indicators of an individual person or a narrow group 
of  people,  there  occurs  a  task  of  tracking  the 
indicators  in  a  dynamic  mode,  as  well  as  their 
approximation to or withdrawal from the rejection 
line.  It  can  provide  a  prognosis  of  the  indicator's 
value for some moment in the future and to prevent, 
possibly, its transfer to the critical range. 

The area of Applied Statistics that considers 
mathematical aspects of biomarker data processing 

together with preparation of the conclusion variants 
is called Bioinformatics. It applies various methods 
and models, in particular: 

statistical estimation; 

 
  pattern recognition; 
  cluster analysis; 
  multivariate regression analysis; 
 

estimation 

sequential 
Bayesian one) etc. 

(including 

the 

 

4 

When it is necessary to provide an accurate 
recognition of a person's state as well as to predict 
the coming changes, the important role is played by:  
the 
interdependencies  that  provide  a  synergistic  effect 
(for example, impact of a psychological state upon 
physiological indicators etc.); 

1.  complex 

biomarkers, 

i.e. 

2.  consideration of the impact that additional 
factors  (age,  fitness,  environment  etc.)  have  upon 
the indicator's value.  

Therefore,  using 

terminology  of 
Applied Statistics, the interconnection of indicators 
and factors can be presented by different ways, in 
particular by: 

the 

  multivariate  regression  model  (multiple 

regression); 

  pattern recognition tasks; 
  clustering tasks and others. 

 
Health Monitoring Data Analysis  
Fitness  maintenance  is  one  of  the  main 
tasks  that  defines  working  capacity  of  the  team 
during longterm space expeditions. Fitness level is 
also  defined  by  such  an  indicator  as  Heart  Rate 
Recovery  Time  (HRRT)  calculated  after 
the 
exercises. HRRT of fit people is lower than of non-
fit people. Heart Rate of fit people can vary between 
50  to  240  heartbeats per  minute  depending  on  the 
exercise  load.  The  machines  that  can  assess  a 
current  value  of  HRRT  are  stationary  bicycles, 
treadmills  and  other  special  machines  where  it  is 
possible  to  set  necessary  test  exercises  and  to 

measure current heart beat indicators, using which 
the  HRRT  is  later  estimated  via  standard  or 
specialized software.  

Modern equipment that is used to monitor 
physiological indicators often allows recording the 
measurement data on storage media, sending them 
via radio channels (Bluetooth, WiFi etc.) or in the 
Internet to a set email address.  

Depending  on  the  exercises  and  fitness 
level,  the  heart  beat  change  graphs  may  look  like 
Picture 2 when recovering. 

For  each  of  the  graphs  it  is  possible  to 
compute  a  value  of  the  only  indicator  that 
demonstrates  the  speed  with  which  the  heartbeat 
recovers.  This  indicator  serves  as  one  of  the 
biomarkers of a person's fitness level. According to 
its values it is possible to recommend the physical 
exercises that would keep the person fit. 

The  heartbeat  recovery  process  can  be 
usually presented as an exponential relationship of 
the following type: 

 

𝑓(𝑡) = 𝑎 + (𝑑 − 𝑎)𝑒−𝜃𝑡 + 𝜀,                   (1) 

 

where 𝑎 is a normal value of the heartbeat; 𝑑 is the 
heartbeat's  value  right  after  the  exercises;  𝜃  is  a 
speed coefficient of the heartbeat's recovery; 𝜀 is a 
random  component  of  the  changes.  According  to 
current values of a heartbeat's target indicator 𝑓(𝑡) 
it is possible to compute the value of 𝜃 coefficient, 
using,  for  example,  a  least  square  method  and 
specialized or standard software.   

 

 

Picture 2 - Heartbeat Recovery Process Measurement After  

Physical Exercises (for various fitness levels)  

 

 
Monitoring of 𝜃 coefficient can serve as the 
basis for correcting the fitness level of a person thus 
influencing 
and 
environmental stability. 

his/her  working 

capacity 

 

Other  biomarkers,  in  particular  frequency 
and  depth  of  breathing  are  measured  in  the  sport 
sphere, apart from the heartbeat.  A list of possible 
biomarkers,  whose  values  shall  be  measured  in 
longterm space expeditions, can be rather long and 

5 

expansive.  Thus,  current  physical  activity  can  be 
measured  with  microsized  accelerometers  (for 
example,  three-axis  micromechanical  acceleration 
sensors)  sewn  into  clothes  in  different  places:  on 
arms,  legs,  head  etc.  The  sensors  can  transfer  the 
data for its registration and processing via the radio 
channels.  Statistical  analysis  of  the  data  (for 
example: variable, correlation or a cluster one) can 
demonstrate  which  parts  of  the  body  receive  a 
spontaneous  (taken  in  the  process  of  a  current 
activity) or a special load.   

Within 

(factors, 

such  biomarkers 

the  process  of  a  continuous 
monitoring, 
input 
variables)  should  be  connected  with  some  target 
indicators (output variables) that depend on them or 
that  are  significantly  correlated  with  them.  Target 
indicators demonstrate level of a working capacity, 
error  probability,  power  of  concentration,  disease 
resistance (immunity level) etc. 

Within  the  process  of  the  current  data 
monitoring  we  can  build  dependencies  of  the 
indicators  (𝐿)  from 
the  factor  vector  (𝑥̅ =
[𝑥1, 𝑥2, ⋯ , 𝑥𝑛]𝑇) in the form of linear or non-linear 
regressional relationships 𝐿 = 𝑓(𝑏̅, 𝑥̅), where 𝑏̅ is a 
parameter vector. 

shall 

If we build the relationship in a linear form 
and  with  standard  variables,  the  large  values  of 
coefficients  𝑏𝑖 
their 
corresponding factor (biomarker) 𝑥𝑖 is a predictor, 
i.e.    predicts  significantly  the  indicator's  value. 
Thus, in this case, using values of the predictor we 
can take controlling (correcting) measures without 
knowing the value of the indicator.     

indicate 

that 

 

References 

[1]  I.I.  Miroshnichenko,  S.N.  Ptitsyna  Biomarkers 
in  Modern  Medical  &  Biological  Practice, 
Biomedical  Chemistry,  2009,  volume  55,  4th 
edition, pp. 425-440.   

[2]  A.N.  Varaksin,  V.G.  Panov,  Yu.I.  Kazmer 
Statistical  Models  Possessing  Correlated 
Predictors 
and  Medicine, 
Yekaterinburg:  Ural  University  Publishing 
House, 2011 - p. 92. 

in  Ecology 

[3] A. Popov, W. Fink, A. Hess PHM for Astronauts 
– A New Application, Annual Conference of the 
Prognostics  and  Health  Management  Society 
2013. – pp. 1-8. 

[4] W. Fink, J.B. Clark, G.E. Reisman, M.A. Tarbell 
Comprehensive  Visual  Field  Test  &  Diagnosis 
System  in  Support  of  Astronaut  Health  and 
Performance, 
Aerospace 
Conference Proceedings, paper #2675, Big Sky, 
Montana. 

2013, 

IEEE 

[5]  C.  Grossman,  B.  Powers,  J.M.  McGinnis  Life 
and Physical Sciences Research for a New Era 
of  Space  Exploration:  An  Interim  Report. 

 

 
Conclusions 
Taking  into  consideration  the  analysis 
presented in the work, it is possible, for example, to 
apply  the  technology  of  monitoring,  analysis  and 
health management of a group of people in a certain 
professional sphere, in particular in longterm space 
expeditions.   

1.  In  order  to  build  effective  methods  that 
would  predict  the  state  of  a  person  who  performs 
his/her  specific  professional  duties,  it is  necessary 
to collect (using a real control group) an adequate 
amount of statistical data that would demonstrate a 
norm or a pathology (abnormality). 

2.  While  operating  at  a  real  data  field  of  a 
subject domain under consideration, it is necessary 
to  discover 
the  most  significant  biomarkers, 
predictors and their most effective complexes. 

to  examine 

3.  In order to provide a maximum accuracy of 
assessment  and  forecasting, 
the 
dependencies  of  significant  biomarkers  and/or 
predictors  (including  the  complex  ones)  from  the 
factors  of  external  and  internal  environment  that 
have  a  significant  impact  upon  their  prognostic 
qualities.   

4.  To  examine  and  determine  characteristics 
of  the  assessment  accuracy  and  prediction  of  the 
indicators that demonstrate changes in the state of 
study group members. 

5.  To  examine  the  degree  of  a  possible 
personification  of  models and  methodology  of the 
specific subject's health state analysis.  

National Research Council, 2010, The National 
Academies Press,  Washington, D.C. 

[6] M. Pecht Prognostics and Health Management 

of Electronics, 2008, Wiley.  

[7]  A.  Popov  System  Health  Management  and 
Space  Medicine  Predictive  Diagnostics. 
Common  Concepts  and  Approaches.  IEEE 
Aerospace  Conference  Proceedings,  2012,  Big 
Sky, Montana.  

[8]  Predictive  Analytics:  Bringing  the  tools  to  the 
data (2010). An Oracle white paper, September 
2010. 

[9] The Global Exploration Roadmap (2013): 

https://www.globalspaceexploration.org/c/docu
ment_library/ get_file?uuid=6bdce6a3-1400-
4b47-b6ba-556755273c3&groupId=10812. 
International Space Exploration Coordination 
Group (ISECG). 

[10]  S.  Uckun,  K.  Goebel,  P.J.F.  Lucas 
for 
Standardizing 
Prognostics. 
International  Conference  on 
Prognostics  and  Health  Management,  October 
2008. 

Research  Methods 

6 

[11] D.J. Alexander, C.R. Gibson, D.R. Hamilton, 
S.M.C. Lee, T.H. Mader, C. Otto, C.M. Oubre, 
A.F.  Pass,  S.H.  Platts,  J.M.  Scott,  S.M.  Smith, 
M.B. Stenger, C.M. Westby, S.B. Zanello Risk 
of 
Intracranial 
Hypertension  and  Vision  Alterations,  2012, 
NASA 
Report: 
http://humanresearchroadmap.nasa.gov/Eviden
ce/report s/VIIP.pdf. 

Spaceflight-Induced 

Evidence 

[12]  C.  Grossman,  B.  Powers,  J.M.  McGinnis 
Rapporteurs  and  Editors  Digital  Infrastructure 
for the Learning Health System: The Foundation 
for  Continuous  Improvement  in  Health  and 
Health  Care  –  Workshop  Series  Summary. 
Roundtable on Value & Science-Driven Health 
Care, 2011, Institute of Medicine, The National 
Academies Press, Washington, D.C. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

7 

