102 

IJCSNS International Journal of Computer Science and Network Security, VOL.17 No.4, April 2017 

 

Impact on the Usage of Wireless Sensor Networks in Healthcare 

Sector

Ahsan Humayun 

Lecturer 

Department of  
Computer Science 

Muneeb Niaz 

Lecturer 

Department of  
Computer Science 

Muhammad Umar 

Muhammad Mujahid 

Lecturer 

Department of  
Computer Science 

Lecturer 

Department of  
Computer Science 

University of Central Punjab, 
Faisalabad Campus, Pakistan 

University of Central Punjab, 
Faisalabad Campus, Pakistan 

University of Central Punjab, 
Faisalabad Campus, Pakistan 

University of Central Punjab, 
Faisalabad Campus, Pakistan 

  

 

 

 

 

Quality  of  Service  (QoS),  while  on  the  other  hand  the 
wireless  sensor  networks  works  in  critical  situations 
against  some  sort  of  unknown  operations.  For  example, 
patients in which the wireless sensors are embedded, they 
don’t need any kind of physician. In healthcare sector, now 
it’s  quite  difficult  to  handle  the  patient  status  manually, 
now the WSN’s  have the potential to replace the  manual 
work of monitoring and hence we can save our resources 
and  time  as  well.  Wireless  sensor  networks  in  healthcare 
have  now  become  a  hot 
research  area,  different 
applications with different scenarios have being researched 
like  Heartbeat  monitoring,  blood  pressure  monitoring, 
body  locations  and  positions  etc.  Due  to  this  now  the 
patient  has  ease  to  do  his  work  freely  and  live  like  a 
normal  person.  He  can  easily  perform  his  daily  activities 
and hence at the same time he is being monitored for any 
issue regarding his health [2]. 
Wireless  sensor  networks  are  of  different  types  and  they 
are used on the basis of physical conditions, environment 
and  conditions.  Terrestrial  wireless  sensor  networks  are 
consisting  of  numerous  sensor  nodes  which  are  deployed 
in  a  specific  area  for  a  specific  purpose.  Underground 
wireless  senor  networks  are  used 
the 
underground  conditions  and  they  are  used  for  special 
purpose  like  searching  oil  resources  and  coal  resources. 
They  are  deployed  underground.  Underwater  wireless 
sensor  networks  are  used  to  monitor  the  underwater 
activities.  They  are  mainly  used  for  the  underwater 
surveillance  for  safety  purposes.  Multimedia  wireless 
sensor  networks  are  used  to  monitor  the  audio  video  or 
images. They are used in numerous applications. They are 
deployed  with  microphone  and  cameras.  Mobile  wireless 
sensor networks are used for monitoring the movements or 
locations  of  body  in  a  physical  environment.  Mobile 
WSN’s  have 
types  of 
features 
movements of objects [3]. 

to  sense  different 

to  monitor 

Abstract 
Recent  advancement  in  the  wireless  sensor  networks  has 
provided a platform to numerous applications in healthcare sector. 
It  has  become  an  active  research  area  due  to  its  large  scale 
potential.  This  research  focuses  on  the  application  areas  of 
wireless sensor networks specifically in the healthcare sector. In 
this work, we have tried to explain the different challenges faced 
by the WSN’s in order to implement them. The different pros and 
cons of the WSN’s in healthcare sector are also discussed. Some 
important  parameters  which  can  be  used  to  evaluate  the 
performance of the wireless sensor networks are also presented in 
this  work.  Wireless  sensor  networks  have  a  tremendous  future 
and  it  should  be  taken  at  its  earliest  because  of  the  significant 
importance of the healthcare issues. 
Keywords 
Wireless  Sensor  Networks,  Healthcare  Sector,  Performance 
Evaluation,  Cancer  Detection,  Diabetes  Detection,  Asthma 
Detections, Challenges, Privacy, Security.   

1. Introduction  
Wireless sensor networks consist of different sensor nodes 
that  work  collectively  for  a  specific  task.  These  nodes 
work  within  different  type  of  environment  with  different 
conditions  and  circumstances.  Basically  there  are  two 
types  of  Wireless  sensor  networks:  Structured  and 
Unstructured. Initially Wireless sensor networks were only 
used  for  the  military  purposes  for  different  purposes  like 
monitoring  and  defense  purpose.  Now  a  day’s  Wireless 
sensor networks have a wide range of applications in our 
daily life routine. Now they have an emerging trend in our 
livings.  They  are  used  in  many  areas  like  healthcare, 
entertainment, industry, businesses and many more. In the 
recent years, Wireless sensor networks have progress a lot 
in the field of healthcare. They have wide application area 
in  different  medical  fields’  i.e. 
  Patient  monitoring 
automated medicine alert and diagnose of different disease 
and their procurement and many more [1]. 
Wireless  sensor  networks  are  quite  different  from 
traditional  networks  like  WLAN  and  ad  hoc  networks. 
These  types  of  networks  just  work  to  provide  you  the 

Manuscript received April 5, 2017 
Manuscript revised April 20, 2017 

 

IJCSNS International Journal of Computer Science and Network Security, VOL.17 No.4, April 2017 

103 

to  monitor 

2. Application Area of WSN in Healthcare 
Sector 
Healthcare is always an important and critical concern as it 
is  a  matter  of  human  livings.  It  has  always  a  great 
importance  in  each  aspect  of  field.  There  is  a  huge 
application area of WSN in healthcare sector. In this work 
we  have  tried  to  summarize  the  all  applications  area  of 
WSN.  We  have  categorized  the  applications  of  WSN  in 
healthcare sector in different categories.  
Daily  living  Monitoring:  In  these  types  of  applications, 
different  activities  of  patients 
like  eating,  sleeping, 
communicating  with others is  monitored. Basically  RFID 
tags are used to accomplish these kinds of activities. These 
tags  are  embedded  with  the  different  objects  of  the  user    
(keys, toothbrush, and glass) so that their activities can be 
monitored.  It  retrieves  all  the  information  automatically 
and present in graphical form. 
Movement  Detection:  These  types  of  applications  are 
specifically  used  for  aged  people 
their 
movements.  
Location Tracking: These types of applications are used 
to track down the physical locations of a person. They can 
be  used  both  inside  and  outside,  depending  upon  the 
conditions and the requirements. They are used to increase 
the context awareness [4]. 
Intake 
of  medication  Monitoring:  Medication 
monitoring  applications  are  very  critical,  they  determine 
the time of  medications  for a patient and reminds him to 
take his medication, or if it embedded then it automatically 
injected the medication into the patient body. 
Patient  status  Monitoring:  These  types  of  applications 
are  widely  used  to  monitor  the  status  of  patient  either  in 
hospital  or  home.  They  intimate  the  doctors  if  there  is  a 
critical situation with a patient. They monitor the heart rate, 
oxygen  rate,  blood  pressure,  body  temperature  and  other 
information about a patient [5]. 
Cancer  Detection:  Cancer  is  now  a  day’s  considered  as 
the most increasing disease and it has a major concern in 
health care issues. There are lots of methods to cure cancer, 
but it is quite difficult to monitor the continuous condition 
or  status  of  a  patient  suffering  from  cancer.  Results  of 
different  studies  depicts  that  the  cells  affected  by  the 
cancer produce nitric oxide which cause harm and make a 
tumor.  In  order  to  monitor  those  cells,  a  special  sensor 
which can specifically sense those cells are used and they 
are embedded inside the body of the patient. They monitor 
the locations of those suspected cells in the body and sends 
information in the form of report [6].  
Diabetes Detection: Diabetes is another one of the rapidly 
increasing disease in the world. A lot of work is done on 
controlling the diabetes of the patients. Different systems 
on  massive  scale  have  been  developed  to  control  the 
diabetic  conditions  of  the  patients.  With  the  help  of 
wireless sensor networks we can control the diabetes of the 

patients. Special kind of sensor nodes are used which can 
regulate the insulin doze and it can calculate automatically 
the glucose rate inside the blood. For this purpose a special 
sensor node which is also known as biosensor is used and 
planted inside the human body [7]. 
Asthma  Detection:  Millions  of  people  are  now  a  day’s 
suffering from asthma. It is also a fast growing disease due 
to  increasing  level  of  pollution  in  the  environment.  To 
overcome  the  asthma  problem  wireless  sensor  networks 
have  a  great  impact,  a  special  sensor  nodes  are  used  for 
this purpose which can detect the allergic agents found in 
the  environment  and  hence 
they  automatically  and 
periodically update the doctor about the health status of the 
patient  suffering  from  asthma.  It  detects  and  predicts  the 
air and its condition and also alarm the patient if it forecast 
the air is polluted [8].  
Medical Accidents Prevention: The most important issue 
in the healthcare sector is the human errors. Many of the 
accidents are caused due to the human  faults. Sometimes 
the  patient  is  not  precisely  checked  by  the  doctor  and 
hence the prescription of the doctor goes wrong which can 
lead death of the patient. In order to prevent such kind of 
accidents wireless sensor networks are used. According to 
a survey almost 98000 patients die every year due to such 
kind of errors.  
Strokes Prevention  Strokes are very serious and recovery 
from  heart  strokes  is  very  difficult  and  crucial.  It  needs 
proper  attention  and  consideration  of  doctor  about  the 
patient.  In  this  regard,  wireless  sensor  networks  are  used 
on  a  large  scale  to  avoid  such  kind  of  activities.  Now  a 
day’s  wearable  sensors  are  available  which  monitors  the 
different parameters of the body and automatically update 
the  data  after  a  careful  assessment  and  sends  it  to 
physician [9].  
Heart  Rate  Monitoring:  Many  of  the  people  die due  to 
the heart attacks and heart failures, according to a survey 
almost 40 to 45 % people died due to heart attacks every 
year.  Wireless  sensor  networks  have  progressed  much  to 
avoid the heart attacks. Different wrist watches have been 
developed by using the smart sensors with electrodes that 
take  continuous  care  of  the  patient  and  regulate  its  body 
parameters and rapidly initiate the information in case of 
emergency [10]. 

3. Applications of WSN in Healthcare Sector 
As healthcare is one of the most researched area almost in 
every  field,  so  regarding  the  wireless  sensor  networks  a 
number  of  real  time  applications  are  also  developed,  to 
address  the  different  kind  of  healthcare  issues.  In  this 
research,  we  have  focus  to  provide  a  brief  description  of 
real time applications of wireless sensor networks [4]. 

104 

IJCSNS International Journal of Computer Science and Network Security, VOL.17 No.4, April 2017 

MobiHealth  is  a  mobile  healthcare  application  which 
allows  the  patient  to  be  mobile  every  time  and  they  are 
being monitored continuously by using GRPS network. 
Vital Jacket is also a smart mobile device, which is used 
as a  wearable jacket used to monitor the heartbeat of the 
patient.  It  continuously  measures  the  heart  rate  after  a 
regular interval and updates the report of the patient to its 
consultant.  It  has  alarming  sensors  which  in  case  of 
emergency rapidly informs [11]. 
AlarmNet is also a mobile device, consisting of different 
wireless  sensor  networks.  They  sense  the  heart  rate  and 
oxygen rate, and alarm in case of any emergency. 
LifeGuard  was  first  developed  for  the  astronauts.  The 
basic  purpose  of  this  application  is  to  monitor  the  blood 
pressure and pulse beat. 
CodeBlue  was  a  large  scale  project,  and  it  provides  a 
framework in providing rapid response against the disaster 
situations.  It  allows  the  quick  remote  monitoring  and 
tracing the patient’s situation. 
LifeShirt is also a wearable shirt device, and is available 
commercially.  It  consists  of  different  sensors  and  data 
recorders.  It  is  a  complete  package  including  recording 
software which update regularly the patient status like its 
blood pressure, heart beat rate and pulse rate etc [12]. 
SleepApnea is very useful mobile device which is used to 
monitor  the  different  parameters  of  the  patient  in  night 
while he is sleeping, it monitors the blood circulation, the 
oxygen intake, breathing and the heart rate etc. it provides 
a rapid response in case of any casualty.   

4. WSN Challenges In Healthcare Sector 
Security:  Wireless  sensor  networks  have  always  been 
facing  a  very  challenging  issue  of  security  due  to  its 
wireless nature. There are serious threats which can lead to 
severe  security  issues.  For  example  in  some  of  the  case 
tracking the location by using the wireless sensor network 
can  lead  to  serious  consequences.  It  can  lead  to  the 
negative  usage  of  the  WSN.  A  WSN  should  be  smart 
enough  that  it  can  keep  the  data  of  the  patient  secure.  It 
ensures  the  patient  that  the  system  is  trustworthy  and 
reliable and it will keep its data secure [13]. 
Privacy  has  always  been  a  top  most  priority  concern  in 
wireless sensor networks with respect to healthcare issues. 
Patients are very  much conscious about their information 
and  their  personal  reports.  It  can  be  a  very  crucial  threat 
towards the privacy issue of a patient. Individuals are very 
much  careful  about  their  data  like  where  their  data  is 
stored,  where  and  how  it  is  used  and  to  whom  it  is 
available.  Another  big  privacy  concern  is  regarding  the 
sensor  nodes  which  are  planted  inside  the  human  body. 
Patients  have  psychological  pressure  and  sometimes  they 
feel that their privacy is no more with them [14].  

Power  is  now  a  day’s  considered  as  a  top  most  priority 
challenge, as WSN although need less power but they need 
continuous power in order to give good performance 
Continuous Performance is one of the major challenges 
faced  by  WSN  applications,  in  case  of  not  responding 
regularly,  it  could  be  very  dangerous  and  due  to  its 
sensitivity  in  healthcare  issues  it  can  lead  to  critical 
consequences [15].  
Robustness  is  also  a  major  concern  of  wireless  sensor 
networks.  Sensor  nodes  should  ensure  their  long  running 
time  and  performance  regardless  of  the  environment  and 
the conditions they are facing. 
Data  Synchronization  is another crucial challenge  faced 
by  the  WSN  applications.  WSN  must  ensure  that  the 
correct data at the correct time is being sent and hence it 
must ensure the integrity of the patient’s data [15]. 

5. Performance Parameters of WSN 
There  are  different  parameters  on  the  basis  of  which  we 
can evaluate the performance of wireless sensor networks. 
Some of the parameters have presented in this work which 
are of high importance [16]. 
Network  Lifetime  is  considered  as  one  of  the  important 
parameter,  as  the  wireless  sensor  networks  are  battery 
operated,  so  it  is  necessary  that  they  provide  a  longer 
lifetime. 
Coverage  is  another  critical  parameter  to  evaluate  the 
performance  of  wireless  sensor  networks,  while  using  in 
some  outdoor  location,  coverage  of  WSN  should  be 
reliable [17]. 
Response Time is another top priority parameter in order 
to  measure  the  performance  of  the  wireless  sensor 
networks;  it  needs  proper  attention  as  it  could  be  very 
critical.  The  response  time  of  the  WSN  should  be  rapid 
and  quick.  And  it  should  also  ensure  the  accuracy  of  the 
data at the correct time. 
Deployment  Ease 
is  also  an  essential  parameter 
considered  for  the  wireless  sensor  networks,  the  medical 
staff  should  be  aware  of  the  deployed  locations  of  the 
sensor nodes, so that in case of any emergency they can be 
replace it easily or manage it easily [18]. 

6. Advantages & Disadvantages 
The major advantage of wireless sensor network is that it 
overcomes  the  drawbacks  of  wired  sensor  networks.  In 
wired sensor networks a hectic situation is created due to 
wires  and  it  creates  complications,  and  hence  patient  is 
restricted. WSN ensure the mobility of the patient as well 
as it provides ease for the hospital staff to manage [19]. 
The major disadvantage of wireless sensor networks is that 
when  it  is  planted  inside  the  human  body,  patients  feels 

IJCSNS International Journal of Computer Science and Network Security, VOL.17 No.4, April 2017 

105 

in  the  sensor  networks,"  in  Neural  Networks  and  Brain, 
2005.  ICNN&B'05.  International  Conference  on, 2005,  pp. 
1212-1217. 

[10] E. M. Tapia, S. S. Intille, W. Haskell, K. Larson, J. Wright, 
A. King, et al., "Real-time recognition of physical activities 
and  their  intensities  using  wireless  accelerometers  and  a 
heart  rate  monitor,"  in  Wearable  Computers,  2007  11th 
IEEE International Symposium on, 2007, pp. 37-40. 

[11] T.  Arampatzis,  J.  Lygeros,  and  S.  Manesis,  "A  survey  of 
applications  of  wireless  sensors  and  wireless  sensor 
networks," in Intelligent Control, 2005. Proceedings of the 
2005  IEEE  International  Symposium  on,  Mediterrean 
Conference on Control and Automation, 2005, pp. 719-724. 
[12] A.  Milenković,  C.  Otto,  and  E.  Jovanov,  "Wireless  sensor 
networks  for  personal  health  monitoring:  Issues  and  an 
implementation,"  Computer  communications,  vol.  29,  pp. 
2521-2533, 2006. 

[13] K. Lorincz, D. J. Malan, T. R. Fulford-Jones, A. Nawoj, A. 
Clavel, V. Shnayder, et al., "Sensor networks for emergency 
response:  challenges  and  opportunities,"  IEEE  pervasive 
Computing, vol. 3, pp. 16-23, 2004. 

[14] M.  Al  Ameen  and  K.  S.  Kwak,  "Social  Issues  in  wireless 
sensor  networks  with  healthcare  perspective,"  Int.  Arab  J. 
Inf. Technol., vol. 8, pp. 52-58, 2011. 

[15] J. Stankovic, Q. Cao, T. Doan, L. Fang, Z. He, R. Kiran, et 
al.,  "Wireless  sensor  networks  for  in-home  healthcare: 
Potential  and  challenges,"  in  High  confidence  medical 
device software and systems (HCMDSS) workshop, 2005. 

[16] A. Lahtela, M. Hassinen, and V. Jylha, "RFID and NFC in 
in 
healthcare:  Safety  of  hospitals  medication  care," 
Pervasive  Computing  Technologies  for  Healthcare,  2008. 
PervasiveHealth 2008. Second International Conference on, 
2008, pp. 241-244. 

[17] J. Deng, R. Han, and S. Mishra, "A performance evaluation 
of intrusion-tolerant routing in wireless sensor networks," in 
Information Processing in Sensor Networks, 2003, pp. 349-
364. 

[18] D. Tian and N. D. Georganas, "A coverage-preserving node 
scheduling  scheme  for  large  wireless  sensor  networks,"  in 
Proceedings  of  the  1st  ACM  international  workshop  on 
Wireless sensor networks and applications, 2002, pp. 32-41. 
[19] N.  Srivastava,  "Challenges  of  next-generation  wireless 
sensor  networks  and  its  impact  on  society,"  arXiv  preprint 
arXiv:1002.4680, 2010. 

[20] M. S. Donaldson, J. M. Corrigan, and L. T. Kohn, To err is 
human:  building  a  safer  health  system  vol.  6:  National 
Academies Press, 2000. 

 

insecure. They feel that their privacy is revealed, and they 
have  psychological  pressure  on  their  minds.  Another 
disadvantage of using wireless sensor networks is that the 
cost  maintaining  these  sensor  nodes  is  a  big  expenditure 
for the patient because sensor nodes are expensive [20].  

7. Conclusion & Future Directions 
In this research, we have provided an impact on usage of 
wireless  senor  networks  specifically  in  healthcare  sector. 
Along this we have provided the different challenges faced 
by  WSN,  its  advantages  and  disadvantages.  We  believe 
that the wireless sensor networks will have a large impact 
in  future  in  the  healthcare  sector.  The  rapid  increase  in 
usages of wireless sensor networks has predicted that these 
smart sensors will be an integrated part of our daily life, as 
it already has a tremendous effect on our human life. There 
is  credible  future  of  self  organizing  WSN  in  healthcare 
sector. Wireless sensor networks can improve the systems 
like  in-home  assistance  and  smart  nursing.  Patient  can 
ensure 
their  privacy  while  remaining  at  home  and 
healthcare services will be provided to them at their door 
step. 
 
References 
[1]  H.  Alemdar  and  C.  Ersoy,  "Wireless  sensor  networks  for 
healthcare:  A  survey,"  Computer  Networks,  vol.  54,  pp. 
2688-2710, 2010. 

[2]  J. Ko, C. Lu, M. B. Srivastava, J. A. Stankovic, A. Terzis, 
and  M.  Welsh,  "Wireless  sensor  networks  for  healthcare," 
Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 98, pp. 1947-1960, 2010. 

[3]  N.  Oliver  and  F.  Flores-Mangas,  "HealthGear:  a  real-time 
wearable system for monitoring and analyzing physiological 
signals," 
in  Wearable  and  Implantable  Body  Sensor 
Networks,  2006.  BSN  2006.  International  Workshop  on, 
2006, pp. 4 pp.-64. 

[4]  P.  Neves,  M.  Stachyra,  and  J.  Rodrigues,  "Application  of 
wireless sensor networks to healthcare promotion," Journal 
of  Communications  Software  and  Systems,  pp.  181-190, 
2008. 

[5]  H. Zhou, K. M. Hou, J. Ponsonnaille, L. Gineste, and C. De 
Vaulx,  "A 
real-time  continuous  cardiac  arrhythmias 
detection  system:  Recad,"  in  Engineering  in  Medicine  and 
Biology  Society,  2005.  IEEE-EMBS  2005.  27th  Annual 
International Conference of the, 2006, pp. 875-881. 

[6]  A.  Darwish  and  A.  E.  Hassanien,  "Wearable  and 
implantable wireless sensor network solutions for healthcare 
monitoring," Sensors, vol. 11, pp. 5561-5595, 2011. 

[7]  T.  Yilmaz,  R.  Foster,  and  Y.  Hao,  "Detecting  vital  signs 
with  wearable  wireless  sensors,"  Sensors,  vol.  10,  pp. 
10837-10862, 2010. 

[8]  S. Patel, H. Park, P. Bonato, L. Chan, and M. Rodgers, "A 
review of wearable sensors and systems with application in 
rehabilitation," 
of 
and 
rehabilitation, vol. 9, p. 21, 2012. 

neuroengineering 

[9]  S.  Wang,  J.  Yang,  N.  Chen,  X.  Chen,  and  Q.  Zhang, 
"Human  activity  recognition  with  user-free  accelerometers 

Journal 

