Wireless Sensor Network based System for the Prevention of Hospital

Acquired Infections

Iuliana Bocicor1, Maria Dasc˘alu4, Agnieszka Gaczowska2, Sorin Hostiuc3, Alin Moldoveanu4,

Antonio Molina5, Arthur-Jozsef Molnar1, Ionut, Negoi3 and Vlad Racovit,˘a1

1SC Info World SRL, Bucharest, Romania
2NZOZ Eskulap, Skierniewice, Poland

7
1
0
2

 

y
a
M
2

 

 
 
]

Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 

1
v
5
0
5
3
0

.

5
0
7
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

3Carol Davila University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest

4Polytechnic University of Bucharest, Romania

{iuliana.bocicor,arthur.molnar,vlad.racovita}@infoworld.ro, maria.dascalu@upb.ro,

{agaczkowska,soraer,negoiionut}@gmail.com, alin.moldoveanu@cs.pub.ro, amolina@innovatecsc.com

5Innovatec Sensing&Communication, Alcoi, Spain

Keywords:

Hospital Acquired Infection, Nosocomial Infection, Clinical Workﬂow Monitoring, Cyber-physical System,
Wireless Sensor Network.

Abstract:

Hospital acquired infections are a serious threat to the health and well-being of patients and medical staff
within clinical units. Many of these infections arise as a consequence of medical personnel that come into
contact with contaminated persons, surfaces or equipment and then with patients, without following proper
hygiene procedures. In this paper we present our ongoing efforts in the development of a wireless sensor
network based cyber-physical system which aims to prevent hospital infections by increasing compliance to
established hygiene guidelines. The solution, currently developed under European Union funding integrates a
network of sensors for monitoring clinical workﬂows and ambient conditions, a workﬂow engine that executes
encoded workﬂow instances and monitoring software that provides real-time information in case of infection
risk detection. As a motivating example, we employ the workﬂow in the general practitioner’s ofﬁce in or-
der to comprehensively present types of sensors and their positioning in the monitored location. Using the
information collected by deployed sensors, the system is capable of immediately detecting infection risks and
taking action to prevent the spread of infections.

1 INTRODUCTION

Hospital acquired infections (HAI) are a serious
threat to the health and well-being of both patients
and medical staff within clinical units. Various micro-
organisms, especially multi drug resistant bacteria
may lead to signiﬁcant hospital related morbidity and
mortality. These infections have high related costs
and represent a direct occupational hazard for clin-
ical personnel. Hospital infections are a worldwide
problem, regardless of geographical, political, so-
cial or economic factors (World Health Organization,
2002), (World Health Organization, 2010). Further-
more, technological development and sophistication
of medical care does not automatically result in low-
ered infection rates (Tikhomirov, 1987), (Coello et al.,
1993), (World Health Organization, 2010), (European
Centre for Disease Prevention and Control, 2015).

According to the ﬁndings of the World Health Orga-
nization, average HAI prevalence in Europe is 7.1%,
in the United States it is 4.5%. In low- and middle-
income countries infection rates vary between 5.7%
and 19.1% (World Health Organization, 2011).
In
intensive care units located in high-income countries
the proportion of infected patients can be as high as
51%, while in low- and middle-income countries it
can reach 88.9% (World Health Organization, 2011).
Unfortunately, many of these infections lead to pa-
tient deaths. Annually, infections are accountable for
37 000 deaths in Europe and 99 000 deaths in the USA
(World Health Organization, 2011). While measures
and precautions are being taken to successfully reduce
these rates (Centers for Disease Control and Preven-
tion, 2016), there is still much room for improvement.

Many hospital infections arise as a consequence
of medical personnel that come into contact with con-

taminated surfaces or equipment, relatives coming in
contact with patients or as auto infections, which oc-
cur by touching sensitive body parts, such as the face,
with the hands. The most common target sites for hos-
pital infection are the urinary and respiratory tracts,
which are often involved in minimally-invasive pro-
cedures such as catheter-related procedures.

While the methodology for prevention exists, it
is often ignored due to lack of time, unavailability
of appropriate equipment or because of inadequate
staff training. Research shows that the most impor-
tant transmission route are staff members who come
into contact with patients or contaminated equipment
without following proper hygiene procedures (Ham-
mer, 2013). More particularly, most often trans-
mission is made by touching a patient or contami-
nated equipment and then touching another patient
without proper hand hygiene (Pittet, 2001). Recent
guidelines, such as ”Five moments for hand-hygiene”
(World Health Organization, 2015) provide concise
and well-structured information on efﬁcient disinfec-
tion means to signiﬁcantly reduce the risk of infec-
tion.

In this paper we present our progress in the devel-
opment of a cyber-physical system based on a wire-
less sensor network (WSN) that is targeted towards
HAI prevention. Our solution employs a sensor net-
work that will monitor clinical workﬂows and ambi-
ent conditions, integrated with conﬁgurable software
to detect deviation from established hygiene prac-
tices. The sensor network collects information in real-
time about substance and material presence. Avail-
ability of antimicrobial agents and sterile gloves, as
well as environmental conditions that affect pathogen
spread, such as oxygen level, airﬂow, and temperature
will be monitored. To complete the picture, the sys-
tem will facilitate monitoring of complex processes
such as management of indwelling urinary catheters,
postoperative care, intubation and mechanical venti-
lation. Given the complexity of these processes, as
well as the diversity of hospital regulations, these pro-
cesses will be described using software workﬂows.
Each clinical process will be modelled using one
workﬂow instance executed by a software workﬂow
engine. When the sequence of transitions inferred by
the system from sensor data presents deviations from
the expected ﬂow, the system will alert responsible
personnel.

The current stage of development represents a sys-
tem proof of concept, including multifunctional smart
sensors for monitoring the use of soap, antimicrobial
gel and water sink together with a ﬁrst clinical work-
ﬂow that describes the required hygiene procedures in
the general practitioner’s ofﬁce. This paper details the

smart devices employed, the hardware-software inte-
gration as well as the software components that en-
sure the cyber-physical system achieves its objective
of lowering the number and severity of hospital infec-
tions.

The present paper is structured as follows. The
following section presents some of the last decade’s
advancements, from an Information and Communica-
tion Technologies (ICT) perspective. This includes
several software-based or cyber-physical systems de-
veloped to increase compliance to guidelines and de-
crease infection rates. Section 2 offers a detailed de-
scription of the workﬂow in the general practitioner’s
ofﬁce, as well as the main challenges faced when en-
coding this process using a software-based workﬂow
model. The wireless sensor network custom designed
for the system is depicted in Section 3, where all as-
pects related to its hardware and software components
are covered. Section 4 focuses on presenting the soft-
ware workﬂow engine that interprets events and mon-
itors execution of conﬁgured workﬂows. Moreover,
the means by which the hardware part of the system
is integrated with the software workﬂow engine, as
well as the communication infrastructure employed
are illustrated in this section. Finally, we outline our
conclusions and further work in the last section.

1.1 Existing Solutions

Because HAI have signiﬁcant detrimental effects, in
recent decades health care facilities have started to
implement prevention programmes for patients and
medical staff. There are even practical guides devised
by specialised agencies (World Health Organization,
2012), which can be used as starting points for the de-
velopment of good practice plans concerning work-
place and patient safety. Following the current tech-
nological developments in all medical areas, technol-
ogy is also present for monitoring and prevention of
HAI. This is illustrated by the development of various
software-based or cyber-physical solutions that moni-
tor and ensure compliance. In this section, we present
some of the most popular such systems.

1.1.1 Monitoring Hand Hygiene

Inadequate hand hygiene is responsible for a large
proportion of infections (Pittet, 2001). There are sev-
eral automated solutions to reduce infections caused
by improper hand hygiene, most of which use con-
tinuous surveillance and immediate notiﬁcation in
case non-compliance is detected (Shhedi et al., 2015).
IntelligentM (Ryan, 2013) and Hyginex (Hyginex,
2015) are two solutions that monitor employees us-
ing bracelet-like devices equipped with Radio Fre-

quency Identiﬁcation (RFID) technology and motion
sensors. Whenever a hygiene event has been omitted,
the device alerts them either using vibration (Intelli-
gentM) or coloured lights (Hyginex). Biovigil tech-
nology (BIOVIGIL Healthcare Systems, Inc., 2015)
and MedSense (General Sensing, 2014) are designed
having the same purpose, only in these cases bracelets
are replaced with badges worn by healthcare workers.
The Biovigil device uses chemical sensors to detect
whether hand hygiene is observed according to estab-
lished standards. The system can be conﬁgured to re-
mind clinicians to disinfect their hands before enter-
ing patient wards, or before administering procedures
such as intravenous drips or catheter insertion. Fur-
thermore, these systems record hygiene events, cen-
tralise them and enable analysis, visualisation and re-
port generation. SwipeSense (Swipe Sense, 2015)
employs small, alcohol-based devices and wearable
gel dispensers. This allows medical personnel to per-
form hand hygiene without interrupting their activi-
ties to go to a sink or disinfectant dispenser (Simon-
ette, 2013). In opposition to the systems mentioned
so far, which use sensors placed at patient ward en-
trances, UltraClenz’s Patient Safeguard System (Ul-
traClenz, 2016) is ”bed-centric” and prompts work-
ers to sanitize before and after every patient contact.
The DebMed system (DebMed - The Hand Hygiene
Compliance and Skin Care Experts, 2016) does not
use RFID technology, nor any devices for the medical
personnel, but instead estimates the number of hand
hygiene opportunities per patient-day and compares
this number with the actual hand hygiene events that
were performed, which are determined using a net-
work of wireless-enabled dispensers.

1.1.2 Disinfection Robots

Dangerous pathogens can remain in the air or on dif-
ferent types of surfaces in a hospital room for long
periods after the infection source was removed. To
tackle this issue, which cannot always be resolved us-
ing traditional cleaning and disinfection procedures,
several types of disinfection robots have been devel-
oped. Generally, they are able to perform thorough
disinfection using ultraviolet (UV) light or chemi-
cal substances. The Xenex ”Germ-Zapping Robot”
(Xenex, 2015) can disinfect a room using pulses
of high-intensity, high-energy ultraviolet light. The
robot must be taken inside the room to be disinfected
and in most cases, the deactivation of pathogens takes
place in ﬁve minutes. Tru-D Smart UVC (Tru-D
Smart UVC, 2016) scans the room to be disinfected
using eight sensors and computes the optimal short
wavelength ultraviolet light dose required for disin-
fection according to the size, geometry, surface reﬂec-

tivity as well as the amount and location of equipment
found in the room. The robot performs disinfection
of the entire room, from top to bottom in one cycle
and from one location, ensuring that the ultraviolet
light reaches even shadowed areas. The Bioquell Q-
10 robots (Bioquell, 2016) emit a powerful antibacte-
rial bleaching agent, called hydrogen peroxide to kill
multi-drug resistant organisms. As hydrogen perox-
ide is toxic to humans, after disinfection the Q-10 uses
another solution to ensure that it is safe for humans to
enter the room.

1.1.3 Managing Infection and Outbreaks

A different procedure in the ﬁght against infection
is implemented by the Protocol Watch decision sup-
port system for prevention and management of sepsis
(Philips, 2015). Protocol Watch regularly checks cer-
tain medical parameters of patients, to reduce the time
elapsed between the moment sepsis is ﬁrst detected
and beginning of treatment. If the system detects that
certain conditions indicative of sepsis are met, it alerts
medical staff and indicates which tests, observations
and interventions must be performed, according to es-
tablished prevention and treatment protocols.

Another goal pursued by clinicians when dealing
with hospital infection is the identiﬁcation of control
policies and optimal treatment in infection outbreaks.
A comprehensive approach that uses electronic health
records to build healthcare worker contact networks is
described in (Curtis et al., 2013). Its main goal con-
cerns putting efﬁcient vaccination policies into place
in case of infection outbreaks.

Among other relevant software systems developed
to enhance treatment policy in case of infection out-
break or epidemics are RL6:Infection (RL Solutions,
2015) and Accreditrack (Excelion Technology Inc.,
2013). RL6:Infection is a software solution devel-
oped to assist hospitals in the processes of controlling
and monitoring infections and outbreaks, while Ac-
creditrack is designed to ensure compliance with hand
hygiene guidelines, verify infection management pro-
cesses as well as to provide procedural visibility and
transparency.

1.2 The HAI-OPS platform

The proposed platform is developed within the Hospi-
tal Acquired Infection and Outbreak Prevention Sys-
tem (HAI-OPS) research project (HAI-OPS, 2017).
Its main objective is to decrease overall mortality and
morbidity associated with hospital infection. It is de-
signed to handle both singular infection cases as well
as outbreaks, by targeting most common sources and
transmission pathways. Operationally, the platform

will leverage advances in computing power and avail-
ability of custom-developed, affordable hardware that
will be combined with a conﬁgurable, workﬂow-
based software system (Bocicor et al., 2016).

Existing solutions, such as those detailed in
the section above (Ryan, 2013; Hyginex, 2015;
BIOVIGIL Healthcare Systems, Inc., 2015; General
Sensing, 2014) can be successfully employed to mon-
itor a single process, such as hand hygiene, or equip-
ment and room disinfection (Xenex, 2015; Tru-D
Smart UVC, 2016; Bioquell, 2016). While these pro-
cesses are important for keeping patients and staff
safe from infection, there are many other processes
that can lead to hospital infection. Among the most
prevalent, we mention catheter management, mechan-
ical ventilation, invasive procedures and surgical site
care (World Health Organization, 2002; Coello et al.,
1993). One solution for monitoring multiple pro-
cesses would be to deploy several such systems in
parallel. However, given that eHealth interoperabil-
ity is currently an open issue, this is not only cost-
ineffective, but technologically infeasible. We be-
lieve that monitoring several clinical and maintenance
workﬂows can be successfully addressed using a sin-
gle system. Such a system must be conﬁgurable so
that it covers differences between clinical unit loca-
tion and layout, differences in types and speciﬁcs of
undertaken procedures, as well as variation between
hygiene guidelines that must be observed by staff.
The HAI-OPS platform is designed to address these
issues in both hardware as well as software. First of
all, using customized, but affordable hardware allows
sensors to be deployed in key locations in cost effec-
tive manner. Workﬂow engines allow researchers to
create custom BPMN-encoded (Object Management
Group, 2015) workﬂows that encode key events in
monitored processes. Furthermore, implementation
of a user interface for workﬂow management will al-
low epidemiologists to further customize the moni-
tored workﬂows. To the best of our knowledge, our
proposed system is the ﬁrst of its kind to combine a
sensor network and software in a cyber-physical sys-
tem of the proposed versatility.

2 GENERAL PRACTITIONER’S

OFFICE WORKFLOW

The cyber-physical system depicted in this pa-
per employs pre-deﬁned workﬂows that describe the
processes that the system will monitor. They allow
the system to take real-time action in case an infec-
tion risk is detected. Our development approach is
bottom-up, and starts with modelling some of the less

complex workﬂows, which involve only medical staff
and patients. The more complex workﬂows, that also
involve equipment, such as endoscopic or surgical
procedures will be addressed at a later time. Thus,
the ﬁrst workﬂow we approach for the system proto-
type, which is also the subject of the present paper’s
motivating example, is the workﬂow of the general
practitioner’s ofﬁce.

2.1 Process Description

The general practitioner (GP) is a medical doctor
whose practice is not limited to a certain speciality
and who provides treatment and preventive care to pa-
tients. As opposed to physicians working with inpa-
tients admitted to hospital for certain procedures, the
general practitioner works with outpatients, who re-
quire consultation or treatments which do not necessi-
tate hospital admission. All information regarding the
GP ofﬁce, as well as the consultation workﬂow de-
scribed were supplied by NZOZ ESKULAP (NZOZ
Eskulap, 2016), an outpatient clinic from Poland that
is targeted for the ﬁrst pilot deployment of our sys-
tem. Figure 3 illustrates the general practitioner’s
ofﬁce layout from the Polish clinic. The ofﬁce con-
tains a desk for the physician, a consultation bed and,
most importantly for our use case, an area with sev-
eral elements for ensuring hygienic conditions: a sink,
a waste bin and an area dedicated to disinfectants
and disinfectant dispensers. The same ﬁgure also de-
picts the planned layout of the wireless sensor net-
work used for monitoring the workﬂow. These are
described in more detail in Section 3.

In order to ensure compliance with the infection-
prevention guidelines in the Polish clinic, the ﬁrst step
was identifying the hygiene practices to which the
general practitioner must adhere to before, during and
after patient consultation. The conventional workﬂow
for an outpatient consultation, including all required
actions for ensuring conformity with hygiene stan-
dards are depicted within the following sequence of
steps:
1. Patient enters the ofﬁce.
2. The GP starts a conversation with the patient, in
order to learn about their medical history, current
treatment and reason for the visit. Generally, the
physician uses pen and paper or a hospital infor-
mation system to record information to the patient
ﬁle.

3. The GP prepares to examine the patient. The
preparation process is crucial with regards to in-
fection prevention. According to current regula-
tions within the target clinic, the doctor must san-

itize their hands according to 10 steps for effective
hygiene. These are:

(a) Wet hands thoroughly.
(b) Soap up, using the liquid soap dispenser. The
used tap must be elbow or wrist operated. The
physician must rub palms.

(c) Rub palms with ﬁnger interlaced.
(d) Massage between ﬁngers, right palm over the

left hand and then vice-versa.

(e) Scrub with ﬁngers locked, including ﬁngertips.
(f) Rub rotationally, with thumbs locked.
(g) Rinse thoroughly.
(h) Dry hands using a paper towel that must be
placed in proximity to the hand washing facil-
ity.

(i) Work towel between ﬁngers.
(j) Dry around and under the nails.

4. The GP throws the wet towel to a special waste

bin.

5. The GP starts patient examination.
6. After the examination, the GP uses an alcohol-

based sanitizer for hand disinfection.

7. The GP goes back to the desk and records exami-
nation results using pen and paper or the hospital
information system.

8. Patient leaves the ofﬁce.

The procedure described above concerns a regular
examination. However, for special cases such as ex-
aminations involving the head, eyes, ears, nose and
throat (HEENT), or when the patient presents with
skin infection, the doctor must also employ nitrile or
latex disposable gloves. Gloves should also be worn
whenever there might be contact with blood, body ﬂu-
ids, mucous membranes or non-intact skin. Gloves
must be put on immediately before the task to be per-
formed, and removed and discarded as soon as the
procedure is completed.

The BPMN workﬂow for the consultation process
is illustrated in Figure 1. Sections 3 and 4 describe
how the wireless sensor network is used for monitor-
ing and how the workﬂow engine monitors the exe-
cution of hygiene-relevant events. In the case a devi-
ation from the expected steps of the workﬂow is de-
tected, a real-time alert is generated and sent to the
GP using a mobile device in their possession.

events speciﬁed in the workﬂow are detected by hard-
ware devices placed in different locations in the of-
ﬁce. As soon as the patient enters the ofﬁce, this is
detected by the infrared array sensor element placed
near the entrance (Goga et al., 2016). The system
records and interprets the received data and a work-
ﬂow instance is started. As illustrated in Figure 1, the
ﬁrst steps required from the GP is to start the water
sink, use the soap dispenser and then stop the sink.
The system interprets this as hand hygiene being per-
formed. These events are detected by the sensor el-
ements in the sink and those in the disinfectant dis-
penser area, which are all connected to smart nodes
placed near the physician’s desk. This enables trans-
mitting the data to the software server via wireless
network. While current regulations described in the
previous section require a speciﬁc sequence of actions
to be undertaken for hand hygiene to be considered
effective, our system only checks that the sink and
disinfectants were operated. The main reason for this
is that the system is envisaged as an additional aid for
medical personnel that ensures their safety from pos-
sible infection. The system is designed on the princi-
ple that medical personnel are responsible and aware
of the detailed actions they must undertake to ensure
their own, as well as their patients’ safety.

The intermediate step of the workﬂow concern-
ing patient examination starts when the system has
detected that hand hygiene compliance is achieved.
Otherwise, the system generates and stores a hygiene
alert, which is immediately sent to the general prac-
titioner. The two activities are exclusive: if an alert
is generated, the workﬂow instance is stopped and
the recorded hygiene breach is recorded. In case of
an alert, the GP must perform hand hygiene, after
which the system initiates a new workﬂow instance.
In case initial hand hygiene and patient consultation
are carried out according to the workﬂow, the GP
must disinfect their hands using antimicrobial gel af-
ter the last contact with the patient. This event is again
recorded by the system using the same sensors situ-
ated in the disinfectant dispenser area and the smart
nodes near the physician’s desk. The workﬂow is
thus completed. All the information related to patient
entry/exit, hygiene compliance and alerts is saved to
persistent storage for further reuse, including statis-
tics and advanced analyses for ﬁnding the source or
propagation of an outbreak.

2.2 Workﬂow Description

2.3 Current Challenges

The general practitioner workﬂow is shown using
BPMN speciﬁcation in Figure 1. For the description
of the workﬂow we use both Figures 1 and 3, as the

Although seemingly straightforward, the process de-
scribed above can become quite complicated, mainly
due to various types of constraints and interferences

Figure 1: General Practitioner Workﬂow

that may occur. Below we present the main challenges
to the system, with regard to the GP ofﬁce workﬂow
and the methods we use to approach and overcome
some of them. Others are still open to discussion and
solutions are currently being investigated.

First and foremost, one key aspect to consider is
achieving minimal overhead on the clinical process
and minimal intrusive interaction, from the user ex-
perience point of view. It is important that the system
does not impose any constraints and does not restrict
the doctor’s movements. In many clinical units, in-
cluding the one targeted for pilot deployment, hospi-
tal regulations specify that personnel are not allowed
to wear jewellery, watches or bracelets, as these can
hamper their freedom of movement and spread bacte-
ria, especially if these wearables are difﬁcult to dis-
infect. To tackle this, the proposed system does not
require the use of additional wearables. Monitoring
is done using the deployed wireless sensor network
nodes, which are placed in key locations within the
GP ofﬁce, as described in Section 3. In addition, med-
ical personnel already employ chest-mounted badges
to which radio-frequency tags can be easily added.

The placement of the wireless sensors is an essen-
tial challenge in itself, as locations must be chosen in
a manner that allows a complete and preferably op-
timal surveillance of monitored workﬂows. The ar-
rangement of sensors in the ofﬁce must be adjusted to
the process, but should also be sufﬁciently general in
order to allow monitoring several workﬂows: in this
case, both the regular consultation workﬂow as well
as HEENT examinations. Thus, in addition to plac-
ing wireless sensors at the ofﬁce entrance, sink, soap
or disinfectant dispenser, in order to ensure complete
process monitoring, a device is also placed on the
waste bin, to detect when gloves are thrown away. De-
vice positioning in the GP ofﬁce is discussed in more

detail within Section 3.

One of

the remaining challenges for cyber-
physical systems such as the proposed one concerns
short-term human interactions that are difﬁcult to de-
tect. In the case of the GP workﬂow, how should the
system detect and react to a person entering the GP
ofﬁce during an examination? In this case, the hy-
giene event performed by the GP before patient ex-
amination is considered cancelled, as the third person
can contaminate the physician or patient with micro-
organisms. Medical staff wear badges that can be
used to identify them using the sensors deployed near
the entrance; however, if the person is not part of the
medical staff, they cannot be identiﬁed. A potential
solution is that once the system detects someone en-
tering the ofﬁce, regardless of whether the person is
medical staff or not, the system triggers the execution
of a new workﬂow, including the necessary hygiene
events. In case this is not performed, the GP is alerted
to take immediate corrective action.

3 THE SENSOR NETWORK

A wireless sensor network consists of a group of
electronic devices in which every node controls one or
more sensors that measure physical phenomena such
as light, heat or proper acceleration. All collected
measurements are sent using a wireless network pro-
tocol to another device featuring more powerful pro-
cessing capabilities. Depending on their functional-
ity, nodes are classiﬁed into dummy and smart nodes.
As the name suggests, dummy nodes consist of small
devices that have to effectuate just one simple task:
detect a generated event and pass the information to
a smart node. A dummy node is particularly charac-
terized by its small size (35x35mm) and low power

consumption. Some sensors, like RFID readers, do
not generate events by themselves and require a pre-
processing stage, which can be exclusively carried out
by a powered device. Smart nodes must be able to
collect key actions detected from dummy nodes and
generate more complex events comprising informa-
tion regarding four relative clauses: who is the person
involved, what was the action generated, when it hap-
pened and where it happened.

3.1 Sensor Types

Required sensors were selected to enable monitoring
the clinical workﬂow detailed in Section 2. From the
mentioned steps, sensors in dummy nodes should be
applied mainly to detect key actions, such as the uti-
lization of hygienic elements that can be found in the
GPs ofﬁce: water sink, soap dispenser, waste bin, al-
cohol sanitizer and glove dispenser. The main sensor
types required to ensure effective monitoring of the
general practitioner ofﬁce workﬂow are as follows:
1. Accelerometer. These sensors measure changes
in gravitational acceleration on two or three axes,
allowing to detect changes in motion and orien-
tation. Accelerometers may be attached to water
taps, which regulate water ﬂow on the vertical axis
and temperature on the horizontal. They may also
be applied to sanitizer or glove dispensers, where
detected motion implies that they have been used
by a practitioner or checked by cleaning staff.

2. Proximity and light sensor. Proximity sensors
emit infrared radiation and look for changes in the
return signal. This type of sensors are already ap-
plied in some water sinks and soap containers, but
to the best of our knowledge none of them have
communication capabilities to report actions.

3. Switch detection. A switch is just an electronic
component that interrupts the ﬂow of electric cur-
rent from one conductor to another. It may be op-
erated by a moving object, which makes it a great
choice for applications such as detecting the use
of waste bins or opening of a door. This is the least
energy consuming element from the list, because
it does not have to expend energy doing continu-
ous measurement.
Dummy nodes generate action events indicating,
for instance, that someone used the soap dispenser or
the waste bin, but it is the smart node who has to ﬁll
in information and identify who generated the action.
To achieve that goal, it is necessary to process and
combine the output from the following two sensors:
1. Infrared array sensor. It is a thermopyle type in-
frared sensor which detects the amount of infrared

Figure 2: Infrared array sensor detecting people inside the
GP ofﬁce

rays. It has a built-in lens with a 60 degree view-
ing angle. The sensor offers output for thermal
presence, direction and temperature values.

2. RFID reader. Radio-frequency identiﬁcation
works using tag-based identiﬁcation. Tags are
small devices similar to stickers that may be car-
ried by people, animals or objects. They can also
be easily attached to wearables such as badges or
mobile equipment. The frequency range and ap-
plied antenna depend on the application and indi-
rectly on the distance between readers and tags. In
some clinics, medical and cleaning staff are used
to carry a badge with an identiﬁcation card based
on this principle.

3.2 Device Positioning

Device positioning and calibration are crucial for the
proper functioning of the system.
In the case of
dummy sensors, the proximity sensor may detect false
positives if the distance range is not correctly adjusted
or if the sensor is incorrectly placed. When applied
to water sinks or gel dispensers, the proximity sensor
must be tied to the tap pointing downwards. The sys-
tem registers when someone places their hand under
the tap and when they stop using it. Figure 3 illus-
trates the positioning of both smart and dummy nodes
within the general practitioner’s ofﬁce.

In addition to the proximity sensor, the RFID an-
tenna and passive infrared array sensor must also be
placed according to their detection range. RFID read-
ers provide received signal strength indication (RSSI)
levels for detected tags, a measure which is propor-
tional to the distance between them. Patch antennas
consist of a planar dielectric substrate material with
a radiating patch on one side and a ground plane on
the other. The radiating side must point to the GP’s
ofﬁce where elements to be identiﬁed are located and
the ground plane must point to the corridor, ceiling or
to an adjacent room. Radio frequency power output

so low, that they can be powered using coin batter-
ies. The reduced power consumption is due to the
integration of a Bluetooth Low Energy (BLE) mod-
ule (Bluetooth SIG, Inc., 2017). Compared to previ-
ous Bluetooth standards, BLE is intended to provide
considerably reduced power consumption and lower
cost, while maintaining a communication range of up
to 150 meters with connected devices.

Smart nodes have more complex processing, com-
munication and thus, higher power requirements than
dummy nodes. They are continuously listening for
input BLE connections and when data is received, the
result is forwarded to a database server for persistent
storage and subsequent analyses. Connection with
this server is carried out using existent network infras-
tructure, regardless of whether it is wired or wireless.
Every smart device is identiﬁed within the network
using a unique IP address and has a ﬁxed location in-
side the building.

4 HARDWARE-SOFTWARE

INTEGRATION

The software side of the system implements the
client-server paradigm and employs a software server
to which an arbitrary number of heterogeneous clients
can have simultaneous connection. The server con-
tains components that receive sensor data from the
network, a persistence layer that manages sensor
readings as well as a workﬂow engine that executes
workﬂow instances in real-time, generating alerts
when sensor readings indicate deviations from ex-
pected workﬂow transitions. The main software com-
ponents of the system are as follows:
1. Connected Device Controller. The connected
devices, or smart nodes, constitute the principal
hardware component of the platform. They are re-
sponsible for monitoring the clinical environment
using sensors and sending sensor readings to the
software server. By themselves, they cannot de-
cide whether an infection risk is present. Each
connected device includes a software controller,
a generic software component that runs indepen-
dently of the software server. Its objectives are to
ensure the correct functioning of smart nodes and
to send sensor readings to the software server.

2. Data acquisition. This is the software compo-
nent that will be responsible with receiving sensor
readings. Received data is stored within the per-
sistence layer, from which it is read and used by
other components. This includes advanced analy-
ses components yet to be developed which do not

Figure 3: Layout of the general practitioner ofﬁce aug-
mented with wireless sensor network

must be conﬁgured to meet European Union regula-
tions and to avoid false positive detections as much as
possible.

Passive infrared array sensors complement the in-
formation from RFID readers. If this information is
combined properly, the dummy node is able to lo-
cate people inside the room, identify people wearing
an RFID card (typically clinical staff) and detect peo-
ple who are not wearing tags (typically patients). The
passive infrared sensor must be placed on the ceiling,
pointing downwards and centred in the room, as seen
in Figure 2. If the sensor’s angle of view is not enough
and doesn’t ﬁt the whole room, scalability is achieved
using several sensors.

3.3 Communication Protocols

As already stated, the main features of dummy nodes
are their small size and low power consumption. Both
features are very closely correlated, because in most
cases product size is determined by the battery.
In
this case, the power consumption in dummy nodes is

make the object of the present paper. The server
adopts a REST architecture (Fielding, 2000) to re-
ceive sensor data acquired as presented in Sec-
tion 3. The data interchange format employed
is JavaScript Object Notation. Information con-
tained in ﬁles received from sensors includes the
event’s timestamp, a Uniform Resource Locator
that identiﬁes which node generated the informa-
tion as well as sensor reading values. For instance,
a sensor monitoring temperature will transmit a
temperature value in degrees Celsius. A sen-
sor monitoring the presence of an individual will
transmit a boolean value, according to whether
presence was detected. An RFID reader will
transmit the RFID tag identiﬁer and the received
signal strength indicator value.

3. Workﬂow engine adapter. This software com-
ponent is a fac¸ade to the workﬂow engine imple-
mentation used by the system. Its main purpose
is to abstract the particularities of the workﬂow
engine. This allows the system to operate with
any major off the shelf workﬂow engine imple-
mentation. This component provides the required
features that allow for the creation, update and
deletion of clinical workﬂows monitored by the
system. The workﬂow engine interprets events,
such as inputs from deployed sensors (e.g. hand
washing detected), and acts upon them accord-
ing to a predeﬁned process. The actions are con-
ﬁgurable and can vary from saving a new entry
into a database, sending an e-mail or emitting a
real-time notiﬁcation via an external application
or short message service. Its input is represented
by process descriptions. Processes are composed
of activities connected with transitions. Processes
represent an execution ﬂow. Each execution of a
process deﬁnition is called a process instance. As
an example, hand disinfection in the general prac-
titioner’s ofﬁce can be represented as a process.
Each time a patient enters the ofﬁce a new process
instance is started, managed by the business pro-
cess management system. Some activities, such
as recording an event, or sending an alert are au-
tomatic. Others involve waiting for an external
event to occur, such as a sensing device reporting
the physician has disinfected hands. The work-
ﬂow engine keeps track of the state of process
executions and manages creation and progress of
process executions.

4. Data store. This component of the software
server acts as the system’s persistence layer for
all system data.
In addition to user, alert, con-
nected devices and workﬂow data, it includes a
complete record of data received from connected

sensors. This is required in order to facilitate ad-
vanced analyses for outbreak prevention, identi-
ﬁcation and monitoring. The data store will be
implemented using an SQL database.

5 CONCLUSIONS

This paper details the ongoing effort in the devel-
opment of a cyber-physical system intended for pre-
venting hospital infections. The HAI-OPS platform
will integrate a wireless sensor network and a soft-
ware server that uses a workﬂow execution engine to
monitor key steps within various clinical processes
that were identiﬁed as responsible for a large pro-
portion of hospital infection. When key steps to en-
sure process hygiene are not taken, the system will
generate real-time alerts. The present paper focuses
on describing and modelling an initial clinical pro-
cess used as motivating example: outpatient consul-
tations within the general practitioner’s ofﬁce. This
process is the one selected for implementation dur-
ing the system’s ﬁrst pilot deployment within a Polish
outpatient clinic (NZOZ Eskulap, 2016). Although
we directed our attention speciﬁcally towards the mo-
tivating workﬂow, the system is designed to allow for
deployment of diverse sensor network conﬁgurations,
as well as facilitate creation and execution of many
different clinical workﬂows.

Upcoming system development will build on ex-
isting achievements. First of all, the system will be
used to model more complex clinical workﬂows, in-
cluding endoscopic and minor surgery procedures,
which will be implemented in the pilot site location.
Second of all, as part of the project a graphical com-
ponent will be developed to allow management of
monitored workﬂows. In addition, we aim to leverage
available sensor readings by implementing advanced
reporting and evaluation capabilities. These are ex-
pected to help clinical epidemiologists in pinpointing
infection and outbreak sources using visualizations
such as risk maps and healthcare worker contact net-
works (Hladish et al., 2012).

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT

This work was undertaken as part of the HAI-OPS
project funded by the European Union, under the Eu-
rostars programme1.

1https://www.eurostars-eureka.eu/project/id/9831

REFERENCES

Bioquell (2016). Bioquell q-10. http://www.bioquell.
com/en-uk/products/life-science-products/
archive-hc-products/bioquell-q10/.
BIOVIGIL Healthcare Systems, Inc. (2015).

Biovigil
and our team. http://www.biovigilsystems.com/
about/.

Bluetooth SIG, Inc. (2017). Bluetooth low energy. https:

//www.bluetooth.com/what-is-bluetooth-
technology/how-it-works/low-energy.

Bocicor, M. I., Molnar, A.-J., and Taslitchi, C. (2016).
Preventing hospital acquired infections through a
In Proceed-
workﬂow-based cyber-physical system.
ings of the 11th International Conference on Evalua-
tion of Novel Software Approaches to Software Engi-
neering, pages 63–68.

Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (2016). HAI
https://www.cdc.gov/hai/

data and statistics.
surveillance/.

Coello, R., Glenister, H., Fereres, J., Bartlett, C., Leigh, D.,
Sedgwick, J., and Cooke, E. (1993). The cost of infec-
tion in surgical patients: a case-control study. Journal
of Hospital Infections, 25:239–250.

Curtis, D., Hlady, C., Kanade, G., Pemmaraju, S., Pol-
green, P., and Segre, A. (2013). Healthcare worker
contact networks and the prevention of hospital-
acquired infections. Plos One. DOI: 10.1371/jour-
nal.pone.0079906.

DebMed - The Hand Hygiene Compliance and Skin Care
Experts (2016). A different approach to hand hygiene
compliance.
http://debmed.com/products/
electronic-hand-hygiene-compliance-
monitoring/a-different-approach/.

European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control
(2015). Annual epidemiological report. antimicrobial
resistance and healthcare-associated infections. 2014.
http://ecdc.europa.eu/en/publications/
Publications/antimicrobial-resistance-
annual-epidemiological-report.pdf.

Excelion Technology Inc. (2013). Accreditrack. http://

www.exceliontech.com/accreditrack.html.

Fielding, R. T. (2000). Architectural styles and the design of
network-based software architectures. Doctoral dis-
sertation, University of California.

General Sensing (2014).

Medsense
compliance monitoring.

hygiene
//www.generalsensing.com/medsenseclear/.

clear. hand
http:

Goga, N., Vasilateanu, A., Mihailescu, M. N., Guta, L.,
Molnar, A.-J., Bocicor, I., Bolea, L., and Stoica, D.
(2016). Evaluating indoor localization using wiﬁ for
patient tracking. In International Symposium on Fun-
damentals of Electrical Engineering (ISFEE).
HAI-OPS (2017). home page. http://haiops.eu.
Hammer, S. (2013). Hand washing: Reducing nosoco-
http://iwsp.human.cornell.

mial
edu/files/2013/09/Hand-Washing-Reducing-
Nosocomial-Infections-2j1mlfb.pdf.

infections.

Hladish, T., Melamud, E., Barrera, L. A., Galvani, A., and
Meyers, L. A. (2012). Epiﬁre: An open source c++

library and application for contact network epidemi-
ology. BMC Bioinformatics, 13(1):76.

Hyginex (2015). Introducing hyginex generation 3. http:

//www.hyginex.com/.

NZOZ Eskulap (2016).

NZOZ eskulap.

eskulapskierniewice.pl/.

www.

Object Management Group (2015). Business process model

and notation. http://www.bpmn.org/.

Philips

(2015).

Protocolwatch

- SSC Sepsis.

http://www.healthcare.philips.com/main/
products/patient_monitoring/products/
protocol_watch/.

Pittet, D. (2001).

Improving adherence to hand hygiene
practice: a multidisciplinary approach. Emerging In-
fectious Diseases, 7:234–240.

RL Solutions

(2015).

infection
http://www.rlsolutions.com/rl-

The rl6 suite /

surveillance.
products/infection-surveillance.

Ryan, J. (2013). Medtech proﬁles: Intelligentm - a sim-
ple yet powerful app to dramatically reduce hospital-
acquired infections.
https://medtechboston.
medstro.com/profiles-intelligentm/.

Shhedi, Z. A., Moldoveanu, A., Moldoveanu, F., and
Taslitchi, C. (2015). Real-time hand hygiene monitor-
ing system for hai prevention. In The 5th IEEE Inter-
national Conference on E-Health and Bioengineering
- EHB 2015.

Simonette, M. (2013). Tech solutions to hospital acquired
http://www.healthbizdecoded.

infections.
com/2013/06/tech-solutions-to-hospital-
acquired-infections/.

Swipe Sense (2015). Hand hygiene. redeﬁned. https://

www.swipesense.com/.

Tikhomirov, E. (1987). Who programme for the control of

hospital infections. Chemioterapia, 6:148–151.

Tru-D Smart UVC (2016). About tru-d. http://tru-d.

com/why-uvc-disinfection/.

UltraClenz (2016). Patient safeguard system. http://www.

ultraclenz.com/patient-safeguard-system/.

World Health Organization

hospital-acquired

Prevention
practical
http://www.who.int/csr/resources/

of
guide.
publications/whocdscsreph200212.pdf.

(2002).
infections

a

-

World Health Organization (2010).

care-associated

health
http://www.who.int/gpsc/country_work/
summary_20100430_en.pdf.

infection

The burden of
worldwide.

World Health Organization (2011). Health care-associated
infections - fact sheet. http://www.who.int/gpsc/
country_work/gpsc_ccisc_fact_sheet_en.pdf.
Prevention
practical
http://apps.who.int/medicinedocs/

of
guide.
documents/s16355e/s16355e.pdf.

World Health Organization

(2012).
infections

hospital-acquired

a

-

World Health Organization (2015). Clean care is safer care
- ﬁve moments for hand hygiene. http://www.who.
int/gpsc/tools/Five_moments/en/.

Xenex (2015). Xenex germ-zapping robots. http://www.

xenex.com/.

