 

Advancing consumer adoption of blockchain applications 

 
Zane Witherspoon 
University of San Francisco 

 
 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 

 

Abstract 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

   
 

 
Blockchain technology as a whole is experiencing a dramatic rise in adoption, in no small
part due to the developer-friendly Ethereum network. While the number of smart-contract
 
 
they face many of the same
powered distributed applications (Dapps) continues to rise,
 
 
 
challenges all new technologies face as they are introduced to a market. By modeling the
 
 
 
consumer adoption of blockchain technology and analyzing scholarly literature on supply-side
 
factors affecting the diffusion of technology, we seek to prove the growth of a Dapp can be
 
 
accelerated using ​abstraction​, ​whole product​ ​planning​, and ​complimentaries​.  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
2 

1. Introduction 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
Bitcoin has undisputedly been the most wildly successful application of blockchain
technology. Created in 2008, the digital currency gained traction with the online drug market ​The
 
Silk Road and the (now incarcerated) founder Ross Ulbricht, aka the Dread Pirate Roberts. Even
 
after the FBI takedown of ​The Silk Road marketplace, the number of bitcoin wallet holders
 
continued to climb at an exponential rate. At the start of 2014, there was still less than 1 million
 
bitcoin wallets; by the start of 2017, there were almost 10 million . 1

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Despite its incredible adoption of around the world, bitcoin is still far from market
 
 
the most commonly used blockchain in the world, but other
saturation. Bitcoin is still
 
 
blockchains with their own unique functionalities and corresponding crypto-currencies are riding
 
 
the wake of bitcoin’s success to much faster adoption. Ethereum is the shining example of a new
 
blockchain that’s been adopted by even the most exclusive crypto-currency exchanges.  

 
 
   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Enter Ethereum 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

The Ethereum organization took a developer-friendly approach when creating their own
 
blockchain and introduced a new feature to the original bitcoin data storage technology:
 
turing-complete programming languages for the Ethereum blockchain. Successful marketing and
 
an ICO (Initial Coin Offering) attracted developers to build on the Ethereum blockchain faster
 
than any other blockchain to date. This is credited in part to their coining of the phrase
 
smart-contracts to define the code developers write to the blockchain and the celebritizing of
 
 
Vitalik Buterin, the young Russian champion of Ethereum .  2
 
 

 
The challenges faced by Ethereum as a platform for distributed application (Dapp)
development are those of a two-sided market. Imagine they are building a distributed app store.
 
They need developers to build distributed apps for this new platform and consumers that are both
 
able and willing to use this new tech. Ethereum is succeeding in the former, partly due to
 
 
marketing and partly due to developers’
innovators and
 
 
visionaries. Targeting the latter part of this market is a much more challenging affair.  

tendencies to be technological
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1 ​"Bitcoin Blockchain Wallet Users." Blockchain.info. Blockchain Luxembourg, n.d. Web. 10 May 2017. 
2 Strang and Soule suggest that influence of an expert, or one percviced as so, accelerates social diffusion in 
organizations and social movements. ​ Strang, David, and Sarah A. Soule. "Diffusion in Organizations and Social 
Movements: From Hybrid Corn to Poison Pills." Annual Review of Sociology 24.1 (1998): 265-90. Web. 
 

 
 
3 

 

Consumer Adoption 
 
“The rate at which new techniques are adopted and incorporated into the productive process is, 

without doubt, one of the central questions of economic growth.” 

- Nathan Rosenberg  3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

The speed of the adoption of any new technology is one of the most challenging
 
 
economic questions we face when looking into the rewards of innovation. Typically the
innovations that have the greatest benefits are the same innovations that have the highest initial
 
 
costs. The decision made by the consumer is not a matter of whether or not to adopt a new
technology, but whether or not to defer the adoption to a later time when the initial costs have
 
fallen .   

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

The different ways of using blockchain technology have their own costs and benefits. As
 
an example, using bitcoin as a currency has benefits like (mostly) anonymous money transfers,
 
potential for financial profit traded against fiat currencies like the USD, and encrypted security
 
so only you have access to your money. There are costs to using bitcoin as well, like the fiscal
 
 
risk of a bitcoin price crash or the risk of losing an encryption key and access to your wallet.
 
 
However given the right precautions,
these costs are recoverable. As with other new
 
 
technologies, the time spent learning the new technology is the most valuable, non-recoverable
 
 
 
asset consumers have to pay.  

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Yet despite all these obstacles, companies like Coinbase and 21.co have had great success
 
 
 
getting consumers to adopt bitcoin as a part of their products. While the ultimate decision to
adopt a new technology is made by the demand side, these companies are successful because the
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 ​Rosenberg, Nathan (1972). “Factors Affecting the Diffusion of Technology.” Explorations in Economic History, 
Vol. 10(1), pp. 3-33. Reprinted in Rosenberg, N. (1976), Perspectives on Technology, Cambridge: Cambridge 
University Press, pp. 189-212. 
4 ​Hall, Bronwyn, and Beethika Khan. "Adoption of New Technology." National Bureau of Economic Research 
(2003): n. pag. Web. 
 
 
 

 
 
4 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 
 
 

benefits and costs of adopting a new technology can be affected by the supply side as well. In the
 
end, it is an aggregation of decisions by both sides of the market that will determine the rate of
 
diffusion .  5
 

In this white paper, we will
 
 
 

identify models that best represent
 
 

 
the diffusion of
blockchain technology on both sides of the market. By reviewing and applying the theoretical
 
frameworks of scholarly literature to the current market drivers of blockchain technology, we’ll
 
uncover the apparent costs of adoption to the consumer. We will then explore the best practices
 
by the suppliers of blockchain technology for mitigating those costs and elaborating the benefits
 
as to increase the growth of their blockchain application. 
 
2. Review of Scholarly Literature 
 

 
The study of technological diffusion is well represented in academic literature. The study
 
of blockchain technology is less so. For us to fully appreciate the fusion of these two subjects,
usually studied by different industries entirely, we must accept that the proposals set forth,
 
although novel, are built upon the foundation of academic study and industry research. We are
 
working at the vertex of two very distinct areas of study to better understand what will accelerate
 
the adoption of blockchain applications.  
 
Modeling the diffusion of technology 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
Since we’re discussing the diffusion of blockchain into the market, it is useful to
 
visualize how that adoption looks over time. The most influential research on the diffusion of
 
 
 
technology over time is ​Diffusion of Innovations by Everett Rogers . Rogers argued that the
 
diffusion of a new innovation looks like the S-curve in Figure 1. This curve visualizes the initial
 
 
slow growth of a new technological
innovation, followed by rapid growth by the market
 
 
majority, and finally the slowing of growth as the market reaches saturation. The bell curve is the
 
derivative of the S-curve and is frequently broken down into 5 major consumer categories: 1)
 
Innovators 2) Early Adopters 3) Early Majority 4) Late Majority 5) Laggards.  

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6

5 ​Hall, Bronwyn, and Beethika Khan. "Adoption of New Technology." National Bureau of Economic Research 
(2003): n. pag. Web. 
6 ​Rogers, Everett M. Diffusion of Innovations. New York: Free, 2005. Print. 
 

 
 
5 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

The works of Rodgers are built upon by Geoffrey Moore in the book ​Crossing the Chasm
. Moore goes on to define the typical characteristics of the five categories of consumers. Moore
 
 
 
7
uses these characterizations to group the categories by their expectations from the new
 
technology. Moore argues that the key to winning the pragmatic majority is to plan for the ​whole
 
product you offer. The whole product is the core product plus everything else you need to
 
 
 
achieve your compelling reason to buy,
including additional software, hardware, systems
 
 
integration, installation and debugging, training and support, standards and procedures, etc. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Factors affecting the diffusion of technology 

Figure 1 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

For much of history, there was little research or even documentation on the diffusion of
 
new technologies into a market. Some of the earliest and most influential work is credited to
 
Nathan Rosenberg and his aptly named publication “Factors Affecting the Diffusion of
 
Technology” Here Rosenberg identified several of the reasons why the diffusion of a technology
 
might be hindered or accelerated. While not all of these factors are applicable to blockchain (the
 

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
8

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 ​Moore, Geoffrey A. Crossing the Chasm. Chichester: Capstone, (1998) Print. 
8 ​Rosenberg. “Factors Affecting the Diffusion of Technology.” (1972) 
 

 
 
6 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

development of skills in machine-manufacturing for example), there are some choice influences
 
 
that cannot be denied as having an effect on the diffusion of blockchain technology into the
market. First, Rosenberg puts forth the idea that continuous innovation of a new technology is
 
what makes the second and third iterations of a new technology much more usable by the
 
 
mainstream markets. Second, he proposes that an impediment
in the diffusion of a new
 
 
technology is the required ​technical skill among users​. Lastly, ​complementary services and
 
 
 
products that help the consumer to use the product accelerate the rate of diffusion of the
 
technology. The idea of complementaries advancing the diffusion of a technology, supports
 
 
Moore’s whole product proposition as well. 

 
 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

More recently, Bronwyn H. Hall and Beethika Khan of the University of California at
 
Berkeley have built upon Nathan Rosenberg’s findings and categorized them into three main
 
 
groups: 1) Demand Determinants 2) Supply Behavior 3) Environmental and Institutional Factors
9
. Because this paper seeks to determine what behavior can lead to accelerated diffusion of a
 
 
 
blockchain application, their research on supply behavior is particularly relevant. Namely, their
 
elaborations on continuous innovation of new technology and complementary inputs. 
 
Blockchain as a technological innovation 
 
 

The first publication on blockchain technology was ​“Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic
 
Cash System” published by the unknown creator of bitcoin under the pseudonym of Satoshi
 
Nakamoto . The white paper introduces some of the simplest blockchain applications like cash
 
 
 
transfer and escrow, but doesn’t begin to touch on the multitude of other applications for the new
 
tech that other computer scientists have developed.  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

10

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Most of the newest applications of blockchain technology have come to light after the
introduction of the Ethereum network. One of the founders of Ethereum Dr. Gavin Wood
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9 Hall and Khan do a fantastic job of applying Nathan Rosenberg’s work to modern innovations. The updated 
examples and classifications of the factors confirm Rosenberg’s theories. ​Hall, Bronwyn, and Beethika Khan. 
"Adoption of New Technology." (2003) 
10 Nakamoto, Satoshi. "Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System." (2008): n. pag. Web. 
 
 
 

 

 

 

explained how the Ethereum protocol can be used to build many different applications that work
 
without a central database . 11
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
7 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
“Each such project can be seen as a simple application on a decentralised, but
singleton, compute resource. We can call this paradigm a transactional singleton
 
 
machine with shared-state. Ethereum implements this paradigm in a generalised manner.
Furthermore it provides a plurality of such resources,each with a distinct state and
 
operating code but able to interact through a message-passing framework with others.” 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
Dr. Wood explains here the Ethereum Organization’s emphasis on using the Ethereum
 
 
blockchain as a platform to build projects. The Ethereum network went live in July 2015, and
new applications are being built for it every day. It is important to note that this functionality is
 
 
not exclusive to the Ethereum blockchain. Smart-contracts can in fact be written to the bitcoin
 
blockchain and many others.  

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

Most of the successful applications of blockchain so far are based in financial tech, but
 
 
there are interesting projects being built around proof-of-existence (copyrights), physical
asset-ownership (home or car titles), and gaming. Blockchain technology is still very much in it’s
 
 
infancy, and much like how the best smart-phone applications hadn’t yet been considered after
 
the release of the iPhone, I believe that the best blockchain applications have not yet been
 
discovered. 
 
3. Advancing Consumer Adoption of Your Blockchain Application 
 

The costs and benefits of any particular blockchain application are as wide and varied as
 
they are creative. For example a Dapp for picture storage would capitalize on the permanent
 
 
 
qualities of the blockchain, but the transaction costs for storing large amounts of data would be
 
astronomical. Storing your phone call history on the blockchain wouldn’t be very costly, but the
 
added benefits would be questionable. Our model of the diffusion of technology works under the
 
assumptions that 1) a consumer that has made the transition to a new technology doesn’t regress
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

   

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

11 Wood, Gavin. "Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction ledger." Ethereum Project Yellow Paper 
151 (2014). 
 

 
 
8 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12

 
 

to the previous technology, and 2) the consumer will adopt the new technology once their added
 
benefits outweigh their costs of adoption . So while the cost and benefit variables of individual
 
blockchain applications are different, the equations that govern their adoption are the same.  
 

 
 

 
 

 
Knowing the factors affecting the diffusion of technology, we can identify some
actionable practices by the suppliers of blockchain applications to facilitate more rapid adoption
 
​whole
 
 
of their products. The next
 
product​, and ​complementaries can reduce costs or
 
increase benefits of a blockchain
 
 
application, therefore accelerating the diffusion.  
 

 
three sections of this article explain how ​abstraction​,
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 2 

 

 
Abstraction  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

If you’ve ever filed your taxes online, you’ve already experienced some of the
 
advantages of abstraction offers. By hiding the nasty IRS tax form behind a friendly,
 
well-designed application, consumers can use the tech skills they already have to file their taxes.
 
By taking the same approach to blockchain, we can enable a wider more consumers to use the
 
tech skills they already have to use blockchain technology.  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

12 Hall, Bronwyn, and Beethika Khan. "Adoption of New Technology." (2003) 
 
 

 
 
9 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
13

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Nathan Rosenberg proposes that one of the demand side determinants of technology
 
adoption is the development of ​technical skills among users​. There is, “a learning period the
 
 
length of which will depend upon many factors, including the complexity of the new techniques,
 
 
the extent to which they are novel or rely on skills already available.” Getting users to quickly
 
use an application is therefore dependent on how novel or familiar the application experience is
 
for the target consumer. Blockchain technology is a revolution in applied cryptography.  
 

It has never been standard application practice to make a consumer hold onto their own
 
 
encryption keys or use a currency from outside of their home countries, yet that’s exactly what
 
 
most distributed applications are asking of their customers today. That’s not to say these
applications are not successful, but that their costs of adoption are higher than traditional
 
 
applications. Applying Rosenberg’s principle of technical skills among users, it can easily be
seen how requiring these novel skills from users will prolong the adoption of blockchain
 
applications. It stands to reason then that by abstracting away these new skills currently required
 
in a distributed application, the creators of blockchain applications can accelerate the adoption of
 
their products. 
 
Whole Product 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

   
 

 
Think about cable television as a product for a moment. The service is easy enough to
purchase online or over the phone, but there’s a gap between ordering the service and being able
 
 
to enjoy your new subscription. The installation process is an ancillary service provided by cable
 
 
providers to help fill that gap. 
 

 
The concept of whole product as put forth by Geoffrey Moore is very straightforward:
“there is a gap between the marketing promise made to the customer—the compelling value
 
 
proposition—and the ability of the shipped product to fulfill that promise. For that gap to be
 
overcome, the product must be augmented by a variety of services and ancillary products to
 
become the whole product.” ​The whole product, therefore, serves to lower the costs of adoption
 
for potential customers.  

 
 
 
 
14

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

13 ​Rosenberg. “Factors Affecting the Diffusion of Technology.” (1972) 
14 ​Moore, Geoffrey A. “Crossing the Chasm” (1988) 
 

 
 
10 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

The most basic smart-contracts on the Ethereum blockchain requires that the user run
 
 
their own Ethereum node with their own local copy of the blockchain, learning how to interact
with the blockchain using either a command line tool or the Ethereum wallet native application,
 
 
and how to use the smart-contract itself. It’s sounds like a simple call to action when asking a
 
customer to try your smart-contract or distributed application by itself, but in reality, you’re
 
 
asking them to do much more. Asking customers to address these gaps in your product
themselves is almost as costly to your growth as it would be for a cable provider to ask
 
customers to install their own cable lines. Fill in the gaps of your product to accelerate your
 
growth. 
 

 
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Complementaries 
 

“The importance of complementary inputs in the diffusion of new technology cannot be 

overemphasized” 
- Hall & Kahn  15

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
Nathan Rosenberg explained complementaries by drawing from the history of American
 
railroads in the second half of the nineteenth and the early twentieth centuries. Hall and Khan
 
explained complementaries by referencing makers of mobile telephones or PDAs teaming up
 
 
with software suppliers like Microsoft to produce complementary software for customers to use.
I’ll continue this trend by examining successful complementaries developed by the blockchain
 
company Coinbase.com.  

 
 
 

 
 

 
16

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Coinbase was originally and continues to be an exchange for converting fiat currency to
 
bitcoin. This model turned out to be wildly successful, and competitors continued to enter the
 
 
 
 
market. Coinbase has so far maintained their competitive advantage by offering complementary
services and increasing the benefits of using their service. Customers who were interested in
 
 
buying bitcoin were likely interested in buying other crypto-currencies as well, so in July 2016,
 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

15 ​Hall, Bronwyn, and Beethika Khan. "Adoption of New Technology." (2003) 
16 ​Rosenberg. “Factors Affecting the Diffusion of Technology.” (1972) 
 

 
 
11 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
18

 
Coinbase began trading the newer crypto-coin Ethereum.
In May 2017, Coinbase began trading
 
17
 
Litecoin , and announced their plans to support even more crypto-currencies in the future. In
 
addition to offering more currencies on their website, Coinbase also introduced GDAX.com, an
 
exchange for serious traders to watch and place buy and sell orders to and from their favorite
 
cryptocurrencies. By offering their customers other services they knew most would be interested
 
in, Coinbase was able to increase the benefits of adopting their product, therefore, according to
 
Hall and Kahn’s principles of diffusion, accelerating their diffusion. 
 
4. Prepping for growth 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

Adoption of an application is a business problem with technological solution.
 
 
Abstraction, whole product, and complementaries are all already being implemented by the best
Dapps on the market. But much like the first companies to use the internet had no choice but set
 
 
up their own servers, the first companies to implement these solutions had no choice but to build
the infrastructure themselves. No company maintains their own web servers, thanks to cloud
 
computing products like AWS, GCE, and Microsoft Azure. Blockchain infrastructure services
 
are still blossoming but there are already third-party options for accelerating the development
 
and adoption of your dapp.  
 
What to look for in a blockchain solution 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

When looking for a blockchain infrastructure solution to accelerate the growth of your
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

distributed application, many factors should be considered, including:  

 

 

Ease of Development​: The quicker you can build out your product, the quicker you can
 
put it in your customer’s hands. A good solution should be easy to build into your application
 
 
 
with little special training.  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Compatibility Across Platforms: ​Look for a solution that will support users across
 
 
 
platforms. By supporting all the major browsers for web apps and both iOS and Android for
 
mobile, you’re keeping your potential market as wide as possible. 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

17  ​"Coinbase Adds Support for Ethereum – The Coinbase Blog." The Coinbase Blog. Coinbase, 21 July 2016. Web. 
10 May 2017. 
18 ​Nandwani, Ankur. "Coinbase Adds Support for Litecoin – The Coinbase Blog." The Coinbase Blog. Coinbase, 03 
May 2017. Web. 10 May 2017. 
 

 
 
12 

 

Seamless Integration: ​You want your user experience to be as clean and easy as
 
possible. Seek a solution that helps you abstract away the complexities of the blockchain for your
 
 
end user.  

   

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Optional Complementaries: ​Increase the benefit of adopting your application. A good
 
solution will provide accessory services that help enhance the fluidity and usability of your
 
 
distributed app.  

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Interpolated Data: ​Don’t be left in the dark about what who’s using your smart-contract.
 
Find a blockchain solution you can use to see how people are interacting with your
 
 
smart-contract. 
 
HappyChain’s​ ​Ethereum Infrastructure as a Service 

Designed to simplify smart-contract development, HappyChain is the easiest way to
 
 
deploy smart-contracts to the Ethereum network. With instant deployment for common use-cases
like tokens, there’s no faster way to get a Dapp off the ground. HappyChain’s REST-ful HTTP
 
 
API works on any browser and on any mobile device. And because it connects to the Ethereum
 
network over traditional HTTP, using a HappyChain powered application requires no additional
 
 
technical skills from your users. 

 
 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

out
 

building

Companies
 

their
 
 

own Ethereum infrastructure miss
 
 

the
 
economies-of-scale HappyChain offers. The entire blockchain ecosystem is developing quickly
 
 
and so is HappyChain. The entire platform is growing to include a host of complementaries like
 
smart-contract analytics, optional
transaction encryption, and payment processing for your
 
customers that don’t have Ether yet. HappyChain is a comprehensive suite of smart-contract
 
 
services will help your Dapp grow as effectively as possible. 
 
 

on
 
 

 
 
 

 
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
About HappyChain 
To find out more about HappyChain and its services, visit
 
 
(210)473-9870  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
13 

​https://happycha.in or call
 

 

 

Zane Witherspoon is a founder of the blockchain
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

infrastructure company HappyChain, organizer of
 

 

 

 

 

the San Francisco Ethereum Developers Meetup,
 

 

 

 

 

 

and a writer for the online publication HackerNoon.

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

Witherspoon has a passion for writing and speaking
 

   

 

 

 

 

 

about blockchain to audiences of all levels. 

About the Author 

 

