International Journal of Computer Applications (0975 – 8887) 
International Conference on Emerging Trends in Informatics and Communication 

Atypical Stable Multipath Routing Strategy in MANET 

Tanaya Roy 

SDET-Brainware Group of Institutions 

398, Ramakrishnapur Road  

Kolkata 700124 

 
 
ABSTRACT 
MANET  is  a  collection  of  mobile  nodes  operated  by  battery 
source  with  limited  energy  reservoir.  The  dynamic  topology 
and  absence  of  pre-existing  infrastructure  in  MANET  makes 
routing  technique  more  thought-provoking.  The  arbitrary 
movement  of  nodes  may  lead  towards  more  packet  drop, 
routing  overhead  and  end-to-end  delay.  Moreover  power 
deficiency  in  nodes  affects  the  packet  forwarding  ability  and 
thus  reduces  network  lifetime.  So  a  power  aware  stable 
routing  strategy  is  in  demand  in MANET.  In  this  manuscript 
we  have  proposed  a  novel  multipath  routing  strategy  that 
could  select  multiple  stable  routes  between  source  and 
destination during data transmission depending on two factors 
residual energy and link expiration time (LET) of nodes. Our 
proposed energy aware stable multipath routing strategy could 
attain 
load  balancing,  and  bandwidth 
aggregation in order to increase the network lifetime.    

reliability, 

the 

General Terms 
Multipath Routing, Load Balancing  

Keywords 
MANET,  Stable  Route,  Link  Expiration  Time,  Energy 
Consumption  

in 

industrial  environment 

1.  INTRODUCTION 
Here  and  now  wireless 
technology  has  gained  major 
importance 
to  comply  with 
requirement  pertaining 
to  reliable  communication.  The 
potential  capability  of  wireless  networks  can  overcome  the 
inherent difficulties of setting up cable networks. MANET is a 
self-configuring infrastructure less power constrained wireless 
network. Frequent failure of nodes driven with limited battery 
may  degrade 
the  communication  delay  between  nodes 
hampering  the  QoS  of  the  network.  These  nodes  act  as  both 
router  and  terminal  node  while  forwarding  data  in  the 
network.  Thus  based  on  the  network  connectivity  dynamic 
routing decision takes place. 

The limited bandwidth of wireless link and energy constrained 
nodes  in  dynamic  network  topology  of  MANET  makes 
routing strategies more complex [1]. Proliferation of MANET 
have yield several routing strategies that can be categorized in 
three categories as proactive, reactive and hybrid. Single path 
routing  could  not  provide  much  better  result  due  to  the 
unpredictability  of  the  environment  and  unreliability  of  the 
medium.  Also,  single  path  routing  strategies  are  not  much 
resilient in handling mobility. Such resilience can be obtained 
by means of multipath routing.      

The  primary  objective  of  classical  multipath  routing  is  to 
discover  multiple  paths  between  source  and  destination  to 
countenance  load  balancing  among  several  nodes,  attenuate 
network  traffic  and  aggregate  network  bandwidth  in  order  to 
ameliorate  the  quality  of  services  (QoS)  [2].  So,  an  efficient 
multipath  routing  is  required  in  the  context  of  MANET  to 

Sandip Roy 

SDET-Brainware Group of Institutions 

398, Ramakrishnapur Road  

Kolkata 700124 

proliferate  expected  performance.  In  this  context  we  have 
proposed a multipath routing strategy having trait in selection 
of  neighbor  nodes  based  on  link  stability  in  order  to  upshot 
the MANET performance in the context of load balancing and 
data  transmission.  The  link  stability  is  computed  based  on 
residual  energy  and  link  expiration  time  of  neighbor  mobile 
nodes.  

The  rest  of  the  manuscript  is  ordered  as  follows:  section  II 
describes the state of the art review, section III enunciates the 
proposed  routing  model  assumptions,  section  IV  elaborates 
the  proposed  routing  methodology,  section  IV  represents  the 
performance  evaluation  and  result  analysis  and  the  last  one 
section V is the coda of this manuscript. 

2.  STATE OF THE ART REVIEW 
Proliferation in MANET indulges researchers to come up with 
more efficient routing techniques. Activeness of node and the 
connectivity duration between nodes play an important role in 
routing strategy. There are several multipath routing strategies 
proposed in MANET in attain the quality of services (QoS). 

In  [3]  a  multipath  routing  strategy  is  proposed  based  on  link 
stability  and  energy  consumption  to  improve  the  network 
performance.    Researchers  in  [4]  have  designed  an  energy 
efficient  routing  scheme  for  MANET  considering  variable 
range  transmission.  Geetha  G.  and  N.J.R.  Muniraj  has 
articulated  a  multipath  routing  methodology  in  [5]  that 
provides  stability  in  energy  efficient  multipath  routing  to 
ensure  high  network  lifetime.  M.  Chakraborty  and  N.  Chaki 
have  proposed  a  restricted  multi-path  routing  algorithm  that 
can dynamically selects the number of neighboring nodes for 
transmitting  packet  from  source  node  to  sink  node  [6]. 
Authors in [7, 8] have proposed QoS aware multi-path routing 
for Real-Time Application in WSN.   

3.  PROPOSED ROUTING MODEL 

ASSUMTION 

The  most changeable aspect of MANET is mobility of nodes 
that emphasis on dynamic routing decision. So the selection of 
link with higher link expiration time yields more stable paths 
in  MANET.  On  the  other  hand  the  selection  of  nodes  with 
higher residual energy confirms the data transmission reliably. 
So these two fundamentals play prime importance in selection 
of a routing strategy.  

3.1 Residual Energy Computation 
Residual  Energy  (RE)  of  a  node  is  defined  as  its  remaining 
energy after data transmission i.e. in terms of initial energy EI 
and  energy  consumed  for  t  bit  data  transmission  EC  (t)  as 
follows:  

RE = EI - EC (t) …………………….. (1) 

7 

International Journal of Computer Applications (0975 – 8887) 
International Conference on Emerging Trends in Informatics and Communication 

3.2 Link Expiration Time 
Link  expiration  time  (LET)  can  be  calculated  by  the 
prediction of  future  disconnected  time  between  two  neighbor 
nodes  in  motion.  Let  us  consider  two  nodes  n1  and  n2  at  (x1, 
y1) and (x2, y2) coordinates with uniform transmission radius r 
and initially they are in transmission range. Let nodes n1 and 
n2  have  speed  v1  and  v2  along  the  directions  θ1  and  θ2 
respectively. Then link expiration time (LET) between n1 and 
n2 is defined as follows: 

LET = (- (ab + cd) + sqrt ((a2 + c2) * r2 – (ad – cb)2)) / (a2 + c2) 
………………………………………. (2) 

Where a = v1 cosθ1 – v2 cosθ2 ………. (3) 

           b = x1 – x2 …………………… (4) 

           c = v1 sinθ1 – v2 sinθ2 ………... (5) 

           d = y1 – y2 …………………... (6) 

4.  PROPOSED ROUTING 

METHODOLOGY 

On  demand  multipath  routing  strategy  has  three  phases  viz. 
route  discovery,  route  establishment,  route  maintenance.  The 
process  of  route  discovery  searches  for  multiple  paths  from 
considered  source  to  intended  destination  to  transfer  the  data 
packets.  The  route  establishment  technique  set  ups  the 
suitable routes among the nodes.  

The  main  objective  of  our  proposed  strategy  is  to  launch 
multiple  paths  from  source  to  destination  through  the 
utilization  of  powerful  nodes  with  smaller  error  counts  and 
links  with  higher 
time.  Through  route 
maintenance  all  the  established  links  are  cached  for  a  viable 
timestamp. The algorithm for our proposed routing scheme is 
excogitated as follows: 

link  expiration 

AMR () 

Input: Considered network, Source, Destination 

1. Begin 

2. int existRoute  Call Check_Route_Cache() 

3. if (existRoute ≠ 0) 

3.1 Sent the data packet along the routes enlisted in route 
cache 

4. else  

4.1 Call Route_Discovery () 

4.2 Call Route_Establish () 

4.3 Call Route_Maintenace () 

5. End 

Check_Route_Cache () 

Input: Source node, Destination node, timestamp, 
Route_Cache Table 

// each row of Route Cache table consists of id, Source, 
Destination, Path, Timestamp 

1. Begin 

2. int existRoute  0 

3. If (row.source = sourceNode && row.destination = 
destinationNode && row.timestamp ≤ timestamp) 

     3.1 Path_id = Path_id 

 {row.id} 

     3.2 Increment existRoute by one 

4. If (existRoute = 0) 

4.1 Return existRoute 

5. Else 

    5.1 Return (existRoute, Path_id) 

4. End 

Route_Discovery () 

Input: Source node, Destination node 

1. Begin 

2. currentNode  Source node 

3. while (currentNode ≠ destinationNode) 

3.1 Broadcast Hello message to its neighbor.  

// Hello message consists of sender‟s velocity and direction 

3.2 On receiving Hello message each node computes link 
stability between sender node and itself using the formula 
below: 

Link_stability = w1 × (RE) + w2 × (LET) ……… (7) 

3.3 Sends Reply_Hello_Message to senders. 

//Reply_Hello_Message consists of Link_stability between 
node and sender along the other necessary fields.  

 

  3.4 Generates set neighbor Nodes 

3.5 currentNode  node,  node 

neighborNode 

3.5 End for 

4. End 

Route_Establish () 

Input: Set neighbor Nodes for each of the nodes from source 
to destination nodes 

1. Begin 

2. currentNode  sourceNode 

3. while (currentNode ≠ destinationNode) 

3.1Evaluates the highest Link_stability among     
neighborNode (currentNode) 

3.2 if (highest Link_stability ≥ θhighLink_stability)  

// θhighLink_stability is the lower limiting value for high link 

3.2.1 SelectedNode  {node}, where node is the 
neighborNode corresponding to the highest Link_stability. 

3.3 else if (highest Link_stability ≥ θmoderateLink_stability) 

// θmoderateLink_stability is the lower limiting value for moderate 
link stability 

3.3.1 SelectedNode  {node1, node2}, where node1 and node2 
are the neighbor nodes corresponding to the highest 
Link_stability and second highest Link_stability respectively. 

3.4 else 

3.4.1 SelectedNode  {all neighbor nodes} 

8 

International Journal of Computer Applications (0975 – 8887) 
International Conference on Emerging Trends in Informatics and Communication 

3.5 currentNode sends RREQ message to each node of    
selectedNode. 

Table 1. Residual Energy of All Nodes along with speed 

and moving direction 

// RREQ includes source node, next node, partial path, 
Partial_path_stabiliy. If Partial path  <L1, L2 … Ln>, where 
Li‟s are link then Partial_path_stabiliy = ∏ Li (i = 1 to i). 

3.6 If more than one RREQ message is received by any node 
of selectedNode 

3.6.1 It discards the entire RREQ message except the   
message with maximum Partial_path_stabiliy 

selectedNode. 

3.7 currentNode  node,  node 
3.8 End While 
4.  Destination node enlists all the Partial_Path to the routing 
table along with time stamp from all received RREQ packets.  
5.  Destination  Node  sends  RREP  message  along  all  newly 
enlisted paths in routing tables. 
6. The Source node equally distributes the data packet along 
the discovered path. 

7. Source node sends the data packets along the selected route 
from the multiple paths. 

8. End 

Route_Maintenace () 

1. Begin 

2. If timestamp gets over 

    2.1 Delete the entries in route cache 

3. End 

5.  PERFORMANCE EVALUATION 

AND RESULT ANALYSIS 

Our  proposed  multipath 
routing  protocol  has  been 
successfully  simulated  using  Matlab  2012b.    Let  us  assume 
eleven  nodes  are  randomly  distributed  over  500  m  ×  500  m 
terrain area. Maximum communication range of a node has set 
at  200  m.    Initial  energy  of  each  node  is  assumed  as  5J. 
MICA2  energy  model  is  used  for  transmitting  and  receiving 
signals [9].  

We have assumed the amount of energy required for receiving 
and  transmitting  signals  are  0.234  μJ/bit  and  0.312  μJ/bit 
respectively.  Let  us  assume  each  node  is  moving  with 
constant velocity 10 m/s along with given direction enlisted in 
Table  1.  As  shown  in  Fig.  1,  there  are  three  feasible  paths 
from source node „A‟ to destination node „K‟. 

 

RE > 75%  

25% < RE < 75% 

RE < 25% 

 
 

 

Path I:    A-C-E-F-K 

Path II:   A-C-E-F-I-K 

Path III:  A-C-E-F-J-K 

Fig. 1. Our proposed Multipath Routing Strategy 

 
 
 

Node ID 

Residual 

Energy (%) 

Speed 
(m/s) 

Moving Direction 

(In degree) 

A 
B 
C 
D 
E 
F 
G 
H 
I 
J 
K 

 

 
 
 
 
 

10 m/s 

90 
85 
78 
70 
68 
85 
50 
20 
60 
78 
95 

49 
35 
83 
65 
48 
40 
50 
34 
69 
45 
75 

5.1 Performance Analysis 
Performance metrics: The performance of our algorithm is 
analyzed according to the following metrics: 

Packet Delivery Ratio (PDR): This is the ratio of the number 
of data packet received and the number of packet send. 

Fig. 2. Packet Delivery Ratio Vs Node Density (Fixed 

Mobility 10 m/s) 

 

 

Fig. 3. Packet Delivery Ratio Vs Mobility (Fixed Node 

density as 100 nodes in 500 m × 500 m area) 

Average  Energy  Consumption  Rate:  Average  Energy 
Consumption  Rate  is  defined  as  the  percentage  measure  of 
energy consumption. 

9 

International Journal of Computer Applications (0975 – 8887) 
International Conference on Emerging Trends in Informatics and Communication 

J.  App.  Sci.  Eng.  Technol.,  vol.  8(21),  pp.  2179–2186, 
December 2014. 

[4]  N.  Pinaki,  A.  Rekha  and  V.  Seema,  “Energy  Aware 
Routing  Scheme  For  Mobile  Ad  Hoc  Network  Using 
Variable  Range  Transmission,”IJASUC,  vol.  3(4),  pp. 
53–63, August 2012.   

[5]  G. Geetha, and N. J. R. Muniraj, “Efficient Energy based 
Stable  Multipath  Routing  Scheme  for  MANET,”  IJCA, 
vol. 73(22), pp. 13–19, July 2013. 

[6]  M.  Chakraborty  and  N.  Chaki,  “ETSeM-  A  Energy-
Aware,  Trust-Based,  Selective  Multi-path  Routing 
Protocol”, Proc. IFIP  2012, pp. 351-360, 2012. 

[7]  S.  R.  Heikalabad,  H.  Rasouli,  F.  Nematy,  and  N. 
Rahmanu,  “QEMPAR:  QoS  and  Energy  Aware  Multi-
Path  Routing  Algorithm  for  Real-Time  Applications  in 
Wireless Sensor Networks, IJCSI, vol. 8(1), pp. 466-471, 
2011. 

[8]  F.  Qin  and  Y.  Liu,  “Multipath  Based  QoS  Routing  in 

MANET”, JON, vol. 4(8), pp. 771-778, October 2009. 

[9]  Md. Z. Hussain, M. P. Singh, R. K. Singh, “Analysis of 
Lifetime  of  Wireless  Sensor  Network”,  IJAST,  vol.  53, 
pp. 117-126, April 2013. 

[10] S.  Roy,  R.  Bose,  D.  Sarddar,  “Self-servicing  energy 
efficient  routing  strategy  for  smart  forest”,  Brazilian 
Journal  of  Science  and  Technology,  vol.  3,  no.  1,  April 
2016. 

 

Fig. 4. Energy Consumption Rate Vs Node Density 

6.  CONCLUSION AND FUTURE WORK 
This  context  a  stable  multipath  routing  strategy  is  discussed. 
Using our proposed routing method, a node is selected based 
upon  its‟  current  energy  and  corresponding  link  expiration 
time.  Our  simulation  results  show 
that  average  90% 
successful  packet  delivery  in  different  node  density  and 
mobility  conditions.  In  future  we  would  like  to  implement  a 
data delivery method along the multiple path simultaneously. 

7.  REFERENCES 
[1]  M.  K.  Marina,  and  S.  R.  Das,  “On-Demand  Multi  Path 
Distance  Vector  Routing  in  Ad  Hoc  Networks,”  Proc. 
ICNP 2001, pp.14-23, November 2001. 

[2]  H.  Zafar,  D.  Harle,  I.  Andonovic,  L.  Hasan,  and  A. 
Khattak,  “QoS-aware  Multipath  Routing  Scheme  for 
Mobile  Ad  Hoc  Networks”,  IJCNIS,  vol.  4(1),  April 
2012. 

[3]  R. Hemalatha, and R. S. Bhuvaneswaran, “Link-stability 
and Energy Aware Multipath Routing in MANET,” Res. 

 
 

IJCATM : www.ijcaonline.org 

10 

