7
1
0
2

 

y
a
M
9
1

 

 
 
]

Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 

1
v
6
4
9
6
0

.

5
0
7
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

How Does Knowledge Come By?

Anamika Chhabra and S.R.S. Iyengar

Indian Institute of Technology Ropar, India

anamika.chhabra@iitrpr.ac.in, sudarshan@iitrpr.ac.in

Abstract. Although the amount of knowledge that the humans possess
has been gradually increasing, we still do not know the procedure and
conditions that lead to the creation of new knowledge. An understand-
ing of the modus operandi for the creation of knowledge may help in
accelerating the existing pace of building knowledge. Our state of igno-
rance regarding various aspects of the process of knowledge building is
highlighted by the existing literature in the domain. The reason behind
it has been our inability to acquire the underlying data of this complex
process. However, current time shows great promise of improvements
in the knowledge building domain due to the availability of several on-
line knowledge building portals. In this report, we emphasize that these
portals act as prototypes for universal knowledge building process. The
analysis of big data availed from these portals may equip the knowledge
building researchers with the much needed meta-knowledge.

1

Introduction

It is true that we have relatively progressed with time in terms of the amount
of knowledge that we have gathered about the things around us. For example,
our current knowledge of physics and quantum mechanics is satisfactorily able
to answer many of our queries. Nonetheless, it is terrible to make a note of all
those things that we are still clueless about. For instance, we are still unsure
about how this universe came into existence. Further, is there any other parallel
universe out there or rather we are a tiny element of a gigantic multiverse? Even
after so many years of inquisitiveness, we still do not know whether life exists on
other planets. Till date, we are not able to ﬁnd cure for a large number of fatal
diseases. Many of the mathematical conjectures that we ourselves developed, we
have not been able to prove them. All these instances, which are a representative
subset of a larger set of unknown things, indicate that our current knowledge base
is not suﬃcient to answer many important questions. Additionally, an existing
study indicates that an enormous part of world’s knowledge is still unexplored
[1], which brings our attention to focus on the need to expand our existing
knowledge base.

The preceding discussion indicates that the pace with which we are building
new knowledge and the methods we have been adopting so far are not satisfactory
and hence require attention. However, in order to bring improvements in the
way we are building knowledge, we ﬁrst need to answer the question as to how

new knowledge comes by. An analogy would be, to build better spacecrafts,
we ﬁrst need to know how we built the existing spacecrafts or in general, how
spacecrafts are built. Unfortunately, we still do not know the answer to this very
fundamental question i.e. how knowledge gets built. The knowledge that we have
gathered till date seems to have been built out of some serendipitous methods
or from techniques based on trial and error. Understanding which situations or
parameters lead to the creation of new knowledge requires one to go one level
deeper and try to perceive the underlying activities of the process. In other
words, for a new piece of knowledge built, it requires one to thoroughly analyze
the sequence of actions that took place in building this piece, in a reverse fashion.
This kind of analysis, therefore, necessitates the acquisition of the footprints of
knowledge building.

Apart from our inability to answer the causes for creation of new knowledge,
a study of the literature points to the existence of a number of critical ques-
tions pertaining to the development of knowledge. These questions are either
unanswered or in a state of debate. Finding an answer to these questions is im-
perative to understand the broad question of how new knowledge gets built. For
example, one of the controversies is whether people making small contributions
are essential in a knowledge building environment or they are easily replaceable
without any damage to the system? This leads to the lack of consensus over
the validity of two contradictory hypotheses named Ortega Hypothesis [2][3] and
Newton Hypothesis [4]. This important subject matter still remains in a state
of disagreement where Ortega Hypothesis gives due regard to a mass of people
making small contributions whereas Newton Hypothesis believes that a large
mass of people making small contributions can be harmlessly removed from the
system. Another uncertainty is in the context of the number of participants for
eﬃcient knowledge building. Given that less number of people bring less per-
spectives into the system and a lot of people lead to increase in conﬂicts and
co-ordination costs, then what is the ideal number of participants for build-
ing knowledge? Further, we have seen that diversity is important for knowledge
building [5], but at the same time too much diversity gives rise to problems such
as lack of consensus [6]? Therefore, what is the right amount of diversity for
knowledge building? These are just a few examples of some of the huge gaps
in our understanding of the domain. Section 3 highlights these and many other
research questions that are still unanswered in the domain. To be able to answer
the broad question of how new knowledge gets built, it is imperative to have
a clear understanding of these associated aspects of the process of knowledge
building. Further, interpreting the diﬀerent aspects of the domain will entail ob-
taining the underlying data that could keep track of the background activities
of the process.

Building new knowledge is a complex phenomenon involving a number of
social, psychological and cognitive processes. It also encompasses a number of
abstract and intangible activities that are indeed diﬃcult to record. Therefore,
getting the appropriate data for understanding how new knowledge gets built
and the associated aspects of this general question is a challenging task. Unfor-

2

tunately, our inability to have an access to such data has resulted in our limited
understanding of the domain as highlighted by the examples just discussed.
However, since getting data from the actual environment is diﬃcult, we may try
getting data from the virtual knowledge building environments. We, therefore,
discuss alternate ways and techniques that may provide us the underlying data
to understand various aspects of the phenomenon.

Fig. 1. Collaborative Scientiﬁc Developments

1.1 Can Citation Data sets help?

Let us ﬁrst attempt exploring a domain that maintains a record of a subset of
the universal knowledge, i.e the domain of scientiﬁc developments. The published
papers in journals and conferences provide a documentation of the advancements
in science. Therefore, the data set from this domain might facilitate a way to
decipher the scientiﬁc knowledge building process. Let us brieﬂy take a look at
how scientiﬁc knowledge development takes place. A research paper, although

3

having a ﬁxed number of authors, is broadly the result of a collaborative eﬀort
of a large number of people, including the authors of the paper, the authors of
the papers that a paper cites, along with many other un-cited people. Further,
this collaboration takes place in various steps leading to a recursive knowledge
development (See Figure 1. As part of the collaboration, a paper may take help
from another paper by building on top of it or it may prove the approach used by
another paper to be wrong or it may correct the approach of another paper by
providing another approach. Therefore, a particular paper providing evidence of
a piece of scientiﬁc knowledge advancement is not an outcome of the eﬀorts of just
the set of authors listed on the paper, rather it is a gradual process of building
knowledge on top of the knowledge built by many others. It will be diﬃcult
to come across an invention that does not make use of the existing knowledge.
Since the universal knowledge building process is also known to be collaborative,
studying the citation data of the published papers may provide us insights into
the dynamics of how new scientiﬁc knowledge gets built collaboratively. This
citation data may be taken from various bibliographic databases such as Scopus,
Web of Science and Google Scholar. However, there are two limitations over
the use of this data to achieve our goals. Firstly, apart from providing some
quantitative details about who cites whom over a time line, the citation data
sets do not provide any other in-depth details of the phenomenon. Secondly, the
literature shows serious objections over the studies that have been conducted just
on the basis of citation data. This is due to the problems that have been observed
in the citation practices of the researchers. Some of these problems include the
authors making ceremonial citations to friends, colleagues or eminent people in
the ﬁeld [2][7], taking citations from another paper and adding them to their
own paper without reading them, i.e. Secondary Citing or Tertiary Citing [8],
an author using diﬀerent names, i.e. Author Disambiguation or diﬀerent authors
having same names, the rich-getting-richer phenomenon, i.e. Matthew Eﬀect in
Citations [9][10], Halo Eﬀect [2] and not citing old papers assuming them to be
well-known standards, i.e. Immediacy Factor etc. This discussion indicates that
the citation data set may provide us only limited details about the process and
prompts us to look for some alternative ways to comprehend deeper aspects of
the process of knowledge building.

1.2 Can the data sets from online knowledge building portals help?

The advancements in the Internet technologies have facilitated collaboration at
an unprecedented scale by providing several crowdsourced portals. These por-
tals are successfully accomplishing the job of collective problem solving, col-
laboratively accumulating facts and building knowledge on top of the existing
information. Some of the examples are the online openly editable encyclopedia
Wikipedia and Q&A portals such as Stack Exchange and Quora etc. We con-
jecture that these portals emulate various aspects of the universal knowledge
building process. As an example, Figure 1 depicts how knowledge in Wikipedia
articles is built collaboratively. Every segment of the ﬁnal article is a result of
a sequence of operations over the content previously added by a bunch of other

4

Fig. 2. Collaborative Development of Knowledge in a Wikipedia Article

contributors. This process keeps going on recursively where each contributor
takes the article from one state to the other. Overall, the content of the article
at any point of time is the result of collaboration between a large number of
contributors. Wikipedia contributors may insert new content or they may delete
or modify the content added by others. This is analogous to a paper providing an
adjacent next to the technique of another paper or refuting or improving upon
the hypothesis provided by another paper respectively in a research environment.
The similarity between Figure 1 and 2 indicates that an analysis of the data set
of Wikipedia might help us uncover many aspects of collaborative knowledge
creation. That is, if we carefully observe how an article that starts with a rough
ﬁrst paragraph takes the shape of the best-known resource on any given topic
gradually, we might be able to answer some of the long-unresolved queries re-
garding collaboration. This analogy indicates Wikipedia emulating one aspect,
i.e. collaboration of the knowledge building process. In a similar way, many other
portals such as Q&A portals can help us understand other aspects of the phe-
nomenon. Although these portals diﬀer in their features, they all aim at building
a repository of the world’s knowledge by a collective eﬀort of the crowd. Fur-
ther, the diversity in the approaches employed by these crowdsourced mediums
is advantageous in understanding diﬀerent characteristics of the process. For
instance, while Wikipedia may help in uncovering the aspects of co-ordination
and conﬂicts while building repositories of knowledge, Q&A portals may assist in
deciphering the importance of discussions and incentivization etc. Additionally,
these portals are able to store each and every footprint of the process digitally,
which is otherwise not possible to acquire. For instance, every single edit that
has transformed a Wikipedia article - which started out as a few badly writ-
ten sentences on a blank ‘slate’ and has now emerged out as a great artifact
of knowledge about a particular topic - has been recorded by the portal and
kept open in public for analysis. The meta-data of every question and answer

5

along with its votes, comments, edits and the timing details is documented in an
easy-to-analyze form by Stack Exchange and is made available regularly. These
features make the crowdsourced portals ideal for understanding various aspects
of knowledge building.

With so many platforms enabling an unprecedented collaboration among
people from every nook and cranny of the universe, we may get a huge amount
of data for exploration. We, therefore, envision that proper analyses conducted
on the big data taken from these portals may shed light on deciphering how new
knowledge gets created. These analyses may further help in uncovering several
other characteristics of collaborative knowledge creation facilitating unprece-
dented improvements in the domain. Therefore, just the way mice are used to
test human medicines to examine their side-eﬀects, we suggest use of these por-
tals for understanding how knowledge building happens in general. The forth-
coming sections provide the details of the current scenario of the knowledge
building domain along with the challenges associated with the realization of the
proposed vision.

2 Current Scenario

The proposed vision makes an attempt to bring improvements in the domain of
knowledge building by using the data sets from crowdsourced portals, which come
under the computer science domain. This section outlines the current scenario
of both the domains. It ﬁrst describes the work done in the knowledge building
domain. Then it reports the work attempted in the computer science domain,
i.e. the analyses performed on the data sets of the portals. Unfortunately, the lit-
erature indicates a limited amount of work attempted in the knowledge building
domain, that too is either theoretical or performed on very small scale analy-
ses. On the other hand, computer science researchers have been analyzing the
data sets from crowdsourced portals to a decent extent. However, these analyses
have been primarily focused on either understanding or improving some portal
speciﬁc feature, rather than on understanding the universal knowledge building
process. In the end, this section reports the small amount of analyses made on
the data sets to uncover some knowledge building aspect.

2.1 Knowledge Building Work

Nonaka [11] in 1994 stated that new knowledge gets created through a constant
dialogue between tacit knowledge 1 and explicit knowledge 2. He developed a theo-
retical framework named SECI model that provides an analytical perspective on
various dimensions of knowledge creation. The model reports that knowledge cre-
ation is about continuous transfer, combination, and conversion of the diﬀerent
types of knowledge, as users practice, interact, and learn. Although knowledge is

1 It is codiﬁed knowledge which is transmittable in some formal language
2 It is the knowledge that human beings possess and acquire through their experience

over time

6

being continuously built from the time immemorial, the formal deﬁnition to the
term was given by Scardamalia and Bereiter [12] in 1994. They further argued
that the process of learning and the process by which the knowledge advances are
quite similar. They emphasized the importance of a collaborative eﬀort rather
than individual eﬀort for accelerated knowledge building. Cook and Brown [13]
in 1999 suggested that knowledge creation is a product of the interplay between
knowledge and knowing. The authors asserted that there is a diﬀerence between
the possession of knowledge and the act of knowing. Knowing is something that
comes about through practice, action and interaction. Further, the shift from
knowledge to knowing is basically the driving force behind the creation of new
knowledge. Gerry Stahl [14] provided a conceptual framework for collaborative
KBEs in 2000 that consists of important phases that should be supported by
any computer-based KBE. The model presented by the author explains the re-
lationship of collaborative group processes to individual cognitive processes. All
these works attempted towards understanding the causes of knowledge creation
are mostly theoretical and limited in terms of their validation and general ap-
plicability. This is primarily due to the lack of underlying data or any medium
through which the phenomenon could be understood.

2.2 Work Done using data sets of Knowledge Building Portals

This subsection brieﬂy outlines some of the work done on the data sets obtained
from crowdsourced knowledge building portals.

In the context of Wikipedia, Viegas et al. [15] developed a tool called History
Flow Visualization to understand the collaboration patterns of contributors of
articles on Wikipedia. The tool uses the edit history of a given article to display
a visualization of the events that took place while shaping the article. The paper
also shows that the cases of vandalism are quickly handled by the Wikipedia
community. A study published in nature indicates that the quality of Wikipedia
articles is equivalent to the encyclopedia Britannica, which is written by ex-
perts [16]. Suh et al. [17] described a tool called ‘RevertGraph’ to visualize the
reverts that take place on Wikipedia articles. Arazy et al. [18] identiﬁed ﬁve ac-
tivities performed by participants of Wikipedia viz. add (sentence), delete (sen-
tence), proofread (word modiﬁcation), improve navigation (internal hyperlinks)
and link (hyperlinks to other wiki pages), whereas, Pfeil et al. [19] identiﬁed
thirteen categories that describe the actions performed by the contributors viz.
add information, add link, clarify information, delete information, delete link,
ﬁx link, format, grammar, mark-up language, reversion, spelling, typography
and vandalism. Similarly, Ram et al. [20] categorized Wikipedians’ actions into
ten categories and tried to ﬁnd their collaboration patterns. Kittur et al. [21]
reported that transparency and visualization that exposes various aspects of the
articles can signiﬁcantly improve the trust of users in a mutable system such
as Wiki. After a study on Wikipedia articles, Cress et al. [22] observed vari-
ous processes of learning and collaborative knowledge building through Wikis.
However, the analysis that they conducted has been performed only on a few

7

articles of Wikipedia, which is too small to be generalized and requires large
scale veriﬁcation.

Anderson et. al [23] made use of the temporal structure of StackOverﬂow
to identify which questions and answers are going to be of lasting value, and
which of these require more attention from the contributors. The authors also
observed that the high reputation users are mostly the ones who answer a lot
and do not ask many questions. Further, most high reputation users acquired
high reputation because of their answers getting accepted rather than due to
upvotes. Movshovitz-Attias et. al [24] analyzed the Stack Overﬂow reputation
system and observed that the users can be divided into high and low reputation
users according to their contribution. It was conﬁrmed that while most of the
answers come from the high reputation users, most of the questions are asked
by low reputation users. However, on an average, a high reputation user asks
more questions than a low reputation user. The authors also predicted whether a
given user will later turn into a signiﬁcant contributor or not. Adamic et. al [25]
analyzed the Yahoo Answers knowledge sharing dynamics. One of the ﬁndings of
their study was that lower entropy of their contribution across categories corre-
lates with a higher probability of them receiving higher answer ratings. Wang et
al. [26] studied three constituent networks of Quora, i.e. the network connecting
topics to users, the network connecting users, and the network connecting re-
lated questions. The authors showed that heterogeneity in the user and question
networks is one of the reasons behind the success of the portal.

Cranshaw and Kittur [27] examined the Polymath Project, which is a portal
for collaboration amongst mathematicians and observed the role of leadership
in the success of the portal and the importance of newcomers. Vasilescu et al.
[28] used the data from StackOverﬂow and Github and observed the correlation
between the activities of users on both the portals. The authors observed that
people who are very active on Github provide more answers on StackOverﬂow
and ask very few questions. Similarly, people who ask a lot of questions show
non-uniformity in their work on Github. It can be seen that most of the work on
the data sets focuses on the portal speciﬁc details rather than on understanding
the phenomenon of building knowledge, i.e. the work is on knowledge building
portals and not on knowledge building process. We, therefore, ﬁnd the usage of
data sets quite under-explored in the context of knowledge building and perceive
it as a prospective domain for the knowledge building researchers to investigate.

3 Knowledge Building Dynamics: A Conundrum

If we somehow are able to quantify the amount of knowledge that the world
possesses today, it will come out to be way more than the knowledge we had
a few decades ago. This is primarily due of the development of various tools
enabling easy collaboration resulting into the swift creation of new knowledge.
An important point to note is that although many of us are participating in the
development of knowledge, we hardly know how we are doing it and what leads
to the creation of knowledge. Understanding this process is important for the

8

knowledge building domain to progress and to accelerate the pace of building
knowledge. Further, not only do we not know how new knowledge comes by,
we are in a state of ignorance when it comes to answering some of the related
questions of this broad phenomenon. Answers to these questions will be required
for us to be able to understand the genesis of knowledge. The purpose of this
section is to brieﬂy review some of the research questions still under-explored in
the domain that require community’s attention. These questions are not limited
to, but just a representative of the amount of gap prevailing in our understanding
of the ﬁeld.

3.1 Are mediocre people important for knowledge building?

It has been shown that people make unequal quantitative contributions while
building knowledge [29] [30]. In that context, if only a bunch of people are making
most of the contributions, are the people contributing to smaller extents even
required in the system? Can we remove them from the system without impeding
the growth to a signiﬁcant extent or are the little contributions made by the
mediocre people essential to the system? We still do not have a satisfactory
consensus on this fundamental yet critical argument. As an analogy, if coming up
with a top invention is like having built a wall, then the question involves ﬁnding
out whether the wall was completely built by a bunch of top people or several
bricks into this wall were added by a large number of people. The forthcoming
discussion represents an interesting chronology in the research attempted in this
direction.

The debate over the importance or insigniﬁcance dates back to 1932 when
Ortega highlighted the importance of common masses in any ﬁeld [31]. The
same fact has been supported by Florey in [32] who asserted that there is noth-
ing called breakthrough in science, rather coming up with an excellent piece of
work requires small inputs by a large number of people. This hypothesis giv-
ing due regard to the small contributions by mediocre people was later termed
as Ortega Hypothesis. However, Cole and Cole [2] and Bornmann [4] are some
of the researchers who based on their citation analyses refuted the existence of
Ortega Hypothesis. Their studies indicated that top scientists frequently cite
the work by other top scientists only and hence the mediocre scientists can be
discarded from the system. Therefore they supported the existence of another
theory called Newton Hypothesis which argues that in any ﬁeld, most of the work
is performed by a small bunch of people and the rest are not needed in the sys-
tem. However, Hoerman et al. [8] pointed out various inaccuracies existing in the
citation practices of researchers. Additionally, a detailed study by Macroberts
and Macroberts [3] at the level of checking the cited references found that only
less than 30 percent of the references were cited in the studied papers. This
clearly indicates that the people or papers that are less famous but do aﬀect the
current work, are hardly cited. Moreover, there are a number of not-so-famous
people such as those working in labs conducting experiments, which are never
cited; hence their importance can not be observed in analyses based on citation
analysis. All these works call into question the analyses conducted by Cole and

9

Bornmann. Further, there are two more points worth highlighting here. Firstly,
the question of importance of masses is one that is relevant not only in scientiﬁc
literature, but in any ﬁeld in general. This is also in accordance with Ortega who
highlighted the importance of mediocre people in diverse domains [31]. There-
fore, a general study involving many other domains is required for supporting or
refuting the hypothesis. Secondly, if we consider the online knowledge building
portals, we observe that mediocre people are playing a crucial role. Wikipedia is
the best real-life example demonstrating the power that the masses carry. The
success of Wikipedia over experts-based encyclopedia Britannica [16] and the
failure of all other portals aiming to build knowledge, however, undermining the
enormous potential that the crowd possesses, such as Nupedia 3, Citizendium 4
and Scholarpedia 5 indicates the fact that the experts alone are unable to suc-
cessfully build knowledge. Similarly, the enormous success of StackExchange
over experts’ based Q&A websites is another indicator of a huge potential of the
common people. The success of these portals refutes the existence of Newton
Hypothesis. Additionally, Cranshaw and Kittur [27] in their study on Polymath
observed that although most of the contribution was made by a small number
of contributors, yet, the small amount of content contributed by the rest of the
users was very useful for the task under consideration. This further highlights
the importance of the little contributions made by the masses.

The preceding discussion neither supports nor neglects the importance of the
common people, rather highlights that the two contradictory schools of thought
require a detailed investigation. Getting a clear answer to the question is critical
as it may aﬀect the decision-making policies in various ﬁelds. As an instance, the
decision involving the identiﬁcation of the right candidates for the distribution
of limited government funds for research calls for a clear investigation of the
stated dilemma. The answer to this question also forms a basis of the way future
knowledge building portals should be built.

3.2 How much diversity is important?

Diversity refers to the diﬀerences in peoples’ backgrounds, experiences, areas of
expertise and cultures etc. Diversity has been proven to be helpful in various
situations such as problem solving [5] or organizational practices [33]. The im-
portance of a diverse crowd has also been emphasized in order to utilize the
wisdom of the crowds [34] to the best possible extent.

It has, however, been shown that a diverse group gives rise to problems such
as lack of consensus and more conﬂicts [6]. Further, the success of a diverse
crowd is a function of several parameters such as individual ability and group
size. For example, there is a connection between diversity and expertise [35]. If
the participants have no bare minimum ability, a diverse crowd will not be able
to produce good results. Even the mathematical model developed by Hong et al.

3 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nupedia
4 http://en.citizendium.org
5 http://www.scholarpedia.org

10

[5] will not hold true if the crowd is not assumed to be having a certain level of
ability. Robert et al. [36] studied the relation between crowd size and diversity.
They observed that if the crowd size is smaller than a particular threshold, then
less diverse teams outperform more diverse teams. It is, therefore, important
to study what should be the right amount of diversity in a team given other
parameters such as the size of the team and the ability of the participants.

3.3 Is the knowledge building process convergent?

As per a classical theory of cognition named Piagets Model of equilibration [37],
people contribute to the knowledge building process because of cognitive con-
ﬂicts, which means that when they see some information that is incongruent
to their existing knowledge, it creates a disturbance in their mind. This distur-
bance encourages them to add their knowledge to the system. This knowledge
addition then leads to the equilibration between the systems knowledge and the
users knowledge. However, once the equilibration is reached, no new knowledge
comes into the system. Further, the statistics of Wikipedia also indicates a slow-
ing growth of content [38]. Does it indicate that the knowledge building process
always converges? In other words, will we ever reach a stage when we would
have possessed all the knowledge that was ever possible to be acquired? How-
ever, as already pointed out, a large part of the world’s knowledge is yet to be
explored [1]. All this discussion points to the need for a thorough analysis into
the feasibility of convergence or non-convergence of the process.

3.4 ‘More the participants the better’ or the law of diminishing

returns?

Surowiecki [34] in his book, ’Wisdom of crowds’ demonstrated that the aggre-
gate knowledge of a large and diverse group always surpasses that of one or a
few experts. This indicates the more the participants the better holding true in
the knowledge building domain. However, Kittur et al. [39] in their study on
Wikipedia observed that as the number of participants increases, the amount of
conﬂict among them also increases. This leads to increased co-ordination costs.
Therefore, there seems to be a trade-oﬀ between the number of participants and
the co-ordination amongst them. Further, Robert et al. [36] showed that when
the diversity is less, increasing group size does not lead to increase in perfor-
mance, i.e. in this case, the law of diminishing returns holds.

On a similar note, in collaborative software development, there are two im-
portant laws viz. Linus Law [40] and Brooks Law [41]. Linus Law states that
‘Given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow’, whereas Brooks law claims that
‘adding manpower to a late software project makes it even later’, i.e. Linus law
does not hold true if the project is already delayed. Therefore, more people added
to a project actually make it take more time than making it faster. This prompts
us to think whether the inclusion of more participants improves the process, or
leads to more confusions or it does not matter after a particular limit? Further,

11

is it possible to identify the threshold after which the law of diminishing returns
comes into play?

3.5 Do Participants play diﬀerent roles?

A knowledge building system requires its participants to perform diverse activ-
ities. For example, in Wikipedia, these could be adding, deleting or updating
the text, links, images or references. In a Q&A portal such as Stack Exchange,
these could be questioning, answering or voting etc. Similarly, in the research
environment, these activities could be building theories, experimenting, mod-
eling or documenting etc. In that context, do all the participants perform all
of these activities or they show inclination towards a few of them? If they do
show propensity towards performing a subset of the activities, then what are
its implications and does it really aﬀect the system? Further, should a knowl-
edge building system be careful enough to consider this criteria while choosing
participants?

Chhabra et al. [42] observed on a custom crowdsourced annotation system
that participants show inclination towards performing mainly one of the activ-
ities such as questioning, answering, providing reference or providing insights.
Similarly, Ram et al. [20] identiﬁed ten activities performed by contributors on
Wikipedia and observed that users perform diﬀerent roles on the portal consti-
tuting a subset of these activities. The same may further be checked on other
kinds of systems such as Q&A portals or collaborative software development etc.
Further, It will be interesting to analyze whether the same holds true in the uni-
versal knowledge building environment. This analysis may help in encouraging
the right mixture of participants for knowledge development.

3.6 Do people trigger each other?

As per the information processing theory by Minsky [43], knowledge is organized
into frames. Each of these frames may be considered a unit of knowledge that
possesses a particular concept. Hence, these frames may be of varying sizes [44].
The frames that are related to each other are linked together [44] [45]. There-
fore, when a frame is triggered, the frames that are linked to it are also triggered.
These frames may be linked sequentially or in any other fashion. One can imagine
a forest of nodes where each node is a knowledge frame and the attached frames
form the connected components in the forest. Fisher [44] further states that these
frames are connected by condition-action rules, which determine which frames
to trigger next. When the triggering conditions for a frame are met, that frame
is brought into the system. This leads to a ubiquitous and self-regulating phe-
nomenon of one knowledge unit into the system triggering another unit. Further,
Luhmanns theory [46] describes a social system such as a knowledge building
system as an autopoietic system. This means that once started, further ideas
(or cognitions) are produced by existing ideas of the same system. The existing
ideas create perturbations in the cognitive system of users, which then trigger
more ideas. The theory further talks about the concept of structural coupling,

12

which is the relation between cognitive systems of users and the environment. It
states that although the environment can create irritations in all the cognitive
systems, it might not be able to trigger all of them. The actual systems that can
get triggered due to these perturbations is determined by the structural coupling
of these systems to the environment. Also, diﬀerent cognitive systems may have
diﬀerent structural coupling. Although these classical theories indicate that the
existing knowledge units trigger more knowledge into the system, they however
lack any veriﬁcation, which poses doubts about their general applicability. It is
important to observe the triggering phenomenon - which is one of the impor-
tant factor behind the creation of new knowledge - into action with the help of
underlying data.

3.7 Is Q&A necessary for any knowledge building repository?

The ‘Wikipedia’ article on Wikipedia states that it aims to create a summary of
all human knowledge 6. However, from past few years, it has been showing signs
of slowing growth [38]. It will not be right to assume that Wikipedia has already
covered most of the knowledge that humans possess today. It is important for
the readers to convey the Wikipedia article editors of the gaps prevailing in the
articles. Therefore, it is important to have a communication medium between
the readers and the editors of the repository. For that, we believe that inclusion
of a Q&A facility on Wikipedia might let the volunteer editors know of the
gaps that exist in the encyclopedia currently. In general, by taking an example
of Wikipedia, we hypothesize that Q&A should be an integral part of every
knowledge building repository for better knowledge creation [47].

Moreover, not only knowledge repositories might beneﬁt by incorporating
Q&A, rather, the same holds true the other way around as well. In any Q&A por-
tal, the knowledge is scattered in a non-uniform fashion across various threads.
Preparing a repository out of the knowledge gathered from the questions and
answers will be helpful in keeping related concepts at one place. In that re-
gard, StackExchange recently has started the documentation initiative 7 to build
a repository of knowledge out of questions and answers.

3.8 Does incentivization help?

Incentivization is known to improve user participation and eﬃciency in any sys-
tem [48]. Several Q&A portals such as StackExchange and Quora use various
incentivization techniques by way of votes, points and badges etc and are success-
fully utilizing crowds’ potential. However, incentivization in another successful
portal, i.e. Wikipedia, is limited to mere providing some administrative privi-
leges to the users contributing actively. Despite that, Wikipedia has been quite
successful in eliciting knowledge from the masses. If it introduces points and
badges like other portals, will it perform better or it will discourage participants

6 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wikipedia
7 http://stackoverﬂow.com/documentation

13

following Pay enough or don’t pay at all policy [49]? The eﬀects of incentivization
in the scientiﬁc knowledge building is another interesting work that may provide
further insights, i.e., is there anyway we can observe the eﬀects of incentivization
in the human knowledge building process?

The preceding discussion suggests that knowledge building is aﬀected by
many parameters, where some of them may catalyze the process while some
others may be detrimental to the process. It is important to have a clear under-
standing of these parameters to be able to discern the phenomenon of building
new knowledge. In the next section, we propose to follow a four-step procedure
to comprehend the knowledge building aspects in a better way.

4 Our Vision: The AADE Architecture

We envision an in-depth analysis of the data sets availed from online portals,
which are currently under-explored in terms of understanding the intricate de-
tails of the knowledge building process. The insights obtained from the analyses
show a great promise of both settling some of the long-pending debates in the
area as well as a better know-how of the process. For that, we need to ﬁrst acquire
the underlying data, perform various analyses on the data, identify the various
factors aﬀecting the process and then extrapolate these insights to decipher the
human knowledge building phenomenon. Based on these activities, we propose
an architecture termed as AADE Architecture (See Figure 3) consisting of four
phases, as listed below:

1. Acquisition (A)
2. Analysis (A)
3. Dynamics (D)
4. Extrapolate (E)

Fig. 3. AADE Architecture with the Acquisition, Analysis, Dynamics and Extrapola-
tion Phases (*KB : Knowledge Building)

14

4.1 Acquisition

The ﬁrst step is to acquire the data sets from the knowledge building portals.
Some portals provide the underlying data openly available for public in vari-
ous formats such as XML or SQL. For example, StackExchange and Wikipedia
provide all their data sets periodically for the research community to access
and use, whereas, others like Quora and Polymath do not release their underly-
ing data. Therefore, this phase may require use of techniques such as crawling
or development of APIs for accessing the data sets. Accessing data may also
require authorization and facilitation of the appropriate infrastructure. For ex-
ample, Wikipedia data set is as big as several tera bytes. In order to utilize this
extensive data, enough memory and processing capabilities might be needed.

Due to developments in Web 2.0, there are several crowdsourced portals
enabling large scale collaboration. Table 1 shows some of the candidate portals
oﬀering diverse features and capturing diﬀerent dimensions of the process. Below
we provide a brief introduction to these portals.

Name

Wikipedia

StackEx-

change
Quora

YahooAn-

swers
Polymath

Github

Founding
year
2001
2008

Type

Encyclopedia
Q&A

2009
2005

2009

2008

Q&A
Q&A

Collaborative
Theorem Proving
Collaborative
Software Devel-
opment

Table 1. Some Crowdsourced Knowledge Building Portals

Wikipedia is the best attempt in eliciting knowledge possessed by indi-
viduals from diverse, demographic segments of the society. These individuals
voluntarily collaborate on various topics and provide their share of knowledge.
Currently enjoying an alexa rank of 6, this portal has 5,341,019 content pages
with 30,283,660 registered users with the numbers increasing every day. It is
the best example of collaboration among such a huge number of people over a
diverse range of topics. Wikimedia foundation makes Wikipedia’s data dumps
freely available for use by public, twice every month 8. These dumps are available
in both XML as well as SQL.

StackExchange which started with a single programming based Q&A web-
site, StackOverﬂow, currently has a collection of around 165 websites on technical

8 https://dumps.wikimedia.org/enwiki/

15

as well non-technical fact-based genres. Although the initial aim of the portal
was to help people ﬁnd solutions to their queries, it has in turn built an extensive
and highly useful repository of knowledge in the form of questions and answers.
The statistics indicate 7.9 billion pageviews, 3.7 million question asked and 4.6
million answers submitted. StackExchange too provides its data sets periodically
in the form of XML ﬁles for analysis.

Quora is another successful portal that augments a Q&A system with social
links between users. This portal helps people seek and provide perspective based
answers, hence building another very useful repository of knowledge. People come
here not only to get technical assistance but also to solicit advice, opinions and
satisfy their curiosity about various things in life. Due to no publicly available
data sets of Quora, we come across very limited work on this portal that uses
crawlers to obtain the underlying details.

Yahoo! Answers is one of the initial Q&A websites. Although it was once
topping the charts due to its success [50], it has currently almost stalled and has
declined in terms of growth. Nevertheless, it is a good candidate for analysis of
the factors that may be detrimental to the growth of knowledge. That is, a live
portal that was once on peak and was gradually sidelined by the introduction
of other portals is all the more important to study for research reasons. It may
help identifying the parameters that may hinder the proliferation of knowledge
in an environment.

Polymath Project is a portal for collaboration among mathematicians to
collectively solve important and diﬃcult mathematical problems. It is one of
the successful examples of collaboration among professional scientists for true
discoveries. Although the scientists have been collaborating in the past while
they came up with new discoveries, it was never possible to access the traces of
these collaborations and hence to study them. This portal is however a perfect
example to witness the collaboration taking place online. Therefore, an access
to its data may help in improving the collaboration dynamics of the scientiﬁc
knowledge building in general.

Github is a version control system oﬀering various functionalities such as
bug tracking, feature requests, task management and wikis for building software
collaboratively. Software development is an area where collaboration is in fact
diﬃcult to achieve and there is high probability of conﬂicts. It requires use
of eﬃcient coordination among the contributors. Github has proven itself as
a medium for collaboration over extensive software projects with its extensive
success. Therefore, the data set taken from this portal can help in formalizing
theories regarding collaboration in general.

4.2 Analysis

The next step is to perform analyses on the data sets. Diﬀerent portals focus
on diﬀerent aspects of the process. Hence, it is important to choose the right
portal and hence the data set depending on which aspect of the knowledge
building process we wish to analyze. For example, for analyzing the eﬀect of
incentivization, StackExchange will be the right portal than Wikipedia, whereas

16

the later may be a superior playground to observe large scale collaboration over
an artifact of knowledge. Further, this phase may require performing large scale
as well as in-depth analyses on the data sets. Therefore, programming languages
such as Python, Matlab etc, various APIs, and big data tools such as Hadoop
infrastructure will be used.

4.3 Dynamics

Based on the analyses of the data sets, the next step is to understand the dynam-
ics of the knowledge building process. In particular, the acquisition and analysis
are the phases where computer science researchers will be of great help, whereas
the dynamics phase requires acquaintance with the existing knowledge building
confusions and a know-how of the related cognitive theories. This phase will help
in ﬁnding the answers to the questions stated in the section 3 on the knowledge
building conundrum. We see a frequent to-and-fro ﬂow of information between
the analysis and dynamics phase. For example, verifying the existence of trigger-
ing might require making sense out of the word-level analyses conducted on the
edit histories of Wikipedia articles, indicating which factoid might have triggered
the inclusion of which other factoid. Further, based on what we understand, the
analyses might be modiﬁed.

4.4 Extrapolate

This phase requires the veriﬁcation of the theories, that we built out of the
analyses of data sets, in the universal knowledge building environment. It may
happen that some of the theories that we may build in the dynamics phase apply
to a subset of people or situations. Therefore, this phase extrapolates the insights
obtained and checks for their general applicability.

5 Challenges and Future Directions

The current scenario might not be suitable to eﬃciently execute the proposed
phases. We foresee a number of diﬃculties while working in various phases of the
architecture. In this section we highlight some of the key challenges that must
be addressed to employ use of online portals’ data sets to establish knowledge
building concepts.

5.1 Data Acquisition Challenges

In order to realize the aim, it is imperative to ﬁnd out or devise easy methods
to acquire data sets. A huge amount of overhead in accessing the data may
deter the knowledge building researchers from using them. On contrary, provision
of data sets in the right format will enable their quick and easy use by the
researchers with limited resources as well. We underline some of the currently
existing challenges here. For various reasons, some of the portals such as Quora,

17

Google Scholar do not release their underlying data sets. The only option to
access the underlying data of the portals which do not release their data is to use
crawlers, however, there are various restrictions imposed by the portals in terms
of how much and how long can they access data. Hence, using such methods
leads to a very limited analysis. To resolve this, Internet standards should be
such that it should be mandatory for every crowdsourced portal seeking the
services of the crowd to keep its data open for analysis at regular intervals.
The data may optionally be anonymized [51] if needed. Moreover, these data
sets should conform to a common set of guidelines for a better analysis. These
guidelines could include using the standard data storage formats such as JSON,
XML etc. Further, the portals should provide their data in easy to handle chunks,
where each chunk carries a diﬀerent kind of information. This would reduce the
requirement of extensive memory and other resources. For instance, although
Wikipedia provides its data dumps periodically, these dumps are enormous in
size, which is no surprise, given the size of the encyclopedia. However, there are
certain issues while using them in an infrastructure with limited memory and
processing capabilities. For example, in the detailed data set, the revisions’, talk
pages’, users’ etc details about one particular article are scattered over a number
of xml ﬁles, which makes it necessary for a user to download the entire dump
and perform their analysis over it. There are various ways that the Wikimedia
foundation may employ to provide their data dumps on a per article basis or any
other easy-to-trace format so that downloading a subset of the dump is enough
for the analyses that do not require the whole dump.

Further, acquiring the right kind of data may also require development of new
infrastructure if none of the existing portals is able to provide the required data
set. For example, checking whether Q&A is a necessary feature of any knowledge
repository and vice versa or not [47], would require creation of new portals
exploiting this feature or incorporation of new features in the existing portals.
This is due to the fact that none of the existing portals currently validates or
refutes this aspect. Similarly, Chhabra et al. [42] created a custom portal based
on annotations namedCAS to observe whether participants exhibit inclination
towards performing mostly one of the activities on an crowdsourced annotation
portal.

5.2 Data Analysis Challenges

Firstly, there are no APIs for many of the portals. Secondly, there are a few API’s
for analysis of data from Wikipedia, such as Wikipedia, Pywikipediabot and wiki-
api, and for StackExchange, we have StackAPI and Py-StackExchange, however,
they are very limited in their functionalities. Other than providing summaries
or some basic statistics, they can not be used for any advanced analyses. For
example, if we wish to thoroughly analyze the revision histories and compare the
successive edits made to a given article of Wikipedia, there is no quick meth-
ods or tools. To overcome this limitation, language developers can contribute by
identifying the commonly occurring functions that are usually needed for analyz-
ing the portals and hence building extensive APIs for these functions. This will

18

further promote the use of these data sets by non computer science researchers
without requiring them to get into the low level details.

5.3 Challenge of Multidisciplinarity

As highlighted earlier, out of the four phases of the AADE architecture, the
ﬁrst two require working with computer science tools and technologies for ac-
cessing and analyzing the data sets, while the later two phases involve working
with the existing theories of the knowledge building domain. The gaps in the
understanding of the knowledge building domain are known by the knowledge
building community. However, they have very limited knowledge of handling big
data. On the other hand, computer science community is well versed with the
tools and techniques for handling the huge amount of data, but are unaware
of the kinds of analyses that are required for the advancements of knowledge
community. The current scenario indicates very limited collaboration between
scientists from these disciplines. For instance, computer scientists are focusing
on conducting studies to understand the knowledge building portals. Knowledge
building researchers are focusing on building theories based on very small scale
observations without their general applicability. It should be noted that a collab-
oration between the researchers from these two domains might beneﬁt both the
domains in terms of providing a better idea of the knowledge building process as
well as the necessary insights for designing better portals. Further, deciphering
various aspects of the process is an interdisciplinary work requiring assistance
from cognitive and social science domains as well. Therefore, a collective eﬀort
by researchers from all these domains will be instrumental in realizing our aim.

6 Discussion

It would not be an overstatement if we proclaim that the area of knowledge
building is one of the most important areas for the research community. This
is because it can help in explaining what leads to the discovery of new things
or what poses a hindrance to it. Therefore, improvements in this domain might
in turn foster consequential advancements in other domains. However several
confusions pertaining to the domain indicate that we do not understand it well
enough. For example, we ask a very fundamental and simple question: How
does new knowledge come by? Does it happen by chance? Or there are some
factors that lead to the discovery of new facts? As an instance, if, somehow, the
civilization is demolished with only a small bunch of people alive, with no past
record of knowledge, how many years will it take for those bunch of people to
reach the stage that we are currently in? The research in the ﬁeld till date is not
able to answer this very basic question. We simply do not know what leads to
the synthesis of new knowledge. This, along with a number of other uncertainties
in the domain indicates a huge lack of our understanding of the ﬁeld.

To be able to ﬁll these gaps, the ﬁrst step is to understand the process along
with its inherent characteristics. Without a proper understanding of the phe-
nomenon, the scope of improvements in this domain stays dependent only on

19

chance happenings. The primary reason that we have not been able to carry out
signiﬁcant research in the domain is the lack of data that may provide us the
underlying details. However, with the advancements in the Internet technologies,
current times pose a great deal of promise in this direction by facilitating portals
enabling us to build knowledge collaboratively. An added advantage is that it
is possible to store the details of the activities taking place over these portals
in the form of data sets. These data sets which may provide us the footprints
of knowledge built over the portal, may help us observe what lead to its cre-
ation. Extrapolating these insights for the universal knowledge building, we may
be able to answer the general question of how new knowledge gets built. The
huge volumes of data that are available over these portals are a contribution of
the recent times only and was not available a few years back. In the absence
of this data, the community had to rely on the theoretical or small-scale ex-
periments only to ‘estimate’ what was happening in the domain. Therefore, it
is high time knowledge building community starts making use of this wealth of
meta-knowledge to gain insights into the process. The wisdom thus gained may
help in both developing new theories as well as validating the existing ones. This
in turn will help in further advancing the domain and hence in swift unearthing
a large number of things that we are yet to explore.

There are, however, several challenges such as non-disclosure of data by some
portals, diﬃculty in accessing the right kind of data and non-availability of tools
to ease up the understanding of a huge corpus of data sets. For example, cur-
rently, we ﬁnd very limited APIs and tools for the analysis of huge data sets from
portals like Wikipedia, StackExchange etc and no tools for other crowdsourced
portals. This, in turn, hinders their use by knowledge building researchers with
limited knowledge of handling big data. To enable easy access to these footprints,
several measures can be taken by the Internet community, portals designers and
the language developers. For example, disclosing the underlying data sets in
some standard formats should be made mandatory for any portal making use of
the services of the crowd.

7 Conclusion

The aim of this report is not to encourage the computer science community
to make use of the data sets from crowdsourced portals, which they are already
doing, mostly for portal speciﬁc analyses. We wish to rather bring the attention of
the knowledge building community towards this huge meta-knowledge in order to
answer a broad question as to what factors lead to the creation of new knowledge.
Apart from answering this question, the analyses conducted on this data will have
many-fold beneﬁts. A better understanding of the associated concepts will help
in conﬁrming the disputed theoretical aspects of the domain. Further, knowing
about the catalysts and the impediments of the process, the portal designers will
be able to build conducive environments to foster better knowledge building.
Moreover, the administrators, if well equipped with the knowledge of an ideal

20

knowledge building environment, may take informed measures whenever they
observe a lack of growth.

References

1. E. Pennisi, “Modernizing the tree of life,” 2003.
2. J. R. Cole and S. Cole, “The ortega hypothesis,” Science, vol. 178, no. 4059, pp.

368–375, 1972.

3. M. H. MacRoberts and B. R. MacRoberts, “Testing the ortega hypothesis: Facts

and artifacts,” Scientometrics, vol. 12, no. 5-6, pp. 293–295, 1987.

4. L. Bornmann, F. de Moya Aneg´on, and L. Leydesdorﬀ, “Do scientiﬁc advance-
ments lean on the shoulders of giants? a bibliometric investigation of the ortega
hypothesis,” PLoS One, vol. 5, no. 10, p. e13327, 2010.

5. L. Hong and S. E. Page, “Groups of diverse problem solvers can outperform groups
of high-ability problem solvers,” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences
of the United States of America, vol. 101, no. 46, pp. 16 385–16 389, 2004.

6. J. Chen, Y. Ren, and J. Riedl, “The eﬀects of diversity on group productivity and
member withdrawal in online volunteer groups,” in Proceedings of the SIGCHI
Conference on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2010, pp. 821–830.
7. L. I. Meho, “The rise and rise of citation analysis,” Physics World, vol. 20, no. 1,

p. 32, 2007.

8. H. L. Hoerman and C. E. Nowicke, “Secondary and tertiary citing: a study of
referencing behavior in the literature of citation analysis deriving from the ortega
hypothesis of cole and cole,” The Library Quarterly, pp. 415–434, 1995.

9. J. Wang, “Unpacking the matthew eﬀect in citations,” Journal of Informetrics,

vol. 8, no. 2, pp. 329–339, 2014.

10. R. K. Merton et al., “The matthew eﬀect in science,” Science, vol. 159, no. 3810,

pp. 56–63, 1968.

11. I. Nonaka, “A dynamic theory of organizational knowledge creation,” Organization

science, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 14–37, 1994.

12. M. Scardamalia and C. Bereiter, “Computer support for knowledge-building com-

munities,” The journal of the learning sciences, vol. 3, no. 3, pp. 265–283, 1994.

13. S. D. Cook and J. S. Brown, “Bridging epistemologies: The generative dance be-
tween organizational knowledge and organizational knowing,” Organization sci-
ence, vol. 10, no. 4, pp. 381–400, 1999.

14. G. Stahl, “A model of collaborative knowledge-building,” in Fourth international
conference of the learning sciences, vol. 10. Mahwah, NJ: Erlbaum, 2000a, 2000,
pp. 70–77.

15. F. B. Vi´egas, M. Wattenberg, and K. Dave, “Studying cooperation and conﬂict
between authors with history ﬂow visualizations,” in Proceedings of the SIGCHI
conference on Human factors in computing systems. ACM, 2004, pp. 575–582.

16. J.

Giles,

“Internet
438,

vol.

Nature,
2005.
http://www.nature.com/nature/journal/v438/n7070/full/438900a.html

head.”
no.
Dec.
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16355180

[Online]. Available:

head

to
900–901,

encyclopaedias

go

7070,

pp.

17. B. Suh, E. H. Chi, B. A. Pendleton, and A. Kittur, “Us vs. them: Understanding
social dynamics in wikipedia with revert graph visualizations,” in Visual Analytics
Science and Technology, 2007. VAST 2007. IEEE Symposium on.
IEEE, 2007,
pp. 163–170.

21

18. O. Arazy, E. Stroulia, S. Ruecker, C. Arias, C. Fiorentino, V. Ganev, and T. Yau,
“Recognizing contributions in wikis: Authorship categories, algorithms, and visual-
izations,” Journal of the American Society for Information Science and Technology,
vol. 61, no. 6, pp. 1166–1179, 2010.

19. U. Pfeil, P. Zaphiris, and C. S. Ang, “Cultural diﬀerences in collaborative authoring
of wikipedia,” Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, vol. 12, no. 1, pp.
88–113, 2006.

20. J. Liu and S. Ram, “Who does what: Collaboration patterns in the wikipedia and
their impact on article quality,” ACM Transactions on Management Information
Systems (TMIS), vol. 2, no. 2, p. 11, 2011.

21. A. Kittur, B. Suh, and E. H. Chi, “Can you ever trust a wiki?: impacting per-
ceived trustworthiness in wikipedia,” in Proceedings of the 2008 ACM conference
on Computer supported cooperative work. ACM, 2008, pp. 477–480.

22. U. Cress and J. Kimmerle, “A systemic and cognitive view on collaborative
knowledge building with wikis,” International Journal of Computer-Supported
Collaborative Learning, vol. 3, no. 2, pp. 105–122, Jan. 2008. [Online]. Available:
http://link.springer.com/10.1007/s11412-007-9035-z

23. A. Anderson, D. Huttenlocher, J. Kleinberg, and J. Leskovec, “Discovering value
from community activity on focused question answering sites: a case study of stack
overﬂow,” in Proceedings of the 18th ACM SIGKDD international conference on
Knowledge discovery and data mining. ACM, 2012, pp. 850–858.

24. D. Movshovitz-Attias, Y. Movshovitz-Attias, P. Steenkiste, and C. Faloutsos,
“Analysis of the reputation system and user contributions on a question answer-
ing website: Stackoverﬂow,” in Advances in Social Networks Analysis and Mining
(ASONAM), 2013 IEEE/ACM International Conference on.
IEEE, 2013, pp.
886–893.

25. L. A. Adamic, J. Zhang, E. Bakshy, and M. S. Ackerman, “Knowledge sharing and
yahoo answers: everyone knows something,” in Proceedings of the 17th international
conference on World Wide Web. ACM, 2008, pp. 665–674.

26. G. Wang, K. Gill, M. Mohanlal, H. Zheng, and B. Y. Zhao, “Wisdom in the social
crowd: an analysis of quora,” in Proceedings of the 22nd international conference
on World Wide Web. ACM, 2013, pp. 1341–1352.

27. J. Cranshaw and A. Kittur, “The polymath project: lessons from a successful
online collaboration in mathematics,” in Proceedings of the SIGCHI Conference
on Human Factors in Computing Systems. ACM, 2011, pp. 1865–1874.

28. B. Vasilescu, V. Filkov, and A. Serebrenik, “Stackoverﬂow and github: Associations
between software development and crowdsourced knowledge,” in Social computing
(SocialCom), 2013 international conference on.

IEEE, 2013, pp. 188–195.

29. D. J. de Solla Price, D. J. de Solla Price, D. J. de Solla Price, and D. J.
de Solla Price, Little science, big science... and beyond. Columbia University
Press New York, 1986.

30. L. Muchnik, S. Pei, L. C. Parra, S. D. Reis, J. S. Andrade Jr, S. Havlin, and H. A.
Makse, “Origins of power-law degree distribution in the heterogeneity of human
activity in social networks,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1304.4523, 2013.

31. J. Ortega y Gasset, The revolt of the masses. New York: New American Library,

1950.

32. J. G. Crowther et al., Science in modern society. Schocken Books, 1968.
33. D. A. Thomas and R. J. Ely, “Making diﬀerences matter,” Harvard business review,

vol. 74, no. 5, pp. 79–90, 1996.

34. J. Surowiecki, The wisdom of crowds. Anchor, 2005.

22

35. E. Bonabeau, “Decisions 2.0: The power of collective intelligence,” MIT Sloan

management review, vol. 50, no. 2, p. 45, 2009.

36. L. Robert and D. M. Romero, “Crowd size, diversity and performance,” in Pro-
ceedings of the 33rd Annual ACM Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems. ACM, 2015, pp. 1379–1382.

37. J. Piaget, The development of thought: Equilibration of cognitive structures.(Trans

A. Rosin). Viking, 1977.

38. B. Suh, G. Convertino, E. H. Chi, and P. Pirolli, “The singularity is not near:
slowing growth of wikipedia,” in Proceedings of the 5th International Symposium
on Wikis and Open Collaboration. ACM, 2009, p. 8.

39. A. Kittur, B. Suh, B. A. Pendleton, and E. H. Chi, “He says, she says: conﬂict and
coordination in wikipedia,” in Proceedings of the SIGCHI conference on Human
factors in computing systems. ACM, 2007, pp. 453–462.

40. A. Meneely and L. Williams, “Secure open source collaboration: an empirical study
of linus’ law,” in Proceedings of the 16th ACM conference on Computer and com-
munications security. ACM, 2009, pp. 453–462.

41. C. M. Schweik, R. C. English, M. Kitsing, and S. Haire, “Brooks’ versus linus’ law:
an empirical test of open source projects,” in Proceedings of the 2008 international
conference on Digital government research. Digital Government Society of North
America, 2008, pp. 423–424.

42. A. Chhabra, S. Iyengar, P. Saini, and R. S. Bhat, “Presence of an ecosystem: a
catalyst in the knowledge building process in crowdsourced annotation environ-
ments,” Proceedings of the 2015 International Conference on Advances in Social
Networks Analysis and Mining (ASONAM 2015), 2015.

43. M. Minsky, “Frame-system theory,” Thinking: Readings in cognitive science, pp.

355–376, 1977.

44. K. Fisher and J. I. Lipson, “Information processing interpretation of errors in

college science learning,” Instructional Science, vol. 14, no. 1, pp. 49–74, 1985.

45. D. A. Norman, “Categorization of action slips.” Psychological review, vol. 88, no. 1,

p. 1, 1981.

46. D. Seidl, “Luhmanns theory of autopoietic social systems,” 2004.
47. A. Chhabra and S. Iyengar, “Should wikipedia and quora collaborate?” in Commu-
nication Systems and Networks (COMSNETS), 2016 8th International Conference
on.

IEEE, 2016, pp. 1–2.

48. A. Anderson, D. Huttenlocher, J. Kleinberg, and J. Leskovec, “Steering user be-
havior with badges,” in Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on World
Wide Web. ACM, 2013, pp. 95–106.

49. U. Gneezy and A. Rustichini, “Pay enough or don’t pay at all,” The Quarterly

Journal of Economics, vol. 115, no. 3, pp. 791–810, 2000.
One

Answers

“Yahoo

50. M.

McGee,

Hits

Billion

Answers,”

http://searchengineland.com/yahoo-answers-hits-one-billion-answers-41167,
2010, [Online; accessed 16-February-2017].

51. L. Sweeney, “Weaving technology and policy together to maintain conﬁdentiality,”

The Journal of Law, Medicine & Ethics, vol. 25, no. 2-3, pp. 98–110, 1997.

23

