Democracy Models and Civic Technologies: Tensions, 

Trilemmas, and Trade-offs 

Marta Poblet1 and Enric Plaza2 

1 RMIT University, Melbourne, VIC 3000, Australia 

2 Artificial Intelligence Institute, Spanish Research Council, Bellaterra 08193 Spain  

marta.pobletbalcell@rmit.edu.au  

enric@iiia.csic.es 

Abstract. This paper aims at connecting democratic theory with civic technolo-
gies  in  order  to  highlight  the  links  between  some  theoretical  tensions  and  tri-
lemmas  and  design  trade-offs.  First,  it  reviews  some  tensions  and  ‘trilemmas’ 
raised  by  political  philosophers  and  democratic  theorists.  Second,  it  considers 
both  the  role  and  the  limitations  of  civic  technologies  in  mitigating  these  ten-
sions and trilemmas.  Third, it proposes to adopt a meso-level approach, in be-
tween  the  macro-level  of  democratic  theories  and  the  micro-level  of  tools,  to 
situate the interplay between people, digital technologies, and data. 

Keywords: Democracy, civic technologies, representation, participation, delib-
eration, linked democracy.  

1 

Introduction 

Over  the  last  two  decades,  digital  technologies  have  opened  up  new  paths  for  civic 
engagement and political participation. Hundreds of  websites, portals, platforms and 
mobile  apps  enable  citizens  across  the  globe  to  organise  campaigns,  vote  initiatives 
and sign petitions, monitor their representatives and track parliamentary activity, pro-
pose ideas and draft legislation or constitutions. Governments at different levels adopt 
digital technologies  to develop ‘open government’ and  ‘open data’  strategies to pro-
mote  citizens’  participation  and  increase  transparency.  Crowdsourcing  is  now  a  per-
vasive  method to collect data, information, ideas, and legislative proposals. A grow-
ing literature based on case studies and empirical testing provides the basis for further 
refinement of methods: e.g. smart crowdsourcing (Noveck 2015), expert crowdsourc-
ing (Kim et al. 2014, Griffith et al. 2017), microtasking (Luz et al. 2015).  

The  exploration  of  new  technologies  and  methods  to  harness  the  potential  of 
crowdsourcing  for  civic  action  and  politics,  nevertheless,  contrasts  with  the  scarce 
attention given to the underlying assumptions about democracy, participation, equali-
ty, representation, and citizenship. Surprisingly enough, there has been little dialogue 
between theorists of democracy and citizenship, on the one hand, and digital technol-
ogists,  information  systems  and  AI  experts,  on  the  other,  on  how  civic  technologies 

2 

may redefine our current notions of democracy, participation, equality, representation, 
and citizenship.  

Our goal in this paper is threefold. First, we aim to induce a discussion on how to 
reinterpret some of these notions by reviewing some  tensions and  ‘trilemmas’ raised 
by political philosophers and democratic theorists. Second, we consider both the role 
and  the  limitations  of  civic  technologies  in  mitigating  these  tensions  and  trilemmas. 
Third,  we  propose  to  adopt  a  meso-level  approach,  in  between  the  macro-level  of 
democratic theories and the micro-level of tools, to situate the interplay between peo-
ple, digital technologies, and data. As different groups in different social contexts use 
digital  tools  and  data  differently,  it  is  at  this  meso  level  that  we  can  elucidate  the 
trade-offs  with the notions of the trilemmas. We conceptualise the  meso-level as the 
institutional level, for the notion of institution will give us a framework to analyse the 
use of technology in a given social context. 

2 

Some Tensions and ‘Trilemmas’ in Democratic Theory 

2.1  A Condorcetian Reading of Representation 

The tensions between key concepts in democratic theory, notably sovereignty, repre-
sentation, participation, equality, and citizenship have long been debated. In her work 
on  representative  democracy,  Nadia  Urbinati  has  noted  that  both  Montesquieu  and 
Rousseau  were ‘the first theorists to argue (for divergent reasons) that an unsolvable 
tension exists between democracy, sovereignty, and representation’ (2004: 54). More 
specifically:  

 
Montesquieu  separated  representation  from  democracy,  and  Rousseau  representation  from 
sovereignty. Montesquieu argued that a state where the people delegated their ‘right of sov-
ereignty’ could not be democratic and must be classified as a species of mixed government 
and in fact an aristocracy. Rousseau saw such a state as non-political from the start and ille-
gitimate because the people lost their political liberty along with the power to vote on legis-
lation directly: unless all citizens were lawmakers, there were no citizens at all. In both cas-
es, democracy and sovereignty excluded representation (idem). 
 
Urbinati  argues  that  this  exclusion  remains  implicit  within  contemporary  theories 
of  representative  government  for  which  “from  a  theoretical  point  of  view,  a  ‘repre-
sented  democracy’,  although  technically  feasible,  is  an  oxymoron,  while  direct  de-
mocracy,  although  the  norm,  is  impractical”  (2004:  55).  Yet,  Urbinati  denies  this 
incompatibility  to  be  the  only  legacy  of  18th  century’s  political  philosophy  when  it 
comes to the idea of representation.1 In supporting her claim for a ‘democratic under-

                                                           
1  ‘Rather  than  a  monolithic  entity,  the  theory  of  representative  government  formed,  since  its 
birth, a complex and pluralistic family whose democratic wing was not the exclusive property 
of those who advocated for participation against representation.’ (Urbinati 2004: 55). 
 
 

3 

standing of representation’ she draws on Condorcet’s Plan de Constitution submitted 
to  the  French  National  Assembly  in  1793.  Condorcet’s  proposal,  eventually  rejected 
by both his fellow Girondins and the Jacobins, contains what Urbinati describes as ‘an 
institutional  order  that  is  one  of  the  most  democratically  advanced  and  imaginative 
Europe has produced in the last two centuries’ (2004: 56): 

 
Condorcet’s constitution designed a political order that was horizontal and acephalous (par-
liamentary, not presidential) and rigorously based on the centrality of the legislative power, 
a power held by a multiplicity of actors and performed in multiple times and within a plural-
ity of spaces. The function of legislation was performed within assemblies – elected assem-
bly and assemblies of the citizens (assemblées primaires) – and was held by the representa-
tives along with (not instead of) the citizens who ‘enjoyed’ both the electoral right and the 
right to revoke or censure the laws (constitutional and ordinary). (2004: 59-60).   

 

Condorcet, Urbinati notes, reconciles sovereignty, representation, and participation 
by  making  ‘citizens’  participation  essential  to  both  the  functioning  of  representative 
government and the preservation of political liberty’ (2004: 60). With a comment that 
echoes  Josiah  Ober’s  vision  of  the  role  of  citizens  in  ancient  Athens  (2008,  2015), 
Urbinati  sees  citizen  participation  in  Condorcet’s  institutional  order  as  a  ‘source  of 
stability and of innovation’, while representation becomes the political device collect-
ing and filtering knowledge for the public interest (2004: 60).  

In  our  contemporary  democracies,  representation  has  become  an  even  more  intri-
cate subject, even at the local level (Ng et al. 2016). Urbinati and Warren argue that 
the complexity of issues and the multiple, overlapping constituencies involved call for 
the extension of the meaning of representation to include non-electoral forms ‘that are 
capable of representing latent interests, transnational issues, broad values, and discur-
sive positions’ (Urbinati and Warren 2009: 407). Moreover, the Internet has also ena-
bled the emergence of online communities of interest beyond geographical boundaries 
that have no mechanisms of representation in our political systems (Lloyd 2017). 

It is our contention that digital technologies and AI can facilitate the channelling of 
these  multifaceted  forms  of  representation  in  unique  ways.  But  a  second  ‘trilemma’ 
needs to be addressed before considering these options. 

2.2  The ‘Trilemma’ of Democratic Reform 

James  Fishkin,  a  leading  theorist  of  deliberative  democracy,  addresses  in  one  of  his 
papers  the  key  question  of  how  to  incorporate  public  deliberation  into  constitutional 
processes  (Fishkin  2011).  In  raising  this  question  he  introduces  what  he  refers  to  as 
the  ‘trilemma  of  democratic  reform’.  To  Fishkin,  there  are  three  basic  principles  in-
ternal  to  the  design  of  democratic  institutions:  political  equality  (people’s  views  are 
counted equally),  mass participation (we are all  given the opportunity to provide in-
formed consent), and deliberation (we are all given the opportunity to provide opin-
ions and weigh competing arguments).  

Fishkin suggests that,  under normal conditions, any  serious effort to attain any of 
the two principles inevitably hinders the third, so that we cannot satisfy the three prin-

4 

ciples simultaneously. For example, if we pursue a process driven by political equali-
ty and mass participation we are unlikely to get deliberation into the picture because 
the  incentives  for  people  to  become  seriously  informed  and  engaged  are  very  low 
(‘audience  democracy’).  Likewise,  we  can  satisfy  the  principles  of  political  equality 
and deliberation if we choose (by lot or by random sampling) a microcosm of deliber-
ators (e.g. Fishkin’s Deliberative Polls). This microcosm may be representative of the 
broader  population  from  which  it  has  been  extracted,  but  then  this  population  will 
have no voice in the process and therefore the principle of mass participation will not 
be fulfilled. Finally,  we can  have a process  with  mass participation (to some extent) 
and  deliberation. This  is  what  most  of  the  current  online  crowd-civic  platforms  pro-
vide,  but  what  we  gather  in  this  case  is  a  ‘self-selected  microcosm  of  deliberators’, 
highly  engaged  and  yet,  far  from  being  representative  of  the  broader  population  (so 
we  would  be  violating  the  principle  of  political  equality).  Tanja  Aitamurto  et  al. 
(2014) have also highlighted the tension between the norm of equal representation in 
democracy and the self-selection bias of crowdsourcing, suggesting that ‘crowdsourc-
ing  shouldn’t  strive  for statistical representativeness of the  public, otherwise the vir-
tues of crowdsourcing would be compromised and its benefits in crowd  work would 
not be achieved.’  (2014: 1). Statistical representativeness  as a requirement  may be a 
debatable issue, but what is at stake here is the legitimacy of crowdsourcing in politi-
cal practice. We also find a self-selection bias in offline political activity, e.g. in par-
liamentary elections, where the turnout is  usually significantly below 100 per cent of 
the  demos.  How  self-selection  affects  legitimacy  in  a  political  process  is  a  general 
issue that political theory needs to address in broader terms. Specifically, if  we  con-
ceptualize political  equality in the classical sense [isegoria (equal voice)  + isonomia 
(equality of political rights)] self-selection does not necessarily diminish the principle 
of equality (non-participation is an individual decision). 

What should  we do if the simultaneous achievement of the three principles is  not 
attainable?  Fishkin  suggests  adopting  a  pragmatic  approach  to  solve  his  trilemma. 
Rather than trying to approximate the ideal, he proposes the design of a second best 
approach or a proxy (and hence his research program on Deliberative Polling, aiming 
at  both  the  internal  and  external  validity  of  the  process).  Nevertheless,  Fishkin 
acknowledges  that  this  solution  may  incur  a  democratic  deficit,  since  the  resulting 
views may not be the actual views of the public (2011: 253). To tackle this issue, he 
proposes a process with sequential strategies (for example, a convention followed by 
a deliberative  microcosm and, finally, a referendum) that, combined, cover the three 
principles at different stages.  

The  remaining  issue,  nevertheless,  is  that  deliberation  does  not  travel  well  across 
those stages. Fishkin illustrates what he terms ‘the weak link of deliberation’ with the 
example of the  Australian 1999 referendum,  where two different deliberative bodies 
(a convention and a deliberative poll) had previously reached the opposite conclusion 
(pro-republic) with regard to the proposal of an Australian republic (2011: 253-254). 
The elaboration of Iceland’s Constitution is another recent example of  the weak con-
nection  between  deliberative  bodies  (in  this  case,  the  Constitutional  Convention  and 
the Parliament). Fishkin proposes to strengthen this link by organizing a Deliberation 
Day,  where  the  entire  population  is  convened  for  one  day  to  engage  in  deliberation 

5 

followed by a referendum. To motivate participants, Fishkin estimated that an incen-
tive of $300 per participant would act as an adequate incentive (2011: 258). No matter 
how  well  designed,  though,  the  costs  of  such  events  could  be  extremely  prohibitive 
for many countries, especially considering how short-lived they would be. The ques-
tion that remains open is whether there is a role for technology in mitigating the tri-
lemma.  

3  Mitigating Democratic Trilemmas 

Political  philosophy  addresses  both  the  tensions  and  trilemmas  in  democratic  theory 
and practice with a sophisticated conceptual apparatus. Yet, research on the implica-
tions of civic technologies for democracy and democratisation processes is still large-
ly  overlooked  in  both  deliberative  and  epistemic  accounts  of  democracy.  This  com-
partmentalisation of knowledge is disadvantageous from both a theoretical and empir-
ical perspective. For example, enabling effective non-electoral forms of representation 
would  require  a  survey  of  technology  options  and  ‘knowledge  of  what  works  and 
when’ (Noveck 2017). Likewise, a better understanding of the underlying principles, 
models, and concepts of democratic theory  would help to inform the design of  civic 
tools and modulate the frequently inflated expectations placed on them.  

Digital platforms facilitate the depth and breadth of participation, lowering the bar-
riers to different forms of participation (without precluding offline participation) and 
improving the ‘open access pattern’ of a given social order (North  et al. 2009). They 
also  open  up  the  door  to  new,  meaningful  forms  of  mass  deliberation  and  epistemic 
outcomes (e.g. Klein 2015, Luz et al. 2015, Theocharis and van Deth 2016). To illus-
trate this point, in Figures 1 and 2 below we compare two models of democracy: 

 

 

 

Fig. 1. Plebiscitarian model with deliberative 

 

6 

Fig. 2. Participatory model with deliberative body 

 

Fig. 1 represents a well-known plebiscitarian model of democracy: a small group (for 
example,  a  constitutional  convention,  a  parliamentary  commission,  etc.)  produces  a 
legal text. When the text is ready, a referendum is called and citizens can cast a yes/no 
vote. This model accounts for the principles of political equality, mass participation, 
and  representation.  Yet,  deliberation  is  restricted  to  the  small  group,  as  citizens  are 
left with just an ex post, binary option (yes/no). Many constitution making processes 
in Western democracies have followed this path to date.  

Fig. 2 visualises a more complex participatory model to mitigate the trilemma. As 
in the previous case, a small group of people (either drafted by sortition or appointed 
by  some  other  entity)  is  given  the  task  of  producing  a  legal  text,  but  in  sequential 
steps.  The  group  deliberates  on  a  first  draft,  which  is  open  to  the  general  public  for 
comments  and  suggestions  (typically  from  a  self-selected  subset  of  the  electorate). 
The feedback from this very large group is incorporated in the draft and subsequently 
adapted to produce, after a number of iterations, the text to be agreed and ratified by 
the  electorate.  This  participatory  model  was  famously  deployed  in  Iceland  in  2011, 
when the meetings and debates of a Constitutional Council of 25 individuals (drafted 
from  a  larger  pool  of  citizens)  were  made  publicly  available  in  the  Council  website 
for comment via social media and e-mail. The proposal was approved by a two-thirds 
majority of the voting population in a referendum in late 2012 but it eventually stalled 
in parliament (Landemore 2017).  

Similarly, this model was adopted in Mexico City. On January 2016, the Mayor of 
the  city  obtained  approval  from  the  federal  parliament  to  initiate  a  constitution-
making process by appointing a group of 30 experts to discuss and draft a proposal.2 
In order to open up the drafting process to the citizenry, the City Council made pub-
licly available a collaborative editing tool for citizens to provide feedback on the spe-
cific  topics  posted  by  the  drafting  group.  Moreover,  as  crowdsourced  legal  drafting 
does not typically attract a large number of citizens, this approach was complemented 

                                                           
2 https://www.constitucion.cdmx.gob.mx/constitucion-cdmx/#grupo-trabajo 
 

7 

with  other  participatory  strategies,  namely  a  survey  and  a  Change.org  campaign  to 
collect petitions relevant to the constitutional text (at the closing date of the process, 
280,678  people  had  supported  129  petitions).  The  Constitution  of  Mexico  City  was 
finally  published  on  5  February  2017,  although  at  the  time  of  writing  the  Supreme 
Court  of  Mexico  is  hearing  a  number  of  appeals  to  the  constitutional  text  from  the 
federal  government,  two  political  parties,  and  other  organisations.3  Strikingly,  both 
the  Icelandic  and  Mexican  constitutional  drafts  came  to  a  standstill  as  other  institu-
tional bodies were involved. We will review this in Section 3.2 below. 

3.1  The Technology Caveat 

Digital platforms  have come  a long  way  when it comes to facilitating legal drafting, 
crowdsourcing of ideas, or structuring large-scale deliberation, but the tasks of aggre-
gating  legal  and  political  knowledge  for  deliberation  and  decision  making  remain 
onerous. In recent years, a number of advances in AI areas such as text mining, argu-
ment detection, extraction, and mapping can be applied to support the activity of very 
large  groups,  both  to  improve  self  awareness  (of  what  they  are  co-producing)  and 
facilitate  knowledge  aggregation.  Likewise,  both  small  and  large  groups  can  benefit 
from text mining, semantic languages (e.g. RDF, XML), ontologies, linked data, and 
machine learning when searching, analysing and reusing legal texts to elaborate new 
ones.  For  example,  using  ConstituteProject,4  constitution  makers  can  now  browse 
nearly 200 constitutions across the  world (tagged  with  more than 300 topical labels) 
when drafting their own. Global laws are also accessible to law proponents or drafters 
with  services  offered,  among  others,  by  the  World  Legal  Information  Institute5  or 
Global Regulation.6  

To date, online platforms have focused on improving and facilitating mass partici-
pation (or at least to include larger numbers of citizens in a political process). Those 
efforts have proved useful when supporting the participation of dozens, hundreds or, 
in  some  cases,  thousands  of  people  contributing  to  an  initiative  with  arguments  or 
comments.  Yet,  the  issue  of  effectively  enabling  large-scale,  massive  participation 
(that is, hundreds of thousands or even millions of people) is still unresolved.  

It is also important to note here the implicit assumption that correlates higher par-
ticipation  with  higher legitimacy. Mexico City, to  use our  previous example, has al-
most 9  million inhabitants, but  what is the threshold for establishing  that a constitu-
tion  crowdsourced  from  a  negligible  percentage  of  its  inhabitants  is  more  legitimate 
than appointing a group of 30 experts? Can future civic technologies really scale up to 
mass participation in elaborating policies and laws, or can legitimacy only be claimed 
when  the  crowds  are  requested  to  ratify  them?  Would  it  be  better  to design  systems 
that  cater  for  smaller,  decentralised,  and  distributed  (offline  and  online)  citizen  as-

                                                           
3http://www.eluniversal.com.mx/articulo/nacion/politica/2017/03/10/corte-admite-
impugnaciones-contra-constitucion-cdmx 
4 http://constituteproject.org 
5 http://wordlii.org 
6 http://www.global-regulation.com 

8 

semblies  (thus  supporting  a  renewed  version  of  democratic  representation)?7  While 
these  questions  remain  open,  the  answers  also  depend  on  political  and  institutional 
choices. 

3.2  The Institutional Caveat 

 A second caveat when trying to mitigate democratic trilemmas is that deploying civic 
tools for large-scale participation will not guarantee any real influence on either rule 
making or  policy  making.  As the  examples in Iceland and Mexico show, there is no 
way to ensure that embedding participatory components into the process—regardless 
of whether this participation is deliberative or not—will eventually have an impact on 
decision making and, ultimately, will lead to more bottom-up, inclusive decisions.  

Over  the  last  two  decades,  deliberative  democrats  have  set  the  conditions,  proce-
dures,  and  standards  of  deliberative  processes.  More  recently,  some  of  them  have 
adopted  a  ‘systemic’  approach  where  some  institutions  will  achieve  some  principles 
while  others  will  achieve  others,  making  the  institutional  system  ‘deliberative’  as  a 
whole (Mansbridge et al. 2012). The focus on procedures and standards has also ex-
panded  to  include  the  discussion  on  whether  mini-publics  (citizen  juries,  citizen  as-
semblies,  deliberative  polls,  etc.)  and  other  institutional  innovations  should  have  a 
binding force—aligning the outcomes of deliberation with rule or policy making—or 
have  a  mere  advisory  role  (e.g.  Lafont  2015).  The  debate  highlights  the  underlying 
tensions  between  participation  and  deliberation,  but  it  does  so  from  an  abstract  per-
spective. Ironically enough, the discussion on the optimal institutional design to coor-
dinate and translate deliberative outputs at the micro level into aligned policy making 
is  not  institutionally  anchored.  Yet,  without  such  anchoring,  it  is  hard  to  predict  in 
which particular institutional  contexts the  new designs  will either thrive or languish, 
and which trade-offs will be required. Empirical studies focusing on the institutional 
level, such as the Utrecht experiment below, may help to shed some light: 

 
The key feature of this process of political innovation is that citizens were randomly selected 
to participate, they received remuneration for their participation and they could be regarded 
as an alternative form of citizen representation. In contrast with many other forms of partici-
pation such as citizen panels, the advice was not ‘free’: local government had committed be-
forehand  to  follow  this  advice  and  to  translate  it  to  an  energy  policy  plan.  Our  empirical 
analysis of this case shows that an interplay between idealist and realist logics explains why 
they are ‘accepted’ by the institutionalized democratic system.” (Meijer et al. 2016: 21). 
 

                                                           
7  We  also  find  examples  of  this  option  in  Buenos  Aires,  British  Columbia,  or  Ireland.  The 
Swiss ‘semi-direct democracy’  model (Cormon 2015) is paradigmatic  when combining repre-
sentation and popular sovereignty at the three levels of governance (federal, cantonal and mu-
nicipal).  Approximately  four  times  a  year,  voting  occurs  over  various  issues:  federal  popular 
initiatives  (constitutional  reforms),  policies,  and  election  of  representatives.  Federal,  cantonal 
and municipal issues are polled simultaneously, and the majority of votes are cast by mail.  
 

9 

An intermediate, meso-level approach to both online and offline innovations would 
help  to  elucidate  the  interactions  between  people,  technology,  and  data  in  particular 
settings. It would also provide a framework of analysis to better understand both the 
emerging  properties  (and  tensions)  of  these  interactions.  We  have  denominated  this 
approach ‘linked democracy’ (Poblet et al. forthcoming).  

4 

A Proposal for a Meso-level Approach: Some Features 

Our proposal consists of analysing political ecosystems where clusters of institutions 
are  distributed  throughout  with  different  roles  and  specialisations,  but  all  connected 
together. Both the Mexican and Icelandic cases can be analysed through these lenses, 
as  well  as,  for  example,  the  connected  interactions  between  people,  technology  and 
data in a public health ecosystem (e.g. Casanovas et al. 2017).   

 

Fig. 3. An ecosystem of linked institutions8 

 

It is out of the scope of this paper to present a case study embedded in this meso-level 
approach. Nevertheless, our proposal here includes considering the features that may 
guide such an analysis from the perspective of a linked democracy theory. Thus, our 
analysis of political ecosystems will consider them as:  

  Contextual. Interactions between people, technologies, and data occur at  specific 
settings.  People  are  identifiable  individuals  or  groups,  geographically  bounded  or 
connected  online  (or  both);  technologies  include  specific  devices  and  tools  (plat-
forms, apps, sensors, etc.); data comprises particular datasets with different formats 
(open data, linked open data, etc.) and licenses of use. 

                                                           
8 In Figure 3 we use icons from the Noun Project (https://thenounproject.com/): group icon by 
Gregor Cresnar; data icon by IcoDots; mobile device icon by Vildana. 
 
 

10 

  Distributed. Political ecosystems are distributed networks with multiple nodes (as 
opposed to centralised or decentralised systems). The level of connectivity is not a 
given and requires analysis and measurement. Most likely, different political eco-
systems  will  exhibit  different  connectivity  maps—or  political  ‘connectomes’,  to 
borrow an emerging concept from the neurosciences (Seung 2013).    

  Open  ended.  Political  ecosystems  will  evolve  and  adapt  as  the  context  changes. 
Stakeholders and their interests are not stable, technologies change rapidly and data 
has  been  characterised  with  the  4  Vs  (volume,  velocity,  variety,  and  veracity).  If 
any, a theory of linked democracy is a theory of adaptive complex systems.  

  Reusable.  Political  ecosystems  produce  collective  knowledge.  Both  deliberation 
and  epistemic  democracy  approaches  assume  the  need  to  find  and  reuse  this 
knowledge.  Ober  (2008,  2015)  adds  to  this  the  dimension  of  problem  solving,  in 
the  sense  that  untapped  knowledge  can  only  be  ‘discovered’  in  relation  to  a  par-
ticular  political  issue,  by  making  a  connection  of  relevance  between  that 
knowledge and the issue at hand. We are interested in discovering how those con-
nections are made and how they can be reused. 

5 

Concluding Remarks 

In  this  paper  we  have  briefly  sketched  some  tensions  and  trilemmas  in  democratic 
theory  that  are  relevant  to  the  topic  of  designing  civic  technologies  for  democracy. 
Our contention is that technology can provide solutions to these tensions and trilem-
mas if we embed the issues at stake in a particular institutional meso-level. 

Most online platforms focus on facilitating engagement and specially participation. 
As  we  have  seen,  it  is  not  possible  to  scale  up  participation  by  mere  technological 
prowess.  Developing  technological  platforms  in  the  near  future  will  require  an  inte-
grated  approach  where  trade-offs  between  political  values  are  explicitly  acknowl-
edged and the institutional design of the different components and processes is coher-
ent  with  contextual  constraints  and  changing  environments.  Civic  values  are  also 
critical, and we agree with the perspective of Shannon Vallor (2017) when she states 
that  ‘the  designs  of  such  platforms  have  assumed  civic  virtues  as  inputs,  rather  than 
helping  to  cultivate  them—virtues  like  integrity,  courage,  empathy,  perspective,  be-
nevolence, and respect for truth necessary to fuel any democratic technology, analog 
or digital’. A theory of linked democracy is proposed to pay attention to these differ-
ent dimensions. 

References 

1.  Aitamurto, T., Galli, J.S. and Salminen, J. (2014). Self-selection in crowdsourced democ-
racy: A bug or a feature?http://www.jorgesaldivargalli.com/w3/papers/AitamurtoSG14.pdf 
2.  Casanovas, P., Mendelson, D. & Poblet, M. (2017). A Linked Democracy approach to reg-

ulate health data. Health and Technology, doi: 10.1007/s12553-017-0191-5 

3.  Cormon, P. (2015). Swiss Politics for Complete Beginners (2 ed.), Geneva: Slatkine. 
4.  Fishkin,  J.  S.  (2011).  Deliberative  democracy  and  constitutions.  Social  Philosophy  and 

Policy, 28(01): 242-260. 

11 

5.  Griffith, M., Spies, N.C., Krysiak, K., McMichael, J.F., Coffman, A.C., Danos, A.M., Ain-
scough,  B.J.,  Ramirez,  C.A.,  Rieke,  D.T.,  Kujan.  L.,  &  Barnell,  E.K.  (2017)  CIViC  is  a 
community knowledgebase for expert crowdsourcing the clinical interpretation of variants 
in cancer. Nature genetics 1, 49(2): 170-4. 

6.  Kim,  J.,  Cheng,  J.,  &  Bernstein,  M.S.  (2014).  Ensemble:  exploring  complementary 
strengths of leaders and crowds in creative collaboration. In Proceedings of the 17th ACM 
conference on Computer Supported Cooperative Work & Social Computing; 745-755. 

7.  Lafont, C. (2015). Deliberation, participation, and democratic legitimacy: Should delibera-

tive mini‐publics shape public policy? Journal of Political Philosophy, 23(1): 40-63. 

8.  Landemore,  H.  (2017).  Inclusive  constitution  making  and  religious  rights:  Lessons  from 

the Icelandic experiment. The Journal of Politics, 79(3): 000-000. 

9.  Lloyd, A. (2017). Disentangling Democracy From Geography. The Atlantic. May 2, 2017, 

https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2017/05/disentangling-democracy-from-
geography/524124/ 

10.  Luz  N.,  Poblet  M.,  Silva  N.,  &  Novais  P.  (2015)  Defining  human-machine  micro-task 
workflows for constitution making. In: Kamiński B., Kersten G., Szapiro T. (eds) Outlooks 
and  Insights on  Group  Decision and  Negotiation.  GDN  2015.  Lecture  Notes  in  Business 
Information Processing 218: 333-344. 

11.  Mansbridge, J., Bohman, J., Chambers, S., Christiano, T., Fung, A., Parkinson, J., & War-
ren, M. E. (2012). A systemic approach to deliberative democracy. In J. Parkinson and J. 
Mansbridge (eds.)  Deliberative systems: deliberative democracy at the large scale. Cam-
bridge University Press: 1-26. 

12.  Meijer, A., Van der Veer, R., Faber, A, & Penning de Vries, J. (2017). Political innovation 
as ideal and strategy: the case of aleatoric democracy in the City of Utrecht.  Public Man-
agement Review, 19(1): 20-36. 

13.  North, D. C., Wallis, J. J., & Weingast, B. R. (2009).  Violence and social orders: a con-
ceptual framework for interpreting recorded human history. Cambridge University Press. 

14.  Ober, J. (2008a). Democracy and knowledge: Innovation and learning in classical Athens. 

Princeton University Press. 

15.  Ober, J. (2015). The rise and fall of classical Greece. Princeton University Press. 
16.  Ng, Y. F., Coghill, K., Thornton‐Smith, P., & Poblet, M. (2016). Democratic representa-
tion and the property franchise in Australian local government. Australian Journal of Pub-
lic Administration. doi: 10.1111/1467-8500.12217. 

17.  Noveck,  B.S.  (2017).  Five  hacks  for  digital  democracy.  Nature  544,  287–289  (20  April 

2017). doi:10.1038/544287a 

18.  Poblet, M., Casanovas, P., Rodriguez-Doncel, V. (forthcoming, 2017). Linked Democracy: 

Foundations, tools, and applications. Springer Open. 

19.  Theocharis, Y., & van Deth, J. W. (2016). The continuous expansion of citizen participa-

tion: a new taxonomy. European Political Science Review: 1-24. 

20.  Seung,  S.  (2013).  Connectome:  How  the  brain’s  wiring  makes  us  who  we  are.  Boston: 

Mariner Books.  

21.  Urbinati, N. (2004). Condorcet’s democratic theory of representative government. Europe-

an Journal of Political Theory, 3(1), 53-75. 

22.  Urbinati,  N.,  &  Warren,  M.  E.  (2008).  The  concept  of  representation  in  contemporary 

democratic theory. Annual Review of Political Science, 11: 387-412. 

23.  Vallor,  S.  (2017).  Lessons  From  Isaac  Asimov's  Multivac,  The  Atlantic  (May  2,  2017), 

https://www.theatlantic.com/technology/archive/2017/05/lessons-from-the-
multivac/523773/  

