TOURISTS’ DIGITAL FOOTPRINT IN CITIES: COMPARING BIG DATA SOURCES 

 

 

 

MARÍA HENAR SALAS-OLMEDO * 

Departamento de Geografía Humana.  
Universidad Complutense de Madrid 

C/Profesor Aranguren, s/n. 28040 Madrid, Spain 

msalas01@ucm.es 

 

JUAN CARLOS GARCÍA-PALOMARES 
Departamento de Geografía Humana.  
Universidad Complutense de Madrid 

C/Profesor Aranguren, s/n. 28040 Madrid, Spain 

jcgarcia@ucm.es 

JAVIER GUTIÉRREZ  

Departamento de Geografía Humana.  
Universidad Complutense de Madrid 

C/Profesor Aranguren, s/n. 28040 Madrid, Spain 

javiergutierrez@ghis.ucm.es 

 

 
 
 
 

*Corresponding author. 

 

 

TOURISTS’ DIGITAL FOOTPRINT IN CITIES: COMPARING BIG DATA SOURCES 

 

 

 

Abstract.- There is little knowledge available on the spatial behaviour of urban tourists, and 
yet  tourists  generate  an  enormous  quantity  of  data  (Big  Data) when  they  visit  cities.  These 
data sources can be used to track their presence through their activities. The aim of this paper 
is to analyse the digital footprint of urban tourists through Big Data. Unlike other papers that 
use a single data source, this article examines three sources of data to reflect different tourism 
activities  in  cities:  Panoramio  (sightseeing),  Foursquare  (consumption),  and  Twitter  (being 
connected).  Tourist  density  in  the  three  data  sources  is  compared  via  maps,  correlation 
analysis (OLS) and spatial self-correlation analysis (Global Moran's I statistic and LISA). Finally 
the data are integrated using cluster analysis and combining the spatial clusters identified in 
the LISA analysis in the different data sources. The results show that the data from the three 
activities  are  partly  spatially  redundant  and  partly  complementary,  and  allow  the 
characterisation of multifunction tourist spaces (with several activities) and spaces specialising 
in  one  or  various  activities  (for  example,  sightseeing  and  consumption).  The  case  study 
analysed (Madrid) reveals a significant presence of tourists in the city centre, and increasing 
specialisation  from  the  centre outwards  towards the  periphery.  The  main  conclusion  of  the 
paper is that it is not sufficient to use one data source to analyse the presence of tourists in 
cities; several must be used in a complementary manner.  

Key words.- Urban tourism; Big data; Photo-sharing services; Social networks; Spatial analysis; 
GIS 

 

 

 

 

 

1 

1. INTRODUCTION 

Big Data is a new concept that has become widely popularised in recent years to describe the 
production  of  massive  quantities  of  data.  Big  Data  covers  a  range  of  very  different  areas: 
Internet searches, GPS logs, bank card transactions, records of mobile phone activity, social 
networks, data on water and electricity consumption, meteorological data, images recorded 
with  video  cameras  and  many  more.  The  main  characteristics  of  these  new  data  sources 
include particularly the following three Vs: volume, in terabytes or petabytes of data; velocity, 
created  in  or  at  near  real  time;  and  variety,  taken  from  a  wide  variety  of  sources,  either 
structured  (data  that  can  be  stored  in  the  form  of  tables),  semistructured  (htlm  files)  or 
unstructured  (texts,  photographs,  videos)  (McAfee et  al.,  2012;  Kitchin,  2013; Sagiroglu  and 
Simanc, 2014).  

One of the fields in which Big Data offers the greatest opportunities is tourism. Official data 
sources do not provide detailed information on the places tourists visit in cities. At best, they 
offer figures derived from surveys, hotel records or museum admissions. Big Data supplies a 
large quantity of information to complement the traditional sources. Tourists leave a digital 
“footprint”  in most  of their  activities,  and  these  new  data  sources  now make  it  possible to 
analyse tourists' behaviour in the cities they visit. They take vast numbers of photographs and 
upload them to photo-sharing services, they make payments with bank cards, they talk and 
send messages via their mobile phones, they are active on social networks, and so on. All this 
activity  produces  an  enormous  quantity of  digital  data  (Big  Data) which  can be  analysed  to 
study behaviour patterns (Shoval and Isaacson, 2007; Asakura and Iryo, 2007; Girardin et al., 
2008a and b). Much of these data is geolocated, so tourists' activity can be analysed spatially. 
However, there are very few papers that apply Big Data to examine the spatial distribution of 
tourists in cities, probably due to the novelty of these information sources and the fact that 
some are difficult to access.  

Photo-sharing services provide very useful information for identifying the presence of tourists 
when they go sightseeing in cities. Although there are several photo-sharing communities that 
allow the geolocation of photos (such as Flickr or Instagram), Panoramio is probably the most 
useful  service  for  measuring  tourist  hotspots,  as  this  website  shows  photographs  taken  of 
places  or  landscapes  when  sightseeing,  which  are  then  posted  online  once  they  have  been 
georeferenced.  The  records  of  geolocated  photographs  can  be  used  not  only  to  identify 
sightseeing spots (García-Palomares et al., 2015), but also to analyse the spatial and temporal 
patterns of tourist flows in cities Girardin et al., 2008b).   

However, tourists not only visit the most photographed spaces. They also go shopping, go to 
restaurants and stay in hotels, and they leave their digital footprint in all these establishments 
when they pay with  a bank card or check-in their location on social networks. These digital 
footprints  of  tourists  offer  information  which  is  largely  complementary  to  the  data  from 
photo-sharing  social  networks.  The most  photographed  areas  often  have very  little  offer  of 
accommodation and shopping. In the case of business tourists, their hotel and the spaces they 
frequent tend to be close to business sectors, and not necessarily in the most photographed 
areas. 

During their stay in the city, tourists also log onto the Internet to confirm details of their visit, 
check their e-mail, engage in the social networks, and so on. This activity also leaves a digital 
footprint in many of the places they visit. Tourists often use the facilities in hotels, hostels, 
restaurants  and  certain  open  spaces  to  connect  to  Internet  through  free  WiFi  networks, so 
their activity on social networks may particularly reflect this type of spaces.  

 

2 

The  main  aim  of  this  paper  is  to  compare  three  geolocated  data  sources  to  identify  the 
presence of tourists in cities in terms of their different activities: sightseeing, consumption and 
being connected. The sightseeing activity is analysed though data from photo-sharing services, 
specifically  from  the  platform  Panoramio.  Consumption  is  tracked  by  Foursquare  check-ins. 
Finally, Internet activity is measured based on data on the social network Twitter. The study 
area is the city of Madrid, one of the European cities with the highest volume of tourists.  

This  paper  contributes  to  the  literature  on  Big  Data  and  tourism  activity  from  a  threefold 
perspective: 1) Three different data sources are compared to obtain the most comprehensive 
analysis of tourists’ location. 2) The data for tourist activity (photos, check-ins, tweets,) are not 
analysed directly as in previous works, but the tourists themselves are the unit of analysis. The 
data  are  processed  to  allow  the  number of tourists  to  be  counted  in  each  place  in the city 
according to each data source, thus avoiding problems of multiple counting, and making the 
results comparable. 3) The information from the different data sources is integrated through 
cluster  analysis  and  spatial  autocorrelation  analysis  to  characterise  the  areas  of  tourist 
concentration according to the type of activity.  

The  remainder  of  this  paper  is  structured  as  follows.  Section  2  summarises  the  existing 
literature  on  the  use  of  photo-sharing  services,  Foursquare  check-ins  and  Twitter  in  urban 
studies,  with  a  particular  focus  on  tourism.  Sections  3  and  4  describe  the  data  and  the 
methodology  respectively.  Section  5  describes  and  discusses  the  results,  while  Section  6 
presents the main conclusions and suggests further directions for research.   

 

2. RELATED LITERATURE  

Sightseeing: photo-sharing services 

Sightseeing is one of the main tourist activities in cities, and leaves its digital footprint on social 
networks  for  photo-sharing  such  as  Instagram,  Flickr  and  Panoramio.  All  three  offer  the 
possibility  of  geolocating  photographs,  but  Panoramio 
(http://www.panoramio.com) 
particularly  allowed  the  georeferencing  of  the  photos,  as  it  focused  on  images  of  places  or 
landscapes shared by its users, which can be seen on the Panoramio website (until November 
4, 2016) or through Google Earth and Google Maps. In fact, Panoramio was a Google service, 
and  had  over  120  million  geolocated  photographs  (2015  data  according  to  Panoramio  data 
API). 

Photo-sharing services have been used for several purposes in the field of tourism, including 
identifying social events such as festivals, demonstrations, sporting events and so on (Sun and 
Fan,  2014),  estimating  tourist  numbers  (Koerbitz  et  al.,  2013),  identifying  the  presence  of 
tourists (Girardin et al., 2008a, Kisilevich et al., 2013; Straumann et al., 2014) and the most 
common  trajectories  followed  by  tourists  (Girardin  et  al.,  2008b),  proposing  or  assessing 
tourist routes (Kurashima et al., 2013), suggesting tourist trips (Lu et al., 2010) and planning 
trips lasting several days and places to visit (Li, 2013). These data sources make it possible to 
identify  areas  with  a  concentration  of  tourists  in  cities  (sightseeing  spots)  through  spatial 
statistical  techniques  (García-Palomares  et  al.,  2015).  Photographs  taken  by  tourists  can  be 
differentiated from those taken by residents based on the time period in which the same user 
takes  the  photographs.  The  results  obtained  in  the  work  of  García-Palomares  et  al.  (2015) 
show clearly differentiated spatial distributions for tourists (more concentrated in sightseeing 
spots) and local residents (more widely dispersed throughout the city). 

 

3 

 

Consumption: Foursquare check-ins 

Tourists not only leave their digital footprint when they go sightseeing in the city. They also 
leave a digital trail when they engage in consumption-related activities (shopping, restaurants 
and so on) and pay with bank cards (Sobolevsky et al., 2014a, 2014b and 2015). However, bank 
card transactions are a data source that has been very little used in tourist studies, due to the 
difficulty of accessing these databases. An alternative data source for analysing consumption 
activities  is  Foursquare  social  network.  This  service  enables  a  user  to  inform  their  friends 
his/her  location  by  generating  check-ins,  rate  and  review  venues  they  visit,  and  read  other 
users’ reviews. Each check-in contains information that reveals who (which user) spends time 
where  (at  what  location),  when  (what  time  of  day,  what  day  of  week),  and  doing  what 
(according to the kind of venue) (Çelikten et al., 2016). 

Foursquare  data  have  been  used  for  analysing  geographic  distribution  of  venues  across  the 
cities (Çelikten et al., 2016), discovering functional urban areas (Vaca et al., 2015), analysing 
movement  pattern  and  the  popularity  of  areas  in  cities  (Silva  et  al.,  2013),  studying  traffic 
conditions (Ribeiro et al, 2014), and performing trade area analysis (Qu et al., 2013). However, 
there are few studies using Foursquare data in the field of tourism. One exception is Ferreira et 
al.  (2014),  who  analyze  the  spatio-temporal  characteristics  of  the  behavior  of  tourists  and 
residents in a set of cities, identifying the most visited places and the temporal distributions of 
both groups of visitors. Other exception is the paper by Serrano-Estrada et al. (2016), who map 
the most relevant venues in terms of number of visitors within a tourist city.  

Being connected: Twitter  

Most  of  the  studies  done with  mass  data  from  social  networks  have  used  Twitter  (Murthy, 
2013),  not  only  because  this  platform  has  global  coverage,  but  also  because  its  data  (the 
tweets) are available free on the Internet the instant they are produced –that is, in real-time. 
Each geolocated tweet leaves the digital footprint of the place and the time it was sent. If the 
data  are  processed  according  to  their  user  identifier,  they  provide  an  approximation  of the 
places visited by each user at different times of the day and days of the week –that is, their 
spatial and temporal profile.  

Activity on social networks can be used as a proxy to analyse the changing population densities 
in the city throughout the day (Ciuccarelli et al., 2014) and the population's mobility patterns 
(Wu et al., 2014, Salas-Olmedo and Rojas-Quezada, 2016). Twitter’s daily use profiles serve to 
classify  the  space  according  to  the  type  of  dominant  activity,  whether  business, 
leisure/weekend, nightlife and residential (Frias-Martinez et al, 2012). Geolocated tweets have 
also  been  used  to  analyse  the  degree  of  social  mixing  in  the  use  of  space  by  tracking  the 
movement  of  social  groups  in  highly  segregated  cities  such  as  Río  de  Janeiro  (Netto  et  al., 
2005) and Louisville (Shelton et al., 2015). Unlike the information supplied by official sources, 
which  offer  data  relating  to  place  of  residence,  these  studies  apply 
indicators  of 
multiculturalness and mixing to examine the use of space throughout the day. For example, 
there  are  studies on  linguistic  diversity  in  cities and  regions  based  on  the  language  used  in 
tweets as an indicator of cultural diversity (Mocanu et al., 2013). Elsewhere, Takhteyev et al. 
(2012)  studied  the  role  of  distance,  languages  and  borders  in  configuring  the  networks  of 
tweets, and concluded that the relations established over long distances are similar to those 
observed in air transport flows.  

 

4 

Papers  on  tourism  using  Twitter  data  are  particularly  scant.  The  very  few  works  that  use 
geolocated tweets in the field of tourism tend to focus on comparing visitor’s spatial behaviour 
between  cities  on  the  national  or  global  scale  (Bassolas  et  al.,  2016;  Hawelka  et  al.,  2014; 
Sobolevsky et al., 2015), but do not address the spatial patterns within the city.  

 

3. DESCRIBING AND PRE-PROCESSING THE DATA 

Panoramio 

The records of  307,062 geolocated  photographs uploaded to Panoramio between 2006 and 
2014  covering  the  municipality  of  Madrid  were  downloaded  from  the  Panoramio  API.  This 
dataset  contains  information  about the  geographic  coordinates, the  ID of  the  owner of  the 
photograph, a URL link to the photograph, and the date on which it was uploaded (day, month 
and year).  

This  downloading  generated  “.csv”  files.  The  geographical  coordinates  of  each  photograph 
were  used  to  create  a  layer  for  each  location  using  ArcGIS  10.4.  This  data  source  does  not 
include a field to record the user’s nationality. However, it was possible to “identify” each user 
as  a  tourist  or  a  resident  using  the  user’s  ID  and  the  date  of  his/her  photograph.  Using 
MongoDB, if a user had taken pictures in Madrid over a period exceeding one week per year, 
the photographs were attributed to residents; if the period was less than one week per year, 
then they were attributed to tourists. This methodology is similar to that used by Fischer for 
his Geotaggers' World Atlas, and García-Palomares et al. (2015). A total of 27,573 photographs 
were assigned to tourists as a result of this process (Figure 1a).  

 

 
Figure 1: a) Photographs taken by tourists. b) Foursquare check-in by tourists. c)  Tweets sent 
by tourists. 
 
Figure 1a references: 1) Royal Palace; 2) Puerta del Sol square; 3) Plaza de Cibeles square; 4) Plaza Mayor 
square;  5)  Las  Ventas  bullring;  6)  Temple  of  Debod;  7)  Real  Madrid  football  stadium;  8)  Atlético  de 
Madrid football stadium; 9) Atocha – Reina Sofía Museum; 10) Cuatro Torres; 11) Torres Kio 
Figure 1c references: 1) Historic centre; 2) Salamanca district; 3) Paseo de la Castellana axis; 4) Madrid 
Río axis 

 

5 

Background map: OpenStreetMap. 
 

Twitter and Foursquare 

One of the most widely used social networks is Twitter, a platform that allows users to send 
messages with a maximum of 140 characters –known as tweets– which by default are public. 
This service has 500 million users all over the world and generates around 65 million tweets a 
day. Some of these (around 3% until April 2015 and currently around 1%) are geolocated; that 
is, messages in which the sender’s location is known from their geographic coordinates. Given 
the vast amount of messages sent on the social networks, this 3% percentage represents an 
enormous quantity of tweets. 

Our  study  was  conducted  using  a  dataset  of  geolocated  tweets  sent  from  Madrid  between 
2012 and 2014. The dataset contains information on the geographic coordinates, the owner’s 
ID, the language, the date on which it was uploaded (minute, hour, day, month and year), any 
messages included, etc. This file underwent a similar treatment to the Panoramio file. First, 
tourists were identified using MongoDB to extract users that had tweeted for a week or less 
per  year.  Then,  all  twees  from  those  users  within  the  municipality  of Madrid  were  used to 
generate a layer of tweets with ArcGIS using the coordinates of the logs. A total of 234,159 
tweets were identified as sent by tourists visiting Madrid.  

Foursquare  is  a  community  of  50  million  users  allowing  tourists  to  check  in  to  the 
establishments  they  visit  and  providing  personalized  recommendations  of  the  places  to  go 
(restaurants, nightlife spots, shops and other places of interest) in the surrounding area. These 
check-ins are private by default, but they become publicly accessible for example, when users 
opt to share their check-ins publicly via Twitter (Çelikten et al., 2016). Thus, it was possible to 
extract Foursquare data by selecting Foursquare check-ins in our Twitter dataset. From a total 
of 234,159 tweets assigned to tourists, 20,076 were Foursquare check-ins (Figure 1b) and the 
rest (214,083) were considered ordinary tweets (Figure 1c).  

Foursquare data and tweets exhibit very different temporal distribution patterns (Figure 2). 
Foursquare  check-ins  are  more  equally  distributed  along  the  day  (check-ins  in  restaurants, 
shops and other places), while tweets tend to be more concentrated between 18 and 21 hours 
(what  suggests  that  the  use  of  Twitter  is  predominantly  related  to  the  location  of 
accommodations). 

 

 

6 

Figure 2: Temporal distribution of Foursquare and Twitter data of tourists in Madrid 

 

 

4. METHODOLOGY 

The following methodology was used to analyse the spatial distribution of tourists in Madrid: 

a) Number of tourists per census tract.- The tourists' photos, Foursquare check-ins and tweets 
were located according to census tracts, counting the number of single tourists in each census 
tract and for each data source from the user ID. The row data was converted to single tourists 
using  joint  spatial  (census  tracts)  aggregation  to  obtain  the  number  of  single  users  in  each 
census tract. 

b) Tourist density by census tract.- The number of tourists in each census tract depends on the 
actual concentration of tourists in the census tract and its size. Larger census tracts tend to 
register a greater number of tourists. To mitigate this problem (Modifiable Areal Unit Problem 
-MAUP), the tourist density per census tract was obtained for each data source. 

c) Rescaling of the data.- A very different number of tourists was detected through the three 
data sources. The density data of visitors by census tract were rescaled to a scale of 0 to 1,000 
(by means of a linear transaction) in order to eliminate the effect of different ranges in the 
data sources and to make density data comparable.  

d)  Density  maps  and  descriptive  statistics.-  Rescaled  data  aggregated  by  census  tract  were 
used to obtain density maps and descriptive statistics. Density maps provided an initial visual 
overview  of  the  density  distribution  of  tourists  in  Madrid  according  to  the  three  datasets. 
Descriptive statistics were useful to compare the degree of concentration of visitors according 
to the data sources used.  

e) OLS analysis.- Results obtained for the three data sources were compared using bivariant 
Ordinary  Least  Squares  (OLS).  The  coefficient  of  determination  reveals the  common  part of 
variation between each pair of data sources, and the differences between each pair of sources 
can be analysed using the maps of standardised residuals. 

 

7 

f) Cluster analysis.- Cluster analysis was used to integrate the information from the three data 
sources  and  characterise  the  census  tracts  according  to  the  tourist  activities  performed  in 
them. The K-means clustering algorithm was used. This method looks for a solution where all 
the features within each group are as similar as possible, and all the groups themselves are as 
different as possible.  

g)  Spatial  autocorrelation  analysis.-  Unlike  previous  analyses,  spatial  autocorrelation 
techniques do not consider each location in an isolated way, but in relation to the locations in 
its  environment  (Anselin, 1995).  Global  Moran's  I  statistic and  Anselin Local Moran's  I  (LISA 
statistic) were calculated separately for the three data sources, using the IDW (inverse distance 
weighted)  method  with  a  500  m  radius.  The  LISA  analysis  identified  High-High  clusters  of 
tourists (a high value surrounded primarily by high values). The results were combined in order 
to  determine  the  specialisation  of  each  census  tract,  which  can  be  classified  as  areas  of 
sightseeing  (Panoramio  High-High  clusters),  tourist  consumption  (Foursquare  High-High 
clusters), Internet consumption (Twitter High-High clusters) or a combination of two or three 
types  (for  example,  consumption  and  sightseeing  ).  A  census  tract  classified  as  HH  cluster 
according to the three data sources means that in a radius of 500 m there is high potential for 
the three types of activities.  

All these calculations and maps were made using ArcGIS 10.4 software. 

 

5. RESULTS 

Tourist density maps and descriptive statistics 

Figure 3 shows tourist density maps according to census tracts, with rescaled data and at the 
same  intervals  in  the  three  maps.  Panoramio  (Figure  3a)  clearly  shows  a  high  spatial 
concentration of visitors in the historic centre and along the north-south axis of the city (Paseo 
de La Castellana). The areas of greatest density denote the sightseeing spots in the city, for 
example Plaza de Cibeles, Puerta de Alcalá, Puerta del Sol, Plaza Mayor, the Royal Palace, the 
Temple of Debod, Plaza de España, Reina Sofía Museum, Atocha Station, Gran Vía street, the 
Real  Madrid  and  Atletico  de  Madrid  stadiums,  the  Las  Ventas  bullring,  Torres  Kio,  Cuatro 
Torres,  among others.  Some  census  tracts  have  a high  density  of  photos,  not  because they 
themselves contain a sightseeing spot, but because they offer a good vantage point for taking 
photographs of a sightseeing spot located in an adjacent census tract. The prohibition against 
taking photographs inside some monuments explains the relatively low density of photos in 
the census tracts containing them (for example, the Prado Museum and the Royal Palace).  

The digital footprint of tourists in consumption activities (Figure 3b) is particularly dense in the 
historic centre and, to a lesser extent, in surrounding areas (for example, the area of luxury 
shops known as the Golden Mile in Barrio de Salamanca). It is also sporadically explained by 
the  presence  of  some  shopping  centres  (such  as  the  AZCA  centre)  or  singular  places  (Real 
Madrid Stadium).  

Finally,  tourist  density  identified  according  to  Twitter  (Figure  3c)  is  more  disperse.  It  is 
particularly high in the historic centre and along the Paseo de la Castellana axis, and it tends to 
spread throughout a great number of census tracts.  

The descriptive statistics of tourist density according to the data sources (Table 1) show that a 
much higher number of tourists have been detected from Twitter than from any of the other 

 

8 

two sources, thus justifying the rescaling of the three variables. The coefficient of variation of 
Foursquare data reveals that, as suggested by the maps, consumption activities exhibits the 
highest spatial concentration.  

 

Table 1: Descriptive statistics  

Twitter 

2415 
0 
13.86 
2491.02 
1.03 
1.31 
127.02 

2415 
0 
3.83 
312.95 
0.13 
0.33 
250.83 

Panoramio  Foursquare 
2415 
0 
8.25 
424.53 
0.18 
0.55 
305.56 

Tourist density/Ha according to census tracts 
 
Count: 
Minimum: 
Maximum: 
Sum: 
Mean: 
Standard Deviation: 
Variation coefficient 
Tourist density/Ha according to census tracts: rescaled data 
 
Count: 
Minimum: 
Maximum: 
Sum: 
Mean: 
Standard Deviation: 
Variation coefficient 
 

Panoramio  Foursquare 
2415 
0 
1000 
51420.18 
21.29 
66.60 
312.80 

2415 
0 
1000 
81625.85 
33.80 
84.86 
251.07 

Twitter 

2415 
0 
1000 
179479.38 
74.32 
94.51 
127.17 

Figure 3: Tourist density according to their activities: a) sightseeing (Panoramio), b) 
consumption (Foursquare), c) being connected (Twitter). The references to the numbers in 
Figure 3a can be seen in Figure 1. 

 

 

9 

 

 

Comparison between data sources: OLS analysis 

To  determine  the  degree  of  association  between  the  three  distributions,  the  coefficient  of 
determination was calculated between each pair of data sources (Table 2). The standardised 
residuals  of  the  bivariate  regressions  reveal  where  the  data  sources  present  the  greatest 
differences (Figure 3).  

The correlation analysis points to a medium positive correlation between the tourist densities 
provided  by  the  Twitter-Foursquare  data  sources.  The  correlation  between  the  number  of 
tourists  provided  by  the  Panoramio-Twitter  and  Panoramio-Foursquare  data  sources  is  low, 
indicating  a  greater  complementarity.  The  main  discrepancies  between  these  three  data 
sources  can  be  analysed  through  the  residuals  between  the  variables  in  the  regression 
analysis: 

- Panoramio has more tourists than expected according to Foursquare and Twitter (positive 
residuals in Figures 4a and 4b) in the historic centre and in the main sightseeing spots in the 
city (football stadiums, the bullring, Retiro Park, Torres Kio, Cuatro Torres, Temple of Debod), 
but less than expected (negative residuals) around the city centre.  

- Foursquare shows more tourists than expected according to Twitter (Figure 4c) in the historic 
centre, the Salamanca district, in the AZCA shopping and business centre, the large shopping 
centre  of  La  Vaguada,  Real  Madrid  Stadium,  and  Atocha  station,  but  less  tourists  than 
expected in less central areas.  
Table 2: Coefficients of determination (adjusted r2) of tourist distribution according to data 
sources (OLS)  
 
Panoramio 
Foursquare 
Twitter 
** Significant to 0.01 

Panoramio  Foursquare  Twitter 

 
 
1 

1 
0.27** 
0.31** 

 
1 
0.52** 

 

 

10 

Figure 4: Standardised residuals of bivariate regressions: a) Foursquare-Panoramio; b) Twitter-
Panoramio; c) Twitter- Foursquare. The references to the numbers in Figure 4a can be seen in 
Figure 1. 

 

 

Types of spaces according to tourist activities: cluster analysis  

Cluster analysis enables the census tracts to be typified according to tourist density per activity 
(sightseeing, consumption or Internet activity). The cluster was calculated using the K-means 
algorithm and using rescaled density values. Table 3 shows the means and standard deviations 
that characterise each group and the parallel box plot graph summarises both the groups and 
the variables within them (Figure 5). Figure 6 shows the spatial distribution of the 6 groups 
established: 

-  Groups of census tracts with a predominance of tourists related to sightseeing: groups 
6 (coffee) and 2 (red). The differences are based on the intensity of the number of 
tourists.  Group  6  contains  tracts  with  a  very  high  number  of  tourists  identified  in 
Panoramio, and high in Twitter and Foursquare users, and corresponds to spaces such 
as the bullring, Puerta de Alcalá arch, Glorieta de Atocha and Plaza de España square. 
Group 2 also contains tracts linked to sightseeing, but with a lower number of tourists: 
the parks of the Temple of Debod and Retiro, the Royal Palace and the surrounding 
area,  the  Atlético  de Madrid  stadium,  Atocha  station  and  singular  buildings  such  as 
Torres Kio and Cuatro Torres. 

-  Groups of census tracts with a predominance of tourists linked to consumption: groups 
5 (violet) and 3 (green). Group 5 contains the most commercial tracts in the historic 
centre  (Gran  Vía,  Puerta  del  Sol  square),  which  also  have  a  very  high  number  of 
tourists  according  to  Twitter  and  Panoramio.  Group  3  comprises  tracts  with  a  high 
tourist density related to consumer activities and Twitter, but much less in relation to 
Panoramio.  These  correspond  to  the  historic  centre  (except  the  most  commercial 
area),  with  a  decrease  in  specialisation  in  Twitter  towards  the  periphery,  but  also 

 

11 

commercial areas like Golden Mile-Salamanca district, AZCA and retail spaces in the 
centre. 

-  Groups of census tracts with a predominance of tourists related to Internet activities: 
Group  1  (blue),  with  a  lower  number  of  tourists,  occupies  the  limits  of  the  historic 
centre. 

- 

Census  tracts  with  a  low  presence  of  tourists:  group  4  (yellow).  These  are  the  non-
tourist spaces in the city and generally correspond to peripheral census tracts.  

 

Table 3: Means and standard deviations of the groups of tracts. 
 

 

Tourists according to 
Panoramio 
Mean 

Sd 

Groups 

1 
2 
3 
4 
5 
6 
Total 
- 
 

Number of 
tracts 

331 
151 
76 
1795 
26 
36 
2415 

Tourists according 
to Foursquare 
Mean 
Sd 

Tourists according 
to Twitter 
Mean 

Sd 

23.9 
148.47 
141.5 
8.2 
343.0 
466.6 
33.8 

30.0 
56.0 
82.9 
17.5 
217.3 
168.2 
84.8 

33.2 
21.4 
182.6 
3.82 
498.7 
96.9 
21.3 

35.1 
27.7 
72.5 
9.2 
165.1 
78.8 
66.6 

161.3 
110.5 
282.6 
36.1 
599.9 
208.9 
74.3 

60.1 
66.1 
102.1 
25.2 
178.1 
119.6 
94.5 

Figure 5: Standardised means for the groups of tracts (parallel box plot graph). 

 

 

12 

 

Figure 6: Groups of tracts according to tourist activities 

 

Analysis of spatial autocorrelation 

Spatial autocorrelation allows the data from each census tract to be analysed not in isolation 
(as in previous sub-section) but in relation to the data in the census tracts in its environment. 
Using  the  IDW  (inverse  distance  weighted)  procedure  with  a  distance  threshold  of  500  m, 
Global  Moran’s  Index  shows  a  positive  spatial  autocorrelation  in  all  cases  (positive  Moran I 
values), lower for Panoramio than for Twitter and Foursquare (Table 4). Anselin Local Moran’s I 
statistic  reveals  the  spatial  cluster  distribution  (significant  at  the  0.01  level)  (Figure  7).  HH 
census tracts (high values in a variable surrounded by high values in that same variable) tend 

 

13 

to  form  a  single  cluster  in  the  case  of  Foursquare  (historic  centre  and  Salamanca  district) 
(Figure  7b),  but  several  clusters  in  geolocated  photographs  (historic  centre,  Real  Madrid 
stadium, Torres Kio-Cuatro Torres) (Figure 7a).  

Table 4: Global Moran’s I statistics (distance threshold = 500m) 

 
Global Moran’s Index 
z-score 
p-value 
 

Panoramio 

Foursquare 

Twitter 

0.692 
46.18 
0.0000 

0.741 
49.02 
0.0000 

0.571 
37.88 
0.0000 

 
Figure 7: Results of the LISA analysis (distance threshold = 500m). a) Panoramio, b) Foursquare, 
c) Twitter. The references to the numbers in Figure 7a can be seen in Figure 1. 

 

The results of the previous univariate analysis have been cross-referenced to incorporate the 
information from the three data sources. Figure 8 shows a classification of the census tracts 
considering the HH clusters of the three data sources jointly. When a census tract forms part of 
a HH cluster in the three sources, it indicates that in a radius of 500 m there is a high density of 
opportunities  for  sightseeing,  consumption  and  connecting  to  the  internet.  This  cross-
referencing therefore gives a more complete multivariant LISA vision than would be obtained 
by using bivariant LISA analysis. The results show census tracts that form part of the HH cluster 
in  the  three  data  sources  (historic  centre),  or  in  only  one  of  them  –for  example,  in  areas 
specialised in sightseeing (such as Las Ventas bullring), in consumption (Salamanca district) or 
in both (AZCA shopping and business centre). In general, the resulting map shows how tourist 
specialisation  tends  to  increase  radiating  outwards  from  the  historic  centre  towards  the 
periphery: the census tracts in the centre have a mixed character (multifunctional), and are 
surrounded by others which generally have two activities, while the most peripheral tend to 
specialise in one activity.  

 

14 

 

Figure 8: Typology combining the HH cluster of the three data sources 

 

 

6. CONCLUSIONS 

The work tracks the digital footprint of urban tourists using several data sources and taking the 
city of Madrid  as  the study  area. Three  data  sources  are  used to  identify the  places  where 
tourists  carry  out  their  activities:  geolocated  photographs  from  the  Panoramio  platform 
(sightseeing),  Foursquare  check-ins  (consumption),  and  interaction  on  the  social  network 
Twitter  (being  connected).  Unlike  other  papers,  this  article  not  only  counts  the  density  of 
digital footprints (for example, number of photographs or tweets) but the density of tourists. 
This  mitigates  problems  of  possible  bias  (compulsive  photographers,  Foursquare  users  or 
tweeters) and allows the three data sources to be compared.  

The findings reveal that it is not sufficient to use a single data source to understand the spatial 
distribution  of  tourists  in cities,  as  tourists engage  in  different  activities  in  different  spaces.  
Not  surprisingly,  the  three  data  sources  show  a  high  tourist  density  in  the  historic  centre, 
where  there  is  a  significant  concentration  of  monuments,  shops,  hotels,  restaurants  and 
others.  Tourists’  digital  footprint  also  extends  throughout  other  areas  of  the  city  through 
photographs (football stadiums, bullring, large parks), with Foursquare check-ins (particularly 
in areas specialised in restaurants and shopping), and with tweets. The use of Twitter seems to 
be  related  to  the  location  of  accommodations,  since  Twitter  data  are  spatially  disperse 
covering areas with high offer of accommodation and temporally  concentrated between 18 
and 21 hours.  

 

15 

to  sightseeing,  consumption  or 

The bivariant correlation analysis reveals little similarity between the distributions of tourist 
density on Panoramio and Twitter –on the one hand–, and Panoramio and Foursquare –on the 
other–,  but  a  certain  similarity  between  the  spatial  patterns  of  tourists  according  to 
Foursquare  and  Twitter.  In  a  second  step,  cluster  analysis  was  applied  to  classify  the  city’s 
tourist  areas  based  on  the  intensity  of  the  digital  footprint  left  by  tourists  as  being  more 
oriented 
the  spatial 
autocorrelation  analysis  shows  tourist  activity  by  considering  each  census  sector,  not  in  an 
isolated  way,  but  in  relation  to  the  census  tracts  in  its  surroundings.  The  global  analysis 
confirms  that  Panoramio  reveals  the  lowest  spatial  autocorrelation  (with  several  spatial 
clusters). Areas allowing a wide range of different activities can be differentiated from those 
with a more specialised nature by combining the results of the three data sources. The degree 
of  specialisation  tends  to  increase  from  the  historic  centre  radiating  outwards  towards  the 
periphery.  

Internet  connection.  Finally, 

As in other papers that use Big Data, there is also an underlying problem of bias. Most tourists 
do not upload their photos to photo-sharing communities like Panoramio, and some do not 
even take photographs. Photographs do not always properly reflect all the monuments in the 
city, due to the prohibition against taking photographs in some monuments, and particularly in 
museums. Many tourists do not use social networks like Twitter or Foursquare and only a small 
proportion of Twitter users send geolocated tweets. The source bias is unquestionably difficult 
to identify and correct. In this paper the bias has been mitigated by working with the density of 
tourists rather than with the density of their footprints (photographs, Foursquare check-ins or 
tweets), and avoids counting the same tourist several times –this is especially important in the 
case  of  compulsive  users.  In  addition,  by  comparing  different  data  sources  we  consider 
different  tourist  activities,  and  this  partly  offsets  the  bias  caused  by  working with  only  one 
source.  

Knowledge  of  the  spatial  distribution  of  urban  tourists  is  extremely  important  for  public 
policies. Thus for example in spaces with a high prevalence of tourists, the local authorities 
may envisage actions to improve the experience of the tourists, such as creating pedestrian-
only  streets  or  widening  pavements,  extending  public  spaces  with  free  WiFi,  locating  new 
tourist information points, among others. The spatial distribution of the photographs taken by 
tourists shows there are spaces with a high tourist potential but which are still under exploited 
(for  example,  the  Madrid  Río  axis).  The  results  may  also  be  important  for  pinpointing  new 
opportunities  for  business  for  the  private  sector,  for  example  by  identifying  areas  with 
economies for locating retail tourism where there are still opportunities for expansion.  

 

Acknowledgments.-  

 

REFERENCES 

Anselin, L. (1995). Local Indicators of Spatial Association — LISA. Geographical Analysis 27 (2): 
93–115. doi:10.1111/j.1538-4632.1995.tb00338.x. 
Asakura, Y., Iryo, T. (2007). Analysis of tourist behaviour based on the tracking data collected 
using a mobile communication instrument. Transportation Research Part A: Policy and Practice 
41, 684–690.  

Bassolas,  A.,  Lenormand,  M.,  Gonçalves,  B.,  Tugores,  A.,  Ramasco,  J.J.  (2016).  Touristic  site 

 

16 

attractiveness seen through Twitter. EPJ Data Science 5. doi:10.1140/epjds/s13688-016-0073-5 

Çelikten, E., Falher, G. L., & Mathioudakis, M. (2016). Extracting Patterns of Urban Activity from 
Geotagged Social Data. arXiv preprint arXiv:1604.04649. 
Ciuccarelli, P., Lupi,G.  & Simeone, L. (2014). Visualizing the Data City: Social Media as a Source 
of  Knowledge  for  Urban  Planning  and  Management.  SpringerBriefs  in  Applied  Sciences  and 
Technology. Springer International Publishing. ISBN: 9783319021959. 
Ferreira, A. P. G., Silva, T. H., & Loureiro, A. A. F. (2014). You are your check-in: Understanding 
the behavior of tourists and residents using data from foursquare. In Proceedings of the 20th 
Brazilian Symposium on Multimedia and the Web (pp. 103-110). ACM. 
Frias-Martinez,  V.,  Soto,  V.,  Hohwald,  H.,  &  Frias-Martinez,  E.  (2012).  Characterizing  urban 
landscapes  using  geolocated  tweets.  In  Privacy,  Security,  Risk  and  Trust  (PASSAT),  2012 
International  Conference  on  and  2012  International  Confernece  on  Social  Computing 
(SocialCom) (pp. 239-248). IEEE. 
García-Palomares,  J.C.,  Gutiérrez,  J.  y  Mínguez,  C.  (2015):  Identification  of  tourist  hot  spots 
based  on  social  networks:  a  comparative  analysis  of  European  metropolises  using  photo-
sharing services and GIS. Applied Geography, 63, 408–417. 
Girardin, F., Calabrese, F., Fiore, F.D., Ratti, C., Blat, J. (2008a). Digital Footprinting: Uncovering 
Tourists  with  User-Generated  Content. 
IEEE  Pervasive  Computing  7,  36–43. 
doi:10.1109/MPRV.2008.71 

Girardin, F., Fiore, F. D., Ratti, C., & Blat, J. (2008 b). Leveraging explicitly disclosed location 
information to understand tourist dynamics: a case study. Journal of Location Based Services, 
2(1), 41-56. 
Hawelka, B., Sitko, I., Beinat, E., Sobolevsky, S., Kazakopoulos, P., Ratti, C. (2014). Geo-located 
Twitter as proxy for global mobility patterns. Cartography and Geographic Information Science 
41, 260–271. doi:10.1080/15230406.2014.890072 

Kisilevich, S., Keim, D., Andrienko, N., & Andrienko, G. (2013). Towards acquisition of semantics 
of places and events by multi-perspective analysis of geotagged photo collections. In A. Moore, 
&  Drecki (Eds.),  Geospatial  Visualisation, Lecture  Notes  in  Geoinformation  and  Cartography. 
Berlin Heidelberg: Springer-Verlag. 

Kitchin,  R.  (2013).  Big  Data  and  human  geography  Opportunities,  challenges  and  risks. 
Dialogues in human geography, 3(3), 262-267. 

Koerbitz, W., Önder, I., y Hubmann-Haidvogel, A. C. (2013). Identifying Tourist Dispersion in 
Austria by Digital Footprints (pp. 495-506). Springer Berlin Heidelberg. 

Kurashima,  T.,  Iwata,  T.,  Irie,  G.  y  Fujimura,  K.  (2013).  Travel  route  recommendation  using 
geotagged photos. Knowledge and information systems, 37(1), 37–60. 

Lamsfus,  C.,  Martín,  D.,  Alzua-Sorzabal,  A.,  Torres-Manzanera,  E.  (2015).  Smart  Tourism 
Destinations:  An  Extended  Conception  of  Smart  Cities  Focusing  on  Human  Mobility,  in: 
Tussyadiah,  I.,  Inversini,  A.  (Eds.),  Information  and  Communication  Technologies  in  Tourism 
2015.  Proceedings  of  the  International  Conference  in  Lugano,  Switzerland,  February  3  -  6, 
2015.  Springer  International  Publishing,  Cham,  pp.  363–375.  doi:10.1007/978-3-319-14343-
9_27 

 

17 

Li, X. (2013). Multi-day and multi-stay travel planning using geo-tagged photos. In Proceedings 
of  the  Second  ACM  SIGSPATIAL  International  Workshop  on  Crowdsourced  and  Volunteered 
Geographic Information (pp. 1-8). ACM. 

Lu, X., Wang, C., Yang, J. M., Pang, Y. y Zhang, L. (2010). Photo2trip: generating travel routes 
from geo-tagged photos for trip planning. In Proceedings of the international conference on 
Multimedia (pp. 143–152). ACM. 

McAfee, A., Brynjolfsson, E., Davenport, T. H., Patil, D. J., & Barton, D. (2012). Big data. The 
management revolution. Harvard Bus Rev, 90(10), 61-67. 

Mahadevan, P., Prajish Kuman, P., Vimeesh, M. (2013). Role of social networking in tourism 
marketing- a case study of tavel industry in Kerala. International Journal of Multidisciplinary 
Educational Research 2, 107–117. 

Mocanu, D., Baronchelli, A., Perra, N., Gonçalves, B., Zhang, Q. y Vespignani, A. (2013). The 
twitter of babel: Mapping world languages through microblogging platforms. PloS one, 8(4), 
e61981. 

Murthy, D. (2013). Twitter: Social communication in the Twitter age. John Wiley & Sons. 

Netto, V. M., Pinheiro, M., Meirelles, J. V. y Leite, H. (2015): Digital footprints in the cityscape. 
International Conference on Social Networks, Athens, USA. 

Qu, Y., & Zhang, J. (2013). Trade area analysis using user generated mobile location data. In 
Proceedings of the 22nd international conference on World Wide Web (pp. 1053-1064). ACM. 

Ribeiro, A. I. J. T., Silva, T. H., Duarte-Figueiredo, F., & Loureiro, A. A. (2014). Studying traffic 
conditions  by  analyzing  foursquare  and  instagram  data.  In  Proceedings  of  the  11th  ACM 
symposium on Performance evaluation of wireless ad hoc, sensor, & ubiquitous networks (pp. 
17-24). ACM. 

Sagiroglu,  S.,  &  Sinanc,  D.  (2013).  Big  data:  A  review.  In  Collaboration  Technologies  and 
Systems (CTS), 2013 International Conference on (pp. 42-47). IEEE. 

Salas-Olmedo, M. H., & Rojas-Quezada, C. (2016). Mapping mobility patterns to public spaces 
in a medium-sized city using geolocated tweets. arXiv preprint arXiv:1608.02364. 

Serrano-Estrada, L., Martí, P., & Nolasco-Cirugeda, A. (2016): Reading the social preferences of 
tourist destinations through social media data. In Back to the Sense of the City: International 
Monograph Book (pp. 1065-1075). Centre de Política de Sòl i Valoracions. 

Shelton, T., Poorthuis, A., & Zook, M. (2015). Social media and the city: Rethinking urban socio-
spatial 
information.  Landscape  and  Urban 
Planning, 142, 198-211. 

inequality  using  user-generated  geographic 

Shoval, N., Isaacson, M. (2007). Tracking tourists in the digital age. Annals of Tourism Research 
34, 141–159. doi:10.1016/j.annals.2006.07.007 

Silva, T. H., Vaz de Melo, P. O., Almeida, J. M., Salles, J., & Loureiro, A. A. (2013). A comparison 
of  foursquare  and  instagram  to  the  study  of  city  dynamics  and  urban  social  behavior.  In 
Proceedings of the 2nd ACM SIGKDD international workshop on urban computing (p. 4). ACM. 

Sobolevsky  S,  Sitko  I,  Grauwin  S,  Des  Combes  RT,  Hawelka  B,  et  al.  (2014a)  Mining  Urban 
Performance:  Scale-Independent  Classification  of  Cities  based  on  Individual  Economic 

 

18 

Transactions. In: Big Data Science and Computing, 2014 ASE International Conference on, May 
27–31, Stanford University. p. 10. 

Sobolevsky S, Sitko I, Tachet des Combes R, Hawelka B, Murillo Arias J, et al. (2014b) Money on 
the Move: Big Data of Bank Card Transactions as the New Proxy for Human Mobility Patterns 
and  Regional  Delineation.  The  Case  of  Residents  and  Foreign  Visitors  in  Spain.  In:  Big  Data 
(BigData Congress), 2014 IEEE International Congress on, Jun 27-Jul 2, Anchorage, AK. pp.136–
143. doi:10.1109/BigData.Congress.2014.28. 

Sobolevsky S, Bojic I, Belyi A, Sitko I, Hawelka B, et al. (2015) Scaling of city attractiveness for 
foreign  visitors  through  big  data  of  human  economical  and  social  media  activity. 
arXiv:150406003. 

Straumann, R. K., Çöltekin, A., & Andrienko, G. (2014). Towards (Re) constructing narratives 
from  georeferenced  photographs  through  visual  analytics.  The  Cartographic  Journal,  51(2), 
152-165. 

Sun,  Y.,  &  Fan,  H.  (2014).  Event  Identification  from  Georeferenced  Images.  In  Connecting  a 
Digital Europe through Location and Place. (pp. 73-88). Springer International Publishing. 

Takhteyev,  Y.,  Gruzd,  A.,  &  Wellman,  B.  (2012).  Geography  of  Twitter  networks.  Social 
networks, 34(1), 73-81. 

Vaca,  C.  K.,  Quercia,  D.,  Bonchi,  F.,  &  Fraternali,  P.  (2015).  Taxonomy-based  discovery  and 
annotation of functional areas in the city. In Int. Conference on Web and Social Media. 

Wu,  L.,  Zhi,  Y.,  Sui,  Z.,  &  Liu,  Y.  (2014).  Intra-urban  human  mobility  and  activity  transition: 
evidence from social media check-in data. PloS one, 9(5), e97010. 

 
 

 

 

19 

