Research Agenda in Intelligent Infrastructure to Enhance 

Disaster Management, Community Resilience and Public Safety 

Michael Dunaway 

University of Louisiana at Lafayette 

Robin Murphy 

Texas A&M University 

Nalini Venkatasubramanian 
University of California Irvine 

 

Leysia Palen 

University of Colorado at Boulder 

Daniel Lopresti 
Lehigh University 

 

Challenge and Opportunity 
Modern societies can be understood as the intersection of four interdependent systems: (1) the natural environment of 
geography, climate and weather; (2) the built environment of cities, engineered systems, and physical infrastructure; 
(3) the social environment of human populations, communities and socio-economic activities; and (4) an information 
ecosystem  that  overlays  the  other  three  domains  and  provides  the  means  for  understanding,  interacting  with,  and 
managing the relationships between the natural, built, and human environments. 
As  the  nation  and  its  communities  become  more  connected,  networked  and  technologically  sophisticated,  new 
challenges  and  opportunities  arise  that  demand  a  rethinking  of  current  approaches  to  public  safety  and  emergency 
management.1  Addressing  the  current  and  future  challenges  requires  an  equally  sophisticated  program  of  research, 
technology development, and strategic planning. The design and integration of intelligent infrastructure—including 
embedded sensors, the Internet of Things (IoT), advanced wireless information technologies, real-time data capture 
and  analysis,  and  machine-learning-based  decision  support—holds  the  potential  to  greatly  enhance  public  safety, 
emergency  management,  disaster  recovery,  and  overall  community  resilience,  while  addressing  new  and  emerging 
threats to public safety and security. Ultimately, the objective of this program of research and development is to save 
lives, reduce risk and disaster impacts, permit efficient use of material and social resources, and protect quality of life 
and economic stability across entire regions. 
Recent  advances  in  emergency  management  and  public  safety  have  been  characterized  by  the  integration  of 
technology applications with data and information systems, accompanied by organizational and cultural change. Two 
notable  examples  include  the  FEMA  "whole  of  community"  approach  to  emergency  management  that  combines  a 
formal Incident Command System with data visualization and decision systems, and establishes a National Disaster 
Recovery  Framework  targeting  community  recovery—and  not  simply  emergency  response—as  the  objective  of 
disaster  preparedness;  and  the  Department  of  Justice  "Community  Policing"  initiative  that  combines  technology 
enabled police forces, integrated security systems and data analytics with education, engagement, and empowerment 
of the civil population.  Similar initiatives in collaborative research and development of intelligent infrastructure and 
technologies  are  represented  by  programs  like  the  NIST  and  National  Science  Foundation  Smart  &  Connected 
Communities  programs  that  emphasize  joint  efforts  involving  research  universities  and  laboratories,  commercial 
entities and technology developers, end-users such as first responder groups and local government agencies, aligned 
with federal funding agencies and non-profits.   
At  the  leading  edge  of  these  initiatives  is  the  collection,  integration,  management  and  analysis  of  an  increasingly 
complex web of multi-modal data and digital information originating from mobile, fixed, and embedded sources—the 
information  infrastructure  that  overlays  and  connects  the  natural,  built  and  social  environments.  The  now 
commonplace access to and use of cutting-edge information technologies by private citizens, commercial enterprises, 
and  government  agencies  has  made  possible  the  development  of  a  networked  intelligent  infrastructure  with  the 
capacity to collect multi-source data, and conduct near real-time analyses that integrate social, economic and physical 
dimensions. These capabilities hold the promise to enhance critical decision-making in public safety and emergency 
management through shared situational awareness, predictive analytics, and organizational learning across agencies.   
However,  realizing  this  potential  will  require  continuing  investment  in  research  and  development—targeting  both 
physical and social infrastructures—to define technological requirements, analytic methodologies, social policies and 
strategies to guide development and integration of intelligent infrastructure systems. The success of this endeavor will 
depend on continuing partnerships among university research centers, federal laboratories, private sector research and 
development, and support of federal funding agencies. 

																																																								
1 Mynatt et al. (2017) “A National Research Agenda for Intelligent Infrastructure” CCC Led Whitepapers 
http://cra.org/ccc/resources/ccc-led-whitepapers/, last accessed April 12, 2017. 

	

1 

 
 
Benefits 
The nation currently faces both a strategic challenge and an opportunity brought about by the intersection of three 
major trends: (1) increasing technological sophistication of urban centers and the connectedness of both physical and 
social systems; (2) dramatic changes in hazards and risks at national, regional and local levels, to include the enduring 
threat of mass-casualty terrorism, and the increasing frequency of severe weather events and impact on communities 
and populations; and (3) the need for substantial revitalization of the nation's critical infrastructure systems, to include 
enhanced abilities to detect, prevent and mitigate cyber-security threats to critical high-reliability systems. These three 
trends highlight an urgent need for effects-based research into intelligent infrastructure systems that can achieve long-
term  benefits  in  resilience,  sustainability,  and  disaster  resistance,  while  providing  the  information  backbone  for 
enhanced data collection, analysis, and measurement of effects and outcomes. 
Research in intelligent infrastructure will save lives, improve disaster resilience and enhance quality of life, accelerate 
social and economic recovery and care for victims in disaster-affected regions, and ensure continuity of governance. It 
will  also  create  new  jobs  in  both  public  and  private  sectors  for  individuals  who  have  a  high  comfort  level  with 
computers,  robotics,  and  networks—such  as  veterans  and  displaced  knowledge  workers.  Moreover,  research 
investment will preserve America’s existing high-tech jobs, and maintain our edge in technology innovation, rather 
than  allowing  other  countries  (or  asymmetric  agents)  to  capitalize  on,  re-sell,  or  co-opt  US  industrial  creativity. 
Finally, a national program for investment in intelligent infrastructure can achieve dramatic economies of scale and 
reduce long-term national debt. For example, the National Flood Insurance Program has spent $51B in claims from 
1979-2014  and  is  currently  $24B  in  debt.  The  nation  spends  billions  of  dollars  annually  to  suppress  catastrophic 
wildfires, which consume millions of acres each year. A single major hurricane or tornado can claim hundreds of lives 
and cause billions in damage. Intelligent infrastructure technologies such as computer models taught through machine 
learning  and  calibrated  on  big  data,  combined  with  large-scale  instrumentation  including  ground-based  sensors, 
streaming  video  from  unmanned  aerial  vehicles,  and  satellite  imagery,  could  significantly  reduce  the  social  and 
economic costs of such disasters. 
 
Research Agenda for Public Safety and Resilience 
Dramatic advances in disaster computation are possible with a long-term research investment to facilitate and sustain 
an  organic  research  community.  A  roadmap  would  create  a  common  ground  for  stakeholders  and  researchers  and 
serve as the basis for consensus on high-priority, high-payoff computing capabilities, lower the bar of entry for the 
next generation of researchers, and encourage adoption of technologies by government agencies, operational services, 
and non-government organizations. A broad portfolio is envisioned comprised of a mix of traditional small, medium, 
and  large  grants  managed  through  a  network  of  regional  university-based  centers  that  would  connect  local 
stakeholders  with  researchers  and  provide  testbeds  of  sufficiently  high  fidelity  and  scale  to  support  formative 
experimentation  and  evaluation  of  progress.  Priority  should  be  placed  on  the  following  areas  in  intelligent 
infrastructure: 
 

Sensing, and Data Collection 
o  Sensing  research  (particularly  computer  vision)  to  advance  capabilities  in  environmental  monitoring  and 
interpretation of imagery from mobile perceptive devices (e.g., unmanned aerial, ground, or marine systems, 
smart phones, etc.) and associated video feeds from social media networks. 
o  Methods  to  enable  resilient  integration,  operation,  and  security  of  next  generation  IoT  devices  and 
o  Coordination of air and ground assets for information gathering, and command and control of deployed 

technologies, combining in-situ and mobile sensing deployed in the field. 

responders and organizations engaged in active intervention in disaster scenarios. 
 

Communication and Coordination 
o  Seamless multi-network provisioning utilizing any and all existing wired and wireless infrastructures, new 
long-range  wireless  technologies,  5G,  and  public  safety  networks  cooperatively  managed  for  reliable 
exchange of crisis-related information. 
o  Design of sense-analyze-respond systems to enhance first responder and agency situational awareness and 

support near real-time decision making. 

	

2 

o 
o 

Impact  of  system  degradation  and  failures  within  interdependent  infrastructures  to  develop  analytics  for 
response processes within closely coupled systems and avert cascading casualties. 
Integration and coordination of multi-team systems, i.e., multi-disciplinary teams of first responder groups 
including firefighters, law enforcement, emergency medical, search and rescue, and emergency management 
that must share a common operating picture and coordinate operations across geography in dynamic, high-
stress environments. 
o  Research  into  Software  Defined  Networks  for  emergency  management  communications  to  establish  and 
manage  priority  among  disaster-related  data  transmitted  via  both  standard  wireless  carriers  and  gigabit-
capacity  networks  that  may  become  degraded  or  overloaded  (particularly  with  streaming  video)  during 
emergency conditions.   

appropriate and adaptive response, and to refine response planning. 

 
Big Data Modeling frameworks, Analytics and Tools for Disaster Prediction and Management 
o  Probabilistic  modeling  of  complex  events  to  develop  predictive  analytics  and  enhance  the  capabilities  for 
o  Multilevel,  multiscale  modeling  methods  for  understanding  factors  that  contribute  to  or  undermine 
community resilience, and permits the capture and visualization of data elements reflecting different aspects 
of a community, from physical geography to built infrastructure to activities, entities, events, and processes 
on  the  infrastructure,  and  the  impact  on  overall  community  resilience  metrics.  Such  multiscale  modeling 
techniques  would  be  designed  to  capture  entities  and  events  in  the  framework  at  different  levels  of 
abstraction. 
o  Research into protocols and methods for ensuring both reliability and privacy of data collection and analytics 

during emergency situations, disasters, and crises.   

o 

o 

 
Social Computing, Human Factors, and the Information Infrastructure 
o  Advanced information infrastructure that integrates information technologies with new analytic approaches 
to  yield  new  data  for  new  situations,  applications  and  communities.  This  aim  reflects  a  multidisciplinary 
approach that combines computing and social science with knowledge of disaster characteristics to enable the 
capture of information generated by the affected populations for conditions and crises of previously unknown 
character (e.g., widespread pandemic, nuclear terrorist incident, or a regional-scale earthquake). 
Research  into  disaster  resilient  communications  technologies  and  data  management  strategies  to  manage 
uncertainty  and  respond  creatively  across  disaster  warning,  response,  and  recovery.  This  effort  includes 
forecast data and sensor data, as well as data from online participation in social media and peer production 
platforms. 
Research into the integration of social network analysis with geographic information systems (GIS) mapping 
to  permit  visual  representation  of  human  populations  (the  community  civic  infrastructure)  as  is  currently 
done for mapping community critical infrastructures. 
Research  into  learning  systems  and  predictive  analytics  to  aid  decision-making  during  large-scale,  mass-
casualty events that affect populations and communities differentially, with situations changing quickly over 
time. In these dynamic situations, the data produced through social media by people affected by disasters are 
hyper-localized and hyper-temporalized, as are the answers and assistance sought by affected populations. 
o  Development of algorithms for anticipatory information management based on social media queries and data 
o  Methods for reliably incorporating human input via social media and other sources to augment situational 
o  Natural  interfaces  and  tools  that  enhance  human  capabilities  to  ask  questions  in  a  high-level  manner  that 

awareness with citizen perspectives of ground truth during incidents. 

requests originating from disaster affected populations; 

o 

facilitate making decisions during extreme events. 

 
Summary: Intelligent Infrastructure for Research in Disaster Management, Resilience, and Public Safety 
The  preceding  highlights  a  significant  research  agenda  for  development,  deployment,  and  integration  of  Intelligent 
Infrastructure to enhance community resilience, public safety, and disaster management in the emerging environment 
of smart and connected communities. An equal imperative exists for building and sustaining an Intelligent Research 
Infrastructure to advance capabilities in data acquisition and dissemination, analytics and decision-systems, human 
factors and social science, and to ensure continuing development of the next generation of researchers and technology 
developers.  Continuing  investment  in  university  research  centers,  private  sector  enterprise,  and  government 
laboratories and agencies is a critical component of this national intelligent infrastructure.   
 

	

3 

This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. (1136993). Any 
opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not 
necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation. 

	

4 

