    Communications for Wearable Devices 

    Shivram Tabibu 

 

Abstract. Wearable devices are transforming computing  and the human-computer interaction 
and  they  are  a  primary  means  for  motion  recognition  of  reflexive  systems.  We  review  basic 
wearable  deployments  and  their  open  wireless  communications.  An  algorithm  that  uses 
accelerometer data to provide a control and communication signal is described.  Challenges in 
the  further  deployment  of  wearable  device  in  the  field  of  body  area  network  and  biometric 
verification are discussed. 

 

Introduction 

layer  to  human-machine 

interaction  [1][2][3][4][5].  Wireless  communication 

Wearable  wireless  communication  system  is  exciting  new frontier  techniques  and  it  is  adding 
another 
is 
necessary to make it possible for wearable devices to transmit data to proximate devices and 
this  brings  up  many  problems  of  transmission  and  software  control  6][7][8].  There  are  many 
devices  operating  in  the  localized  region  or  within  human  body  contact,  such  as  the  smart 
phone  watch,  wearable  computing  devices,  RFID  and  health  care  monitoring  devices 
[9][10][11], and the RF band is shared with mobile/ cellphones, WLAN, Personal area networks, 
satellite  communications  and  many  other  applications  [12]-[21].  Data  transmission  must  be 
secure since wearable devices transmit vital information and it is data that needs to be private 
and for this  both  access  control  and encryption must be  employed  [22].  Questions  related to 
security over  the  network  must  also be  addressed  and  future  solutions that  include  quantum 
algorithms must be researched [23]-[30]. 
 
Several  wireless  communication  systems  deal  with  the  specific  issues  of  body  centric 
communication using a device like a radio terminal placed on the skin surface of human body. 
The  communication  system  aims  at  short-range  communication  like-  personal  area  networks 
(PAN) and body area network (BAN), using human body as a transmission conduit.  
 
The objective of this paper is to explore the usage of wearable devices for activity recognition 
by using wireless communication channel where the transmission of signal through body area 
network  uses  half  duplex  communication  with  the  help  of  a  wearable  device  wireless 
communication.  The  activity  recognition  shall  be  explained  by  using  a  single  wearable  device 
accelerometer  sensor  data  to  understand  wireless  communication  mechanism  of  a  single 
wearable device. The signal transmission network of a wearable device via human body or any 
reflexive system to deal with a propagating signal will also be examined.  
 

 

1 

 
 

Background 

Prior research on body-centric communications explains the transmission process of a wearable 
device  in  terms  of  physical  layer  and  interface  of  the  electromagnetic  (EM)  wave  with  the 
human  body.  The  electric-field  distribution  of  a  wearable  device  with  human  body  as  a 
transmission  conduit  was  evaluated  by  the  finite  difference  time  domain  (FDTD)  method  and 
confirmed via trial experiments [5]. 
 
The wireless communication system for a wearable device is illustrated by establishing an intra 
body  network  to  transmit  information  to  proximate  devices.  Figure  1  explains  the  hardware 
design of an Intra Body Communication System. The module comprises of a Serial interface unit 
(SIU),  a  serializer/deserializer  and  a  modulator/  demodulator.  In  order  to  interface  with 
embedded microcontrollers, the serial interface is used as an on-chip communication system.  
 
The  communication  module  is  controlled  by  the  integrated  processor  via  serial  interface.  It 
transforms  the  data  to  serial  form  and  applies  FIFO  to  improve  system  efficiency.  It  is  then 
modulated to turn into transmission signal for communication for Intra Body. Modulation along 
the signal transmitter is done by modulator where the serial data is modulated with a specified 
frequency  in  order  to  use  a  given  system  as  a  transmission  line  and  there  is  a  corresponding 
demodulator.  Deserializer  allows  the  transmission  of  data  from  demodulator  to  the  main 
processor  and  the  SIU.  The  system  is  implemented  on  FPGA  with  a  size  of  wrist  watch  sized 
devices. 

                           

 

Figure 1. Block diagram-  Hardware Architecture of a Communication System module of Intra Body [1]. 

 
 

Wireless  communication  may  also  be  achieved  via  a  wearable  device  (e.g.  TI  EZ  430  Chronos 
smart  watch).  The  EZ  430-Chronos  is  a  wireless  wearable  device  with  several  activity 

2 

 

recognition features. It comes along with an access point (i.e. the neighboring device the watch 
can  communicate  with)  in  the  form  of  a  dongle,  communicating  on  one  side  to  the  watch 
through  radio  frequency  wireless  communication  of  900  MHz  and  on  the  other  side 
communicates with a PC by means of USB interface as shown in Figure 2.  
 
The  communication  with  the  watch  is  to  obtain  graphical  sensor  data,  perform  sensor 
calibration  and  provide  health  data  by  connecting  the  USB  interface  with  a  main  receiving/ 
processing  station.  The  watch  is  basically  a  sensor  node  for  wireless  data  reception.  It  is  an 
integrated system consisting of a segmented LCD (96 segment display), a pressure sensor and 
three  axis  accelerometer  sensor  for  detecting  variations  of  different  motion  along  with  MSP 
430  (a 
low-power  microcontroller)  development  kit.  The  data  acquired  from  3-axis 
accelerometer sensor can be exploited to govern the electrical appliances in a home. 
 

    Figure 2. Block diagram of Hardware Architecture of an Intra Body Communication System/ module 

(https://exosite.com/ti-chronos-ez430-watch-pc-gateway/) 

 

The  general  RF  communication  is  illustrated  in  figure  3.  It  is  clear  from  the  figure  that  an  RF 
switch  is  integrated  before  the  LNA  module  to  increase  the  isolation  between  different 
communication bands. To increase the dual-band wireless receivers’ sensitivity, LNA (Low Noise 
Amplifier) is used and it also prevents interference from undesirable signals. 

 

              Figure 3. Block diagram of Hardware Architecture of an Intra Body Communication System/ module       
                    
 

 

 

 

3 

Wireless Communication for Home Automation using Wearable Device 

The accelerometer integrated inside a wearable device is exploited in different ways to control 
various processes that may include appliances. 
 
The primary idea is to transmit the attained human activity level by communicating through RF 
signals (Serial Communication) into a form of electrical energy which finally assists in controlling 
electrical appliances. Firstly, a person / human being is sited by the PIR sensor; then the watch 
checks  the  motion  of  the  accelerometer  and  based  on  the  data  available  a  definite  action  is 
executed.  The  eZ430  is  a  CC430  microcontroller  (Low  Power  RF  Microcontroller)  like  the  one 
used in sports for fitness tracking. One of its most unique  features is that it can be used as a 
base platform for wearable systems or as wireless sensor node for data collection. 
 
The software control center associated with eZ430- Chronos has numerous features validating 
the  wireless  communication  competences  of  the  watch  on  Windows  and  Linux  operating 
system.  Several  RF  protocol  can be  selected for  use, depending  on  the  purpose.  The  Chronos 
module  communicates  to  PC  through  a  RF  USB  debugging  interface/  CC1111  RF  USB  access 
point.  It  transmits  3-  axis  acceleration  values  and  after  transmission  is  successful,  the  control 
center  station  reports  as  “Acquiring  data  from  accelerometer  sensor”  and  the  values  are 
displayed w.r.t each axis (X, Y, Z). It has these other features: 
 

  3 axis accelerometer sensor data graph 
  PowerPoint/ remote control 
  Synchronization of time, date and calibration data 
  Heart beat rate 
  Software update  

The eZ430 consists of two important modes- ACC & PPT/ Synch mode. The watch has to be set 
to ACC mode in order to activate wireless communication of accelerometer data transmission. 
After  the  USB  access  point  is  started,  the  control  center  exhibits-  “Access  point  started.  Now 
start watch in ACC, PPT or Synch mode.”  
 

Figure 4. Block diagram of Hardware Architecture of an Intra Body Communication System/ module 

 

4 

 

 
The whole procedure involves the following steps: 

  Transmission of the raw data from the TIEZ430 watch over the Radio Frequency 
  Reception of the data and converting the data from the raw to required type 
  Using this data for effective analysis and controlling the required electrical appliance 

 
The  communication  starts  with  a  PIR  (Passive  Infrared  Sensor)  sensor  which  is  often used  for 
motion detection in its vicinity. The specific motion of the watch is detected by the PIR sensor. 
When the particular PIR sensor is activated, it states that the human/ person has entered the 
room i.e., he/ she is in the locale of the sensor.  
 
Once  the  particular  motion  of  the  watch  is  perceived  by  sensor,  the  light  or  the  electrical 
appliance in the room gets powered ON. In addition to that, when the motion of the watch is 
activated again; the sensor identifies the signal and the light or the electrical appliance is turned 
OFF. 
 
The wireless communication outline is illustrated in the following diagram: 
 

                          

 

Figure 5. Wireless Communication outline structure using TI eZ430- Chronos for home automation 

For  example,  if  the  motion  of  hand  (with  watch  worn)  is  in  vertical  direction,  the  light  gets 
turned  ON.  If  the  motion  of  the  hand  is  horizontal,  the  light  gets  turned  OFF.  For  other 
movements apartment from horizontal and vertical, there is no activity (DO NOTHING) in the 
room. 
 
The  algorithm  to  activate  the  watch  is  developed  using  Matlab  and  the  completed  data 
processing  takes  place  within  Matlab.  The  values  obtained  from  the  accelerometer  sensor 
inside the watch are given below. 
 
 
 
 
 

5 

 

 
                  Table 1. Data obtained from the accelerometer sensor 

         

 

          
 
The algorithm in the Matlab is written in such a way that first it calculates the mean average of 
all values for ON, OFF & DO NOTHING. Figure 6 presents the output of the RF USB access mode 
for the two case of “no signal” and of “trigger”. 
 

 

Figure 6. Off mode output (left); On mode output (right) 

 
 
The flow diagram of Figure 7 describes the algorithm more clearly. 

 

 

6 

Figure 7. Working Flow diagram of the algorithm for processing TI eZ430- Chronos accelerometer data  

 

 

Working of the Algorithm 

The computation is associated with PIR Sensor stimulation by sensing a human activity level in a 
particular room via TI Chronos smart watch. The following steps clarify the operation: 

 

Initially the watch is regulated through TI Chronos Control center software according to 
the human activity level because every human has different muscular reflexive action.   
 

  Next, the TI watch is triggered to ACC mode before initiating data transmission.  

 

  Subsequently the person wearing the wearable device enters a particular room  where 
the PIR sensor is integrated. The corresponding PIR sensor gets triggered and it indicates 
the detection of person. 
 

  After detection, the user triggers the watch in ACC mode and concurrently the Matlab 
algorithm  is  initiated  to  process  the  accelerometer  data  being  continuously  received 
from the watch. 
 

  With respect to the motion, with in X/Y/Z axis, the appliance is triggered to ON state. In 
the  experiment  for  turning  the  lights  ON,  we  chose  the  hand  motion  across  Z-axis 
resulting  out  the  mean average  value  in  the  range  of  240  to  286.  For  turning  OFF  the 
appliance (motion across Y-axis), the range of mean average value lies amid 323 to 384. 
For  further  movements  apart  from  Y/Z  axis,  there  is  no  intended  action  i.e.,  (DO 
NOTHING). 

The  following  results  show  the  output  of  the  algorithm  to  ascertain  that  how  a  wireless 
communication via a small wearable device can be applied: 

7 

 

               
Figure 8. Output from the Home Automation Server for Wireless Communication via TI wireless device controlling 

 

home appliances  

As  it  is  clearly  visible, that  whenever  the  corresponding  PIR  sensor  is  activated  using  wireless 
device  communication,  the  electrical  appliance  is  either  turned  ON/  turned  OFF  via  home 
automation wireless communication server. 
 

Applications 

There  ae  several  applications  in  several  fields  for  wireless  communication  using  wearable 
devices. Every medical, automotive, defense and manufacturing industry is trying to implement 
wearable  devices  for  controlling  the  system,  to  optimize  the  power  and  make  the  process 
control  flow  easier.  Some  of  the  applications  are  as  below:  Home  automation  for  motion 
controlled  devices  including  home  electrical  systems/  appliances;  Minimizing  the  work  for 
elderly/  physically  impaired  people  in  functioning  the  home  appliances;  A  methodology  to 
control the excess consumption of electricity by switching the electrical appliance; Optimization 
of Power in process control industry; Automated missile technology; Wireless communication & 
tracking; Healthcare, monitoring & sensing; Smart cards, labels, devices. 
 
Wearable devices can also be used in biometric applications that are completely dependent on 
the human body. Body sensor network/ body area network is a part of wireless communication 
for  integrating  several  sensor  nodes  concentrated  on  a  person’s  conduit.  The  prompt 
advancement  of  microprocessor  technology  in  the  field  of  wireless  communication  has 
advanced the technology of body area network in healthcare watching, blood/glucose level 
analysis,  human  sensing  recognition,  fitness  monitoring  etc.  Since  every  wearable  device 
usually contains personal information, hence data outflow from a wearable device is viewed 
as a big task, which may result in data loss. Thus, it is a primary task to ensure the security of 
data flow in wearable device. 
 
This technology fulfils a current need in the field of information technology security. It uses 
human speech, eye-iris, finger-print or ECG/ EEG pattern for biometric verification. But it has 
several  challenges  that  today’s  scientists  are  facing  during  experiments.  Also  the  ECG/  EEG 

8 

 

reports are not so reliable and EEG headset while the time of recording is sometimes difficult 
to  wear  for  a  longer  duration.  The  iris  verification  is  also  challenging  because  of  the 
limitations  of  wearable  device  build.  Consequently,  a  novel  methodology  to  biometric 
verification is needed in a wearable device. 
 

Conclusions 

Current research is being carried out in this field in combining several wearable sensor devices 
with an accelerometer to recognize daily activities and transmit the information to the receiving 
station. The governing expert recommends the small spectrum of RF band  for technical study 
and  further  research.  The  exploration  on  hardware  resources  and  life  of  battery  required  for 
wearable device to establish a long term wireless communication channel has not achieved a 
breakthrough  yet.  In  addition  to  it,  the  key  aim  for  the  communication  for  wearable  devices 
includes the following: 
 

  Minimize the number of iterations essential to trigger the electrical device  
 
  Reduce the number of times the accelerometer is reset 

Judgement/ decision making in a less amount of time  

 
With the transformation of wireless communication in every field/ industry, it is expected that 
wearable devices will be available to the general public. It is not unreasonable to assume that 
several medical examinations, industrial power optimization and process flow control requiring 
a  person  to  trigger  the  corresponding  activity  shall  eventually  be  performed  by  wearable 
devices. 
 
Wearable  devices  shall  become  the  mainstream  for  advancement  of  mobile  smart  devices 
which in the long run shall change completely the modern way of life. Using a wearable device 
sensor,  several  other  daily  activities  could  be  recognized  by  combining  pressure  sensors  & 
accelerometers and extracting data via wireless communication for further analysis.  
 
Wearable  device  technology  combined  with  big  data  analysis  provides  a  pathway  to  another 
revolution. Even in the big data milieu via wireless communication, the wearable market shall 
have  a  greater  impact  &  development  creating  huge  capital  along  with  making  people’s  life 
more opportune. 
 
References 

1.  Sang  Don  Kim,  Sam  Muk  Lee,  and  Seung  Eun  Lee.  Secure  Communication  System  for 
Wearable Devices Wireless Intra Body Communication. IEEE International Conference on 
Consumer Electronics (ICCE), 2015. 

 

9 

2.  A.  A.  Pyattaev,  K.  Johnsson,  Sergey  Andreev,  and  Y.  Koucheryavy.  Communication 
Challenges  in  High  Density  Deployments  of  Wearable  Wireless  Devices.  IEEE  Mobile 
Wearable Communications, 2015.  

3.  Sang  il  Kwak,  Dong-Uk  Sim,  Jim  Hwa  Kwon  and  Hyung  Do  Choi.  Design  of  Wearable 
Communication  Device  for  Body  Protection  from  EM  wave  using  the  EBG  structure. 
Proceedings of the 40th European Microwave Conference, 2010. 

4.  S.  Chernbumroong,  A.  S.  Atkins,  and  Hongnian  Yu.  Activity  Classification  using  a  single 
wrist-  worn  accelerometer.  5th  International  Conference  on  Software,  Knowledge 
Information, Industrial Management and Applications (SKIMA), 2011. 

5.  Takayuki  Sasamori,  MAsaharu  Takahashi,  and  Toru  Uno.  Transmission  Mechanism  of 
Wearable Device for On-Body Wireless Communications. IEEE Transactions on Antennas 
and Propagation, 2009. 

6.  He Jiang, Xin Chen, Shuwei Zhang, Xin Zhang, Weiqiang Kong, Tao Zhang. Software for 
Wearable  Devices  and  Opportunities.  IEEE  39th  Annual  Computer  Software  and 
Applications Conference (COMPSAC), 2015. 

7.  Roberto  Vito  Rodrigues  Filho,  Renato  Freitas  Bulcao  Neto,  Bruno  Oliveira  Silvestre, 
Leandro  Luis  Galdino  de  Oliveira,  Rogerio  Orlow  de  Oliveira,  and  Iwens  Gervasio  Sene 
Junior. An Evaluation Method of Research on Wearable Wireless Body Area Network in 
Healthcare.  International  Journal  of  Computer  Science  &  Information  Technology 
(IJCSIT), 2013. 

8.  European  Commission  Paper  (For  Public  Feedback).  Smart  Wearables:  Reflection  and 
Orientation  Paper.  Directorate-  General  for  Communications  Networks,  Content  and 
Technology, 2016. 

9.  Texas Instruments. eZ430- Chronos Development Tool, User’s Guide. Literature Number: 

SLAU292G, 2015. 

10. Steven W. Smith. The Scientist and Engineer’s Guide to Digital Signal Processing. Second 

Edition, 1999. 

11. P. Bonato. Wearable sensors/systems and their impact on biomedical engineering. IEEE 

Eng. Med. Biol. Mag., 2003. 

12. M.  Billinghurst  and  T.  Starner.  Wearable  Devices:  New  Ways  to  Manage  Information. 

Computer, vol. 32, no. 1. 1999. 

13. http://wearcam.org/icwc/index.html. 

Computing. 1998. 

International 

Conference 

on  Wearable 

14. E.  Jovanov.  Wireless  technology  and  system  integration  in  body  area  networks  for  m-

Health application. Proc. 27th Ann. Int. Conf. IEEE EMBS, Shanghai, China, 2005. 

15. W. Mundt, K. N. Montgomery, U. E. Udoh, V. N. Barker, G. C. Thonier, A. M. Tellier, R. D. 
Ricks, R. B. Darling, Y. D. Cagle, N. A. Cabrol, S. J. Ruoss, J. L. Swain, J. W. Hines, and G. T. 
A.  Kovacs.  A  multiparameter  wearable  physiologic  monitoring  system  for  space  and 
terrestrial applications. IEEE Trans Inform. Technol. Biomed., 2005. 

10 

 

16. J.  Mühlsteff  et  al.  Wearable  approach  for  continuous  ECG  and  activity  patient-

monitoring. Proc. 26th Ann. Int. Conf. IEEE EMBS, San Francisco, CA, 2004. 

17. Bor-Shing  Lin,  Bor-Shyh  Lin,  Nai-Kuan  Chou,  Fok-Ching  Chong,  Sao-Jie  Chen,  C.D.  Real-
time  Wireless  Physiological  Monitoring  System  (RTWPMS).  IEEE  Transactions  on 
Information Technology in Biomedicine, 2006. 

18. ABI Research. Wearable Computing Technologies. 2013.  
19. R.  Fletcher  et  al.  iCalm:  Wearable  Sensor  and  Network  Architecture  for  Wirelessly 
Communicating and Logging Autonomic Activity. IEEE Trans. Information Technology in 
Biomedicine, 2010. 

20. S. Kak, The Loom of Time. DKPrintworld, New Delhi, 2016. 
21. J.  Li,  Yuhang  Liu,  Z.  Nie,  W.  Qin,  Z.  Pang  and  L.  Wang.  An  Approach  to  Biometric 
Verification  Based  on  Human  Body  Communication  in  Wearable  Devices.  Shenzhen 
Institutes of Advanced Technology, Chinese Academy of Science, Shenzhen, 2017. 
22. F. Bastani and T. Tang. Improving Security of Wireless Communication in Medical 

Devices. MIT. December 17, 2014. 

23. S. Kak, The initialization problem in quantum computing. Foundations of Physics, 29, 

(1999), 267-279. 

24. S. Kak, Quantum information and entropy. Int. Journal of Theo. Phys., 46, (2007), 860- 

876. 

25. S. Kak, The three languages of the brain: quantum, reorganizational, and associative. 
In  Learning  as  Self-Organization,  K.  Pribram  and  J.  King  (editors).  Lawrence  Erlbaum 
Associates, Mahwah, NJ, 185-219, 1996 

26. S.  Kak,  Active  agents,  intelligence,  and  quantum  computing.  Information  Sciences 

2000; 128: 1-17 

27. A.    Gupta  and  R.  K.  Jha,  A  Survey  of  5G  Network:  Architecture  and  Emerging 

Technologies. IEEE Access, 2015: 1206-1232. 

28. M.  Rabin,  Digitalized  signatures  and  public  key  functions  as  intractable  as  factoring. 

Tech. Rep. MIT/LCS/TR-212, MIT, 1979. 

29. S. Even, O. Goldreich, A. Lempel, A randomized protocol for signing contracts. Comm. 

of the ACM 28: 637-647, 1985. 

30. S.  Singh,  The  Code  Book:  the  Secret  History  of  Codes  and  Code-breaking. 

FourthEstate, London, 1999. 
 
 

 

11 

