RFID-based Solutions for Smarter Healthcare  

 

Cristina Turcu*. Cornel Turcu.** 



* Stefan cel Mare University of Suceava, Suceava, Romania 

(e-mail: *cristina.turcu@usv.ro, **cornel.turcu@usv.ro) 

Abstract:  This  paper  proposes  the  application  of  RFID  technology  in  healthcare  industry  based  on  its 
increased  functionality,  high reliability, easy-to-use capabilities and low cost.  After a brief presentation 
of RFID technologies and their applications, the paper describes an RFID-based system that can provide 
efficient  facilities  to  allow  essential  information  management  for  emergency  care  across  hospital 
boundaries.  This  system  performs  RFID-based  identification  of  the  patients,  querying  and  retrieving 
medical data from various existing healthcare information systems, as well as storing and giving the most 
clinically  significant  information  to  the  clinicians.  Also,  the  system  allows  identifying  and  tracking 
RFID- tagged objects in order to provide new quality services for the mobility of objects. 

Keywords: RFID, healthcare. 

1. INTRODUCTION 



In  2000,  the  United  States  (U.S.)  National  Institute  of 
Medicine  issued  the  report  entitled:  “To  Err  Is  Human, 
Building a Safer Health System”, which drew attention on the 
spreading  problem  of  often  preventable  medical  errors 
throughout the U.S. hospitals (Kohn, Corrigan & Donaldson, 
2000).  The  report  emphasizes  that  each  year  more  than 
98,000  deaths  and  770,000  adverse  drug  events  in  the  U.S. 
are  caused  by  preventable  medical  errors.  These  are 
significant numbers considering the fact that the U.S. has the 
highest healthcare expenditure in the world. 

This paper aims to show how Radio Frequency IDentification 
(RFID)  technologies  can  be  used  for  building  smarter 
healthcare  by  reducing  errors,  improving  patient  safety,  and 
optimizing business processes.  

In the second section, we briefly introduce RFID technology 
and  some  of  its  applications  in  healthcare.  The  third  section 
presents an RFID-based system that could be used in smarter 
healthcare  initiative.  The  conclusion  summarizes  the  main 
achievements of this paper.  

2. RFID TECHNOLOGIES IN HEALTHCARE 

2.1 RFID Background 

Radio  Frequency  IDentification  (RFID)  technologies  are 
wireless  Automatic  Identification  and  Data  Capture  (AIDC) 
technologies that  allow the automatic identification of living 
or non-living entities, collecting data about these entities and 
storing  this  data  on  computer  systems.  RFID  technology  is 
similar  to  a  well-known  and  widely  used  AIDC  technology 
which  is  barcode  technology.  Although  barcodes  offer  some 
advantages over RFID, (especially their low cost), there are a 
number  of  characteristics  particular  to  RFID  which  makes 
this  technology  superior  to  barcodes  in  terms  of  (1)  non 

optical  proximity  communication,  (2)  information  density, 
(3)  two-  way  communication  ability  and  (4)  multiple 
simultaneous  reading  (the  reading  of  more  than  one  item  at 
once) (Roberts, 2006). 

The  basic  RFID  system  architecture  has  two  components: 
contactless electronic tags and an RFID reader. The RFID tag 
is  used  to  store  unique  identification  data  and  other  specific 
information  whereas  the  RFID  reader  allows  reading  and 
writing these tags. An RFID tag is attached to or embedded in 
the  individual  that  is  to  be  identified.  Tags  fall  into  three 
categories:  active  (battery-powered),  passive  (the  reader 
signal  is  used  for  activation)  or  semi-passive  (battery-
assisted, activated by a signal from the reader).  

RFID  systems  require  software,  network  and  database 
components that should enable information flow from tags to 
the  organisation’s  information  infrastructure,  where  the 
information is processed and stored. Systems are application-
specific (OECD, 2008).  

On  a  worldwide  level,  various  RFID  applications  are 
employed  across  a  wide  and  rapidly  expanding  range  of 
industries.  Thus,  RFID  applications  offer  solutions  for:  1) 
logistical tracking and tracing, 2) production, monitoring and 
maintenance,  3)  product  safety,  quality  and  information,  4) 
access  control  and  tracking  and  tracing  of  individuals,  5) 
loyalty,  membership  and  payment,  6)  healthcare,  7)  sport, 
leisure and household, 8) public services. 

The  next  section  briefly  presents  some  of  the  real-world 
applications of RFID technologies in healthcare.  

2.2 RFID Applications in Healthcare 

According to various studies and reports, RFID technologies 
provide  numerous  solutions  for  the  main  areas  of  healthcare 
industry.  Thus,  e.g.,  the  Kalorama  Information  report,  The 
Global Market for RFID in Healthcare, considers the market 

 

 
 

and 

for  RFID  opportunities  in  the  healthcare  industry,  focusing 
on  five  market  segments:  1)  pharmaceutical/blood  product 
distribution 
staff 
identification  and  tracking,  3)  medical  asset  tracking  and 
locating,  4)  implantable  device  RFID  use,  5)  other  areas 
(including  medical  documents 
records) 
(Kalorama, 2010). 

patient/medical 

and  patient 

tracking, 

2) 

 

few years and continues to decrease, researchers estimate that 
healthcare  industry  will  benefit  from  RFID  in  a  number  of 
other  applications.  Next  an  RFID-based  case  study  for 
healthcare is presented. 

3. CASE STUDY 

Below  are  some  examples  of  RFID  applications 
healthcare: 

in 

3.1 General Presentation 

Supply  chain  applications.  RFID  solutions  optimise  supply 
chain  management  (SCM)  in  the  medical/  pharmaceutical 
industry  by  ensuring  improved  visibility  throughout  the 
supply chain. 

Patient  care  applications.  This  may  include  improved 
positive patient identification through the use of RFID tags to 
reduce  the  number  of  incidents  harmful  to  patients  (e.g., 
wrong  drug  or  blood  type),  and  the  number  of  cases  of 
mismatching  between  the  baby  and  the  mother.  Also,  real-
time  tracking of a patient's location in the  hospital results in 
higher safety conditions and improved bed placement. 

Inventory  management  applications.  Not  requiring  line-of-
sight  scanning,  RFID 
inventory 
management,  allowing  for  a  reduction  of  the  time  necessary 
to  perform  an  accurate  inventory  and  a  decrease  in  overall 
inventory costs, etc. 

technology 

improves 

Asset  management.  RFID  solutions  improve  traceability  of 
assets,  allowing  localisation  of  a  mobile  asset  at  all  times, 
which  reduces  leases  and  the  amount  of  time  medical  staff 
spend searching for equipment. 

Home-based  healthcare.  Application  domains 
include 
various telemedicine solutions that consider RFID applied for 
in-patient or out-patient. 

RFID  sensor  healthcare  applications.  This  may  include 
wireless  sensors  to  monitor  patient  temperature,  Parkinson’s 
disease, post-surgery awakening, etc. 

tagging  of  assets  (medical 
These  applications  require 
equipment)  and/or  actors  (doctors,  nurses,  patients,  etc.)  etc. 
Furthermore, RFID readers are placed  in important locations 
within the hospital, healthcare provider institution, etc. 

Various  studies  (e.g.,  BRIDGE  project  (BRIDGE,  2007)) 
estimate a significant increase of RFID use in healthcare and 
pharmaceutical industry in the coming years (Table 1). 

Table 1. Forecast for RFID use in healthcare and 

pharmaceutical industry 

 

2007 

2012 

2017 

2022 

Total RFID tags (in Millions) 

- on hospital assets 

- on laboratory samples 

- on drugs 

8 

2 

1 

5 

352 

1720 

6740 

98 

8 

190 

30 

320 

40 

246 

1500 

6380 

Locations with RFID readers 

110 

2.770 

11.900 

40.600 

Total number of RFID readers 

 

180 

12.600 

70.200  208.000 

Once the cost of RFID has fallen dramatically within the past 

 

information 

Today’s  Romanian  medical  sector  has  not 
taken  full 
advantage from all the achievements of information systems. 
Patient-related 
is  scattered  among  various 
medical units, the patients’ charts have no standardized form 
or content and are seldom complete or up-to-date; moreover, 
if  need  be,  they  cannot  be  accessed  online  by  the  medical 
staff.  Another issue of healthcare system is related to supply 
chain 
theft, 
counterfeiting, etc. 

inventory  management, 

such 

and 

as, 

Considering  these  major  inconveniencies,  an  RFID-based 
system  for  the  distributed  medical  field  could  prove  to  be  a 
viable  solution.  Thus,  we  propose  a  system,  here  named 
vITALIS  (Internet  of  Things  based  Health  Information 
System),  that  allows  the  management  of  the  information 
related  to  any  object  or  person,  unique  identifiable:  patient, 
medical staff, medical equipment, etc.  

This  system  enables  real-time  patient  identification  and 
latest  Radio  Frequency 
monitoring,  by  employing 
the 
Identification  and  multi-agent 
technologies.  It  ensures 
collaborative problem solving in distributed environment and 
provides  communication 
infrastructure  with  multi-point 
connections  to  the  medical  information  within  the  system. 
Thus, key medical information about the patient, such as drug 
allergies,  blood  type,  etc.,  is  stored  on  the  individual’s 
medical  card  (which  is,  in  fact,  a  passive  RFID  tag).  This 
card  provides  quick  access  to  the  information  regarding  the 
actual health state of a patient and helps the medical staff take 
the best decisions, especially in case of emergency. Thus, by 
using  this  system,  even  when  the  patient  is  unconscious, 
incoherent  or  unable  to  speak,  emergency  medical  staff  can 
read  patient’s  card  to  quickly  check  blood  type,  current 
treatments, medical and allergy history. 

VITALIS  proposes  a  dual  solution,  a  referential  and  a  non-
referential  approach.  Thus,  the  considered  card  may  also 
store  some  data  that  provide  secure  access  to  the  patient’s 
electronic  health  care  records  kept  in  an  electronic  health 
record  (EHR)  system,  located  elsewhere.  Hence,  authorized 
staff  can  get  additional  health  information  about  the  patient, 
like past medical history, etc. This RFID-based system could 
be  employed  to  ensure  positive  patient  identification  (PPI) 
within 
extends  patient 
identification across hospital boundaries, through the use of a 
specialised  agent 
information 
sharing  protocol.  Hence,  the  system  can  integrate  with 
existing  medical 
the 
application  running  on  RFID-enabled  mobile  devices  gives 
healthcare  providers  the  information  and  capabilities  they 
need  wherever  and  whenever  they  need  them.  Thus,  this 
RFID-based  software  system 
is  an  open-loop  RFID 
application that could function across hospital boundaries. 

information  systems.  Moreover, 

a  hospital.  Furthermore, 

implements  specific 

that 

it 

 
 

 

Furthermore,  the  proposed  system  involves  attaching  RFID 
tags  to  objects  such  as,  mobile  medical  assets,  medical 
laboratory items, sensors, etc. The RFID tag may store some 
key  information  about  the  tagged-object  and  some  data  that 
allows  accessing  detailed  information  about  the  object  from 
the  specified  location.  Also,  by  using  RFID-sensor  tags  for 
temperature  monitoring,  the  system  allows  easily  measuring 
and  monitoring  the  temperature  of  tagged  people  or  objects 
and saving the related data to corresponding entity records.    

request of a whole range of patient-related information (such 
as patient medical histories). 
-  administrative  benefits:  a)  considerably  reducing  the 
consumption of paper used for keeping hardcopy documents; 
b)  efficiently  managing  medical  information  (such  as,  the 
results  of  medical  investigations)  by  connecting  health  care 
providers;  c)  real-time  identifying  and  tracking  tagged-
objects;  d)  enhancing  inventory  management;  e)  helping 
improving stock control.  

3.2 System Actors 

the  patient,  rather 

Health  information  is  currently  stored  in  many  different 
locations,  such  as  with  caregiver  or  other  provider, 
physicians'  offices,  hospitals  and  laboratories  databases, 
organizational and governmental Web sites, as well as public 
health  databases.  The  considered  system  proposes  a 
decentralized approach that should leave medical information 
in  the  database  of  the  institutions  that  have  a  direct 
relationship  with 
than  moving  or 
replicating  it  to  a  giant  central  server.  But  the  system 
facilitates  health  information  exchange  in  order  to  give 
clinicians 
information  about  a  patient. 
Interoperability  with  other  predefined  components  in  the 
healthcare  sector  is  a  facility  provided  by  this  system.  As 
Figure  1 
independent 
components,  integrated  in  the  overall  IT  management  of  a 
hospital  (e.g.  Hospital  Information  System-HIS,  Medical 
Information System-MIS) or the medical devices operated by 
the  emergency  medical  team.  The  capability  of  reading  out 
data from patient’s card represents an important privacy issue 
and, therefore, extensible security protocols are required. 

there  are  considered 

full  medical 

illustrates, 

3.3 System Benefits 

The  presented  system  proposes  an  RFID-based  approach  for 
patient  identification  and  ensures  the  gathering  of  medical 
information  stored  in  other  various  medical  information 
systems.  Therefore,  it  can  easily  relate  to  any  EHR  system, 
already  installed  in  today’s  medical  establishments.  Thus,  it 
eliminates the import of all patients’ electronic health records 
into  other  EHR  systems.  Furthermore,  no  new  training  is 
required  for  members  of  the  medical  staff  on  using  a  new 
information system in order to manage their patients’ medical 
records.  One  of  the  flaws  of  present  healthcare  industry  is 
rendered  by  the  existence  of  duplicate  patient  medical  tests, 
e.g. tests that  have already been done in the previous one  or 
two  years.  The  presented  system  rectifies  this  flaw  as  is 
allows  authorized  medical  staff  to  retrieve  patient  health 
information,  such  as  medical  test  results,  stored  in  other 
caregiver  databases,  in  other  health  information  systems, 
located  elsewhere.  This  system  ensures  significant  cost 
savings and patient care quality improvement. 

Here are some of the major benefits offered by the presented 
system: 

-  clinical  benefits  -  helping  to  improve  patient  safety  by 
reducing medical errors; this can be done by: a) providing the 
medical  staff  a  quick  access  to  key  medical  data  stored  on 
patients'  cards;  b)  allowing  the  secure  distribution  upon 

Furthermore, this system could be easily extended by adding 
supplementary  hardware  or  software  modules.  Also,  the 
system allows the implementation of new features in order to 
integrate  the  system  in  the  new  vision  of  the  so-called 
Internet of Things (IoT). Simply said, IoT can be considered 
as a shift in paradigm: “from anytime, anyplace connectivity 
for  anyone,  we  will  now  have  connectivity  for  anything” 
(ITU, 2005). According to (Botterman, 2009), IoT integrates 
“things having identities and virtual personalities operating in 
smart  spaces  using  intelligent  interfaces  to  connect  and 
communicate  within 
social,  environmental,  and  user 
contexts”.  Thus,  the  Internet  of  Things  infrastructure  allows 
connections between different entities, such as, human beings 
(patients,  medical  staff,  etc.),  medical  devices,  wireless 
sensors, mobile robots, etc. The presented system proposes a 
solution  for  extending  IoT  in  the  healthcare  domain  through 
the use of RFID technology.  

4. CONCLUSIONS 

Many  of  the  errors  occurring  in  healthcare  are  related  to  the 
lack  of  availability  of  important  medical  information  about 
the  patient.  According  to  researchers,  the  use  of  information 
technology (IT) and electronic medical records (EMR) holds 
promise for improving the quality of information transfer and 
is  essential  to  patient  safety  (Bates  &  Gawande,  2003). 
Furthermore,  new  advances  in  information  and  computing 
technologies  will  lead  to  similarly  dramatic  changes  in  the 
healthcare 
and  multilayered 
infrastructure  of  ubiquitous  computing  technologies  and 
applications is emerging. The current widespread deployment 
of  cell  phones,  laptops,  Wi-Fi,  Bluetooth,  personal  digital 
assistants  (PDAs),  and  various  forms  of  sensing  devices 
based  on  digital  and  radio  frequency  identification  (RFID) 
technologies penetrate the healthcare environment. 

environment.  A 

vast 

This  paper  considers  some  real-world  applications  of  RFID 
technologies  in  healthcare  area  and  briefly  describes  the 
benefits  of  RFID  technology  for  healthcare  applications. 
Also,  a  solution  based  on  RFID,  multi-agent  and  ontology 
technologies is considered. Thus, we propose tagging people 
and  objects  with  RFID  tags.  Hence,  an  RFID-based  card 
storing key medical information about a patient is introduced 
as  a  bearer  electronic  document.  The  presented  system 
provides  instant  access  to  emergency  medical  information 
about the patient and offers secure access to electronic health 
records,  even  under  the  conditions  of  a  patient’s  mobility. 
Hence,  this  system  enables  the  holder  of  the  card  to  receive 
high-quality medical aid in emergencies, but is not limited to 
these  cases.  The  system  allows  identifying  and  tracking 
tagged objects in order to provide new quality services for the 
mobility of objects. 

 

 
 

 

Fig 1. VITALIS Actors 

ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 

Research  for this paper  was supported by projects “PRiDE -
Progress and development through post-doctoral research and 
innovation  in  engineering  and  applied  sciences  (contract  no. 
POSDRU/89/1.5/S/57083”, project co-funded from European 
Social  Fund  through  Sectorial  Operational  Program  Human 
Resources 2007-2013). 

REFERENCES 

Bates,  D.W.  and  Gawande,  A.A.  (2003).  Improving  safety 
with information  technology,  The New England Journal 
of Medicine, 348:2526-2534 

Botterman  M.  (2009),  Internet  of  Things:  an  early  reality of 
the  Future  Internet,  European  Commission,  2009, 
Available 
at:
 http://ec.europa.eu/information_society/policy/rfid/docu
ments/iotprague2009.pdf 

 

 

Kalorama  Information  (2010),  The  Global  Market  for  RFID 

in Healthcare, Marketresearch.com, May 1, 2010. 

Kohn,  L.,  Corrigan,  J.,  Donaldson,  M.  (2000).  To  Err  is 
Human,  Building  a  Safer  Health  System,  Institute  of 
Medicine, National Academy Press. 

Organisation  for  Economic  Co-operation  and  Development-
OECD  (2008),  RFID  Radio  Frequency  Identification, 
OECD  Policy  Guidance,  OECD  Ministerial  Meeting  on 
the Future of the Internet Economy, Seoul, Korea, 17-18 
June 2008. 

Roberts,  C.  M.  (2006).  Radio  Frequency  Identification 

(RFID). Computers and Security, Vol. 25 18-26. 

Wolfram,  G.  and  Gampl,  B.  (2007).  Cluster  of  European 

RFID Projects - CERP, 2nd CERP Meeting, Brussels. 

*,  (2005),  ITU  Internet  Reports,  The  Internet  of  Things, 

November 2005 

