 

Increasing the Likelihood of Finding Public Transport Riders that 

Face Problems Through a Data-Driven approach 

 

Vasco Furtado, Carlos Caminha, Elizabeth Furtado, André Lopes, Victor Dantas, Caio Ponte, Sofia 

Cavalcante 

Programa de Pós Graduação em Informática Aplicada, Universidade de Fortaleza 
Av. Washington Soares, 1321 - Edson Queiroz, 60811-905, Fortaleza, Ceará, Brasil. 

 

ABSTRACT 

The maintenance of big cities’ public transport service quality requires constant monitoring, 

which may become an expensive and time-consuming practice. The perception of quality, 

from the users’ point of view is an important aspect of quality monitoring. In this sense, we 

proposed a methodology for data analysis and visualization, supported by software, which 

allows  for  the  structuring  of  estimates  and  assumptions  of  where  and  who  seems  to  be 

having unsatisfactory experiences while making use of the public transportation in populous 

metropolitan  areas.  Moreover,  it  provides  support  in  setting  up  a  plan  for  on-site  quality 

surveys. The proposed methodology increases the likelihood that, with the on-site visits, the 

interviewer  finds  users  who  suffer  inconveniences,  which  influence  their  behavior. 

Simulation comparison and a small-scale pilot survey stand for the validity of the proposed 

method. 

Keywords: Quality survey; Public transport; Route choice; Data mining. 

 

1. INTRODUCTION 

As part of any metropolis’ daily routine, many are the public transport (PT) riders who 

select a less than optimal path from their origins to their destinations. Literature points out 

that path choice, as part of transport demand modeling, is based on performance measures 

(such as time, distance, number of connections, etc.) 1 in terms of level of service 2, at the 

same time, it can be influenced by the user’s perception of quality 3. The users’ perception 

(and  the  environmental  characteristics  that  trigger  them)  are  so  important  they  can  be 

related  to  demand  elasticity  measure  4  and  in  many  cases  are  mirror  to  the  attitudes  of 

transport users  5, including PT riders. The systematization of these perceptions is often a 

result of qualitative surveys aiming the subjective opinions of users. 

In the last ten years, many were the studies that focused on evaluating PT service 

quality  3,6–10.  The  scientific  literature  has  also  an  abundance  of  developed  methods, 

 

 

techniques and tools to conduct field surveys to capture user preferences 11,12. Challenges 

to  perform  this  monitoring  start  with  the  fact  that  there  is  still  no  consensus  on  the  main 

elements that make up this notion of  perceived quality. The elements used to measure  it 

can be both subjective (comfort, safety, etc.) and objective (availability, accessibility, etc), 

with ‘service reliability’ and ‘point-to-point travel time’ as two key elements influencing such 

decisions 13. Recent studies have shown that the importance given by users to these factors 

varies  depending  on  the  city  and  the  context  14.  This  corroborates  design  theory  that 

suggests elevated dependency levels between design and local contexts, the importance of 

design to human experiences and perception  15, and that attitude and behavioral patterns 

(specifically 

for 

transport  modal  choices)  are  correlated  with  user  perception  of 

environmental characteristics 5,16. 

The importance of service quality evaluation rests on the fact that such information 

is  necessary  for  planners,  decision  makers  and  operators  to  propose  and  run  high 

performance  PT  services.  This  evaluation  should  take  into  consideration  passengers’ 

priorities, as well as the service quality, not only when related to level of service, but also in 

terms  of riders’  perception  of quality.  As  an  evidence  of  this  importance,  in  recent  years, 

many PT operators and decision makers adopted quality-based incentives so that expected 

quality (from rider’s perception) and real quality (presented by the system) would converge. 

One  difficulty  to  achieve  such  system  melioration  is  that  data  collection  on  subjective 

perception  of  riders  is  usually  collected  through  surveys,  whereas  objective  performance 

measurements  are  automated  17.  While  the  amount  of  data  automatically  collected  can 

easily scale up to millions of observations, quality surveys are slower to collect and more 

costly. 

In  this  context,  we  pose  three  questions.  First,  is  there  a  more  objective  way  to 

identify PT problems related to the riders’ perception of system’s quality? Second, what kind 

of data we need and how can we process it so that we may easily identify rider’s perception-

related problems? Third, can we turn satisfaction surveys into a problem-driven tool that is 

more  efficient  and  less  costly?  To  answer  such  questions,  we  adopted  a  data-driven 

approach,  taking  advantage  of  a  heavily  monitored  PT  system  in  a  2,5  million  inhabitant 

metropolis that counts with a 300,000 bus trips per weekday, all of which are GPS tracked 

every 30s, and from which more than 1,7 million individual origin/destination pairs could be 

identified  a  day.  This  amount  of  information,  once  submitted  to  the  proposed  method  of 

analysis, allowed us to pinpoint potential unsatisfactory experiences from PT riders in a more 

precisely  way  if  compared  to  regular  data-collection  methods.  These  results  allow  us  to 

 

 

implement more efficiently quality-related surveys, from which we may identify drawback PT 

services imposed over riders. 

We organized  the  present  paper  in  six  sections,  already  counting the  introductory 

first section (1).  In  section  two  (2),  we  conduct an  analysis  of  related  works, focusing  on 

papers that integrate data analysis and preference surveys. From this overview of literature, 

in  section  three  (3),  we  formalize  the  PT  riders’  path-choice  problem  and  propose  a 

heuristics  so  that  we  may  identify  and  quantify  discrepancies  between  the  systems’ 

performance (in terms of potential optimal routes) and PT riders’ quality perception (in terms 

of attitudinal decisions). This is followed, in section four (4), by an empirical application of 

the method, where we describe the available data, quantification of PT riders’ choices, and 

the tools  to  represent  resultant  discrepancies  when  compared to  optimized  path-choices. 

The fifth section (5) brings some evidence to validate the method regarding its effectiveness 

in finding those users regarded to experience unsatisfactory PT services (those that choose 

less than optimal routes). In the sixth and final section (6), we discuss the repercussions of 

such results in terms of quality perception data gathering,  and more cost effective survey 

methods. 

 

2. DATA ASSESSMENT FOR ‘PT’ QUALITY SURVEY 

This section makes a comparative analysis between studies that deal with objective 

and subjective data to assess the quality of public transport services. The comparison focus 

on the support provided for a qualitative and quantitative data exploration. We understand 

this exploration as a cyclic process, which comprises the tasks of data collection, processing 

and  analysis,  and  hypothesis  testing.  As the  solutions  evolve  and  a  large  data sample  is 

collected, the qualitative and quantitative approaches that follow this cycle tend to converge, 

from  majoritarian  focus  on  user-centered  analysis  to  a  more  balanced  data/user-driven 

approach.  Quantitative  data  helps  researchers  to  identify  patterns  of  human  behavior 

(including PT riders), while qualitative data (e.g. from interviews with participants) allow us 

reveal  their  attitudes  and  perceptions.  Corroborating  Wright  (2015),  we  understand  that 

quantitative data is a powerful tool that can help researchers recognize spatial patterns, and  

direct them to specific areas where an optimized survey can be carried out in order to talk 

to people who are able to reveal specific information previously unknown, or “hidden” in the 

data. We  could  envision,  at  least,  three  methods  that  favor  a  user-centered  investigation 

directed  at  quantitative  data.  Researchers  could  make regular  use  of  locating  trackers to 

collect  data  where  people  (research  subjects)  access  the  service  or  product  under 

 

 

investigation  19;  they  could  combine  data-mining  methods  and  visualization  techniques 

(infographics,  dashboards)  as  support  tools  for  decision-makers.  The  dynamic  aspect  of 

these  different  areas  (knowledge  discovery,  visualization,  and  decision  support)  creates 

uncertainties  that  need  to  be  tested,  not  limiting  the  analysis  to  the  decision-makers 

subjective judgment  18; and finally, they could use contextualized issues. When the user’s 

opinion is important, assumptions about users’ preferences help prepare the questions that 

focus on the problem to be investigated 20. Problems may change according to the location 

and time of investigation. 

For the sake of comparison, we divided the tools proposed in each of these methods 

in  two  groups.  First,  the  supporting  tools  for  (objective  and  subjective)  data  collection, 

analysis  and  integration,  wherever  possible,  and  second,  the  supporting  tools  for 

contextualized  analysis  of  public  transportation.  The  dynamic  nature  of  PT  supply  and 

complexity of human behavior require the definition of what criteria should be used to define 

quality. Furthermore, we subdivided each of these two groups in three subgroups, following 

the tasks of (1) data collection, (2) processing and analysis, and (3) hypothesis testing. 

The first observation is that none of the analyzed studies provides support tools for 

any qualitative and quantitative cyclical analysis. When a tool is employed, it is an isolated 

support for specific tasks. For the data collection task, it is important to emphasize that while 

current technology makes surveys increasingly available in many places, only two studies 

11,12 made use of web technology as a supporting tool. In other studies, researchers directly 

applied surveys to obtain user satisfaction compared to the quality criteria. Bajaj et al. (2016) 

made  use  of  a mobile  application  to  collect  the preferences  of  PT  users.  In the  Brazilian 

context,  much  of  the  captive  PT  riders  have  no  access  to  sophisticated  mobile  phone 

technology (like GPS or Bluetooth), moreover, privacy issues may also pose as an additional 

difficulty for implementing such tools. 

For  the  processing  and  analysis  of  quantitative  data,  there  is  a  tendency  to  use 

learning  and  mining  techniques  aimed  at  recommending  routes  for  users  to  follow  while 

using PT services. Recommendation systems 19 and/or systems to guide users (like Google 

maps), are outside the context of this research. The study by 21 was considered because it 

collects  feedback  from  choosing  a  route  recommended  by  the  system,  this  is  useful 

information to evaluate the quality of the user experience with the preferred route. No tool 

was  identified  that  could  assist  in  the  investigation  of  user  preferences  specifically  in  the 

formulation  of  hypotheses  that  guided  the  generation  of  questions  relevant  to  the  local 

research. 

 

 

In another analytical framework, we divided the analyzed papers into four categories 

of service-quality assessment, according to the framework of  Nathanail (2008). They are, 

(a) Experienced quality (perceived); (b) Desired quality (expected); (c) Provided quality of 

service;  and  (d)  Continuous  improvement  of  service  quality.  Some  authors  22  apply  a 

methodology to record PT (potential and actual) users’ desired quality. The desired quality 

is different from the experienced quality, as the first only means what users want or expect 

from the system, and the second should represent users’ daily experiences, dealing with the 

users’  emotion  in  a  dynamic  context  23.  Provided  quality  of  services  means  the  systems’ 

actual measure, which could be related to what transport researchers would call the level of 

service.  The  fourth  category  should  interest  PT  system’  managerial  and  decision-making 

staff,  as  it  is  focused  on  continuous  quality  improvement.  This  framework  served  as 

classification criteria for contextualized supporting tools  and methods concerning location 

and  time  for  survey  application.  In  most  reviewed  studies,  the  context  used  for  the  data 

collection has been previously defined  11,22,24,25, except for those where the user is guided 

by an application.  

Setting  the  time  and  place  for  questionnaires/surveys  application  aiming  the  collection  of 

users’ opinion is still an open debate. In addition, questionnaires measure only preferences 

or intentions (attitudes); they do not say much about the way people behave  26. As for the 

investigated quality criteria, recent studies have drawn attention to the extensibility of these 

criteria 13,21, while most authors adopt pre-defined criteria, regardless of location and time. 

Tyrinopoulos  &  Antoniou  (2008)  adopted  a  methodology  that  followed  various  strategies 

such  as  focus  group,  survey  pilot  and  model  calibration  to  determine  and  test  the  most 

relevant inconvenience variables before applying the survey. In addition to pre-defining the 

criteria  used  in  an  investigation,  many  studies  also  feature  solutions  to  synthesize  the 

research  data.  Furthermore,  regarding  the  identification  of  users,  in  the  methodology 

proposed by 22 there is an effort on the part of the researchers to reach an adequate sample 

according  to  geographic  area.  Most  studies  aim  to  overcome  the  difficulties  in  the 

construction  of  sampling  frames  and  to  ensure  that  respondents  are  not  self-selected  26. 

This  is  because  traditionally  the  work  is  intended  to  draw from  a  population  sample,  with 

general  characteristics  of  the  population  as  a  whole.  Table  1  summarizes  this  whole 

discussion, presenting a side-by-side comparison of supporting tools. 

Table 1: Synthesis of supporting tools and contextualized analysis for PT users’ 

preferences  

 

 

 

Supporting tools 

Support for contextualized analysis 

For the data collection task 

Data collection sites, and surveyed users for service quality 

assessment  

Bajaj  et  al.  (2016):  GPS  assisted  mobile 

Focus on quality of experienced service: Tested and collected in 

application  (Metro  Cognition)  for  users’ 

real  time  by  24  volunteer  users:  The  context  depends  on  the 

feed-back  about 

the  convenience  of 

route chosen by the user of an application, because it chooses 

recommended route;  

a recommended route, and gives feedback on the traveled route 

 

21.  

Vovsha et al. (2014): Online survey tool to 

 

collect  riders’  evaluation  about  current 

Focus  on  quality  of  desired  service:  For  305  different  users 

route (punctuality, vehicles load, etc.) and 

profiles and 200 potential users  22. The collection is made in a 

generate  alternative  routes.  Riders  must 

pre-defined context (the buses and the stops of Santander and 

justify  the  route  choice  decision.  It  also 

at peak hours on working days and on streets).  

gathers  email  addresses,  geocoded 

 

locations  and  starting  travel  times.  Down 

In 12, 2069 Los Angeles metro users answer a survey about their 

side: extensive (+50 questions) survey. 

preferences. 

 

 

Nathanail (2008): Online survey 

Focus on quality of provided service: in 25, a sample of 123 users 

application to collect operational 

of a bus line that connects two cities in Italy, they give satisfaction 

indicators (the transit system 

marks on their perception of the service.  

performance). 

 

 

11 also defined sample size and where to apply the survey (1471 

users found in 5 transit systems in two cities in Greece).  

 

Focus on continuous improvement of service quality: In 24, 13 

employees of a company expressed their feelings about being 

and to continue being users of public/shared transport. 

For data analysis and visualization task 

Criteria used for data analysis 

Bajaj et al. (2015 and 2016): Use learning 

Service (in)convenience criteria are predefined 11,12,14,22,25,27 and 

and  mining 

techniques 

for 

route 

place and time independent; 

recommendation,  based  on  PT  riders’ 

 

preferred convenience criteria; 

Preferences of captive PT users, in the form of users opinions, 

 

collected while the service is in use (Castellani, 2016); 

DellOlio  et  al.  (2011)  and  Vovsha  et  al. 

 

(2014):  Tool  for  statistical  analysis  of 

Eboli  &  Mazzulla  (2011)  explore  the  relationship  between user 

criteria importance, categorized by type of 

satisfaction and service quality criteria (pre-defined in 11).  

PT rider (age, gender, etc.). Tyrinopoulos 

 

&  Antoniou  (2008):  did  the  same  for 

Bajaj et al. (2016) and Nathanail (2008) analyze service quality 

satisfaction levels; 

based on users’ perceptions of criteria that guide their choices of 

 

 

route  alternatives.  Eboli  and  Mazulla  (2011)  do  the  same,  but 

include the perception PT systems managers and operators; 

 

Nathanail (2008): Tool for data storage 

and calculation of indicators for 

convenience criteria; 

For synthesis and hypothesis formulation 

Synthesis and hypothesis tasks that guide quality assessment 

task 

Bajaj et al. (2015 and 2016): Real time 

For the routes recommended by the researcher: The researcher 

monitoring of  users’ habits. Data 

predicts the level of convenience for the recommended routes, 

visualization for managerial purposes 

which are evaluated by feedback from users (Bajaj et al. 2015 

depends on application connectivity 

and  2016);  

during its use.  

 

 

For scenarios described by users. Scenarios are used to define 

Castellani et al. (2016): Seeks a more 

the criteria  to  be investigated,  thus  simplifying  the collection  of 

personalized service, allowing filtering 

user preferences 22; 

users’ certain behaviors. Tracking the 

 

users’ travel history allow the 

For the location of users. In 12 and 14, the automatic user location 

development of hypotheses about the 

helps synthesize what to ask; and  

changing habits of users (still under 

 

construction). 

The correlation between attributes of convenience criteria. 11,25 

estimated 22 attributes of service quality from users perception 

of quality and managers (quality measurement), before 

applying a survey. They evaluate the correlation between 

attributes to simplify the analysis of user satisfaction when 

compared to the relevant criteria. 

 

 

 

 

 

 

This  overview  reaffirms  that  the  combination  of  qualitative  and  quantitative 

approaches  supported  by  data-mining  technologies  that  help  in  can  be  a  very  helpful 

approach.  The  selection  of  users  who  potentially  had  an  unsatisfactory  experience  is  an 

inexpensive, objective and effective way to find problems in the public service, as well as 

locate inconveniences previously unnoticed. 

 

3. DESCRIPTION OF PROBLEM AND PROPOSED SURVEY METHOD 

Route choice modeling stands as a common challenge for transport planners. The 

description of a route choice behavior entails the modeling of individual route decisions from 

sets of alternative feasible routes. In general, the number of alternative routes is rather large, 

but, when dealing with PT ridership, the identifiable alternative routes between each OD pair 

are  restricted  to  predetermined  lines’  itineraries  and  transfer  points.  Defining  the  feasible 

routes to form a set of alternatives that satisfy an OD pair is understood as a preference-

driven  and  constraint-related  choice,  since  undesirable  characteristics  may  lead  to  route 

elimination  28.  Differently,  choosing  a  route  from  a  set  of  alternatives  is  a  compensatory 

action (as a trade-off between characteristics of different routes), normally leading towards 

an  optimization  problem.  Nonetheless,  chosen  routes  may  or  may  not  satisfy  PT  rider’s 

necessities and/or desires. With this conceptualization in mind, we propose a formalization 

for our route-choice problem. 

 

3.1. Problem Formalization 

We see the transport of a user ‘u’ from origin ‘o’ to destination ‘d’ by a vehicle that 

follows a predefined route ‘r’ as function, f : R x P, where ‘R’ is the set of alternative routes 

known to the user to take him/her from ‘o’ to ‘d’, and P is the set of preferences attribute to 

the  user  ‘u’.  The  preferences  ‘p’  are  based  on  criteria  such  as  travel  time,  number  of 

connections, etc. Thus, there are users who prefer routes that lead them from ‘o’ to ‘d’ in the 

shortest time, while others may prefer to reach the same destination by a route where there 

are the fewest connections. Formally, each user ‘u’ from their respective origins ‘o’, choose 

a route ‘ri’, so that R = {r1, r2, ..., rn} based on criteria to measure the convenience of the 

service, ‘k’ of each OD pair, where k ∈ K={distance, time, number of connections, number 

of stops}. The function valck(ri) gives a value for the criterion ‘k’ of the route ‘ri’. For example, 

if k = 1 and the distance traveled by a vehicle to make the route, ‘r1’ from ‘o’ to ‘d’ is 20km, 

so valc1(r1) is 20. 

For each choice made by a user from the origin, it is assumed that ‘u’ has a preferable 

 

 

relation  Pref  of  Kp  ∈  K  to  all  other  Kt,  t  ≠  p,  Kt  ∈  K−{Kp}.  This  relationship  indicates  the 

preference of a criterion in relation to all the other denoted Kp Pref Kt. Consequently, there 

is a relation of preference between the values of the preferential criterion ‘p’, for each route, 

V = {valcp(r1),valcp(r2),valcp(r3), ..., valcp(rn)}, which is denoted by valcp(ri) Pref valcp(rj), 

for every j ∈ {1, 2, ..., n − 1} and rj ∈ R − {r1}. Assuming that valc1(r1)=20 and that there is 

another route, ‘r2’, with valc1(r2)=30 and another, ‘r3’, with valc1(r3) = 40, then a user who 

wants  to  take  a  route  minimizing  the  distance  traveled  will  consider  that  the  route  ‘r1’  is 

preferable to routes ‘r2’ and ‘r3’, or, formally, valc1(r1) Pref valc1(r2) Pref valc1(r3). Once we 

have the alternative routes, related to the constraining preferences of users, we may discuss 

the  choosing  of  a  route  from  the  alternative  set.  The  literature  2,28  points  to  the  common 

practice of applying optimization algorithms on different types of selection criteria as a way 

to model such chosen routes. For this experiment, we have several data sets that describe 

the chosen routes for each OD pair. One set from empirically collected data, named as real 

routes  (rr),  and  several  other  sets  resultant  from  optimization  processes  that  took  into 

consideration different criteria, named as optimized routes (ro).  

Finally, we should define if chosen routes do or do not satisfy user’s expectations. 

Considering a satisfaction threshold applied to the routes’ convenience measure (such as 

distance, travel time, number of connections, etc.) it is possible for the analyst or planner to 

recognize if PT riders having a unsatisfactory experience (E.g. assuming a 10min threshold, 

riders who prefer less time-consuming trips but choose a 10min (or more) longer trip might 

feel unsatisfied). It is worth mentioning that until this moment, we cannot state with certainty 

that the rider actually had an unsatisfactory experience. This classification only shows that, 

within a population that values travel time there are some riders choosing routes that lead 

to at least 10min longer trips. We believe these are potentially good subjects to be surveyed, 

as  they  may  have  been  experiencing  unforeseen  inconveniences,  not  accounted  by  the 

applied  route  choice  model,  which  could  explain  their  behavior.  The  proposed  heuristics 

takes into account a threshold of satisfaction (λ) defined by the analyst, which is dependent 

on context, culture, demographics, etc. For each user’s real route (rr) the value of a particular 

evaluation criterion (valci(rr)) will be subtracted by the value of the same criteria attributed 

to the optimized route (valci(ro)). Thus, the classification of the experience C, from a user’s 

actual route (rr) could be satisfactory or unsatisfactory and may be defined as: 

C = {

satisfactory,            valci(rr) − valci(ro) <  λ 
 
unsatisfactory,       valci(rr) − valci(ro) ≥  λ 

 

 

 

(1) 

 

 

 

3.2. Proposition of Survey Method 

To try to answer the three questions posed in this paper’ introduction, we developed 

a four-step cyclic methodology. It poses as useful tool to help planners and decision makers 

to fulfil the tasks of identifying PT ridership related problems, of deciding where to gather 

necessary  data,  and  defining  how  the  perception  of  the  environment  may  influence  PT 

riders’ behavior. Figure 1 brings a representation of this four-step methodology. 

01 

04 

03 

02 

  

FIGURE 1. Steps of Proposed Survey Methodology 

 

1.  The first step refers to the data cleaning and analysis. The data comes from PT card 

validation, made by each passenger at the vehicles’ built-in turnstile and terminals, and 

is  processed  through  data mining  processes  combined  with  visualization  techniques. 

This  step  consists  in  three  sub-steps  of  (a)  optimal  routes  generation;  (b)  riders’ 

 

 

preferences identification, and (c) the classification of riders’ experiences. 

2.  The second step aims to support the synthesis of the research in regards to where to 

investigate and who are the potential users with unexpected behavior; 

3.  The  third  step  initiates  a  more  user-centered  analysis  approach.  At  this  point,  the 

researcher must establish hypothesis about what drives PT riders in choosing a routes;  

4.  The fourth step consists of on-site data collection, based on questionnaires applied at 

preselected bus stops, with “in route” users (at the time that they make route choices). 

The researcher should aim to contextualize a survey about riders experience in using 

PT. Riders may confirm and/or refute the assumptions made or clarify other disregarded 

aspects that would justify the posed hypothesis. 

 

Moreover,  we  propose  a  supporting  step  that  contributes  to  the  monitoring  of  the 

process. It consists in a visualization tool, which decision-makers can use during all other 

steps of the method, and may constantly search for information and clarification on routes 

and  PT  riders’  preference.  Next,  we  advance  on  describing  the  steps  related  to  the  data 

centered  analysis,  comprising  the  recognition  of  optimized  routes,  riders’  preferences, 

quality  of  experience  and  finally  the  location  of  potentially  unsatisfied  PT  riders.  It 

corresponds to steps 1 and 2 of the proposed method.  

 

3.3. Sub-step (a): Generating Optimal Routes 

To  generate  an  optimal  route  for  a  PT  system  it  is  necessary  to  have  enough 

information about its OD pairs. For this task, we rely on tracking PT riders’ actual routes, as 

well as on data from the city’s transport supply networks. In some cases, the tracking of PT 

riders is done in such a precise way that the initial sample can represent up to almost the 

entire population of passengers  29,30. In most cases, however, such a sample needs to be 

estimated  either  by  information  of  traffic  31,  32  ticket  registration  of  passengers  and/or  an 

origin-destination matrix (OD) obtained from interviews with citizens. Furthermore, any route 

optimization  requires  at  least  one  aspect  of  the  route  to  optimize.  Without  limiting  the 

generality, we consider here four optimization objectives, which, deliberately, coincide with 

the convenience measures: the shortest possible distance (1), shortest time (2), the lowest 

number of bus connections (3) (transfers), and take the route with fewest stops (4) possible. 

The  methodology  accepts  other  objectives,  which  depend  on  context.  We  calculate  the 

optimal routes for each objective. Figure 2 presents the search algorithms of optimal routes 

as ‘graphs’ representing the available bus lines. The graphs’ nodes are bus stops and the 

 

 

paths between stops are the arches. From many graphs, representing individual lines, one 

may construct a graph that would represent the whole system.  

In figure 2a you can see the representation of a bus line L1 that has in its itinerary 

four bus stops represented by the nodes, v3, v4, v5 and v6. In Figure 2b, the bus line line L2 

presents a different itinerary with the nodes v1, v2, v4, v5, v7 and v8 representing its stops. 

Finally, in Figure 2c, we have the two combined lines. Note that there are both arches and 

nodes that are shared between both lines L1 and L2, meaning an increase in its weight. The 

graph is completed once all the existing bus lines are overlaid on the graph, representing 

the transport supply network. 

 

 

Figure 2: Example of a graph constructed from the stops and bus lines. 

 

The optimization of routes for each of the four predetermined objectives demanded 

different  algorithms.  The  calculation  of  optimal  routes  by  distance  may  be  done  using 

traditional  search  algorithms  on  graphs  as  such  A*  33.  Regarding  the  estimated  route  for 

users  who  want  to  use  express  lines,  or  lines  that  go  through  fewer  bus  stops,  one  can 

estimate optimal routes using a spread search 34. Different from the first two objectives, the 

estimated  optimal  routes  for  fewest  connections  (transfers)  and  for  the  shortest  possible 

time require a little more detail in the description. This is because there are no automated 

algorithms prepared for such tasks. We developed two algorithms able to find: i) the route 

between  any  two  bus  stops  making  the  least  amount  of  bus  changes;  and  ii)  the  route 

between two points in the shortest time possible.  Appendix A contains the description for 

these  algorithms.  It  is  very  important  to  stress  that  we  do  not  see  these  algorithms  as  a 

 

 

contribution of this paper. Researcher may use any optimization algorithms, as long as they 

apply the proposed survey methodology. 

 

3.4. Sub-step (b): Identification of User Preferences 

Preference surveys typically use statistical approaches, meaning that they rely on 

sampling  the  population  under  study.  Although  surveys  are  important  sources  of  data 

collection, they can be very slow to gather, as well as to tab and analyze. We believe that, 

concerning route choice preferences, data gathered directly from the observation of user’s 

behavior should provide information in more quantity and detail. Once we have reliable data 

on observed route choices (in the form of OD pairs), we propose an algorithm that points 

what  convenience  measure  each  PT rider  have when  choosing  bus  routes.  It  consists  in 

comparing the actual routes taken by each observed rider (comprising its OD pair) and each 

of the generated optimal routes, fallowing the four objectives that were to minimize distance, 

travel time, vehicle changes, and hops. We assume that the more similar to one optimized 

route objective, the higher the chance that objective is the route choice criteria adopted by 

that user, indicating his/her preference. 

Although we could use any method for calculating the difference between actual and 

optimized  routes,  we  propose  an  algorithm  based  on  the  area  comparison  of  polygons 

representing  aspects  of  these  routes,  in  the  form  of  “Kiviat  diagram”.  The  polygons  are 

formed by the join of edges, of which the vertices indicate the measurement of one of the 

four  objectives  used for generating  optimized  routes.  Figure  3  illustrates  a  comparison  of 

setting routes for an arbitrary OD pair, where we calculated the intersection of a polygon 

formed by the actual route with the optimal routes for each one of the four objective. 

 

 

Figure 3: Polygons intersection on Kiviat diagrams. The actual route is compared with the 

optimal route regarding shortest distance (a), number of hops (b), number of bus transfers 

(c), and shortest travel time (d). The highest similarity level happens in (c), which contains 

the  highest  intersection  between  polygons,  indicating  the  user’s  preference  lays  on 

 

minimizing the number of transfers. 

 

3.5. Sub-Step (c): Quality Classification of Users’ Satisfaction 

Once  we  recognize  the  riders’  preferences,  among  the  predefined  objectives,  we 

may further compare how different actual and optimal routes are. This should allow us to 

verify whether the rider might be experiencing a  unsatisfactory experience (E.g. a person 

whose  preference  is  for  trips  with  fewer  transfers  but  actually  takes  a  route  with  more 

transfers than the minimum is a potential unsatisfied PT rider). At this point, we may apply 

equation  (1),  presented  in  the  problem  formalization,  to  define  whether  the  situation  is 

satisfactory of not. 

 

3.6. Step 2: Localizing unsatisfied users 

Our idea to estimate which bus stops are more likely to have people in the condition 

of  dissatisfaction  is  based  on  a  probabilistic  approach.  We  may  formally  define  the 

probability P(p) of finding users who had unsatisfactory experiences at a stop p as: 

 

 

 

𝑃(𝑝) =  

𝑄𝑟𝑝

𝑄𝑟𝑝+ 𝑄𝑏𝑝

 

 

 

 

 

 

(2) 

leaving  p  and  Qbp  is  the  quantity  of  people  who  took  routes  that  led  to  a  satisfactory 

experience at the same bus stop. Using the available visualization tools (in this  case, we 

developed a dashboard for monitoring the process) the recognized outliers are plotted on a 

map  of  the  PT  network.  This  approach  allows  decision  makers  to  visualize  whether  the 

occurrence of this type of behavior is spatially dependent to some other phenomenon, or 

specific  to  a  region  of  the  city.  Graphs  depicting  the  distribution  of  these  potentially 

unsatisfied PT riders should help researchers in selecting where surveys should take place 

so that they have a higher probability of finding user with such profile. 

 

4. APPLICATION OF THE METHOD 

The methodology described above was applied in Fortaleza, a large Brazilian city, 

where about 1 million people are frequent PT users. For this research, we used five data 

sets  (bus  stops;  lines;  terminals;  bus  GPS,  and  ticket  validation)  related  to  the  public 

transportation network of Fortaleza (Table 2). The bus GPS data has 104 million positions 

recorded from the location of the buses, which are updated every thirty seconds. Altogether 

2,034 buses circulated on 359 bus lines in the city in March 2015. The tickets are validates 

by magnetic card readers. The system registered 29 million ticket validations in busses or 

directly at one of the seven existing terminals. Registered data consists in ‘user registration’, 

‘date’ and ‘validation time’, ‘bus-line or terminal number’ and ‘vehicle code’. 

 

 

 

Table 2: Group of Used Data 

Name 

Registered Numbers 

Stops 

4783 

Bus Lines 

359 

Terminals 

7 

Bus GPS 

104 Millions 

Tickets 

29 Millions 

For the studied city, we had to estimate the origins and destinations of the users as 

well as reconstruct the actual routes from a sample, from which we could identify the OD 

 

 

pairs.  The  estimates  derived  from  data  gathered  from  PT  card  validations  that  were 

transformed  in  OD  pairs  through  a  estimation  method  proposed  by  (Caminha,  Furtado, 

Pinheiro  &  Silva  2016;  Caminha,  Furtado,  Pinheiro  &  Ponte  2016;  Caminha,  Furtado, 

Pequeno, Ponte, Melo, Oliveira, et al. 2017)   35–38. The raw data did not allow us to know 

precisely from which bus stop the passenger boarded the bus, it only contained the time that 

a  particular  user  validated  his  ticket  at the  buses’  built-in  turnstile  or terminals.  From  this 

data, we had first to estimate where this validation happened. The method, described in the 

referred literature, lays beyond the scope of the article. As a result, we obtained 1,737,772 

OD pairs from the bus network for a week in March 2015, from which about 1.2M of actual 

routes were reconstructed. 

 

4.1. Estimated preferences of users 

With the actual routes at hand, we applied the polygon intersection (PI) approach for 

the  routes  comparison.  For  the  sake  of  method  assessment,  we  also  conducted  another 

comparison method, which is based on calculating the Euclidean distance (ED) between the 

properties  of  routes  9.  Table  3  shows  the  results  for  both  comparisons.  The  results  are 

consistent with each other, providing evidence that the proposed method is consistent with 

other well-established methods, and that a bigger part of PT riders prefer to use routes with 

fewer transfers than any other optimization objective. 

 

Table 3: Route Comparison Results 

 

PI 

ED 

Best transfers  38.2%  36.2% 

Best in time 

20.8%  21.2% 

Best distance 

9.5%  11.2% 

Best hops 

2.1% 

3.9% 

 

Besides the numbers described in table 3, there were also similarities in the cases 

where the actual routes were identical to the estimated route by more than one criterion. 

This occurred in cases where the distance between the estimated origins and destinations 

were  very  small.  In  these  cases,  due  to  the  network  characteristics,  algorithms  tend  to 

converge in the same direction. 

 

 

 

4.2. Riders behavior patterns and locations selected for data collection 

To help us analyze all collected data, we introduced an analytical dashboard as the 

supporting step of the proposed methodology. From a number of analysis enabled by the 

dashboard  (such  as,  passenger  volume,  timetables,  routes,  distances,  and  user  profile 

evaluation) we could recognize that a maximum of three transfers per route were made in 

the  city.  Another  major  discovery  was  that  most  riders  would  transfer  at  bus  terminals, 

meaning that they do not choose the best place to transfer (standard increment behavior), 

when compared to the optimized routes, resulting in longer than necessary routes. 

With  the  help  of  the  supporting  dashboard,  we  filtered  selected  discrepant  routes 

with the satisfaction threshold (𝜆) (preference-criteria differences between actual routes and 

those generated by the optimal algorithm). Even though observed criteria for the estimated 

preferences  of  users  pointed  to  the  number  of  transfers  as  the  best  indicator,  for  this 

example, as a way to clarify the validation efforts, we measured 𝜆 in terms of distance. It is 

important  to  highlight  that  researchers/decision-makers  could  adopted  any  indicator  as 

preference  criteria. We  filtered  routes,  which  distances  differed  more  than  2km  from  one 

another.  This  analysis  resulted  in  heat  maps,  identifying  stops  where  the  probability  of 

finding  people  potentially  unsatisfied  with  the  PT  ridership  experience  was  greater.  From 

this synthesis, we derived a hypothesis that these PT riders did not choose the best routes 

due  to  the  lack  of  local  information  about  possible  routes.  Next,  we  could  put  together  a 

survey  planning,  defining  to  which  stops  researchers  should  apply  the  questioners  and 

collect information. 

We  provided  the  interviewer  with  reports  produced  by  the  dashboard,  indicating 

which stop he/she should go to, and was given details about the actual route, the optimal 

route  and  a  detailed  description  of  the  steps  that  he/she  should  follow  to  complete  the 

optimal route. In these detailed reports, there is information about origin and destination, the 

distances involved in each of the two routes (actual and optimized for the riders’ preference), 

the number of transfers and the bus lines to be used in the presented suggestion. Figure 4 

illustrates a full report.  

 

 

 

Figure 4: Report showing the actual route and optimal alternative 

 

This report was important  because researchers, when applying the questionnaire, 

would be able to clarify doubts about origin and destinations, ask about the riders’ knowledge 

of optimal routes between that OD pair, and to show them the optional paths on a map. In 

addition to personal profile, such as education, age and sex, as well as information about 

familiarity with mobile technology, or any other useful information, such report would allow 

researchers  to  gather  valuable  information  about  what  other  environmental  and/or  local 

context characteristics that could explain why user take less than optimal routes. 

 

5. METHOD EFFECTIVENESS VALIDATION 

As an attempt to validate the benefits generated by our methodology to surveys’ data 

gathering, this section aims to estimate the probability (P(p)) of finding riders who take routes 

considered unsatisfactory after leaving a bus stop  p. We estimate the chance of meeting 

these riders in two ways, first randomly, and second thorough our methodology. We verified 

that,  in  general,  users  make  an  optimal  number  of  transfers,  but  do  not  choose  the  best 

place to do so. This tendency leads to actual routes that are longer than the optimized ones, 

for  this  reason  travel  distances  will  serve  us  as  criteria  (𝜆)  for  evaluating  actual  (Cr)  and 

optimal (Co) routes. Moreover, we also consider as benefit of our methodology the drop in 

the cost for the application of survey questionnaires. We measure this cost indirectly, by the 

number of bus stops necessary for the surveys viability. It is logical to assume that the more 

bus  stops  surveyed,  the  higher  the  costs  involved.  Considering  this,  we  simulated  four 

 

 

scenarios  varying the  amount  of  bus stops,  among  10,  100,  500,  and  1000,  for  a  survey 

application. 

Figure 5 illustrates the estimation results. In all four graphs, the x-axis is the quality 

threshold  𝜆  and  the  y-axis  represents  the  probability  P(p).  The  green  dots  highlight  the 

results  of  our  methodology,  and  the  red  dots  show  the  results  achieved  by  a  random 

selection  of  bus  stops.  Results  indicate  that  the  proposed  methodology  presents  higher 

probabilities in all investigated scenarios. Furthermore, the lower the number of surveyed 

bus stops, the more our methodology stands out in comparison to a random methods.  

 

Figure 5: Simulation Scenarios.  

 

 

It is clear that probabilities decrease as the 𝜆 threshold, as well as, the number of 

visited bus stops increase. We can also say that the fewer the surveyed bus stops, the better 

the comparative results presented by our methodology. Fewer surveyed bus stops means 

lower survey costs. For the 10 stops simulation (Figure 5a), at a 𝜆 of 10km, the probability 

of  finding  unsatisfied  PT  riders  using  our  methodology  is  over  80%,  whereas  for  random 

encounters, it is below 10%. For the 1000 stops simulation (Figure 5d) the probabilities are 

still advantageous when applying our methodology, even if at a smaller scale.  

 

 

6. POST QUESTIONNAIRE RESULTS 

In the attempt to exemplify the method, we applied a survey on five bus stops in the 

city of Fortaleza. The limited number of surveyed stops was a necessity so that we could 

verify any benefits in finding unsatisfied PT riders. We selected different times of the day to 

perform the surveys according to the times of use depicted by the analyzed data. In all visited 

stops, we interviewed 28 passengers, from which, 14 presented potentially unsatisfactory 

experiences.  The  fact  that  we  could  find  this  amount  of  people  reinforces  the  method 

effectiveness, addressed in section 5. Due to the way we reconstructed actual routes (Ref.), 

focusing in recurrent riders (who followed the same itinerary every day), all the 14 potentially 

unsatisfied PT riders had extensive experience with their route, which invalidates the lack of 

information about the existence of a better available route as a valid hypothesis to explain 

the  riders’  sub-optimal  behavior.  Given  the  absence  of  clear  information  available  at  the 

stop,  users  declared  that  they  found  information  by  trial  and  error  (own  experience)  or 

accessing  mobile  applications  that  gave  information  about  alternative  routes.  The 

assumption  that  the  lack  of  information  is  a  problem  when  not  being  able  to  choose  the 

optimal route seems to make more sense to inexperienced users (e.g. those who are making 

the journey for the first time). So that we may confirm this experiment’s statistical validity, 

more extensive sampling and analysis are necessary. 

In  general,  for  Fortaleza,  when  a  passenger  chooses  a  route,  an  important 

preference  criterion  is  the  number  of  connections  along  the  route,  as  indicated  by 

quantitative data analysis. However, only qualitative analysis could show that this preference 

is  not  definitive  or  exclusive.  For  example,  when  asked  whether  they  would  be  willing  to 

swap to another stop in order to take a time-efficient route, users responded negatively. The 

main alleged reasons related to comfort issues. This notion of comfort comes from different 

perspectives.  Some  respondents  argued  that  the  probability  of  a  bus  that  followed  the 

optimal route being crowded on arrival was too high. This would make the bus stop at the 

non-optimal route more attractive, as they would be able to embark and sit throughout the 

ride.  Other  users  indicated  different  comfort-related  factors,  such  as  the  existence  of 

benches  and  shade  at  the  actual-route  stops.  In  other  words,  both  (comfort-related) 

environmental  aspects  and  travel  efficiency  (in  terms  of  one  of  the  studied  preference 

criteria) are important aspects that affect PT riders’ route choices.  

An unusual response, which opens up interesting possibilities when designing the 

service,  was  a  passenger  who  said  she  chose  a  clearly  non-optimal  route  because  she 

wanted to accompany her friends. Thus, there is an aspect related to sociability, which is 

 

 

rarely taken into account by those who design this type of service. The answers provided by 

passengers  shine  a  light  on  important  aspects  to  be  considered  by  PT  operators  and 

decision makers so that services are in line with the preferences of users in this context. 

Furthermore, the acquisition of such rich qualitative data should be useful in fine-tuning PT 

allocation models. 

 

7. DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION 

Cities are increasingly adopting programs to become smarter. Assuming that a smart 

city provides services in an environment where people have pleasant experiences, finding 

ways to capture how these experiences are being experienced is essential. Doing this in a 

rich  environment  of  user  profiles  and  with  large volumes  of  data,  such  as  those found  in 

large cities, can be expensive and time consuming. Any benefits on problem identification, 

data  collection  and  cost  efficiency  are  welcome.  The  proposed  methodology,  while 

supported by data visualization tools, and as verified in the presented application work as 

an auxiliary tool to help planners and researchers in the tasks of, identifying the location of 

riders potentially facing problems with the PT system, and constructing hypothesis to why 

those riders are having unsatisfactory experiences. Furthermore, another output is the help 

it  provides  in  planning  on-site  survey  with  better  probabilities  of  useful  data  collection  at 

potentially lower costs. We observed evidence to support that the proposed methodology 

increases  the  likelihood  for  the  researchers  at  on-site  surveys  to  find  PT  riders  with 

potentially more useful information for the PT system planner or decision maker. We believe 

that  the  discrepancies  between  actual  and  optimized  routes  (both  defined  by  the 

methodology) may signify that specific characteristics of the environment and local contexts 

have  an  impact  on  riders  behavior.  By  identifying  these  riders,  researchers  can  become 

aware of inconveniences that influence the user’s  behavior. These declared  preferences, 

while certainly enables researchers to characterize PT riders, they may also indicate (e.g.) 

deficiencies in the provided services or the need for new services and technologies, to make 

the experience more convenient. 

A necessary next step is the large-scale application of the method, once we have 

already  identified  potentially  unsatisfied  PT  riders  at,  what  seems  to  be,  problematic  bus 

stops, with the application of the method. In the pilot study, a survey conducted at only five 

of these highlighted stops led to the discovery of environmental and systemic characteristics 

(pointed out by unsatisfied PT riders) responsible for the less-than-optimal behavior of PT 

riders,  which  had  not  previously  been  identified  by  planners  and  city  administrators.  The 

 

 

notion of comfort relating to the absence of overcrowding and the quality of bus stops are 

two examples of data collected from the conducted pilot survey, which helped us identify, in 

a  quicker  and  cheaper  way,  environmental  aspects  (in  the  city’s  supply  network  and 

transport infrastructure) that played important roles in PT riders’ route choices. 

As an extension to this research, we see in this methodology a great potential for the 

development of multi-criteria route choice models. From the identification of discrepancies 

between  actual  and  optimal  routes,  associated  with  the  results  of  large-scale  on-site 

surveys,  we  believe  it  to  be  possible  for  modelers  to  readjust  the  route-optimization 

algorithms  with  the  environmental  and  local-context  characteristics  described  by  the 

unsatisfied  PT  riders.  This  readjust  could  happen  as  penalties  applied  to  PT  network 

elements  such  as  bus  stops  or  certain  links,  applicable  to  certain  categories  of  users 

(agents) during the optimization process. This way, not only we could acquire a potentially 

precise  rout-choice  modeling  tool,  it  could  also  mean,  when  paired  with  the  polygon 

intersection tool, described in section 3.4, a useful validation tool. 

We believe that the contribution offered by this work aims the scientific community 

interested in studying the quality of services, and that make use of ethnographic practices. 

This work allows managers to look beyond the set analysis, allowing them to make critical 

readings of social contexts and of the use of the service under study. In fact, the cyclical 

nature  of  the  methodology  provides  the  possibility  of  reanalysis  of  collected  data  with 

variations in criteria and assumptions. The cyclical application of the methodology will be 

part of further work still in the context of urban mobility. In the long term, the application of 

the methodology in other contexts serves to validate its reach and applicability. 

 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT 

This research would not be possible without the full support offered by UNIFOR. 

 

Bibliography 

Brands T, de Romph E, Veitch T, Cook J. Modelling Public Transport Route Choice, 
with Multiple Access and Egress Modes. Transp Res Procedia. 2014;1(1):12-23. 
doi:10.1016/j.trpro.2014.07.003. 

Cascetta E. Transportation Systems Analysis: Models and Applications. Vol 29. 2nd 
ed. Springer; 2009. 

Tyrinopoulos Y, Antoniou C. Public transit user satisfaction: Variability and policy 
implications. Transp Policy. 2008;15(4):260-272. doi:10.1016/j.tranpol.2008.06.002. 

Nyarirangwe M, Mbara T. Public Transport Service Modal Choice , Affordability and 
Perceptions in an Unpalatable Economic Environment : the Case of an Urban 

1.  

2.  

3.  

4.  

 

 

5.  

6.  

7.  

8.  

9.  

Corridor in Harare ( Zimbabwe ). In: Proceedings of the 26th Southern African 
Transport Conference. ; 2007:26-34. 

Klinger T, Kenworthy JR, Lanzendorf M. Dimensions of urban mobility cultures - a 
comparison of German cities. J Transp Geogr. 2013;31:18-29. 
doi:10.1016/j.jtrangeo.2013.05.002. 

Beirão G, Sarsfield Cabral JA. Understanding attitudes towards public transport and 
private car: A qualitative study. Transp Policy. 2007;14(6):478-489. 
doi:10.1016/j.tranpol.2007.04.009. 

Eboli L, Mazzulla G. Structural Equation Modelling for Analysing Passengers’ 
Perceptions about Railway Services. Procedia - Soc Behav Sci. 2012;54:96-106. 
doi:10.1016/j.sbspro.2012.09.729. 

de Oña J, de Oña R, Eboli L, Mazzulla G. Perceived service quality in bus transit 
service: A structural equation approach. Transp Policy. 2013;29:219-226. 
doi:10.1016/j.tranpol.2013.07.001. 

Shaaban K, Khalil RF. Investigating the Customer Satisfaction of the Bus Service in 
Qatar. Procedia - Soc Behav Sci. 2013;104:865-874. 
doi:10.1016/j.sbspro.2013.11.181. 

10.   Wan D, Kamga C, Liu J, Sugiura A, Beaton EB. Rider perception of a “light” Bus 

Rapid Transit system - The New York City Select Bus Service. Transp Policy. 
2016;49:41-55. doi:10.1016/j.tranpol.2016.04.001. 

11.   Nathanail E. Measuring the quality of service for passengers on the hellenic 

railways. Transp Res Part A Policy Pract. 2008;42(1):48-66. 
doi:10.1016/j.tra.2007.06.006. 

12.   Vovsha P, Marcelo G, William D. Statistical analysis of transit user preferences 

including in-vehicle crowding and service reliability. In: TRB 2014 Annual Meeting. ; 
2014. 

13.   Wardman M. Valuing Convenience in Public Transport. Valuing Conv Public Transp. 

2014:1-70. doi:10.1787/9789282107683-en. 

14.   Bajaj G, Bouloukakis G, Pathak A, Singh P, Georgantas N, Issarny V. Toward 

Enabling Convenient Urban Transit through Mobile Crowdsensing. In: IEEE 
Conference on Intelligent Transportation Systems. Vol 2015-Octob. ; 2015. 
doi:10.1109/ITSC.2015.57. 

15.   Bernasconi C, Strager MP, Maskey V, Hasenmyer M. Assessing public preferences 

for design and environmental attributes of an urban automated transportation 
system. Landsc Urban Plan. 2009;90(3-4):155-167. 
doi:10.1016/j.landurbplan.2008.10.024. 

16.   McKinsey & Company. No Title. Cologne; 2005. doi:doi:10.4232/1.4227. 

17.   Abenoza RF, Cats O, Susilo YO. Travel satisfaction with public transport: 

Determinants, user classes, regional disparities and their evolution. Transp Res Part 
A Policy Pract. 2017;95:64-84. doi:10.1016/j.tra.2016.11.011. 

18.   Cooper-Wright M. How to design with warmdata in front line interaction design. 

https://medium.com/front-line-interaction-design/how-to-design-with-data-
933be5c15d4#.hycf0ff9g. Published 2015. Accessed November 13, 2016. 

19.   Nakamura H, Gao Y, Gao H, Zhang H, Kiyohiro A, Mine T. Toward personalized 

 

 

public transportation recommendation system with adaptive user interface. In: 
Advanced Applied Informatics. IIAI 3rd International Conference on, IEEE; 
2014:103–108. 

20.   Furtado ES, Pinheiro PR. Mais-a model for the multi-criteria analysis of interaction 

solu- tions. Procedia Comput Sci. 2015;55:1231–1239. 

21.   Bajaj G, Agarwal R, Bouloukakis G, Singh P, Georgantas N, Issarny V. Towards 
building real-time, convenient route recommendation system for public transit. In: 
Smart Cities Conference (ISC2). IEEE International; 2016:1-5. 

22.   DellOlio L, Ibeas A, Cecin P. The quality of service desired by public transport 

users. Transp Policy. 2011;18(1):217-227. 

23.   Hassenzahl M. User experience and experience design. In: Encyclopedia of 

Human-Computer Interaction. 

24.   Castellani S, Colombino T, Grasso A, Mazzega M. Understanding commuting to 

accompany work organisations’ and employees’ behaviour change. In: Smart Cities 
Conference (ISC2). IEEE International; 2016:1-6. 

25.   Eboli L, Mazzulla G. A methodology for evaluating transit service quality based on 
subjective 520 and objective measures from the passengers point of view. Transp 
Policy. 2011;18(1):172– 181. 

26.   Malterud K. Qualitative research: standards, challenges, and guidelines. Lancet. 

2001;358:483–488. 

27.   Murata S, Goodman C. Optimally regulating disturbed metro traffic with passenger 
incon- venience in mind. In: Developments in Mass Transit Systems. International 
Conference on (Conf. Publ. No. 453); 1998:86-91. 

28.   Prato CG. Route choice modeling: past, present and future research directions. J 

Choice Model. 2009;2(1):65-100. doi:10.1016/S1755-5345(13)70005-8. 

29.   Bera S, Rao KVK. Estimation of origin-destination matrix from traffic counts: the 

state of the art. Eur Transp \ Trasp Eur. 2011;49:3-23. 

30.   Remya K, Mathew S. OD matrix estimation from link counts using artificial neural 

network. Int J Sci Eng Res. 2013;4(5). 

31.   Hassenzahl M, Tractinsky N. User experience-a research agenda. Behav Inf 

Technol. 2006;25(2):91–97. 

32.   Bagchi M, White P. The potential of public transport smart card data. Transp Policy. 

2005;12(5):464–474. 

33.   Hart PE, Nilsson NJ, Raphael B. A formal basis for the heuristic determination of 

minimum cost paths. IEEE Trans Syst Sci Cybern. 1968;4(2):100–107. 

34.   Leiserson CE, Schardl TB. Work-efficient parallel breadth-first search algorithm (or 

how to cope with the nondeterminism of reducers). In: Proceedings of the Twenty-
Second Annual ACM Symposium on Parallelism in Algorithms and Architectures. ; 
2010:303–314. 

35.   Caminha C, Furtado V, Pinheiro V, Silva C. Micro-interventions in urban 

transportation from pattern discovery on the flow of passengers and on the bus 
network. In: Smart Cities Conference (ISC2). IEEE International, IEEE; 2016:1-6. 

36.   Caminha C, Furtado V, Pinheiro V, Ponte C. Mining the Networks of Supply and 

 

 

Demand of Public Transport for Overload and Waste of Resources. arXiv Prepr. 
2016;(arXiv:1606.03737). 

37.  Caminha C, Furtado V, Pequeno THC, Ponte C, Melo HPM, Oliveira EA, et al. 

(2017) Human mobility in large cities as a proxy for crime. PLoS ONE 12(2): 
e0171609. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0171609 

38.  Caminha C, Furtado V. Towards Understanding the Impact of Human Mobility on 

Police Allocation. arXiv Prepr. 2017;(  arXiv:1704.07823). 

39.   Deza MM, Deza E. Encyclopedia of Distances.; 2009. 

 

 

 

