City-Scale Intelligent Systems and Platforms 

 

Klara Nahrstedt 

University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign 

Christos G. Cassandras 

Boston University 

University of Chicago & Argonne National Lab 

Charlie Catlett 

Background and Rationale 

1 
As of 2014, 54% of the earth’s population resides in urban areas, and it is steadily increasing, expecting to reach 
66% by 2050. Urban areas range from small cities with tens of thousands of people to megacities with greater than 
10 million people.  Roughly 12% of the global population today lives in 28 megacities, and at least 40 are projected 
by 2030. At these scales, the urban infrastructure such as roads, buildings, and utility networks will cover areas as 
large  as  New  England  [China2017].  This  steady  urbanization  and  the  resulting  expansion  of  infrastructure, 
combined with renewal of aging urban infrastructure, represent tens of trillion of dollars in new urban infrastructure 
investment  over  the  coming  decades  [Mynatt2017].  These  investments  must  balance  factors  including  impact  on 
clean air and water, energy and maintenance costs, and the productivity and health of city dwellers. Moreover, cost-
effective management and sustainability of these growing urban areas will be one of the most critical challenges to 
our society, motivating the concept of science- and data-driven urban design, retrofit, and operation—that is, “Smart 
Cities”.  

The concept of a ‘Smart City’ comprises a new generation of innovative services operating within and among key 
service facets, or dynamic “systems” that animate urban infrastructure. Examples include the movement of people, 
information, and goods; creation and distribution of energy, food, and clean water; effective and equitable provision 
of education and healthcare; protection and curation of the natural environmental; resources and services enabling 
economic  and  social  activities;  and 
the  provision  of  public  safety  and  emergency  response  services 
[Cassandras2016]. The technological underpinnings of these complex dynamic systems, and the facilitation of their 
interactions,  will  involve  unprecedented  numbers  of  intelligent  data  sources  and  actuators  whose  diversity  and 
volume are equally daunting. These sources and actuators range from administrative systems, to sensor networks, to 
private and public intelligent urban assets such as vehicles, building control systems, energy and water distribution 
networks, roadways, and mobile devices—each with unique privacy and security constraints.  

Most  Smart  City  projects  we  see  today  are  relatively  simple,  predominantly  focusing  on  only  one  of  the  service 
facets listed above. But the ultimate promise of smart cities hinges on the ability to cooperatively optimize these 
systems,  leveraging  their  interdependencies  while  mitigating  hidden  negative  “unintended  consequences.”  This 
vision requires platforms and technologies that support integrated analysis of data from many sources, predictive 
models that capture the behavior of individual urban systems as well as the interdependencies with related systems, 
automated  system  controls  and  interactions,  and  capabilities  for  decision-makers  at  all  levels—from  individual 
residents to government officials, and from small businesses to large-scale service providers—to use these integrated 
data sources and models to inform their own interactions and decisions. 

In  summary,  a  Smart  City  will  require  intelligent  infrastructure  that  provides:  1)  measurement  of  system 
performance  and  impact  on  other  systems  (including  the  natural  environment);  2)  connectivity  enabling  data 
exchange and cooperative operation among intelligent objects ranging from individual sensors to mobile devices and 
vehicles, to buildings and roadways; 3) access to data in order to support innovation in information provision and 
decision support technologies and services for individuals, businesses, organizations, and city service providers; 4) 
controls  ensuring  service  integrity,  safe  autonomous  operation,  and  protection  of  privacy  while  empowering 
individuals and organizations to safely share data as well as physical assets (e.g., vehicle or real estate sharing); and 
5) communication mechanisms to provide real-time information not only through personal devices but also through 
integration into physical assets such as street signs [Jaokar2012].  

 

1 

Such an infrastructure represents an evolution of the Internet and the World Wide Web, whose infrastructures are 
neither  the  product  of  independent  research  nor  of  natural  market  forces.  Rather,  these  open,  generative 
infrastructures  are  the  result  of  a  balance  of  federal  and  commercial  investment  in  basic  research  and  key 
technologies, and federally supported communities of academic and commercial participants collaborating toward 
open infrastructure. And just as the Internet and Web have fueled (and are in turn today sustained by) entirely new 
markets and commercial opportunities, an open smart city infrastructure is essential to developing the applications, 
services, and new markets necessary to support healthy, safe, and sustainable cities in the coming decades. 
2  Requirements and Challenges of City-Scale Intelligent Systems and Platforms 
An  integrated,  open  intelligent  infrastructure  with  the  components  discussed  above—measurement,  connectivity, 
access,  controls,  and  communication—will  require  building  on  basic  research  and  emerging  technologies  and 
methods, and innovation in areas ranging from material sciences to systems sciences to machine learning. At the 
heart  of  these  capabilities  is  data  and  new  software  platforms  that  provide  mobility,  security,  safety,  privacy  and 
processing of massive amounts of information (so-called “big data”). New capabilities such as sharing of assets or 
efficient, sustainable design and policy, as well as equitable access to services and opportunities will rely on big data 
and its use in analysis and modeling. But Smart City infrastructure must also “close the loop,” where measurement, 
connectivity,  access,  controls,  and  communication  support  automated  system  optimization  and  responses  and 
improved  real-time  human  decisions  and  actions  [Cassandras2016].  This  integration  will  require  a  balanced 
understanding across the range of physical, digital, and social facets of cities embodied in the service facets listed 
earlier,  leveraging  the  intelligent  infrastructure  in  ways  that  anticipate  and  accommodate  social,  behavioral,  and 
economic forces and effects. Simply put, intelligent infrastructure cannot rely on purely technical and mechanistic 
views  of  cities,  but  on  a  broader,  multi-disciplinary  understanding  of  cities  as  dynamic  interconnected  processes 
rather than merely places. 

Increases  in  population  fuel  growth  in  every  aspect  of  infrastructure,  and  in  some  cases  the  value  and  scale  of 
infrastructure growth rate is super-linear [Bettencourt2007]. Thus city-scale intelligent systems and platforms will 
need to be optimized for extensibility and ability to scale to millions of independent devices, for high reliability and 
resilience, and for replicability. Underlying all of these requirements is the importance of open systems to support 
research and development by broad communities using standard hardware and software interfaces [Catlett2017].  

The requirements for “Smart City” intelligent systems and platforms suggest a number of basic challenges:  

2.1 

Enabling  heterogeneous,  independent,  and  widely  distributed  intelligent  devices  to  interoperate  and  to 
exchange data and services. 

Development  of  smart  city  infrastructure  largely  parallels  challenges  faced  in  the  1980s  and  early  1990s,  as  the 
Internet  evolved  as  an  open  platform  integrating  data,  voice,  video,  and  specialized  applications.  The  resulting, 
generative, Internet platform was not the product of industrial organizations, academics, or standards bodies working 
in  a  vacuum.  Rather,  it  was  catalyzed  by  federally  supported  basic  research  and  collaborative  contributions  by 
academic,  industry,  and  government  researchers  who  solved  fundamental  scientific  and  technical  challenges  and 
engaged  in  their  test  and  evaluation  in  working  infrastructure.    The  open  Internet  platform  in  turn  enabled  the 
development of interoperable industry-specific products and services.  

In today’s Smart City context the “Internet of Things” (IoT) concept is driving many new independent, and non-
interoperable platforms, each defining various combinations of mobility, security and safe data collection, embedded 
(or “edge”) computing, and wireless communications technologies to enable massive amounts of data to be analyzed 
using cloud computing systems.  

The  open  Internet  platform  is  fundamentally  a  service  for  transporting  packets  from  one  computer  to  another, 
underpinning  higher-level  functionality,  beginning  with  the  World  Wide  Web  and  ultimately  a  diversity  of 
interconnected applications. But although the Web is indeed world-wide, with hundreds of millions of independent 
devices, it is most commonly used to support relatively simple applications involving a handful of interactions, such 
as  loading  data  from  a  website.  A  Smart  City  infrastructure  will  require  much  more  complex  data  flows,  with 
applications potentially involving tens of thousands of heterogeneous devices that are not only exchanging data 

 

2 

but are cooperating, such as to optimize the energy use within a complex of buildings or to re-route traffic around 
street flooding or collisions. Without the mechanisms to support such orchestration and data integration, each new 
Smart City application must invent its own unique methods and tools. 

What  is  lacking—and  what  is  necessary  to  define  in  the  future—is  a  common,  open,  underlying  “platform”, 
analogous to (but much more complex than) the Internet or Web, allowing applications and services to be developed 
as modular, extensible, interoperable components. To achieve the level of interoperation and innovation in Smart 
Cities that we have seen in the Internet will require federal investment in the basic research and development of an 
analogous open platform for intelligent infrastructure, tested and evaluated openly through the same inclusive, open, 
consensus-driven approach that created Internet.   

Foundational Support for Privacy, Security, and Reliability 

2.2 
The building blocks of the Internet were largely set in place before it was clear that its growth would be exponential, 
or that it would become an indispensable utility for nearly every aspect of society. Consequently, the history of the 
Internet is also characterized by an ongoing struggle to provide security and privacy as the Internet has grown and 
evolved  into  critical  infrastructure.  Most  IoT  and  smart  city  projects  have  internalized  this  lesson,  developing 
elaborate frameworks for privacy and security and thus effectively providing many potential approaches for an open 
infrastructure. Similarly, many independent IoT or smart city efforts have developed frameworks for reliable system 
operation and management.  

But smart city infrastructure is also physical. Embedding sensing, computing, and communication infrastructure into 
the built environment requires technology that is as reliable as that environment, whether a street or a building or 
water pipe. Yet technology evolves much more rapidly than the built environment, and thus smart city technologies 
must also be designed to avoid single points of failure, to provide self-healing and graceful degradation in the face 
of  component  failures,  and  to  support  minimally  disruptive  upgrades  and  enhancements.  As  importantly,  the 
interoperation of physical and digital assets also presents privacy and security challenges, requiring consideration 
of unique physical vulnerabilities [Li2014]). As with privacy, security, and management, today’s IoT and smart city 
efforts have produced many independent, non-interoperable frameworks and platforms. 

The landscape for smart city infrastructure today, then, mirrors the 1980s, when there were many non-interoperable 
communications platforms, including open Internet protocols implemented in NSFNET, specialized federal network 
protocols  such  the  Department  of  Energy’s  ESNET,  and  proprietary  commercial  offerings  such  as  from  AT&T, 
DEC, IBM, and MCI. Critical to achieving today’s Internet was leadership on the part of the federal government to 
encourage  and  support  evaluation  and  selection  of  a  common,  open  platform,  through  a  process  that  ultimately 
engaged all of the platform providers spanning academia, government, and industry in building a common, open 
Internet.  This leadership is perhaps even more important today for cities than it was for communications networks 
in the 1980s. 

2.3  Harnessing New Technologies and Approaches to Sensing and Detection 
Smart  cities  will  rely  heavily  on  sensors,  whether  to  measure  atmospheric  conditions,  or  air  quality,  or  to  detect 
conditions  based  on  machine  learning  approaches  to  analyzing  images  and  sound.  Today  cities  use  specialized 
sensor networks operated by service providers or government agencies, designed and calibrated to provide accurate, 
actionable data. As with consumer electronics, the price-performance for sensors has steadily improved, to the point 
that low-cost sensors can be deployed by individuals or embedded in infrastructure such as LED streetlights. Yet the 
value of traditional sensor networks is not only the technology itself but in its consistent deployment and careful 
calibration.  As  sensors  proliferate  within  cities  the  resulting  data  will  be  massive,  noisy  and  structured  in  many 
different  ways.  Disruptive 
technologies  such  as  printed  electrochemical  [Carter2013]  or  MEMS-based 
[Paprotny2013] devices are poised to reduce the size and cost of traditionally expensive gas and particle sensing, 
respectively,  further  expanding  the  diversity  and  scale  of  sensor  networks.  Consequently  a  smart  city 
infrastructure  must  provide  common  methods  for  capturing  sufficient  metadata  such  that  sensor  readings  can  be 
properly  interpreted  individually,  over  time,  and  in  relation  to  similar  measurements  from  independent  systems. 
[Catlett2017].  

 

3 

Beyond  new  sensor  technologies,  price-performance  improvements  in  computation  coupled  with  rapidly 
expanding machine learning capabilities present the potential for image and sound processing as a means to detect 
complex conditions and events, such as “near miss” automobile accidents or the impact of new infrastructure on 
pedestrian  and  vehicle  flow.    Low-cost,  high-performance  computing  technologies  also  support  new  approaches 
involving  computation  embedded  within  infrastructure  (“edge  computing”),  enabling  research  into  real-time 
computational  control  of  infrastructure  [CMU-ref]  and  powerful  privacy  policies,  eliminating  the  need  for  a 
centralized server holding potentially sensitive data such as images and sound (as is required to process using central 
or cloud strategies). An example of such an approach is the NSF-funded Array-of-Things (AoT) [Catlett2017], a 
partnership  between  Argonne  National  Laboratory,  the  University  of  Chicago,  the  City  of  Chicago,  and  industry 
partners.    Using  Argonne’s  Waggle  platform,  designed  to  provide  reliable  sensor  hosting  and  edge  computing 
capabilities in remote locations [Beckman2016], AoT is establishing an open platform for rapidly embedding new 
sensors,  communication  and  computing  devices  in  a  major  urban  areas  beginning  with  Chicago.  AoT  is  also  an 
example of the importance of cities partnering with local universities and national laboratories to harness these new 
sensing, measurement, and observational technologies, as is also evidenced by the participation of such teams in 
organizations such as the MetroLab network.   

Resilient Architecture and Balancing Distributed and Central Functions 

2.4 
Many traditional smart city projects rely on data collection from sensors such as cameras, transmitted to a cloud 
platform where images and other data are continuously and centrally analyzed for decision support. However, this 
centralized cloud approach has several major challenges. First, the communication costs can be substantial absent 
free  high-speed  networking  infrastructure.  Second,  as  noted  above,  collecting  and  storing  privacy-sensitive 
information introduces significant privacy concerns and challenges regarding public trust and adoption, given that 
images would most certainly include faces, license plates, and events such as traffic accidents. Third, centralized 
cloud solutions represent central points of failure. Resilient urban infrastructures should not fail if the cloud service 
is unavailable. Similarly, distributed infrastructure should be resilient enough to fail incrementally (“gracefully”), 
with  self-healing  capabilities.  Edge  computing  is  essential  to  providing  such  resilience,  but  moving  from  a 
centralized command-control architecture to a resilient, cooperative, distributed architecture also introduces the need 
for basic research and development of configuration, reliable management, programming, and automated control 
of distributed systems of autonomous devices.  

These distributed systems will involve tens of thousands of devices, including actuators controlling components 
and functions ranging from the control of traffic and vehicle flow to the generation and distribution of energy, food, 
and water. This will require new approaches to providing real-time adaptation to natural and/or human-induced 
disruptions, whether physical or cyber, to ensure safe and reliable operation.  

Innovations in Policy, Governance, Privacy, and Ethics 

2.5 
The  promise  of  smart  cities  cannot  be  realized  without  the  involvement  of  its  residents,  and  this  requires  trust 
generated  by  transparency,  inclusion,  and  accountability.  Public  engagement,  governance  and  privacy  policies 
must be an integral part of any city-scale intelligent infrastructure development, test, or deployment. The technical 
solutions must be accompanies by a set of community-vetted policies and governance structures, reports detailing 
community input, suggestions, questions and responses and ongoing engagement processes.  
3 
Among the multitude of functions a city supports, transportation reigns supreme in terms of resource consumption, 
strain  on  the  environment,  and  frustration  of  its  citizens.  Based  on  the  2011  Urban  Mobility  Report,  the  cost  of 
commuter  delays  has  risen  by  260%  over  the  past  25  years  and  28%  of  US  primary  energy  is  now  used  by 
transportation.  Road  congestion  is  responsible  for  about  20%  of  fuel  consumption  in  urban  areas.  In  the  US,  the 
estimated cumulative cost of traffic congestion by 2030 will reach $2.8 trillion – equal roughly to the U.S, annual 
tax revenue.  

Illustrating City-Scale Intelligent Systems and Their Challenges: Transportation 

In view of these facts, the advent of Connected Autonomous Vehicles (CAVs) is a game-changing opportunity for 
Smart Cities. Intuitively, there are simple arguments for automated vehicles. A computer is simply a better driver 

 

4 

than  a  human:  computers  can  maintain  steady  cruising  speeds  which  improves  fuel  efficiency;  they  are  better  at 
processing  data  whose  abundance  is  now  overwhelming  humans  (e.g.,  GPS  data,  weather  data,  traffic  condition 
data); they can make fast and accurate driving adjustments; they do not get distracted like humans do; and they do 
not blink and sleep.  

There  are  of  course  numerous  counter-arguments  regarding  moral  and  legal  issues;  there  are  also  significant 
technical questions and challenges, and these are precisely what motivates the development of a city-scale intelligent 
infrastructure that can support the deployment of CAVs and their smooth integration into the existing transportation 
system. However, CAVs face several major challenges:  

•  Communication infrastructure: The key to the success of CAVs is the ability to share massive amounts of 
data  in  real-time.  The  flow  of  these  data  needs  to  include  Vehicle-to-Vehicle  (V2V)  as  well  as  Vehicle-to-
Infrastructure (V2I) communication. In the latter case, for example, vehicles can share information with traffic 
lights to control their speed and avoid any possible unnecessary stops at intersections. In fact, as confirmed by 
simulation, it is possible to completely eliminate traffic lights and maintain a continuous flow of vehicles that 
never stop [Zhangetal2016].  

•  Real-time Data Processing: In an individual CAV, data originate from both local on-board sensors and from 
other CAVs and the transportation system infrastructure. These data need to be processed mostly locally, but on 
occasion  at  remote  sites,  in  real-time.  Therefore,  it  is  necessary  to  design  and  manage  a  collection  of  cloud 
resources  and  computational  edge  facilities  which  must  be  strategically  distributed  within  a  Smart  City  to 
minimize latency. 

Another transportation innovation is the advent of Electric Vehicles (EVs) and Transportation Electrification. 
The  EPRI  (Electric  Power  Research  Institute)  and  NRDC  study  confirms  that  fueling  transportation  through 
electricity  instead  of  petroleum  reduces  significantly  emissions  of  greenhouse  gases  and  other  air  pollutants 
[Tonachel2015]. About 60% of carbon pollution from the transportation sector comes from passenger vehicles. If we 
electrify all of them with renewably generated, zero-carbon electricity by 2050, we will address a huge part of the 
climate challenge for the transportation. Furthermore, the EPRI-NRDC study shows that air quality impact by 2030 
will  be  significant,  contributing  to  improved  public  health.  Furthermore,  EVs  have  benefits,  compared  to 
conventional combustion engine vehicles, such as (1) they are quiet, (2) they offer high torque, and (3) most notably 
they produce no tailpipe emissions. However, they have their challenges: 

•  Limited Range and Long Battery Charging Time: The current EV technology require extensive network of 
charging stations to enable EVs to travel long distances as conventional vehicles do. Furthermore, “refueling” 
an  EV  takes  much  longer  time  than  refueling  conventional  vehicles.  To  overcome  these  challenges,  battery 
technologies will need to become much more efficient in terms of duration and charging time. Another major 
technology advance that will assist in overcoming these challenges will be the dynamic charging technology. 
Dynamic charging technology allows EVs to charge their batteries while moving on the road, and hence make 
batteries lighter, smaller and EVs overall cheaper.  

•  Privacy  and  Security:  The  EVs  are  tightly  coupled  with  other  sensing,  communication  and  computing 
infrastructures  such  as  smart  grid  utilities  and  road  infrastructures.  Depending  on  the  charging  technology, 
smart grid utilities may gain information about vehicle/user location, violating location privacy needs. In case 
of dynamic charging, it is important that EVs authenticate themselves in real-time with charging components, 
embedded in roads [Li2014], hence a joint location privacy and secure communication is needed. 

•  Billing: If using dynamic wireless charging technologies for EVs, billing for electricity becomes challenging 
since smart grid utilities need to charge EVs (mobile appliances) for electricity, but often these electric utilities 
are  not  in  charge  of  road  infrastructures  and  EVs.  Hence,  coordinated  and  innovated  agreements,  pricing 
models, and billing protocols which are also privacy-preserving, are required and represent a major challenge 
for transportation electrification.  

4  Recommendations 
City-scale  intelligent  systems  and  platforms  are  major  components  of  the  overall  integrated  and  intelligent 
infrastructure for future cities and megacities and, more broadly, urban settings. Just as today’s Internet and World 

 

5 

Wide Web provide an open infrastructure upon which new markets and industries are fueled, an open infrastructure 
is essential to catalyzing the innovation necessary to achieve the benefits of smart cities. The challenges outlined 
above, such as those associated with scale and complexity, or privacy and reliability, will not be solved within 
independent academic or commercial efforts. Solutions will require collaboration between academics, industry, and 
various  stakeholders  within  cities.  In  this  sense,  investments  made  in  programs  and  coordination  efforts  will  be 
critical if the U.S. is to reach the goal of healthy and prosperous urban environments [NSF2015]. Equally important 
is the development of U.S. commercial capabilities to lead in the expansion of global cities and the creation of new 
cities worldwide.  Research investments are beyond the resources of most cities, and early attempts at independent, 
industry-developed smart city solutions have been inherently costly absent the common platform approach outlined 
above.  Investments  from  federal  agencies  will  be  critical  to  engage  academic  researchers  in  collaboration  with 
cities and private companies, and to support major pilot infrastructures as well as open, community-driven efforts to 
test, refine, and adopt common platforms. Moreover, there are fundamental as well as applied research challenges 
that  are  inherently  risky,  thus  difficult  for  industry  to  pursue  alone  The  return  of  this  investment  will  have 
significantly broader impacts, as the solutions to city-specific problems are just as relevant to other domains that 
involve rapidly proliferating IoT technologies (e.g., sensor networks, security, energy management, environmental 
concerns). In view of these considerations, our recommendations are:  

•  The  availability  of  data  is  at  the  heart  of  any  successful  research  related  to  Smart  Cities.  Hence,  our 
recommendation  is  to  facilitate  the  creation  of  an  open  infrastructure  to  enable  sharing  of  datasets  for 
researchers to use, test, and compare new ideas and methodologies. Data should become a public utility, with 
consideration  for  both  open  data  and  the  controlled  authorized  use  of  sensitive  data  for  research  purposes. 
Along the same lines, incentives need to be in place so that both private and public organizations can make data 
available on a continuing basis.  

•  We recommend two focus areas for research regarding the development, prototyping, and deployment of city-
scale  intelligent  infrastructures.  Cities  within  developed  economies  such  as  U.S.  are  faced  with  aging 
infrastructure, and thus the need for research into re-purposing, retrofitting, optimization, and better control 
of  existing  infrastructure,  including  new  measurement,  data  analysis,  and  autonomous  control  systems.  
Concurrently, cities in developing economies are rapidly expanding, and new cities are being built, where there 
is  need  for  research  regarding  the  design  and  deployment  of  intelligent  infrastructures,  systems  and 
platforms  toward  goals  such  as  reduced  energy  costs,  efficient  transportation,  and  equitable  accss  to 
healthcare, energy, food, water, and other services. Both of these areas require research into data integration 
and  analysis  techniques  and  platforms—particularly  those  harnessing  machine  learning—as  well  as 
measurement methods and technologies necessary for infrastructure and investment evaluation, and multi-scale, 
coupled computational modeling capabilities to support optimized designs through simulation. 

•  The  availability  of  data  motivates  data-driven  approaches  for  resource  allocation  at  all  levels  of  the  Smart 
City  infrastructure.  Hence,  research  is  needed  to  develop  data-driven  resource  allocation  mechanisms, 
including control and audit systems to support privacy and security—enabling data-driven approaches that 
go beyond open data, harnessing sensitive data essential to fully understanding or modeling urban systems.  

•  New research is needed in machine learning and data analytics emphasizing dynamic system aspects since 
city-scale systems and platforms are dynamic complex systems. We need to move beyond static optimization 
and  towards  effective  and  tractable  dynamic  optimization  under  uncertainties.  This  focus  is  a  direct 
consequence of the fact that sensing is now ubiquitous, and we need to shift towards understanding, estimating 
and inferring higher level knowledge from the raw data in order to optimize and control city-scale systems.  

•  We recommend research in distributed/massively parallel algorithmic and information architectures which 
can result in computation and information exchange tractability. This includes information architectures which 
enable processing of multiscale information from massive data. For example, in the transportation domain, 
these  data  originate  from  travelers,  vehicles,  and  the  transportation  infrastructure.  What  was  traditionally 
modeled as “uncertainty” (noise or disturbance) is rapidly becoming additional input or extra state information 
with  the  potential  to  provide  additional  context  and  account  for  changes  that  cannot  be  predicted  by 
deterministic models.  

•  A  common  approach  to  embedded  sensing  and  edge  computing  platforms  needs  to  inclu  research  and 
development of new sensors, including new materials for sensing biological materials and pollutants in air 

 

6 

and water, advanced edge computing capabilities and resilient embedded hardware systems such as new 
computing, sensing or communication devices to operate at low power, and be upgradable, reliable, privacy-
preserving, secure, since these systems operate at remote locations and cannot be replaced every 6-12 months 
(as we assume with our mobile devices).  

•  Research  is  necessary  to  enhance  understanding  of  interdependencies  in  complex  dynamic  systems  since 
many of the city-scale systems and infrastructure sectors are interdependent and individual sector platforms are 
constantly changing. We need to understand coordination mechanisms, protocols, policies and algorithms to 
schedule interdependent resources in conflict-free manner to achieve secure and accurate information exchange. 
For  example,  as  EVs  become  more  ubiquitous,  tight  coordination  will  need  to  occur  among  sectors  such  as 
smart grid utilities, car manufacturers, road infrastructure management and communication companies.  

•  Research will be needed to explicitly incorporate human behavior in the operationalization of Smart Cities. 
Driverless vehicles (CAVs), for example, could decrease global fuel usage. If, however, CAVs make journeys 
easier  to  undertake,  fuel  usage  could  increase  if  population  decides  to  take  advantage  of  this  fact. 
Understanding paradigm shifts in human behavior as a result of automation will require new insight into 
human-technology interactions.  

5  References  
[Beckman2016] Beckman P, Sankaran R, Catlett CE, Ferrier N, Jacob R, Papka M, editors. Waggle: An open sensor platform for 
edge computing. SENSORS, 2016 IEEE; 2016: IEEE. 

[Bettencourt2007] Bettencourt, L.M., et al., Growth, innovation, scaling, and the pace of life in cities. Proceedings of the national 
academy of sciences, 2007. 104(17): p. 7301-7306. 

[Carter  2013]  Carter  MT,  Stetter  JR,  Findlay  MW,  Patel  V.  Printed  amperometric  gas  sensors.  ECS  Transactions. 
2013;50(12):211-20. 

[Cassandras2016], Cassandras C.G., “Smart Cities as Cyber-Physical Social Systems”, Engineering, Vol. 2, No. 2, pp. 156-158, 
2016.  

[Catlett2017]  Charles  E.  Catlett,  Peter  H.  Beckman,  Rajesh  Sankaran,  and  Kate  Kusiak  Galvin.  2017.  Array  of  Things:  A 
Scientific Research Instrument in the Public Way. In Proceedings of The 2nd Workshop on Science of Smart City Operations and 
Platforms Engineering, Pittsburgh, PA USA, 21 April 2017 (SCOPE 2017), 9 pages. DOI: 10.1145/3063386.3063771  

[China2017]  NBC  News, 
http://www.41nbc.com/2017/03/25/china-plans-a-megacity-the-size-of-new-england/ 

“China  Plans 

a  Megacity 

the  Size 

of  New  England”,  March 

25, 

2017, 

[Jaokar2012]  Ajit  Jaokar,  “Big  Data  for  Smart  Cities”,  Smart  Cities  Industry  Summit,  25-26  September  2012,  London,  Great 
Britain.  

[Li2014] Hongyang Li, Gyorgy Dan, Klara Nahrstedt, “Portunes: Privacy-preserving Fast Authentication for Dynamic Electric 
Vehicle Charging”, IEEE International Conference on Smart Grid Communications, 2014.  

[Mynatt2017]  Mynatt  et  al.  (2017)  “A  National  Research  Agenda  for  Intelligent  Infrastructure”  CCC  Led  Whitepapers 
http://cra.org/ccc/resources/ccc-led-whitepapers/, last accessed April 12, 2017. 

[NSF2015]  NSF  Workshop  on  Smart  Cities,  December  3-4,  2015,  Boston,  MA,  http://www.bu.edu/systems/nsf-conference-
december-3-4-2015/ 

[Paprotny  2013]  Paprotny  I,  Doering  F,  Solomon  PA,  White  RM,  Gundel  LA.  Microfabricated  air-microfluidic  sensor  for 
personal  monitoring  of  airborne  particulate  matter:  Design,  fabrication,  and  experimental  results.  Sensors  and  Actuators  A: 
Physical. 2013;201:506-16. 

[Tonachel2015]  Luke  Tonachel,  “Study:  Electric  Vehicles  can  dramatically  reduce  carbon  pollution  from  transportation,  and 
improve  air  quality”,  Expert  Blog,  September  2017,  2015,  https://www.nrdc.org/experts/luke-tonachel/study-electric-vehicles-
can-dramatically-reduce-carbon-pollution 

[Zhangetal2016] Zhang, Y., Malikopoulos A.A., and Cassandras, C.G., “Optimal Control and Coordination of Connected and 
Automated Vehicles at Urban Traffic Intersections”, Proc. of 2016 American Control Conference, pp. 6227-6232, 2016.  

 

7 

This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. 1136993. Any 
opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do 
not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation. 

 

8 

