7
1
0
2

 

y
a
M
6

 

 
 
]

Y
C
.
s
c
[
 
 

1
v
7
8
4
3
0

.

5
0
7
1
:
v
i
X
r
a

Sukiyaki in French style: A novel system for transformation of

dietary patterns

Masahiro Kazama,1 Minami Sugimoto,2 Chizuru Hosokawa,2 Keisuke Matsushima,3

Lav R. Varshney,4 and Yoshiki Ishikawa1∗

1Habitech Inc., Tokyo, Japan

2Department of Public Health, Cancer Scan Inc., Tokyo, Japan

3Keisuke Matsushima, Nice, France

4University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, Illinois, USA

Abstract

We propose a novel system which can transform a recipe into any selected regional style (e.g.,
Japanese, Mediterranean, or Italian). This system has three characteristics. First the system can iden-
tify the degree of dietary style mixture of any selected recipe. Second, the system can visualize such
dietary style mixtures using barycentric Newton diagrams. Third, the system can suggest ingredient
substitutions through an extended word2vec model, such that a recipe becomes more authentic for any
selected dietary style. Drawing on a large number of recipes from Yummly, an example shows how the
proposed system can transform a traditional Japanese recipe, Sukiyaki, into French style.

Keywords: food, big data, dietary style, newton diagram, neural network, word2vec

1 Introduction

Modern dietary styles have been more inclined toward unhealthy eating patterns [1]. As such, there is an
emerging consensus that public health eﬀorts should be directed to developing an innovative technology to
change dietary style to become more healthy. While there is compelling research in nutrition sciences on
what makes a recipe healthy [2], this does not necessarily mean that such a recipe is matched to one’s unique
food preferences. For example, the Japanese dietary style as measured in the 1970s is reported to have been
healthy [3]. However, recipes in such a Japanese style may not be readily acceptable for those that prefer
Southern American dietary style.

Furthermore, not limited to such a public health perspective, with growing diversity in personal food
preference and dietary style, personalized information systems that can transform a recipe into any selected
dietary style that a user might prefer would help food companies and professional chefs create new recipes.
To achieve this goal, there are two signiﬁcant challenges: 1) identifying the degree of dietary style mixture

of any selected recipe; and 2) developing an algorithm that shifts a recipe into any selected dietary style.

As to the former challenge, with growing globalization and economic development, it is becoming diﬃcult
to identify a recipe’s dietary style with speciﬁc traditional styles since dietary patterns have been changing
and converging in many countries throughout Asia, Europe, and elsewhere [4]. Regarding the latter challenge,
to the best of our knowledge, little attention has been paid to developing algorithms which transform a
recipe’s dietary style into any selected dietary pattern, cf. [5, 6].

The aim of this study is to propose a novel data-driven system for transformation of dietary style.
This system has three characteristics. First, we propose a new method for identifying a recipe’s dietary style

∗ishikun@gmail.com

1

Figure 1: Architecture of recommendation system which transform a given recipe into any selected coun-
try/region style.

mixture by calculating the contribution of each ingredient to certain dietary patterns, such as Mediterranean,
French, or Japanese, by drawing on ingredient prevalence data from large recipe repositories. Second, the
system visualizes a recipe’s dietary style mixture in two-dimensional space under barycentric coordinates
using what we call a Newton diagram. Third, the system transforms a recipe’s dietary pattern into any
selected regional style by recommending replaceable ingredients in existing recipes.

As an example of this proposed system, we transform a traditional Japanese recipe, Sukiyaki, into French

style.

2 Architecture of recommendation system

Figure 1 shows the overall architecture of recommendation system, which consists of two steps: 1) identiﬁca-
tion and visualization of a recipe’s dietary style mixture; and 2) algorithm which transforms a given recipe
into any selected regional/country style. Details of the steps are described as follows.

2.1 Step 1: Identiﬁcation and visualization of a recipe’s dietary style mixture

Using a neural network method as detailed below, we identify a recipe’s dietary style. The neural network
model was constructed as shown in Figure 2.

When we enter a recipe, this model classiﬁes which country or regional cuisine the recipe belongs to. The
input is a vector with the dimension of the total number of ingredients included in the dataset, and only the
indices of ingredients contained in the input recipe are 1, otherwise they are 0.

There are two hidden layers. Therefore, this model can consider a combination of ingredients to predict
the country probability. Dropout is also used for the hidden layer, randomly (20%) setting the value of
the node to 0. So a robust network is constructed. The ﬁnal layer’s dimension is the number of countries,
here 20 countries. In the ﬁnal layer, we convert it to a probability value using the softmax function, which
represents the probability that the recipe belongs to that country.

In this study, we used a labeled corpus of Yummly recipes to train this neural network. Yummly dataset
has 39774 recipes from the 20 countries as shown in Table 1. Each recipe has the ingredients and country
information. Firstly, we randomly divided the data set into 80% for training the neural network and 20%

2

Figure 2: Neural network model for predicting regional cuisine from list of ingredients.

Table 1: Description of Yummly dataset.

Country
Italian
Mexican
Southern US
Indian
Chinese
French
Cajun Creole
Thai
Japanese
Greek

Recipes

7838
6438
4320
3003
2673
2646
1546
1539
1423
1175

Ingredients
2929
2684
2462
1664
1792
2102
1576
1376
1439
1198

Country
Spanish
Korean
Vietnamese
Moroccan
British
Filipino
Irish
Jamaican
Russian
Brazilian
ALL

Recipes

989
830
825
821
804
755
667
526
489
467
39774

Ingredients
1263
898
1108
974
1166
947
999
877
872
853
6714

3

Figure 3: Newton diagram: visualization of probability that the recipe belongs to the several regional dietary
styles. We pick 8 recipes and 8 countries as an example.

for testing how precisely it can classify. The ﬁnal neural network achieved a classiﬁcation accuracy of 79%
on the test set.

By using the probability values that emerge from the activation function in the neural network, rather
than just the ﬁnal classiﬁcation, we can draw a barycentric Newton diagram, as shown in Figure 3. The basic
idea of the visualization, drawing on Isaac Newton’s visualization of the color spectrum [7], is to express
a mixture in terms of its constituents as represented in barycentric coordinates. This visualization allows
an intuitive interpretation of which country a recipe belongs to. If the probability of Japanese is high, the
recipe is mapped near the Japanese.

2.2 Step 2: Recommendation algorithm for transforming dietary style

If you want to change a given recipe into a recipe having high probability of a speciﬁc country by just
changing one ingredient, which ingredient should be alternatively used?

When we change the one ingredient xi in the recipe to ingredient xj, the probability value of country
likelihood can be calculated by using the above neural network model.
If we want to change the recipe
to have high probability of a speciﬁc country c, we can ﬁnd ingredient xj that maximizes the following
probability.

P (C = c|r − xi + xj)

(1)

where r is the recipe. However, with this method, regardless of the ingredient xi, only speciﬁc ingredients
having a high probability of country c are always selected. In this system, we want to select ingredients that
are similar to ingredient xi and have a high probability of country c. Therefore, we propose a method of
extending word2vec as a method of ﬁnding ingredients resembling ingredient xi.

Word2vec is a technique proposed in the ﬁeld of natural language processing [8]. As the name implies,
it is a method to vectorize words, and similar words are represented by similar vectors. To train word2vec,
sentences with their implicit structure among words are used as data. One sentence is made up of a set of

4

words, and learned on the assumption that the words appearing in the vicinity are similar. After vectoriza-
tion, word2vec can calculate analogies. For example, the analogy of “King - Man + Women = ?” can be
“Queen” by using word2vec.

In this study, word2vec is applied to the data set of recipes. Word2vec can be applied by considering
recipes as sentences and ingredients as words. We do not include a window size parameter, since it is used
to encode the ordering of words in sentences where it is important. In recipes, the listing of ingredients is
unordered.

Each ingredient is vectorized by word2vec, and the similarity of each ingredient is calculated using cosine
similarity. Through vectorization in word2vec, those of the same genre are placed nearby. In other words, by
using the word2vec vector, it is possible to select ingredients with similar genres. Figure 4 shows ingredient
maps by neural network and word2vec.

Next, we extend word2vec to be able to incorporate information of the country. When we can vectorize
the countries, we can calculate the analogy between countries and ingredients. For example, this method
can tell us what is the French ingredient that corresponds to Japanese soy sauce by calculating “Soy sauce
- Japan + French = ?”.

The detail of our method is as follows. We will maximize objective function (2).

(cid:88)

(cid:88)

r∈R

wi∈r

log P (wi|cr) + log P (cr|wi) +

(cid:88)

j(cid:54)=i



log P (wj|wi)

(2)

where R is a set of recipes, r is a recipe, wi is i th ingredient in the recipe r, and cr is a country the recipe
r belongs to. The probability is deﬁned below.

P (b|a) =

(cid:80)

(cid:48)
exp(vT
b)
c∈W exp(vT
a v

a v

(3)
a ∈ RK
where a is a ingredient or country, b, c are also, va ∈ RK is an input vector of ingredient or country, v
is an output vector of ingredient or country, K is a dimension of vector, and W is a set of all ingredients
and all countries.

(cid:48)
c)

(cid:48)

We can use hierarchical softmax or negative sampling method [8] to maximize objective function (2) and

ﬁnd the vectors of ingredients and countries.

Table 2 shows the ingredients around each country in the vector space, and which could be considered as
most authentic for that regional cuisine [9]. Also, Figure 4 shows the ingredients and countries in 2D map
by using t-SNE method [10].

Table 2: Authentic ingredients for each country. Top 5 ingredients around each country in the vector space.

Japanese

Italian

French
Cognac
Calvados

Top1
Top2
Top3 Thyme springs
Top4 Gruyere cheese Wasabi paste
Top5
Bonito ﬂakes

Mirin
Dashi
Nori

Nicoise olives

Grated parmesan cheese
pecorino romano cheese

prosciutto

marinara sauce

Mexican

Corn tortillas

Salsa

Tortilla chips
Guacamole

Sweet italian sausage

Poblano peppers

3 Experiment

As an example of our proposed system, we transformed a traditional Japanese Sukiyaki into French style.
Table 3 shows the suggested replaceable ingredients and the probability after replacing. “Sukiyaki” consists
of soy sauce, beef sirloin, white sugar, green onions, mirin, shiitake, egg, vegetable oil, konnyaku, and chinese

5

Figure 4: Ingredients and countries map by extended word2vec: Each ingredient and country is mapped in
2D by using t-SNE. Also Each ingredient is colored by using t-SNE to convert 100 dimension vector into 3
dimension. The 3 dimension is corresponded to RGB color. Countries are represented by bold black.

cabbage. Figure 5 shows the Sukiyaki in French style cooked by professional chef KM who is one of the
coauthors of this paper.

Figure 5: Sukiyaki in French style. Professional chef KM who is one of the coauthors of this paper cooked
the recipe suggested by our system.

4 Discussion

Unhealthy dietary style is one of the most important public health issues to be tackled. Given that past
research has identiﬁed what makes a recipe healthy, future eﬀorts should pay attention to the development
of data-driven systems which can transform such healthy recipes into any given dietary style. Then a scien-
tiﬁcally proven healthy dietary style could be acceptable in accordance with a user’s unique food preferences.
Also, with growing diversity in personal food preference and dietary style, such an algorithm might be of

6

Table 3: Alternative ingredients suggested by extended word2vec model and country probability of changing
food ingredients in order from the top. Professional chef KM who is one of the coauthors of this paper chose
one alternative ingredient from top 10 suggested ingredients each.

-

Mirin

Original Ingredient Alternative Ingredient P(Japanese) P(French) # of replacement
0
1
2
3
4
5

Bouquet garni
Fresh tarragon
Melted butter

0.000
0.009
0.031
0.976
0.997
0.999

0.974
0.552
0.393
0.011
0.000
0.000

Calvados
Olive oil

-

Vegetable oil

Soy sauce

Green onions

Egg

value for food companies or professional chefs to create new recipes.

In this regard, this study adds two important contributions to the literature. First, this is to the best of
our knowledge, the ﬁrst study to identify a recipe’s mixture of dietary country/regional styles from the large
number of recipes around the world. Previous studies have focused on assessing degree of adherence to a
single dietary pattern. For example, Mediterranean Diet Score is one of the most popular diet scores. This
method uses 11 main items (e.g., fruit, vegetable, olive oil, and wine) as criteria for assessing the degree of
one’s Mediterranean style [11]. However, in this era, it is becoming diﬃcult to identify a recipe’s dietary style
with speciﬁc country/regional style. For example, should Fish Provencal, whose recipe name is suggestive
of Southern France, be cast as French style? The answer is mixture of diﬀerent country styles: 32% French;
26% Italian; and 38% Spanish (see Figure 3).

Furthermore, our identiﬁcation algorithm can be used to assess the degree of personal dietary style
mixture, using the user’s daily eating pattern as inputs. For example, when one enters the recipes that one
has eaten in the past week into the algorithm, the probability values of each country would be returned,
which shows the mixture of dietary styles of one’s daily eating pattern. As such, a future research direction
would be developing algorithms that can transform personal dietary patterns to a healthier style by providing
a series of recipes that are in accordance with one’s unique food preferences.

Second, this study proposes an algorithm that can transform a given recipe into any selected regional
pattern. Previous studies have focused on developing recommendation algorithm which suggests replaceable
ingredients Based on cooking action [12], degree of similarity among ingredient [13], ingredient network [14],
degree of typicality of ingredient [15], and ﬂavor (foodpairing.com). Our recommendation algorithm can be
improved by adding multiple datasets from around the world. Needless to say, lack of a comprehensive data
sets makes it diﬃcult to develop recommendation algorithms for transforming dietary style. For example,
Yummly, one of the largest recipe sites in the world, is less likely to contain recipes from non-Western
regions. Furthermore, data on traditional dietary patterns is usually described in its native language. As
such, developing a way to integrate multiple data sets in multiple languages is required for future research.
One of the methods to address this issue might be as follows: 1) generating the vector representation for
each ingredient by using each data set independently; 2) translating only a small set of common ingredients
among each data set, such as potato, tomato, and onion; 3) with a use of common ingredients, mapping each
vector representation into one common vector space using a canonical correlation analysis [16], for example.
Several fundamental limitations of the present study warrant mention. First of all, our identiﬁcation and
transformation algorithms depend on the quantity and quality of recipes included in the data. As such, future
research using our proposed system should employ quality big recipe data. Second, the evolution of regional
cuisines prevents us from developing precise algorithm. For example, the deﬁnition of Mediterranean dietary
pattern has been revised to adapt to current dietary patterns [17, 18]. Therefore, future research should
employ time-trend recipe data to distinctively specify a recipe’s mixture of dietary style and its date cf. [19].
Third, we did not consider the cooking method (e.g., baking, boiling, and deep ﬂying) as a characteristic
of country/regional style. Each country/region has diﬀerent ways of cooking ingredients and this is one of
the important factors characterizing the food culture of each country/region. Forth, the combination of

7

ingredients was not considered as the way to represent country/regional style. For example, previous studies
have shown that Western recipes and East Asian recipes are opposite in ﬂavor compounds included in the
ingredient pair [20, 19, 21, 22, 9]. For example, Western cuisines tend to use ingredient pairs sharing many
ﬂavor compounds, while East Asian cuisines tend to avoid compound sharing ingredients. It is suggested that
combination of ﬂavor compounds was also elemental factor to characterize the food in each country/region.
As such, if we analyze the recipes data using ﬂavor compounds, we might get diﬀerent results.

In conclusion, we proposed a novel system which can transform a given recipe into any selected dietary
style. This system has three characteristics: 1) the system can identify a degree of dietary style mixture
of any selected recipe; 2) the system can visualize such dietary style mixture using a barycentric Newton
diagram; and the system can suggest ingredient substitution through extended word2vec model, such that a
recipe becomes more authentic for any selected dietary style. Future research directions were also discussed.

Conﬂict of Interest Statement

The authors declare that they have no conﬂict of interest.

Author Contributions

MK, LRV, and YI had the idea for the study and drafted the manuscript. MK performed the data collection
and analysis. MS, CH, and KM participated in the interpretation of the results and discussions for manuscript
writing and ﬁnalization. All authors read and approved the ﬁnal manuscript.

Funding

Varshney’s work was supported in part by the IBM-Illinois Center for Cognitive Computing Systems Research
(C3SR), a research collaboration as part of the IBM Cognitive Horizons Network.

Acknowledgments

This study used data from Yummly. We would like to express our deepest gratitude to everyone who
participated in this services.

References

[1] F. Imamura, R. Micha, S. Khatibzadeh, S. Fahimi, P. Shi, J. Powles, and D. Mozaﬀarian, “Dietary
quality among men and women in 187 countries in 1990 and 2010: a systematic assessment,” The
Lancet Global Health, vol. 3, no. 3, pp. e132–e142, Mar. 2015.

[2] S. Khatibzadeh, R. Micha, A. Afshin, M. Rao, M. Y. Yakoob, and D. Mozaﬀarian, “Major dietary risk
factors for chronic diseases: A systematic review of the current evidence for causal eﬀects and eﬀect
sizes,” Circulation, vol. 125, no. Su. 10, p. AP060, Mar. 2012.

[3] T. Tsuduki, “Inﬂuence of Japanese food on senility and health maintenance,” Yakugaku Zasshi: Journal

of the Pharmaceutical Society of Japan, vol. 135, no. 1, pp. 57–65, 2014.

[4] C. K. Khoury, A. D. Bjorkman, H. Dempewolf, J. Ramirez-Villegas, L. Guarino, A. Jarvis, L. H.
Rieseberg, and P. C. Struik, “Increasing homogeneity in global food supplies and the implications for
food security,” Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America, vol.
111, no. 11, pp. 4001–4006, Mar. 2014.

8

[5] F. Pinel, N. Shao, and L. R. Varshney, “Using physicochemical correlates of perceptual ﬂavor similarity

to enhance, balance and substitute ﬂavors,” Aug. 13 2014, US Patent App. 14/458,315.

[6] F. Pinel and L. R. Varshney, “Substitution of work products,” May 5 2014, US Patent App. 14/269,353.

[7] I. Newton, Opticks: Or, a Treatise of the Reﬂexions, Refractions, Inﬂexions and Colours of Light.

London: Sam. Smith and Benj. Walford, 1704.

[8] T. Mikolov, I. Sutskever, K. Chen, G. S. Corrado, and J. Dean, “Distributed representations of words
and phrases and their compositionality,” in Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 26,
C. J. C. Burges, L. Bottou, M. Welling, Z. Ghahramani, and K. Q. Weinberger, Eds. Cambridge, MA:
MIT Press, 2013, pp. 3111–3119.

[9] Y.-Y. Ahn, S. E. Ahnert, J. P. Bagrow, and A.-L. Barab´asi, “Flavor network and the principles of food

pairing,” Scientiﬁc Rerports, vol. 1, p. 196, Dec. 2011.

[10] L. van der Maaten and G. Hinton, “Visualizing data using t-SNE,” Journal of Machine Learning Re-

search, vol. 9, pp. 2579–2605, Nov. 2008.

[11] D. B. Panagiotakos, C. Pitsavos, and C. Stefanadis, “Dietary patterns: a Mediterranean diet score and
its relation to clinical and biological markers of cardiovascular disease risk,” Nutrition, Metabolism and
Cardiovascular Diseases, vol. 16, no. 8, pp. 559–568, Dec. 2006.

[12] Y. Shidochi, T. Takahashi, I. Ide, and H. Murase, “Finding replaceable materials in cooking recipe texts
considering characteristic cooking actions,” in Proceedings of the ACM Multimedia 2009 Workshop on
Multimedia for Cooking and Eating Activities, Oct. 2009, pp. 9–14.

[13] K. Nozawa, Y. Nakaoka, S. Yamamoto, and T. Satoh, “Finding method of replaceable ingredients using

large amounts of cooking recipes,” IEICE Technical Report, vol. 114, no. 204, pp. 41–46, Sep. 2014.

[14] C.-Y. Teng, Y.-R. Lin, and L. A. Adamic, “Recipe recommendation using ingredient networks,” in

Proceedings of the 3rd Annual ACM Web Science Conference (WebSci’12), Jun. 2012, pp. 298–307.

[15] S. Yokoi, K. Doman, T. Hirayama, I. Ide, D. Deguchi, and H. Murase, “Typicality analysis of the
combination of ingredients in a cooking recipe for assisting the arrangement of ingredients,” in 2015
IEEE International Conference on Multimedia & Expo Workshops (ICMEW), Jun. 2015.

[16] J. R. Kettenring, “Canonical analysis of several sets of variables,” Biometrika, vol. 58, no. 3, pp. 433–451,

Dec. 1971.

[17] L. Serra-Majem, A. Trichopoulou, J. N. de la Cruz, P. Cervera, A. G. ´Alvarez, C. La Vecchia, A. Lem-
touni, and D. Trichopoulos, “Does the deﬁnition of the Mediterranean diet need to be updated?” Public
Health Nutrition, vol. 7, no. 7, pp. 927–929, Oct. 2004.

[18] O. Kinouchi, R. W. Diez-Garcia, A. J. Holanda, P. Zambianchi, and A. C. Roque, “The non-equilibrium

nature of culinary evolution,” New Journal of Physics, vol. 10, no. 7, p. 073020, 2008.

[19] K. R. Varshney, L. R. Varshney, J. Wang, and D. Myers, “Flavor pairing in Medieval European cuisine:

A study in cooking with dirty data,” Int. Joint Conf. Artif. Intell. Workshops, pp. 3–12, Aug. 2013.

[20] Y.-X. Zhu, J. Huang, Z.-K. Zhang, Q.-M. Zhang, T. Zhou, and Y.-Y. Ahn, “Geography and similarity

of regional cuisines in China,” PloS ONE, vol. 8, no. 11, p. e79161, Nov. 2013.

[21] A. Jain, Rakhi N. K., and G. Bagler, “Analysis of food pairing in regional cuisines of India,” PLoS

ONE, vol. 10, no. 10, p. e0139539.

[22] S. T. Tallab and M. S. Alrazgan, “Exploring the food pairing hypothesis in Arab cuisine: A study in

computational gastronomy,” Procedia Computer Science, vol. 82, pp. 135–137, 2016.

9

