 

A National Research Agenda for Intelligent Infrastructure 

 

 

Computing Community Consortium 

Elizabeth Mynatt 

Georgia Tech 

 

Dan Lopresti 

Lehigh Univeristy 

 

Jennifer Clark 
Georgia Tech 

Greg Morrisett 

Cornell University 

George Pappas 

University of Pennsylvania 

Shwetak Patel 

University of Washington 

Greg Hager 

Johns Hopkins University 

Klara Nahrstedt 

University of Illinois  

 

Jennifer Rexford 

Princeton University 

Helen Wright 

Computing Community Consortium 

Ben Zorn 

Microsoft Research 

 
Our  infrastructure  touches  the  day-to-day  life  of  each  of  our  fellow  citizens,  and  its  capabilities,  integrity  and 
sustainability are crucial to the overall competitiveness and prosperity of our country. Unfortunately, the current state 
of U.S. infrastructure is not good: the American Society of Civil Engineers’ latest report on America’s infrastructure 
ranked  it  at  a  D+  —  in  need  of  $3.9  trillion  in  new  investments.  This  dire  situation  constrains  the  growth  of  our 
economy, threatens our quality of life, and puts our global leadership at risk. The ASCE report called out three actions 
that  need  to  be  taken  to  address  our  infrastructure  problem:  1)  investment  and  planning  in  the  system;  2)  bold 
leadership  by  elected  officials  at  the  local  and  federal  state;  and  3)  planning  sustainability  and  resiliency  in  our 
infrastructure1. 
 
While our immediate infrastructure needs are critical, it would be shortsighted to simply replicate more of what we 
have today. By doing so, we miss the opportunity to create Intelligent Infrastructure that will provide the foundation 
for increased safety and resilience, improved efficiencies and civic services, and broader economic opportunities and 
job growth. Indeed, our challenge is to proactively engage the declining, incumbent national infrastructure system and 
not merely repair it, but to enhance it; to create an internationally competitive cyber-physical system that provides an 
immediate opportunity for better services for citizens and that acts as a platform for a 21st century, high-tech economy 
and beyond. 
 
Intelligent  infrastructure  is  the  deep  embedding  of  sensing,  computing,  and  communications  capabilities  into 
traditional urban and rural physical infrastructures such as roads, buildings, and bridges for the purpose of increasing 
efficiency,  resiliency,  and  safety.  For  example,  embedding  controllers,  intersection  schedulers,  and  sensors  along 
roads creates new capabilities to control traffic signals and optimize traffic flow. Developing intelligent power grids 
provides the means to provide new efficiencies in power generation and transmission, improved resilience to natural 
and  human-originated  disruptions,  and  streamlined  integration  of  new  energy  sources  such  as  wind.  These  are  all 
examples of how intelligence infrastructure will change the way we interact with each other and how we plan and 
design our cities, towns, and communities. It is essential for us as a nation to invest in intelligent infrastructure and 
establish a coordinated research agenda to reap the benefits of this revolutionary change.   
 
Across  disciplines  ranging  from  engineering  to  computer  science  to  public  policy,  intelligent  infrastructures  are 
increasingly seen as solutions to the long-standing problems that face local governments attempting to respond to both 
long term and short term threats to resilience: 1) strained resources spread across ever growing urban populations, 2) 
aging infrastructures and public services systems, 3) competitiveness in the global economy, and 4) acute human and 
environmental stressors due to rapid growth and change in regional areas. 
 
                                                 
1 http://www.infrastructurereportcard.org/ 
 

 

1 

The economic opportunity presented by intelligent infrastructure is three-fold. First, the data produced by intelligent 
infrastructure  promises  to  increase  the  reliability  of  local  government  services  and  performance  of  infrastructure 
systems.  For  example,  deep  analysis  of  traffic  patterns  in  connection  with  more  intelligent  traffic  lights  can 
significantly reduce traffic congestion on roadways, and smart meters can record consumption of electric energy and 
send  that  information  back  to  a  utility  for  monitoring  and  billing.  The  data  also  paves  the  way  for  building 
interoperable  and  cross  platform  systems  that  enable  cross-system  coordination,  and  that  will  ultimately  allow 
localities  to  provide  higher  quality,  expanded  services,  from  waste  management  to  emergency  response  to  public 
health, at a lower cost. 
 
The second opportunity is that intelligent infrastructure investments can enhance and inform the strategic planning 
capacities of local communities—large and small—with real-world data on how infrastructure is used by citizens and 
businesses and how the infrastructure is performing. Local communities, businesses, and citizens will be able to see 
how their community is operating, and receive prescriptive recommendations and predictive insights to inform future 
investments, ranging from immediate actions to counter flooding risks, to proactively addressing increasing risks to 
public safety due to accidents, crime or natural disasters. 
   
Third,  the  sharing  of  data  amongst  smart  community  partners  and  participants  helps  to  build  networks  for  sharing 
policy strategies and technical approaches. These strategic partnerships form the foundation of economic opportunities 
that flow from far-reaching investments in intelligent infrastructure: entrepreneurship and market leadership. The data 
generated by and for smart community systems (and the systems that produce that data) form the foundation of new 
enterprises  and  new  products  and  services  and,  as  a  consequence,  function  as  platforms  for  further  economic 
development. 
 
The  Federal  Government  has  an  important  role  to  play  in  shaping  the  scope  and  scale  of  intelligent  infrastructure 
investments  going  forward.  After  World  War  II,  as  the  nation’s  infrastructure  exploded  to  accommodate returning 
veterans and their families, the production of the Interstate Highway System began. This national project to invest in a 
critical grid system to cover our country revolutionized our nation. It forever changed how we transport our goods and 
services and it has allowed and contributed to the continued growth and expansion of our cities and towns. In short, 
the Federal Government will decide the platform on which the national economy is built going forward and whether it 
meets 20th century standards or sets a new standard for the 21st century economy.  
 
How to design and deploy intelligent infrastructure to efficiently and effectively support our communities is one of the 
central questions going forward for the country as a whole, and for local communities in specific. Federal action, like 
the Federal Aid Highway Act, is needed to start a national project of this scale. It is critical that we obtain this support 
now as we start thinking about the potential of intelligent infrastructure and all its possible impacts in our daily lives.   
 
1.0 
We  define  “Intelligent  Infrastructure”  as  “the  integrated  sensing  and  data  analytics  with  municipal  capabilities  and 
services that enable evidence-based operations and decision making” which is: 
 

The Potential of Intelligent Infrastructure 

-  Descriptive: Provides an accurate and timely characterization of current state, e.g., water level in a storm 

drain or traffic congestion. 

-  Prescriptive: Recommends immediate and near-term actions, e.g., re-routing traffic or dispatching onsite 

service personnel. 

-  Predictive: Anticipate future challenges and opportunities, based on assessment of the current state, patterns 

of past activity and available resources and capabilities, e.g., street-level flooding by incorporating water 
sensors, weather patterns and runoff capabilities.   

-  Proactive: Guides complex decision making and scenario planning, incorporating economic data, to inform 

future investment. 

 
Intelligent  Infrastructure  can  incrementally  increase  operational  performance  and  the  ability  to  guide 
improvements through decision support. These “loops” or cycles of learning span automation and decision support 
to  the  eventual  production  of  generalized  knowledge.  For  example,  advanced  transportation  systems  could 
incrementally learn to manage different patterns of traffic, then provide decision support for managing special cases 
(e.g.,  disaster  response),  then  support  planning  and  prioritization  for  new  road/control  modifications,  and  finally 

 

2 

document generalized knowledge that can be applied across different cities with varying transportation capabilities. 
Intelligent  Infrastructure  has  the  potential  to  transform  daily  life  and  civic  services  across  many  configurations  of 
municipal systems and services (see Table 1). 
 

Table 1: The Potential of Intelligent Infrastructure Across Multiple Domains 
Proactive 

Prescriptive 

Predictive 

 

Descriptive 

Intelligent 
Transportation 

Real time traffic 
congestion 
information 
 

Intelligent 
Energy 
Management 

Real time energy 
demand information  

Intelligent 
Public Safety 
and Security 

Real time crowd 
analysis 

Intelligent 
Disaster 
Response 

Real time water 
levels in flood prone 
areas 

Intelligent City 
Systems 

Describe mobility 
patterns (pedestrian, 
cycling, automobile, 
trucking, electric and 
autonomous vehicles) 

Reroute traffic; 
Adjust dynamic lane 
configuration 
(direction, HOV) 
 

Improve asset 
utilization and 
management across 
transmission and 
distribution system  

Threat detection; 
Dispatch public 
safety officers 

Timely levee 
management and 
evacuations as 
needed 

Adjust mobility 
management to 
improve safety; 
reduce energy usage 

Anticipate rush hour / 
large event congestion; 
Anticipate weather 
related accidents 

Suggest traffic patterns 
w/ intelligent 
stoplights; road diet 
plan 

Anticipate demand 
response required to 
ensure grid reliability  
 

Suggest new market 
approaches to integrate 
production and 
distribution capabilities 

Anticipate vulnerable 
settings and events 

Anticipate flood 
inundation with low-
cost digital terrain maps  

Suggest new 
communication and 
coordination response 
approaches 

Inform National Flood 
Insurance Program; 
Inform vulnerable 
populations 

Anticipate changing 
needs for parking, 
charging stations, bike 
and ride share 
programs. 

Inform future mobility 
capabilities to drive 
economic development 
and reduce barriers to 
employment 

Intelligent 
Agriculture 

Intelligent 
Health 

Characterize spatial 
and temporal 
variability in soil, 
crop, and weather.  

Advise based on 
environmental 
stressors and crop 
traits  

Forecast crop yield; 
Anticipate seasonal 
water needs 

Block – level 
assessment of current 
allergens / air 
pollutant levels  

Inform asthma 
action plans based 
on local conditions 

Anticipate peak 
seasonal spikes in 
allergen and air 
pollutant levels 

Customize 
management practices 
and seed selection to 
local conditions 

Inform transportation 
plans to shift road use 
away from “asthma 
corridors” 

Creating Intelligent Infrastructure: The Path Forward 

 
2.0 
We are far from having the agile infrastructure that exhibits the breadth of capabilities described above. Why? At a 
fundamental level, we are breaking into a new world where physical capabilities and services are intertwined with the 
growing power of computation, the same power that has transformed numerous business sectors from commerce to 
healthcare  to  financial  services.  Our  current  municipal  infrastructure  is  reminiscent  of  stock  brokers  yelling  and 
waving paper in the air and physicians pouring over paper, wielding manual tools. 
 
 

 

3 

The foundation for Intelligent Infrastructure draws from and requires basic research and continued advancements in: 
 
Cyber Physical Systems (CPS):  Cyber Physical Systems also known as the Internet-of-things (IoT), will provide the 
computational substrate that will connect our future infrastructure to intelligent systems and software. Future visions 
of IoT-enabled infrastructure predict seven trillion intelligent sensors for over seven billion people. Most of the seven 
trillion sensors, actuators, and embedded computing devices will give rise to a new form of computing that is attached 
to the physical world. This new era of computing is predicted to have tremendous economic  impact; estimates are 
north of $14 trillion over the next decade. Therefore, investing in IoT-enabled intelligent infrastructure could not only 
result in a new form of computing, it could also be the most significant economic impact since the Internet revolution.   
Bridging the gap between existing infrastructure and future computing requires linking the physical world with the 
digital, merging computation with sensors and actuators, to bridge this fundamental gap. Intelligent infrastructure is 
like  a  robot  turned  inside  out;  each  sensor,  actuator  and  communication  line  coalescing  into  an  intelligent  system. 
Bridging this gap requires new capabilities to make sense of, and manipulate, the physical world that is the fabric of 
daily life. Because CPS connects software to the physical world, software errors can result in physical harm to people 
or  property.  Investments  in  intelligent  infrastructure  will  cause  greater  integration  between  the  cyber  and  physical 
worlds and, thus, greater collaboration is needed between both software developers and engineers to understand and 
design these systems to be safe and secure. 
 
Artificial  Intelligence  (AI)  /  Machine  Learning  /  Data  Analytics:  The  “intelligence”  of  intelligent  infrastructure 
stems  from  the  ability  to  integrate  information  from  a  variety  of  distributed  and  disparate  sources  into  discernable 
patterns, to relate those patterns to explanatory models, and to use those models to inform decisions. However, just 
capturing  data  is  not  enough—inferences  must  also  be  informed  by  physical,  legal,  and  societal  constraints.  For 
example, traffic rules must be obeyed, critical services such as hospitals must be prioritized, and schools need to start 
on  time.  The  models  themselves  must  be  transparent  and  human-interpretable  so  that  the  reason  for  actions  or 
decisions can be understood and explained. Systems must also adapt their behavior to different user populations (e.g. 
citizens  vs.  government  officials)  and  to  circumstances  (e.g.  operating  during  a  weather  emergency  vs.  a  normal 
workday vs. a holiday). Providing these capabilities while ensuring robustness, reliability, fairness, and consistency in 
the face of immense scale and diversity is both an opportunity and a continuing challenge for AI systems. 
 
Security, Safety and Privacy: The pervasive collection, use, and dissemination of sensor information requires new 
advances in security and privacy, while the deployment and physical operation of systems that manipulate the physical 
world also require new advances in system safety protection. Each node or piece of an intelligent infrastructure must 
be secured, both in how it is physically constructed and in how it communicates to a network or other devices. These 
nodes  must  be  physically  safe  as  well,  potentially  withstanding  environmental  conditions  and  interacting  with  the 
general  public.  There  is  also  a  significant  security  risk  of  interconnecting  all  these  previously  disconnected 
infrastructures  as  it  becomes  a  central  point  of  attack.  Finally,  research  in  privacy-preserving  approaches  to  data 
collection  and  use  is  needed  given  the  likelihood  of  pervasive  data  collection  across  many  fundamental  aspects  of 
daily life.   
 
Networking:  Intelligent  infrastructure  relies  on  an  underlying  communication  network  to  collect  and  analyze  data 
from distributed sensors, and adapt how the infrastructure operates in response.  The network must offer low latency 
(to  enable  fast  decisions),  high  reliability  (to  ensure  the  infrastructure  operates  seamlessly),  and  good  security  (to 
defend  against  cyberattacks).    These  networks  also  need  to  connect  the  smart  infrastructure  to  cloud-computing 
resources  that  offer  the  necessary  computational  and  storage  resources  to  analyze  and  archive  data,  and  combine 
multiple  kinds  of  information  from  different  sources  (including  other  kinds  of  smart  infrastructure).  An  open 
challenge is understanding when and what computation can occur at the edge of the network and when data should be 
transmitted to cloud computing capabilities. 
 
Systems  Programming:  The  sheer  scale  of  infrastructure  systems  raises  new  software  engineering  challenges  and 
demands  new  specification  and  programming  models.  When  deploying  a  new  application,  we  cannot  hope  to  re-
program  individual  sensors,  actuators,  vehicles,  network  switches,  and  databases.    Rather,  what  is  needed  are  new 
abstractions and new programming models that support programming at the level of the whole, instead of the parts, 
and software tools that transform these high-level requirements into programs suitable for the individual nodes.  In 
turn, this scale will require new understanding of emerging security threats, new methodologies for debugging (both 
for correctness and performance), and new analytic tools for modeling whole system behaviors.  Finally, to be cost 
effective,  the  underlying  resources,  such  as  the  network  or  compute  nodes,  will  need  to  be  shared  across  many 

 

4 

Challenges and Opportunities 

applications, the same way a laptop can simultaneously run many programs. This capability raises additional systems 
issues around resource coordination and security.   
 
Decision Support: Intelligence does not reside solely in the technical infrastructure; it is jointly produced through 
amplifying  and  augmenting  human  abilities  to  discern,  manage,  and  anticipate  challenges  in  modern  municipal 
systems and services. Future systems must help municipal administration and staff to accurately diagnose current and 
pending  problems  in  infrastructure,  to  effectively  compare  and  contrast  possible  plans,  and  to  efficiently  allocate 
resources across a constrained system.  
 
Citizen Engagement: Productive interactions with the general public is also fundamental to the success of intelligent 
infrastructure  and  a  key  research  gap  is  developing  tools  and  techniques  to  support  those  interactions.  Challenges 
include  reliably  collecting  information  from  the  public  (e.g.  person  as  sensor),  facilitating  trust  in  increased  data 
collection  through  pervasive  sensors  and  automated  and  semi-automated  systems,  and  creating  applications  for 
dialogue and civic engagement for shared governance and democratic participation. 
 
3.0 
A  concerted  national  agenda  for  Intelligent  Infrastructure  offers  many  opportunities  including  improving  global 
competitiveness,  catalyzing  workforce  development  and  investing  in  rural  communities  while  also  posing 
commensurate challenges in ensuring the usability and sustainability of this 21st century infrastructure. 
 
Global  Competitiveness:  Intelligent  infrastructure  is  quickly  becoming  central  to  providing  services  ranging  from 
water,  to  energy,  to  multi-modal  transportation,  to  health,  to  communications.  And,  economic  competitiveness  is 
increasingly tied to the reliability and resilience of these critical systems2. Simply put, communities without robust 
intelligent infrastructure systems will be left behind in the global economy because their critical infrastructure systems 
— utilities, energy, transportation, health, and emergency services — will not be competitive compared to places who 
made the investments in cyber-physical systems to support operations. Failing to invest in intelligent infrastructure 
misses  the  opportunity  to  provide  local  communities  with  globally  competitive  roads,  bridges,  and  transit  but  also 
abdicates  the  opportunity  to  build  a  new  industry  around  the  products,  services,  and  systems  developed  on  the 
platform of intelligent infrastructure 
 
Needs of Rural Communities: The needs of metropolitan areas compared to rural communities vary tremendously 
and we recommend focused attention on the needs of small and rural communities in addition to addressing the needs 
of dense urban settings. Basic access to Internet-based capabilities is critical to enabling basic citizen engagement. A 
recent PCAST report3 points to the pervasive access needs of aging adults, especially in small and rural communities. 
Hence,  more  research  will  need  to  be  done  on  mobile  platforms,  mobile  integrated  end-to-end  systems  with  easy 
setup,  portable,  low-cost,  data  cyber-infrastructures,  edge  computing  and  tele-services  that  allow  for  different 
economic contexts. 
 
Education  and  workforce  development:  We  wish  to  amplify  the  importance  of  educational  programs  and 
approaches that integrate key training in data analytics, sensing, communication, security, and privacy as deploying 
intelligent infrastructure will require greater ability and awareness of communities to manage, maintain, and protect 
the infrastructure4. We also want to call attention to the need for basic and applied research in workforce tools that 
will  enable  people  to  access  and  harness  these  capabilities.  For  example,  research  in  visual  analytics  addresses 
challenges of working with complex data sets, understanding probabilistic and predictive information and supporting 
collaborative  decision  making.  Likewise,  wearable  and  augmented  reality  systems  offer  the  ability  to  “see”  and 
interact with layers of information connected to physical objects. 
 
Interoperability: Intelligent infrastructure presents particular challenges because it is integrated both into and across 
different  critical,  existing  infrastructures.  From  water  and  electricity  systems  and  across  built,  natural,  and  socio-
economic environments, robust intelligent infrastructure is increasingly required for the secure and resilient operations 
                                                 
2 [1] See Clark, Jennifer (2013) Working Regions: Reconnecting Innovation and Production in the Knowledge Economy, London: 
Routledge. See also Clark, Jennifer, Hsin I. Huang, and John P. Walsh (2010) A Typology of Innovation Districts: What it Means 
for Regional Resilience. Cambridge Journal of Regions, Economy and Society. 3 (1): 121-137. 
3 President’s Committee of Advisors on Science and Technology, Report to the President on the Independence, Technology, and 
Connection in Older Age, March 2016. 
4 A 21st Century Cyber-Physical Systems Education. National Academies Press. 2016. https://www.nae.edu/164520.aspx 

 

5 

Recommendations 

of government services and systems. Consequently, this infrastructure-of-infrastructures presents a unique problem for 
critical  infrastructure:  how  to  integrate  the  capabilities  and  capacities  of  intelligent  infrastructure  into  incumbent 
systems  while  mitigating  interruptions,  reducing  exposure  to  threats,  and  ensuring  continuity  of  service?  In  short, 
intelligent infrastructure requires attention in its own right as a new critical public infrastructure. 
 
Sustainability:  Sustainability  is  a  formidable  barrier  for  the  long-term  success  of  intelligent  infrastructure 
investments. These barriers may be especially high in the case of small towns and rural areas where resources are 
severely limited. First, local governments need concrete, actionable plans from vendors or groups of researchers who 
propose deploying intelligent infrastructure. Another major challenge of sustainability is lack of innovative economic 
models  to  deploy  and  upgrade  intelligent  infrastructures.  Some  gains  (e.g.,  decreasing  crime)  may  not  have  direct 
revenue implications while others (e.g., decreasing parking) may reduce city revenue. A final concern is that while 
infrastructure is upgraded on the time scale of decades, computing technology changes every year. Building “smart 
technology” into infrastructure requires designing the technology to be upgradable over time without replacement. 
 
Infrastructure  for  research  and  authentic  evaluation:  We  also  wish  to  emphasize  the  importance  of  research 
infrastructure  and  “authentic  evaluation,”  i.e.,  evaluating  systems  in  the  context  of  real  use.  Developing  a 
comprehensive  plan  for  investing  in  research  infrastructure  remains  an  ongoing  challenge.  Additionally,  many 
evaluation metrics are non-traditional. Success may not be measured as to whether a technology is robust, secure, or 
real-time  (traditional  computing  metrics),  but  rather  whether  its  deployment  increases  the  number  of  visitors,  new 
residents, and business activity, or decreases crime, traffic, and waste. Hence, evaluation of intelligent infrastructure 
technologies must bring together teams of engineers, computer scientists, social scientists, urban planners, economists 
and local leaders. 
 
4.0 
There is a clear need to invest in our nation’s infrastructure, the roadways, water mains, energy distribution systems 
and  more  that  support  the  fabric  of  everyday  life.  At  this  critical  juncture,  we  must  envision  the  future  of  these 
systems, anticipating the future demand on these systems and the role they play in the near and long term economic 
vitality of our communities. These capabilities are transformational and their impact, from the merging of the cyber 
and physical world to the scale of data collection made possible, requires considerable leadership and innovation. The 
path forward calls for sustained investment and collaboration between local communities, research universities, and 
industry  with  a  critical  role  for  leadership  and  investment  by  the  federal  government.  Only  together,  can  we 
reinvigorate the infrastructure that fuels our nation's activities at a significant scale to propel us into the next century 
of innovation and economic growth. 
 
Importance  of  Federal  Leadership  and  Investment:  The  Federal  Government  has  an  important  role  to  play  in 
shaping  the  scope  and  scale  of  intelligent  infrastructure  investments  going  forward.  Simply  put,  the  Federal 
Government will decide the platform on which the national economy is built going forward and whether it meets 20th 
century standards or sets the standard for the 21st century. There is a significant amount of basic research required to 
achieve the promise of intelligent infrastructure. Some of that research can be resourced through programs like the 
Smart  and  Connected  Communities  program  or  the  Critical  Resilient  Interdependent  Infrastructure  Systems  and 
Processes  (CRISP)  program  of  the  National  Science  Foundation.  However,  the  current  resources  are  modest 
investments  in  basic  research  and  not  of  a  sufficient  scale  to  support  the  broad,  national  technology  deployments 
necessary. 
 
Because intelligent infrastructure technologies cut across domains they also do not fit neatly under a specific federal 
agency.  The  MetroLab  Network  is  a  network  of  38  cities,  4  counties,  and  51  universities,  organized  into  “city  (or 
county) – university partnerships” focused on “research, development, and deployment” (RD&D) projects that offer 
technologically-  and  analytically-based  solutions  for  challenges  facing  communities:  mobility,  security  and 
opportunity, aging infrastructure, and economic development.  One role for the Federal Government is in resourcing 
and institutionalizing these networked partnerships to support policy diffusion across communities and information 
exchange  about  how  smart  communities’  investments  (programs,  projects,  and  objects)  perform  as  implemented. 
These networks allow local governments to achieve some economies of scale, build capacity, and avoid replicating 
mistakes or reinventing the wheel. 
 
Although the Federal Government should not set a standardized approach, the Federal Government should consider 
developing  technical  standards  and  platforms  for  data,  connectivity,  and  integration  of  hard  infrastructure  and 

 

6 

information and communication technologies to protect citizens and consumers from excessive experimentation. The 
National Transportation Safety Board’s approach to guidance on autonomous vehicles is a good example of signaling 
to industry, local governments, and researchers about how to shape strategic planning and private investment while 
protecting consumers and citizens. The National Institute of Standards and Technology’s efforts to develop the global 
cities team challenge and convene industry, local governments, and universities to discuss and develop standards is an 
important start as well. 
 
Importance of Community and Industry Partnerships: While there is great commercial interest in “smart city” and 
“IoT”  technologies,  it  is  unreasonable  to  expect  that  private  industry  can  shoulder  the  sole  responsibility  for 
developing these national capabilities. In fact, uncertainties in this market, the substantial need for pre-competitive 
research, and the lack of standards and interoperable platforms create significant barriers to commercial progress and 
global leadership. Similarly, cities, communities and municipalities lack the expertise and financial resources to lead 
the nation through a period of risky experimentation. However, what is increasingly important is charting the path for 
sustained  public-private  partnerships  that  drive  problems  and  approaches  from  the  priorities  of  US  cities  and 
communities and develop the foundation for sustainable business models. 
  
Importance of Research Universities in Charting the Path for Intelligent Infrastructure: In the U.S., the national 
innovation system largely relies on publicly-funded basic research and development conducted within the network of 
world class research universities throughout the country. For decades, these universities have served as the research 
and development backbone of U.S. industry and of national defense5. Research indicates that this national innovation 
has been effective in bringing forward new technologies and in facilitating the commercialization of new products, 
processes, and materials. 
 
Research  universities  have  extensive  experience  partnering  with  industry  and  government  on  technology  diffusion 
projects like intelligent infrastructure. Research universities are built to test new technologies, evaluate alternatives, 
assess investments, evaluate economic impacts, measure distributional consequences, and certify processes, materials, 
products, and standards. As with any new enabling technology, research universities can play a role as a neutral third 
party  with  specialized  technical  expertise.  Further,  universities  are  embedded  in  local  communities  and  have  long-
term  working  relationships  with  local  and  state  governments  and  a  vested  interest  in  the  presence  of  world  class 
infrastructure in their own communities. 
 
Finally,  as  research  universities  train  the  next  generation  of  workers,  citizens,  and  entrepreneurs,  it  is  important  to 
recognize that living and working in communities infused with intelligent infrastructure will be distinct from the built 
environment  in  which  we  live  now.  Whether  the  changes  are  immediately  disruptive  like  autonomous  vehicles  or 
incremental  adjustments  to  the  skills  required  for  living  in  and  navigating  the  built  environment  (think  automated 
grocery  store  check-outs,  smartphone  based  parking  systems),  investments  in  technical  training  for  new  and 
incumbent workers will be required to take advantage of the value-added these technologies bring to the labor market. 
Universities again will be critical partners in developing both these technologies and the skilled workforce required to 
capitalize on their contributions to national and regional growth. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This  material  is  based  upon  work  supported  by  the  National  Science  Foundation  under  Grant  No.  1136993.  Any 
opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do not 
necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation. 

                                                 
5  Clark, Jennifer (2014) Citing “Scientific Spaces” in the US: The Push and Pull of Regional Development Strategies and National 
Innovation Policies. Environment and Planning C: Government and Policy. Pp.1-16 

 

7 

