Towards Understanding the Impact of Crime in a 

Choice of a Route by a Bus Passenger

Daniel Sullivan1, Carlos Caminha1, Hygor Melo2, Vasco Furtado1, 

1UNIFOR – University of Fortaleza Av. Washington Soares 1321, Fortaleza CE, Brazil

2IFCE – Instituto Federal de Educação, Ciência e Tecnologia do Ceará Av. Des. Armando de 

Sales Louzada, Acaraú CE, Brazil

<daniel.sullivan@edu.unifor.br>, {caminha, vasco}@unifor.br, <hygor@fisica.ufc.br>

Abstract. In this paper we describe a simulation platform that supports studies 
on the impact of crime on urban mobility. We present an example of how this 
can be achieved by seeking to understand the effect, on the transport system,  if 
users of this system decide to choose optimal routes of time between origins 
and destinations that normally follow. Based on real data from a large Brazilian 
metropolis, we found that the percentage of users who follow this policy is 
small. Most prefer to follow less efficient routes by making bus exchanges at 
terminals. This can be understood as an indication that the users of the transport 
system privilege the security factor.

Keywords: Crime behavior, human mobility.

1   Introduction

The academic community has reported the correlation between human mobility 
and crime from different perspectives. Examples of this are the works by Cohen and 
Felson  [11]  that  relates  the   occurrence   of   crimes   by  the   convergence   of   routines 
between   offenders   and   unprotected   victims,   Brantingham   and   Brantingham   [35] 
works on environmental criminology and, most recently, Caminha et al. [17], who 
found that the relationship between clusters of floating population and crimes against 
property within a large metropolis follows a power law.

Despite   the   fact   that   the   correlation   between   mobility   and   crime   is   widely 
recognized and studied, few quantitative studies have been developed to understand 
the impact of crime on the mobility of people in large cities. However, digitized data 
on the movement of people are increasingly abundant, opening up the possibility of 
elaborating more complete social models that can be validated.

Our research in this context focuses on data on the movement of people in buses 
of a large Brazilian metropolis, the city of Fortaleza. These are data on about one  
million people who daily use buses on their journeys, which characterizes this mode 
of transportation as the most important form of city displacement (the total population 
of the city is 2.4 million people).

In previous studies, we have studied the impact of the movement of people on the 
occurrence of crime [17] as well as on police allocation strategies [36]. In this article 
we will  follow  a  different  strategy, as  we will  investigate  the  impact  that  crimes 
distributed in the city can have on the choice of bus routes made by people. We have 
developed a software platform that allows, from data of movement and crime in the 
city, to simulate the impact on the public transportation system. In particular, we 
simulate the negative effects that this can bring on the behavior of bus users leading 
them to choose clearly less efficient routes in terms of travel time, comfort and / or 
distance traveled. In addition, it was possible to estimate the impact on the public bus 
transportation   system   in   general   by  evaluating   indicators   such   as   the   passenger’s 
waiting time in bus stops and bus overcrowding.

The methodology that we followed was to compare two models of bus routes. In 
the first moment, based on the real world data on the track of users, we evaluate the 
system when the users make their actual routes. Then we investigated how the Public 
Transport System (PTS) would behave if users chose to make more efficient routes in 
terms of time. In order to achieve this goal, users are likely to seek to make bus line 
changes in order to minimize route time since  many origin-destination routes are 
impossible to complete from a single direct route. This strategy, privileging the time 
of the journey, is not necessarily the most efficient in terms of security, since bus 
exchange places can be crime hot spots. In fact, It has been found that, in Fortaleza, 
the bus stops the most appropriate to people commute are significantly more insecure 
than the places that users actually do. This result raises the possibility that users of the 
Fortaleza bus system may be making more inefficient routes to escape crime.

2   Related Work

Agent-based modeling provides a simplified simulation of the reality, but is also a 
powerful  technique  to replicate  social  phenomena. The  agent-based  model  uses a 
bottom up approach simulating the individual behavior of multiple agents in order to 
predict complex phenomena. These general characteristics allow a large number of 
applications   in   a   diverse   range   of   areas,
 
archaeology [1,2]; biological models of infectious diseases [3]; growth of bacterial 
colonies   [4];   alliance   formation   of   nations   during   the   Second   World   War   [5]; 
modelling economic processes as dynamic systems of interacting agents [6]; size-
frequency
 

  such   as:  

distributions

traffic

 

 

 

jams

 

for

 

 

 

 

[7].

In   this   work   our   main   interest   are   in   simulations   of   crime   and   urban   mobility 
dynamics.

In Criminology, the role of urban space and its social relations has been 
previously emphasized to explain the origin of Crime [8, 9]. Particularly, the routine 
activity   theory,   proposed   by   Cohen   and   Felson   [8],   states   that   crimes,   more 
specifically property crimes, such as robbery and theft, occur by the convergence of 
the routines of an offender, motivated to commit a crime, and an unprotected victim. 
The dynamics of crime and the impact of social relations on the increase of violence  
has   been   the   object   of   study   in   several   areas   such   as   Social   Sciences   [10], 
Criminology [8,9,11], Computing [12-17], Economics [18] and Physics [19-25]. There 
are
 
of papers that use simulations in Criminology in order to test theories [26];  to study 
burglary   including   transportation   network   and   statistical   based   human   mobility 
patterns   along   the   network   [27];   to   analyze   police   patrol   routes   [28].
 
There is a vast literature on human mobility [29-33]. However, less attention 
are given to the possible connection with crime. Some new researches show that 
human mobility is a key factor to understand the spatial distribution of crime in the  
urban landscape [17, 34]. Yet, works how crime can affect the human mobility are 
scarce.

number

a

 

 

also

 

3   Data Sets

We used user routes and a bus travel time network produced in a Data Mining 
project executed on mobility data in the city of Fortaleza [17,31,37]. A user's route on 
a bus network is defined by bus stops visited in sequence by that user within one or 
more buses. Formally, a user route Ru,, is a set containing n ({p1, p2, p3, … ,pn}) bus 
stops visited in sequence by a set of bus lines, Lu = {l1, l2, l3, … ,lm, used by u in its 
course. Furtado et al [37] estimated these routes from the actual origin of each user to 
the actual destination, see [31] for details. For each origin and destination, two routes 
were estimated; one that the authors consider to be the actual route of the user and the 
other   is   an   optimal   route   in   time.   In   total,   294870   origins   and   destinations 
(representing  an average  behavior  for  business  days in  Fortaleza)  were  estimated, 
starting from these origins to their respective destinations, the same number of real 
and optimal routes was estimated.

Access was obtained to the scheduled route of the city buses, for each bus line if 
there is the quantity of vehicles available on a weekday, capacity of each vehicle, 
departure time for each trip of each vehicle and the expected arrival time.

Also from [37], a network of time was obtained, where the nodes represent bus 
stops and the links the average time between these two bus stops.  them. Each link was 
 
assigned   a   probability   function  that   is  based   on  the   mean   time   ( )   and  standard

μ

σ

deviation ( ) calculated from the actual GPS data of the buses. Formally, the time of
an edge at time x is obtained by the function:

 

  

f ( x , μ ,σ )= 1

√2πσ2 e(−( x − μ)2

2σ 2

),−∞< x<∞ ,σ >0

   (1) 

Crime data refers to crime against property (theft, robbery and burglary) occurred 
between 9/23/2014 and 10/4/2016 in the city of Fortaleza and metropolitan region. 
In total, this dataset has 98431 crimes. Figure 1 shows the density map of these 
crimes in Fortaleza.

Fig. 1. Density map for property crime in Fortaleza from 2014 to 2016.

3   Simulation

The   simulator   was   developed   using   Repast,   a   java   multi-agent   simulation 
framework.   This   simulator   handles   events   whose   management   and   execution   of 
actions   is   done   by  a   clock,   which   has   a   tick  as   a   measure   of   time.   The   tick   is 
incremented when all scheduled actions are performed.

The   main   elements   of   this   tool   are:   Bus;   Line;   Route;   Passenger;   Stops;   and 
Crimes. Buses behave like agents in the simulation, their behavior is stopped by the 
stops   and   make   trips   exchanges.   They   have   as   main   attributes   the   current   stop 
(corresponds to the stop it is or the last stop it has visited), the next stop to be visited, 
the  time  needed to reach the  next stop, the  list of passengers in the  vehicle,  the 
Current line and a hash that commits the trips that the bus will make in one day. 
Passengers, in turn, have information regarding the route they will take, ie they have a  
list with the lines that they will use and another one regarding the stops that they will  
board and disembark. Passengers are agents who board and disembark from buses 
when vehicles pass through their initial and destination stop. The lines have a list with 
all stops on your route. The crimes have information on where they occurred (latitude 
and longitude) and their type.

It was defined that the simulation start time will be two o'clock in the morning, 
because it is the time when there are fewer buses in circulation and fewer passengers 
using the system. This minimizes the effect of simulation start with empty buses. The 
simulation closes at 2:00 p.m., and it is possible to evaluate the system in its peak 
hours, from 5:00 am to 8:00 am, as well as at low usage times, for example at dawn. 
Every minute is called a bus dispatch event, in this event it is checked if the time of 
departure   of   each   bus   has   already   been   reached,   if   positive   the   bus   enters   the 
simulation,   at   the   end   of   this   event   is   increased   one   minute   in   the   time   of   the  
simulator.

Each bus has an event called move, it consists of all the logic that makes the buses 
walk in the network. This event is triggered after the dispatch event. After all buses 
run their event, the process will be finalized and will only start again at the next tick. 
As already mentioned a bus has a current stop and the next stop, the time in which the 
bus will take to reach the next stop will be calculated using the average time in which 
the buses of this line take to go through this stretch and the standard deviation of those 
times , These are the input data to apply the normal or Gaussian distribution and get 
the time in which the bus will take to go along an edge.

Each tick represents one minute in the time of the simulator, if the time for the bus 
to cross the edge is greater than sixty seconds, the bus will not be able to complete 
this stretch still in this tick, so the time for it to arrive at the next stop will only be 
decremented from sixty Seconds. If the time is exactly equal to sixty seconds, it will 
travel this edge still in this movement and will arrive at the next stop. The last case 

that can occur is the time being less than sixty seconds, that is, one bus will arrive at  
the next stop and will continue towards another.

Whenever a bus arrives at a stop, it is checked if there are passengers intending to 
disembark   or   board   the   vehicle.   A   bus   in   Fortaleza   has   80   passengers,   so   if   its 
capacity is reached and some passenger wants to embark, it will have to wait for the 
next vehicle of that line to pass.

When the bus of a certain line reaches the end of its route, it is checked if there are 
still trips for that vehicle to carry out, if there is a check that the line is maintained or 
if there is a line change, the trip changes are made and the bus Start a new trip. When 
there are no more trips for that bus to perform, it will be removed from the simulation. 
The simulator closes at 2 o'clock in the morning the next day or when all buses finish 
all their trips.

4   Methodology and Empirical Evaluation

In this article, the bus system will be evaluated by waiting time for shipment, 
stocking of vehicles and safety at the point of transfer. The average waiting time for 
boarding  is  calculated  by  subtracting  the   time  of   boarding  less   the   time   that  the 
passenger appeared at the stop, and the vehicle stocking distribution, which shows the 
quantities   of   vehicles   with   low   occupancy   (between   0   and   20   passengers   ), 
Intermediate   occupation   (between   21   and   60   passengers)   and   high   occupancy 
(between 61 and 80). Security was measured by the ratio of the number of crimes 
occurring in the vicinity of the transfer point by the number of users who are on-site, 
we call this Rate of Crime. 

The behavior of the network in its natural operation was observed, i.e. when 
all users make their actual route. The behavior of the network was also evaluated in a 
hypothetical scenario, simulating a situation where all users make optimal paths of 
time. The contrasts between the values  of the individual indicators adopted in this 
research can be observed in the panel of Figure 2.

Figure 2 (A) shows the stocking of vehicles when all users make actual routes, 
while in Figure 2 (B) the vehicles are stocked for the optimal routes. It may be noted 
that   when   passengers   make   optimal   routes   there   are   less  crowded   buses.   This   is 
because Fortaleza's transit network is not prepared for its users to make optimal routes 
in time, thus, many passengers are waiting for vacancies to appear on the few crowded 
buses. In Figure 2 (C) it can be seen that at the beginning of the day, where there are  
few buses running, the waiting time for the passengers is similar, regardless of the 
route (real or optimal). However, from the peak time onwards, the number of vehicles 
in circulation increases and the waiting time for those who make the optimal routes 
becomes longer than the waiting time for actual routes. This is because when everyone 

does the right thing, there are not enough vehicles to meet the demand. In Figure 2 
(D) it is possible to visualize the crime rate per stop at optimal and real ballooning 
points. It is observed that the risk at optimal points of transfer is greater than at the 
points where users actually pay, especially outside the peak hours (from 5 am to 8 
am), possibly the largest number of people on the street discourages criminals from 
committing Crimes at that time. This result raises the possibility that people choose 
slower routes to escape the crime, essentially because the slower route has its point of 
transfer in a bus terminal, a place that offers, among other things, greater safety for 
users.

Fig. 2. Indicators of quality of use and safety for the bus network of Fortaleza.

In Fig. 3 we show the relation between crimes and the urban public transportation 
network. Recently, an extensive analysis conducted over real crime data related to a 
large Brazilian metropolis [38] demonstrated that the spatial distribution of crimes 
such as robberies, thefts, and burglaries follows a power law, more specifically, a 
Zipfian distribution [39].  We see in Fig. 3A that the distribution of crimes occurring 
close of bus stops visually follows a power law, with exponent close of -2.0 as show 
by the guide red line. The power law distribution indicates that we can find bus stops 

with much large number of crimes when we compare with an exponential distribution. 
In order to see the effect of crimes on the utilization of the urban transportation we 
computed the number of crimes that occurred close of a bus stop that can be utilized 
for a connection transfer at the  optimal routes. As we already mentioned a large 
fraction of the users do not use the optimal connection transfer, instead of this, they 
seem to choose a safe route.  In Fig. 3B we show that the large fraction of connexions 
transfer  in  the  optimal  route  (98\%)  have more   than   10 crimes  close.   This  is  an 
indication that the users prefer to go by a safe but large trajectory.

     Fig. 3. Histograms of crimes.

5   Conclusion

In this paper we describe a simulation platform that supports studies on the impact 
of crime on urban mobility. We present an example of how this can be achieved by 
seeking to understand the effect, on the public transport system, if riders decide to 
choose optimal routes of time between origins and destinations. Based on real data 
from a large Brazilian metropolis, we found that, when exchange of bus is necessary, 
the percentage of users who needs this policy is small. Most prefer to follow less 
efficient routes by making bus exchanges at terminals. This can be understood as an 
indication that the users of the transport system privilege the security factor. This 
indication is corroborated by the fact that 98% of the optimal routes going through 
unsafe bus stops (more than 10 crimes).

Our research is ongoing and new tests are necessary to detail the features the riders 
consider the most.  The simulation environment must also be improved to help this, 
but this first essay has already shown to us that it is an important to tool to help 
understanding the impact crime on urban mobility. Based on real data describing the 

geographic space, we intend to further investigate particularly new different policies 
based on features like comfort an overcrowding in order to tune the simulation.

References

1. Axtell, R., Epstein, J. M., Dean, J. S., Gumerman, G. J., Swedlund, A. C., Harburger, 

J., et al.
(2002). Population growth and collapse in a multiagent model of the Kayenta Anasazi 
in long house valley. Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United 
States of America
(PNAS), 99 (3), 7275–7279. 

2. Kohler, T.A., Kresl, J., Van Wes, Q., Carr, E., and Wilshusen, R.H. (2000). Be there 
then: A modeling approach to settlement determinants and spatial effi ciency among 
late ancestral Pueblo populations of the Mesa Verde Region, U.S. Southwest. In T.A. 
Kohler and G. J. Gumerman (Eds.), Dynamics in human and primate societies: 
Agent-based modeling of social and spatial processes (pp. 145–178). Oxford: Oxford 
University Press. 

3. Yang, Y., and Atkinson, P. M. (2005). An integrated ABM and GIS model of 

infectious disease transmission. In S. Batty (Ed.), Computers in Urban Planning and 
Urban Managemen (CUPUM) , London. 

4. Kreft, J. U., Booth, G., and Wimpenny, W. T. (1998). BacSim, a simulator for 

individual based modelling of bacterial colony growth. Microbiology, 144 (12), 3275–
3287. 

5. Axelrod, R., and Bennett, S. D. (1993). A landscape theory of aggregation. British 

Journal of Political Science, 23 (2), 211–233. 

6. Tesfatsion, L. (2006). Agent-based computational economics: A constructive 

approach to economic theory. In L. Tesfatsion and K. L. Judd (Eds.), Handbook of 
computational economics: Agent-based computational economics (Vol. 2, pp. 831–
880). Amsterdam: North-Holland. 

7. Nagel, K., and Rasmussen, S. (1994). Traffic at the edge of Chaos. In R. Brooks (Ed.), 

Artifi cial life IV (pp. 222–236). Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. 

8. Cohen, L.E., Felson M. Social Change and Crime Rate Trends: A Routine Activity 

Approach. American Sociological Review. 1979; 44(4):588–608. doi: 
10.2307/2094589 

9. Clarke, R.V.G., Felson M. Routine Activity and Rational Choice. Advances in 

Criminological Theory. Transaction Publishers; 1993

10. Michael, J., Adler, M.J. Crime, law and social science. International library of 

psychology, philosophy, and scientific method. K. Paul, Trench, Trubner and co. ltd.; 
1933.

11. Felson, M. Crime and Everyday Life. SAGE Publications; 2002.

12. Guedes, R., Furtado V., Pequeno, T. Multiagent models for police resource allocation 

and dispatch. In:  Intelligence and Security Informatics Conference (JISIC), 2014 
IEEE Joint. IEEE; 2014. p. 288–291.

13. Wang, T., Rudin, C., Wagner, D., Sevieri, R. In: Blockeel H, Kersting K, Nijssen S, 

Zelezny F, editors. Learning to Detect Patterns of Crime. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer 
Berlin Heidelberg; 2013. p. 515–530.

14. Kiani, R., Mahdavi, S., Keshavarzi, A. Analysis and Prediction of Crimes by 

Clustering and Classification. Analysis. 2015; 4(8).

15. Caminha, C., Furtado, V. Modeling User Reports in Crowdmaps as a Complex 
Network. In: Proceedings of 21st International World Wide Web Conference. 
Citeseer; 2012.

16. Furtado, V., Caminha, C., Ayres, L., Santos, H. Open government and citizen 

participation in law enforcement via crowd mapping. IEEE Intelligent Systems. 2012; 
27(4):63–69. doi: 10.1109/MIS.2012.80

17. Caminha, C., Furtado, V., Pequeno, T. H., Ponte,  C., Melo H. P.,  Oliveira, E. A., and 
Andrade, J. S. , “Human mobility in large cities as a proxy for crime,” PLoS One, vol. 
2, no. 12, p. e0171609, 2017.

18. Wang, F. Geographic information systems and crime analysis. IGI Global; 2005.  

19. Melo, H. P. M., Moreira, A. A., Batista, E., Makse, H. A., Andrade, J. S. Statistical 

signs of social influence on suicides. Scientific reports. 2014; 4. doi: 
10.1038/srep06239 PMID: 25174706

20. Alves, L. G., Ribeiro, H. V., Lenzi, E. K., Mendes, R. S. Distance to the scaling law: a 

useful approach for unveiling relationships between crime and urban metrics. PLoS 
One. 2013; 8(8):e69580. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0069580 PMID: 23940525

21. Alves, L. G., Ribeiro, H. V., Mendes, R. S. Scaling laws in the dynamics of crime 

growth rate. Physica A: Statistical Mechanics and its Applications. 2013; 
392(11):2672–2679. doi: 10.1016/j.physa.2013.02.002

22. D’Orsogna, M. R., Perc, M. Statistical physics of crime: A review. Physics of life 

reviews. 2015; 12:1–21. doi: 10.1016/j.plrev.2014.11.001 PMID: 25468514

23. Alves, L., Lenzi, E, Mendes, R., Ribeiro, H. Spatial correlations, clustering and 

percolation-like transitions in homicide crimes. EPL (Europhysics Letters). 2015; 
111(1):18002. doi: 10.1209/0295-5075/111/18002 

24. Short, M. B., D’Orsogna, M. R, Pasour, V. B., Tita, G. E., Brantingham, P. J., 

Bertozzi, A. L., et al. A statistical model of criminal behavior. Mathematical Models 
and Methods in Applied Sciences. 2008; 18 (supp01):1249–1267. doi: 
10.1142/S0218202508003029

25. Short, M. B., Brantingham, P. J., Bertozzi, A. L., Tita, G. E.. Dissipation and 

displacement of hotspots in reaction diffusion models of crime. Proceedings of the 
National Academy of Sciences. 2010; 107(9):3961–3965. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.0910921107

26. Birks, D., Townsley, M., and Stewart, A. "Generative explanations of crime: using 

simulation to test criminological theory." Criminology 50.1 (2012): 221-254.

27. Peng, C., and Kurland, J.. "The Agent-Based Spatial Simulation to the Burglary in 
Beijing." International Conference on Computational Science and Its Applications. 
Springer International Publishing, 2014.

28. Melo, A., Belchior, M., and Furtado, V. "Analyzing police patrol routes by simulating 

the physical reorganization of agents." International Workshop on Multi-Agent 
Systems and Agent-Based Simulation. Springer Berlin Heidelberg, 2005.

29. Gonzalez, M. C., Hidalgo, C. A., and Barabasi, A.-L., “Understanding in-

dividual human mobility patterns,” Nature, vol. 453, no. 7196, pp. 779–
782, 2008.

30. Wang, D., Pedreschi, D., Song, C., Giannotti, F., and Barabasi, A.-L.,

“Human mobility, social ties, and link prediction,” in Proceedings of the
17th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery
and data mining, pp. 1100–1108, ACM, 2011.

31. Caminha, C., Furtado, V., Pinheiro, V., and Silva, C., “Micro-interventions in urban 

transportation from pattern discovery on the flow of passengers and on the bus 
network,” in Smart Cities Conference (ISC2), 2016 IEEE International, pp. 1–6, 
IEEE, 2016.

32. Andrade, J. S., Oliveira, E., Moreira, A., and Herrmann, H., “Fracturing the optimal 

paths,” Physical review letters, vol. 103, no. 22, p. 225503, 2009. 

33. Ponte, C., Caminha, C., and Furtado, V., “Busca de melhor caminho entre dois pontos 

quando múltiplas origens e múltiplos destinos são possíveis,” in ENIAC, 2016. 

34. Frith, M., Johnson, S., and Fry, H. "The role of the street network in offender spatial 

decision making." Criminology (2017).

35. Brantingham, P. L., & Brantingham, P. J. (1981). Notes on the geometry of 

crime. Environmental criminology, 1981, 27-54.

36. Caminha, C., Furtado, V. (2017) Towards Understanding the Impact of 

Human Mobility on Police Allocation. arXiv:1704.07823v1.

37. Furtado, V., Caminha, C., Furtado, E., Lopes, A., Dantas, V., Ponte, C., 

Cavalcante, S. (2017) Increasing the Likelihood of Finding Public Transport 
Riders that Face Problems Through a Data-Driven approach. 
arXiv:1704.07823v1.

38. T.M.L. Cançado, Alocação e despacho de recursos para combate à 

criminalidade, Master dissertation, UFMG, Belo Horizonte (in Portuguese), 
2005.

39. G.K. Zipf, Human Behaviour and the Principle of Least-Effort, Addison-

Wesley, Cambridge, 1949.

