Integration of RFID Applications in a Web B2B 

Platform for Enterprise Supply Networks 

 
 

 
 

Turcu, Cristina 
Prodan, Remus 
Cerlincă Tudor 
Cerlincă Marius 
Turcu, Cornel 
Popa, Valentin 

Goloca, Alexandru 

1st October 2007 

 
 
“Stefan cel Mare” University of Suceava 
13, University Street, RO-720229 SUCEAVA 
cristina@eed.usv.ro 
 

Abstract 

low-cost  data  and  wireless 

 
B2B applications focus on using the Internet and/or extranet to improve business-
to-business partnerships and transform inter-organizational  relationships. RFID is 
relatively 
that  helps 
manufacturers to improve a number of business applications and processes. In this 
paper  we  present  an  RFID_B2B  system  that  brings  together  the  B2B  and  RFID 
advantages and which could be a viable solution for the potential problems created 
due to the globalization process. Using the developed system may help customers 
sharpen  data  accuracy,  process  supply  chain  transactions  faster,  and  improve 
supply chain and inventory management. 
Keywords:  RFID, B2B, mobile application, tag, control gates. 

transmission 

technology 

 

1.    Introduction 

  B2B Concept 

1.1. 
 
Business to business  (B2B)  exchange  generally  refers  to any  business transaction 
occurring  between  two  separate  business  entities.  This  includes  the  exchange  of 
both products and service. The term is most commonly used in connection with e-
commerce  and  advertising,  when  it  is  targeting  businesses  as  opposed  to 

consumers. Examples of exchanged products and services might include the selling 
of raw material inputs from one firm to another, the sale of capital equipment, the 
purchasing of commercial insurance or the contracting of one firm with another for 
the procurement of accounting services.  
Some of B2B systems benefits are: 

 

 

 

 
 
 

a low total cost of ownership; this is a result of the easy configuration of 
always-changing, complex partner networks and relationships; 
a high and secure visibility into partnering activities and performance; this 
can be reached at all points in the network; 
an  increased  partner  mind-share;  this  can  be  obtained  through  revenue-
generating  tools  providing;  this  tools  can  be  used  independently  by  a 
partner or in collaboration with other partners or the vendor; 
a lower cost for marketing and selling; 
a shorter selling cycle; 
just in time delivery; this is one of the most important advantages of B2B 
and  enables  the  company  to  have  the  track  of  good  with  the  help  of 
electronic commerce. 

Automated  business-to-business  transactions  are  not  an  entirely  new  concept. 
Large organizations have been using automated systems for a number of years, and 
some  have  been  programmed  to  exchange  business  transactions  with  other 
automated systems as far back as the early nineties [1]. But, user testing shows that 
B2B  websites  have  substantially  lower  usability  than  mainstream  consumer  sites. 
According to Jakob Nielsen [2], the major problems with B2B sites are: 

 

 

 

the  fail  in  supporting  customers'  decision-making  process  by  preventing 
them from getting the information they need to research solutions;   
they  use  segmentation  that  don't  match  the  way  customers  think  of 
themselves;  
they  lack  pricing  information  (the  users  in  the  study  prioritized  prices  as 
the most critical type of information). 

Our  research  team  developed  an  RFID_B2B  system  that  consists  in  a  viable  and 
efficient solution to eliminate these problems. 
 

  RFID Technology 

1.2. 
 
Radio frequency identification (RFID) is a relatively new  automatic identification 
and data capture (AIDC) technology that uses digital data encoded into a radio tag 
(or “smart label”) that is collected by a reader using radio waves.  RFID is similar 
to  another  AIDC  technology,  bar  code  technology,  but  instead  of  optically 
scanning  bar  coded  labels  it  uses  radio  waves  to  capture  data  from  tags  and  no 
direct  line  of  sight  is  required  for  this  data  exchanged  between  the  tags  and  the 
readers. The key components of any RFID system, tags, are made up of three parts: 

  microchip:  holds  the  desired  information,  e.g.,  information  about  the 

physical object to which the tag is attached; 
antenna: transmits information to  a reader using radio waves; 

 
  packaging: encases the previous components (chip and antenna) to permit 

attaching the tag to the desired physical object.   

Tags use a variety of power sources: 

  active tags - contain their own power source (a battery), that is used to run 

the microchip's circuitry and to broadcast a signal to a reader; 

  passive tags, that have no internal power source. Instead, they draw power 

 

from the reader; 
semi-passive  tags,  that  use  a  battery  to  run  the  chip's  circuitry,  but 
communicate by drawing power from the reader. 

Passive tags are undoubtedly less expensive than active tags and most companies 
are focusing on passive tags. 
RFID  technology  is  emerging  as  a  powerful  and  proven  tool  for  streamlining 
production at manufacturing facilities of all sizes [3]. 
 

2.    RFID@B2B 
 
Our research team implements an RFID_B2B system that brings together the B2B 
and  RFID  advantages  and which in the  near future could  be  a  viable  solution  for 
the  potential  problems  created  due  to  the  globalization  process.  Thus,  the 
RFID_B2B system refers to the business relations in large enterprises, corporations 
and groups, as regards the control of the materials along their entire supply chain. 
The  system  suggests  applying  the  RFID  technology  by  using  RFID  13.56  MHz 
High  Frequency  (HF)  passive  tags  to  identify  materials  and  assemblies.  Thus, 
based on the ID codes of the materials and assemblies, it is possible to control the 
content  and  the  origin  of  any  finite  product,  the  content  of  assemblies  and  the 
origin  of  any  constituent  component,  and  so  on,  for  each  company  which 
contributed  to  the  creation  of  the  finite  product.  By  extending  the  system  to  the 
entire  supply-chain  -  final  producer,  supplier,  the  manufacturer’s  suppliers,  etc.  - 
the customer can follow the course of materials included in the final product, up to 
the  primary  sources.  In  order  to  accomplish  this,  all  the  necessary  tracking 
information will be comprised in the tags attached to the materials, assemblies and 
finite products. 

  General presentation 

2.1. 
 
The presented system is a very complex one. The research team chooses to design 
a  layered  architecture  arranged  in  such  a  way  that  the  lower  layers  support  and 
enable the upper layers. This architecture has some advantages: divide the complex 
system into several more manageable components, allow different groups to work 

on different layers concurrently etc. The RFID_B2B system is structured on three 
levels: the corporation level, the local level and data collection level at the material 
control departments (Figure 1). 
 

 

Figure 1. The system architecture 

 

 

At the platform’s corporation level, the following achievements have been made: 

 

 

 

services  are  offered  to  ensure  the  support  for  concluding  contracts,  along 
with the agreements, the conventions at the board level of the corporations, 
the firm groups or the representatives of the firm groups;  
informational  management  of  the  group/corporation  enterprises,  ensuring 
supervision  of  the  material  flows  (with  effects  on  the  establishing  of 
supply  and  sales  strategies),  as  well  as  of  the  good  functioning  of  the 
internal network of the group/ corporation; 
supply  of  reports  regarding  the  current  activities  within  the  group/ 
corporation, including alarm in case of generation of specified events. 

The following are provided at the local level or at the enterprise level: 

  proper  administration  of  the  received,  sent,  defective,  repaired,  returned 

 

 

entities at the enterprise level; 
access  to  the  company  servers  network,  as  well  as  communication 
management along the supply- sales main chain, providing the opportunity 
to  manage  and  access  the  information  referring  to  the  route  followed  by 
materials, assemblies and finite products; 
coordination of the materials/ assemblies flow in order to ensure adequate 
distribution to corresponding departments, as well as to deliver the order to 
the gates in departments; 

  documents  delivery  for  controlling  the  production,  materials,  finite 

products, assemblies, including those in the service department. 

 
Different  applications  of  RFID  are  implemented  in  the  data  collection  level  in 
order to write and read the data from the tags attached to the materials, assemblies 
and finite products. At this level, the communication is wired or wireless. 
As  for  the  development  environments  and  the  SGBD  employed  to  create  the 
components and the application, Microsoft Visual Studio 2005 was considered to 
be  the  most  appropriate  solution.  As  for  the  databases,  we  chose  Sybase  SQL 
Anywhere  10  for  the  PDA  devices  and  Microsoft  SQL  Server  2005  for  the  PC 
database server. 
 

  PC applications 

2.2. 
 
All  PC  applications  present  a  high  degree  of  generality  that  permits  a  simple 
implementation  in  various  activity  fields  without  any  modifications  in  the 
structural level of software applications. Thus, the user can define a template that 
describes  the  data  format  to  be  used  for  writing  data  into  tags.  Through  an 
advanced  template  editor  (Figure  2)  the  user  can  establish  necessary  fields  (e.g. 
acquisition  date,  location,  current  value)  and  their  type  (character,  string,  integer, 
real). When a client orders a particular item from a supplier, that supplier sends an 

order confirmation and template information back to the client. The client company 
stores that information in its system locally.  
 

 

Figure 2. The tag template editor 

 

 
All templates are created at the PC level and then transferred to the PDA through 
specialized web services. An important aspect is related to the visual organization 
of the fields on a tag so that they can be read on the PDA display. The visual space 
on the PDA touch screen is far too small and it is rather difficult to create/update a 
tag  that  has  too  many  fields;  the  low  display  resolution  and  small  display  screen 
inhibit information to be displayed completely and clearly. That is why, users can 
define at the PC their own visual areas according to their needs and then group all 
tag  fields.  In  general,  each  group  will  consist  of  several  fields  with  the  same 

purpose.  Figure  3  exemplify  the  visual  organization  of  the  fields  on  a  tag.  All 
visual areas created at the PC level are then transferred to the PDA (Figure 4). 
 

   

 

 

Figure 3. The preview of visual organization of tag fields 

 
The  PC  applications  from  the  data  collection  level  enable  RFID  data  capture, 
filtering,  correlation  and  database  update.  Also, 
the  PC-control  gates 
communication  is  enabled  for  sending  the  commands  to  the  control  gates, 
respectively for PC database updating with control gates read information. 
The  PC  applications  installed  at  local  and  corporation  level  provide  a  service-
oriented  architecture  (SOA)  platform  consisting  on  distributed  application  server, 
secure  reliable  messaging,  local  database,  systems  management.  Thus,  the 
RFID_B2B system can be the service provider by enabling some functions as web 
services,  which  can  be  accessed  by  external  systems.  Also,  the  RFID_B2B  is  a 
service requester by enabling it to invoke web services hosted by external systems 
(e.g. currency converter).  
 

  Mobile applications 

2.3. 
 
The  implemented  RFID_B2B  system  also  handles  multiple  PDA  devices  and  PC 

servers and facilitates data sharing among these devices. Thus, mobile application 
performs the following functions: 
read and write RFID tags; 
enable  the  management  of  the  database,  which  stores  information  related 
to tags; 

 
 

  work in stand-alone mode (independently of the main servers); 
 
 

store huge data; 
integrate and exchange information with complex RFID_B2B systems and 
other PDA mobile devices; 
enable the management of system registered users; 
employ a multi-user and user-friendly interface (Figure 4). 

 
 

 

 

  
 

 

Figure 4. PDA visual organization of tag fields 

  RFID-based control gates 

2.4. 
 
Our system permits the use of three types of RFID-based control gates, which vary 
both  in  price  and  the  package  of  features  that  are  being  offered.  The  three  types 
are:  Low  Complexity  Control  Gates  (LCCGs),  described  in  [4],  Medium 
Complexity  Control  Gates  (MCCGs),  described  in  [5],  and  High  Complexity 
Control Gates (HCCGs), described in [6]. All three types of control gates have the 
ability:  

 

to  read  fields  from  RFID  tags  and  save  them  into  a  non-volatile  history 
memory using a file system; 

 
 

 
 

to send stored data to a PC (only at request); 
to modify  fields on RFID tags as a result of a command from a PC or as 
the result of an internal script execution; 
to fire alarms as the consequence of some actions and events that occurred; 
to control relays and read data using digital inputs and outputs.  

All  three  kinds  of  control  gates  are  able  to  use  a  RS485  serial  connection  to 
communicate  with  a  PC  through  ModBus  communication  protocol  and  a  RS232 
connection to communicate with the RFID reader. 
 

  System benefits 

2.5. 
 
The presented system offers a high degree of flexibility and helps companies of all 
sizes enable their customers to do business on demand — when they want, where 
they want and how they want. Other system benefits are: 

  Assures realtime inventories so the users can always receive accurate, up-

to-date inventory information; 

  Offers  the  possibilities  to  share  meaningful  data  with  supply  chain 

partners; 
  Permits 

strengthening  customer  and  partner 

relationships  with 

collaboration;  

  Speeds  and  simplifies  the  deployment  and  management  of  e-commerce 

sites; 

  Maximizes performance, scalability and adaptability of partners systems; 
  Provides  rich,  ready  capabilities  for  products  catalog  and  content 

management; 

  Permits  a  greater  visibility  through  realtime  product  updates,  availability 

and pricing information; 

  Offers personalization capabilities. 

 

3.    Further developments 
 
The  following  aspects  might  be  taken  into  account  as  future  directions  for 
development: 

 

integration  of  intelligent  agent  technology,  through  the  development  of 
some intelligent agents, which allow the defining of the user’s profile, the 
collecting  of  information  and  its  filtering  (considering  the  criteria  chosen 
by users), etc; 
application development for mobile wireless equipments (m-commerce); 

 
  on-line processing of transactions (banking-financial-accounting) involved 

in B2B exchanges. 

 

4.    Conclusions 
 
RFID is relatively low-cost data and wireless transmission technology that can help 
companies  to  improve  the  business  to  business  processes.  The  presented  system 
helps  small,  medium  and  enterprise  organizations  to  improve  productivity  and 
provide better service to their customers by providing a flexible solution for all of a 
company's B2B needs. Given slim profit margins, companies are looking for ways 
to  save  on costs  while remaining  globally  competitive.  RFID@B2B  may  be  their 
answer. 
 

5.    Acknowledgment 
 
This  work  was  supported  in  part  by  the  Romanian  Ministry  of  Education  and 
Research  under  Grant  named  “Integration  of  RFID  Innovative  Applications  in  a 
Web  B2B  Platform  for  Enterprise  Supply  Networks  -  RASMEN”  06CEEX  I 
03/2005. 
 

References 

 

 

[1]  Kenjale,  K.,  Phatak,  A.  (2002)  “The  Benefits  of  B2B  Exchanges”, 

available at http://www.destinationcrm.com  

[2]  Nielsen, J. (2006) “B2B Usability”, available at http://www.feeds4all.com 
[3]  IBM, “Improving shop floor execution from suppliers to finished product”, 

available at http://www-03.ibm.com 

[4]  Goloca, A., Popa, V., Găitan, V., Vlad, V. (2006)  “Access Control Using 
Low  Complexity  Gates  Based  on  RFID  Technology  and  ModBus 
Protocol”, “Securizarea accesului folosind porţi bazate pe tehnologia RFID 
şi  protocolul  ModBus”,  vol.  Distributed  Systems,  December,  2006, 
Suceava, Romania, ISSN/ISBN: 1842 – 6808 

[5]  Robu,  M.,  Goloca,  A.,  Dănilă,  G.,  Ţolescu,  T.  (2006)  “Integrating  RFID 
Applications  in  Distributed  Systems  Using  Control  Gates  with  Ethernet 
Capabilities”, “Integrarea aplicaţiilor RFID în sisteme distribuite utilizând 
porţi  cu  facilităţi  Ethernet”,  vol.  Distributed  Systems,  December,  2006, 
Suceava, Romania, ISSN/ISBN: 1842 – 6808 

[6]  Găitan, V., Turcu, C., Goloca A. (2008), ”High Complexity Control Gates 
with  Advanced  RFID  Features  for  Production  Process  Monitoring”, 
International  Conference  on  Advanced  Information  Networking  and 
Applications - AINA 2008, Japan (forthcoming) 

