An RFID Based Generalized Integrated System 

for the Identification and Traceability of 

Products and Subsets in Enterprises 

 
 

 
 

Turcu, Cristina Elena 
Prodan, Remus Catalin 

Popa, Valentin 

14th December 2005 

 
 
“Stefan cel Mare” University of Suceava 
Str. Universitatii nr.13, 720229 Suceava, ROMANIA 
cristina@eed.usv.ro  
 

Abstract 

 
 RFID  tags  are  small  electronic  devices  that  can  be  used  to  identify  objects  and 
people. The present paper presents an RFID-based integrated system that has been 
developed  to  allow  the  identification  and  traceability  of  products  and  subsets  in 
whatever  activity  field.  Thus  this  system  offers  to  the  users  the  possibility  to 
define their own information format to be stored in the transponder.  
The potential beneficiaries of this system are companies that activate in fields that 
lend themselves admirably to RFID technologies. 
Keywords: RFID, reader, PocketPC, database.. 

 

  Introduction 

1 
 
 Although  many  companies  are  now  using  sophisticated  Inventory  Management 
Systems,  the  identification  and  traceability  of  products  and  subsets  is  still  a 
complex procedure which is difficult to manage. 
Currently,  most  products  and  subsets  tracking  systems  employ  two-dimensional 
barcodes that must be close to and within the "line of sight" of the barcode reader. 
This  is  a  big  disadvantage  that  can  be  eliminated  by  manual  scanning  or  proper 
positioning  of  the  barcode  and  scanner.  Others  encountered  risks  using  barcodes 
consist in non-accurate reading by the scanner caused by wet, mishandling or harsh 
environment.  But  manual  scanning  is  labor intensive,  costly,  and  error-prone  and 

 

cannot  ensure  the  inventory  remains  up-to-date,  due  to  oversights,  errors,  and 
internal shrinkage. 
RFID  technology  seems  to  be  the  most  suitable  candidate  in  replacing  the 
barcodes.  Once  RFID  technology  introduced  many  companies  began  to  develop 
dedicated  applications  for  various  domain  enterprises.  The  main  contribution  of 
our team consists in design and implementation of a RFID based integrated system 
with a high degree of generalization. 
 

2  RFID: concepts and benefits 
 
RFID  (Radio  Frequency  IDentification)  is  a  technology  used  for  the  automatic 
identification of objects and people. RFID may be viewed as a means of explicitly 
labeling objects to facilitate their “perception” by computing devices [1]. An RFID 
device  called  RFID  tag  is  represented  by  a  microchip  designed  for  wireless  data 
transmissions. The  microchip  is  attached  to an  antenna  within  a  set  upon  a  label. 
The  RFID  tag  transmits  data  in  response  to  an  interrogation  received  from  a 
reading device called RFID reader. Given the wireless communication between the 
RFID chip and the RFID reader, all data may be read from a distance. The reading 
range  varies  in  accordance  with  the  size  of  the  reader  antenna,  the  orientation  of 
the RFID tag towards the antenna, the tag position with respect to the antenna core, 
as well as with the tag type.   
Given  the  significant lowering  of  tag  costs,  it is expected  that  their  usage  will  be 
considerably increased. Thus, some studies indicate that in only a few years their 
production  will  reach  1  billion  or  perhaps  a  thousand  billion  [2][3].  Spending  on 
RFID implementation in the retail supply chain alone has been estimated at $91.5 
million last year – an amount expected by some to exceed $1 billion by 2007 [4]. 
The RFID tags attached to objects may be used in supply chain management and 
inventory management [5]. 
Conceptually,  bar  coding  and  RFID  are  quite  similar;  but  RFID  tags  have 
numerous advantages over barcodes. The major advantages are that RFID has the 
capacity to store larger amount of information, gathers the information faster than 
barcodes  and  the  read/write  operations  can  be  performed  through  different 
materials such us paper, plastic or wood, with the exception of metals. RFID also 
allows  easy  and  as  needed  uninterrupted  access  to  data  on  the  tag.  Unlike  the 
barcode  where  identification  is  limited  by  line-of-sight,  RFID  technology  and  its 
reliance  on  radio  waves  does  not  require  a  line-of-sight  for  identification  nor  a 
straight-line  alignment  between  the  tags  and  readers.  RFID  tags  are  also  sturdier 
than  barcodes,  allowing  for  use  in  adverse  conditions,  and  tags  can  be  affixed  or 
embedded on the product packaging or inside the item. 
Table 1 presents a short comparison of RFID and barcodes [5]-[8]: 

 

Table 1. RFID versus Barcodes 

Characteristic 

capabilities 

Reads Per Second 
Read Range 
Read/Write 
Anti-collision 
capabilities) 
Cost 
Reusability 
Human Intervention 
Line of Site Required 
Security 

(simultaneously 

read 

RFID 

40-200 
Up to 2 m 
Yes 
Yes 

Barcode 

1-2 
4-8 inches 
No 
No 

More 
More 
Less 
No 
More 

Less 
Less 
More 
Yes 
Less 

 
Speaking  in  enterprise  terms  it  is  evident  that  the  usage  of  RFID  tags  in  a 
traceability  system  enjoys  considerable  benefits  [9]-[11]:  high  efficiency  in 
collecting,  managing,  distributing  and  storing  information  on  inventory,  business 
processes, and security controls; increased productivity; products are processed at 
high speeds, so the time allotted to product scanning is considerably reduced; the 
time  involved  in  product  handling  is  reduced;  inventory  activities  are  simplified 
and  data  accuracy  increases.  Thus,  various  studies  have  proved  that  all  inventory 
procedures may be performed faster than those involving barcodes [12]. Moreover, 
if one gets near the products holding a mobile reading system; the handheld device 
will immediately collect and store data; product management is improved, thanks 
to  the  re-programmable  memory  which  also  allows  instant  product  location; 
customer  services  are  considerably  improved;  RFID  will  allow  receiving 
authorities to verify the security and authentication of shipped items. 
 

 

3  Presentation of the system 

  General presentation 

3.1 
 
The RFID-based integrated system presents a high degree of generality and may be 
used  for  the  identification  and  traceability  of  physical  entities  in  space  and  time. 
The generalized character of the system results from the fact that it can be easily 
implemented  in  various  activity  fields  without  any  modifications in  the  structural 
level of software applications. Thus, the user can define the data format to be used 
for writing data into tags through an advanced template editor which allows user to 
establish  necessary  fields  (e.g.  acquisition  date,  location,  current  value)  and  their 
type (character, string, integer, real). 
 

 

3.2  System architecture 
 
The architecture of the systems is presented in Figure 1. 
 

 

Figure 1. System architecture 

 
The elements of the integrated system are: 

 

- 

a  PC  computer  running  a  dedicated  informatics  system.  This  informatics 
system must perform the following tasks:  

o 

o 
o 

to  communicate  with  fix  and  mobile  readers  in  order  to  retrieve 
data and/or transmit data to be written 
to allow users to select the information to be introduced 
to  maintain  and  update  a  local  data  base  that  might  be  used  for 
further processing. For instance, the stored data in the database can 
be  used  in  complex  processing  activities  (estimations,  statistics, 
etc), depending on necessities. 

- 

- 

an RFID system connected to the PC, which allows the reading/writing of 
transponders; 
fix  readers,  formed  by  PSD  based  stations  to  which  readers  have  been 
connected. The stations are connected in a network, one station being able 
to  communicate  with  the  PC  and  other  stations.  If  a  great  number  of 
stations  is  required,  a  network  master  for  maximum  30  stations  will  be 
used; this network master allows PC communication through wire or radio;   

-  mobile readers that comprise a connected reader to a PDA. 

 

 
An RFID system is a reader and antenna combination. This allows the reading of 
the stored information into the RFID tag, also enabling the RFID tag update. The 
communication between the RFID chip and the RFID station is wireless, therefore 

 

the data can be read from a distance. Table 2 shows the technical specifications of 
the integrated system. 
 

Table 2. Technical specifications for the system  

Characteristic 

Range  
Number of fix readers 
Number of events 
Communication 

Independency 
Extensibility  

Tags 

Reading distance  

Multiple readings  

Operating system  

 

Description 

1 km 
30 / master 
255 
RS485 between stations 
RS232 for communication with a computer (PC type) 
the system may function independently of computer  
the system may be set up within a minimal 
configuration, being able to be relatively easy extended, 
through the adding of new components   
respects ISO 15693 standard, for 13.56 MHz 
frequencies   
between 9 cm and 40 cm, depending on reader, antenna 
and transponder  
yes, the number of transponders can be simultaneously 
read, varying in accordance with the reader  
PC: Windows 2000, Windows XP 
Pocket PC: Windows CE 

3.3  System facilities 
 
Within the present integrated system, the following operations are facilitated: 
-  the bi-directional communication between the PC and:  

 

the  fix  stations,  using  specific  algorithms  for  wireless  and  radio 
communications; 

  mobile readers, allowing a total or a partial transfer of registrations 

 

within database tables from PC to PDA and in inverse order; 
into 
reader,  enabling 
information 
transponders and the update of databases from the PC, as well as 
the  writing  and  updating  of  transponders  with  information 
according to the settings performed by the user;     

reading  of  stored 

the 

-  enabling the communication between the PDA and: 

 

 

the  PC,  for  the  update  of  the  database  from  the  PC  and  from  the 
PDA, respectively; 
reader,  for  achieving  transponders  reading  and  database  updating 
from 
the  writing  and  updating  of 
transponders in accordance with the registrations in the database. 

the  PDA,  respectively 

 

-  enabling the communication between the station and: 

 

 

the PC, for sending the commands to the station, respectively data 
base update from the PC with station read information or with the 
events generated by stations; 
reader,  for  carrying  out  the  reading  and  respectively  writing  of 
transponders  existing  within  the  reader  range,  depending  on  the 
commands conveyed to the stations; 

-  enabling  the  system  security,  through  system  access  control,  as  well  as  data 
encrypting  from  the  database.  These  operations  are  performed  both  on  the  PC 
and the PDA; 

-  management  of  system  registered  users  (users  visualization, adding  or  deletion 

of certain users, profile modification, etc.); 

-  enabling  the  management  of  the  database,  which  stores  information  related  to 
transponders,  station  control,  events  derived  from  system  stations,  users  and 
events; 

-  the  configuration  of  the  integrated  system  in  accordance  with  necessities, 

including the configuration of: 

 

 

the  applications  running  on  the  PC,  with  the  setting  of  the  folder 
holding  the  application  database,  the  station  communication  rate, 
displaying color (Figure 2); 
the  working  stations,  allowing,  for  instance,  the  setting  of  the 
communication rate, station address, password, etc.; 

  PDA application, with the setting of application data basis folder.  

-  warning/alarming  overrun  expected/special  situations,  in  accordance  with  the 

settings; 

-  creating the models to be used for transponder information storage (Figure 3);  
-  administration of databases with information on transponders, stations, etc.; 
-  enabling  the  communication  with  system  customers,  and  allowing  the 

connection with higher enterprise levels; 

-  the  storage  of  all  events  and  their  administration  (visualization,  searching, 

filtering etc. – Figure 4, 5); 

 

 

Figure 2. Example of a configuring window    

Figure 3. Example of a window used in models achievement  

 

 

 

 

 

Figure 4. Window with a PC events journal 

 

 

Figure 5. Displaying of PDA events journal 

 

 
-  the visualization and processing of interesting information; 

 

-  the  defining  of  some  report  patterns  in  accordance  with  the  user’s  options  and 
the  simple  generation  of  reports,  with  the  possibility  of  their  visualization  and 
printing, (Figure 6)  

 

 

Figure 6. Reports management 

 
As for the database format, the Microsoft Access format (.mdb) was chosen for the 
PC  and  the  Pocket  Access  format  (.cdb)  for  the  PDA.  The  PC<->PDA 
communication  is  commonly  carried  out  through  the  agency  of  Microsoft 
ActiveSync application, which has the function of synchronizing one or more files 
between the PDA and the PC. Irrespective of the database format of large files, the 
transfer carried out by Microsoft ActiveSync takes a long time because the entire 
database is being transferred.      
Within the present system, only the tables carrying modifications are thought to be 
updated.  The  design  and  implementation  of  a  functions  library  was  necessary  to 
solve  conversion  problems  of  database  files  from  the  PC  to  the  PDA  and  vice 
versa. This library ensures: 

- 

- 
- 

the  establishment  of  the  PC-PDA  connection;  the  server  application  will 
ensure the connection to the PDA;  
the PC-PDA connection interruption;  
the PC-PDA connection state ascertainment;  

the processing operations on files/folders: copying of a certain file from the PDA 
to the PC, copying of a certain file from the PC to the PDA, deletion of a certain 

 

file  from  the  PDA,  creating  a  new  folder  on  the  PDA,  deletion  a  folder  from  the 
PDA,  creating  a  new  folder  on  the  PDA,  deletion  of  a  folder  from  the  PDA, 
retrieving  information  about  a  file/folder,  copying  a  Microsoft  Access  database 
(.MDB)  from  the  PC  to  the  PDA  and  the  conversion  to  Pocket  Access  format 
(.CDB) and vice versa, copying of certain tables from a Microsoft Access database 
(.MDB)  from  the  PC  to  the  PDA  and  adding  them  to  a  Pocket  Access  database 
(.CDB) and vice versa. 
 

4  Potential beneficiaries 
 
The potential beneficiaries of this system are companies that activate in fields that 
lend themselves admirably to RFID technologies: 

- 

- 
- 

supermarkets,  stores,  bookshops,  pharmacies  etc  –  where  the  entities  are 
the products on sale; these products will no longer carry barcodes. 
airports – where the monitored entities are the passengers’ luggage; 
libraries – where transponders will facilitate the traceability of both library 
books and registered readers; 

-  manufacturing  companies  –  where  the  entities  range  from  semi-finished 
goods  and  subsets  to  end  products;  a  traceability  systems  will  allow  the 
perfect management of all sets and subsets. 
various  enterprises  wishing  to  keep  their  stock  in  sight  and  to  make  fast 
inventories. 

- 

integrated  system  based  on  RFID 

 
 
Conclusions 
 
RFID  is  sometimes  named  a  revolution  for  the  identification  and  traceability  of 
products  and  subsets  in  an  enterprise.  The  benefits  that  RFID  can  bring  are 
numerous, but so are the challenges that come with it.  
The  paper  presented  an 
technologies 
characterized  by  a  high  degree  of  generality,  which  makes  it  perfect  for  the 
identification and traceability of various physical entities in space and time.  
The  developed  system  may  be  easily  adjusted  to  users’  requests,  ensuring  high 
performance and flexibility. The user graphics interface is simple to use and allows 
varied configurations depending on user preferences and necessities. The usage of 
the  present  system  results  in  a  considerable  reduction  of  human  errors.  It  also 
promotes  quality  and  ensures  high-speed  data  processing.  Requiring  no  software 
modifications, the system is ideal for extremely varied activity fields. The potential 
beneficiaries  of  this  system  are  companies  that  activate  in  fields  that  lend 
themselves admirably to RFID technologies. 
 

 

References 

[1]  Juels,  Ari  (2005)  “RFID  Security  and  Privacy:  A  Research  Survey”, 

http://www.rsasecurity.com/rsalabs/staff/bios/ajuels/publications/pdfs/rfi
d_survey_28_09_05.pdf 

[2]  United  States  Federal  Trade  Commission  (2005)  “Radio  frequency 
identification:  Applications  and  implications  for  consumers”,  Workshop 
report 
at 
www.ftc.gov/os/2005/03/050308rfidrpt.pdf 

Referenced 

staff. 

2005 

from 

FTC 

[3]  Holland,  Glyn  (2005),  Defining  RFID:  A  review  of  RFID  Forecasts. 
http://www.idtechex.com/products/en/articles/ 

at 

Referenced 
00000428.asp 

[4]  Boone,  Christopher  (2004)  “RFID:  The  Next  Big  Thing”  Radio 
Frequency  IDentification:  Applications  and  Implications  for  Consumers 
Workshop, 
http://www.ftc.gov/bcp/workshops/ 
rfid/boone.pdf 

2004, 

June 

21, 

[5]  http://www.infosys.com/rfid/ 

Infosys_White_Paper_on_RFID_Architecture_Strategy.pdf 
[6]  http://www.barcodebook.com/html/rfid_vs__barcodes.html 
[7]  http://www.nutechsystems.com/news_rfid.html 
[8]  http://www.globetechnology.com/servlet/story/ 

RTGAM.20050111.gtflbarcodejan11/BNStory/Technology/ 

[9]  http://www.activewaveinc.com/technology_rfid_advantage.html 
[10]  http://www.sato-europe.com/industry_solutions_folder/ 

RFID_folder/RFID _ benefits.html 

[11]  http://www.symbol.com/products/whitepapers/ 

rfid_business_benefits.html 

[12]  Davis,  Harold,  Luehlfing,  Michael 

(2004),  Radio  Frequency 
Identification: The Wave  of  the  Future, Journal  of  Accountancy,  Online 
Issues, http://www.aicpa.org/PUBS/JOFA/nov2004/davis.htm 

 

 

 

