A Rural Lens on a Research Agenda for Intelligent Infrastructure 

 

 

Ellen Zegura 
Georgia Tech 

 

Beki Grinter 
Georgia Tech 

 

 

Elizabeth Belding 

Barbara 

University of 

California, Santa 

Klara Nahrstedt 

University of Illinois at 

Urbana-Champaign 

A National Agenda for Intelligent Infrastructure is not complete without explicit consideration of the needs of rural 
communities. While the American population has urbanized, the United States depends on rural communities for 
agriculture, fishing, forestry, manufacturing and mining. Approximately 20% of the US population lives in rural 
areas with a skew towards aging adults1. Further, nearly 25% of Veterans live in rural America 2.  And yet, when 
intelligent infrastructure is imagined, it is often done so with implicit or explicit bias towards cities. In this brief we 
describe the unique opportunities for rural communities and offer an inclusive vision of intelligent infrastructure 
research. 
 
In this paper, we argue for a set of coordinated actions to ensure that rural Americans are not left behind in this 
digital revolution. These technological platforms and applications, supported by appropriate policy, will address key 
issues in transportation, energy, agriculture, public safety and health. We believe that rather than being a set of 
needs, the rural United States presents a set of exciting possibilities for novel innovation benefiting not just those 
living there, but the American economy more broadly. 
 
 
1.0 The Case for a Rural-Inclusive Intelligent Infrastructure 
  
Rural communities differ from urban communities in ways that are relevant to intelligent infrastructure 
considerations. Most obviously, rural communities have sparse population density in comparison to cities. Rather 
than explicitly defining “rural”, the US Census Bureau defines two types of urban areas, those with more than 
50,000 people (urbanized areas) and those with 2,500-50,000 people (urban clusters). All other land and populations 
are considered rural. Under this definition, about 21% of the US population in 2000 was considered rural but more 
than 95% of the land area was classified as rural. In the 2010 Census, 59.5 million people, 19.3% of the population, 
was rural while more than 95% of the land area was still classified as rural.3 
  
Sparse population densities drive many of the challenges facing rural areas; these are problems that differ from high-
density urban areas. They often lack the range of services that a city can provide to residents, such as robust public 
transit, and diversity of options, such as choices for healthcare. Further, for many years most rural communities have 
seen a decline in employment opportunities, and while that trend has slowed recently, the employment options are 
not the same as found in cities.1 That said some rural communities are seeing improving employment opportunities 
as the recreation industry grows, and it would be a mistake to take a deficit-only view of rural communities. Instead 
they are the places some people live and others visit; crucially, Americans are dependent on their success (whether it 
be from relying on agricultural production, or ensuring that aging Americans and veterans have access to 
healthcare). Further, for an intelligent infrastructure, rural areas also challenge the dominant modes of thinking 

                                                 
1 USDA (2016) “Rural America at A Glance: 2016 Edition” Economic Information Bulletin, Economic Research Service. 
2 US Census Bureau (2017) “Nearly One-Quarter of Veterans Live in Rural Areas”, Census Bureau Reports 
January 25, 2017. Release Number: CB17-15. https://www.census.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2017/cb17-15.html 
3 US HRSA (2017) “Defining Rural Population”, Federal Office of Rural Health Policy. January 2017. 
https://www.hrsa.gov/ruralhealth/aboutus/definition.html 

 

1 

about the future of what it means to be smart: inviting consideration of different traffic patterns, pollution causes and 
locations, agricultural monitoring, aging in place, support for veterans, and so forth. 
  
2.0 Foundations of Intelligent Rural Infrastructure 
  
This whitepaper series defines intelligent infrastructure as “the deep embedding of sensing, computing, and 
communication capabilities into traditional urban and rural physical infrastructures such as roads, buildings, and 
bridges for the purpose of increasing efficiency, resiliency, and safety.” 4 This definition makes clear that the 
foundation for intelligent infrastructure is the capability to move data from where it is gathered (sensing) to where it 
is processed (computing) to where it is used, via communication networks. While these networks need not (and 
perhaps will not) be exclusively Internet-based, Internet access forms the foundation and backbone for intelligent 
infrastructure, allowing for real-time access and control, as well as efficient methods for gathering and integrating 
data into decision-making. 
  
The contrast between Internet access rates in rural versus urban areas remains stark. In 2015, the FCC changed the 
definition of broadband as access to download speeds of 25Mbps and upload speeds of 4Mbps. By this definition, 
10% of all Americans lack access to broadband. However, this disparity breaks down into 39% of rural America as 
compared to only 4% of residents of urban areas.5 These disparities worsen as you consider the most rural of 
settings, such as Native American reservations where only 15% of residents regularly use the Internet, primarily due 
to lack of access. The lack of broadband access in rural spaces is caused by a convergence of factors that are 
exemplary when we consider challenges for intelligent infrastructure, including remote and difficult terrain, sparse 
population densities, lack of IT education, the lack of private investment due to concerns about profitability, and 
inadequate/outdated infrastructure (e.g., old copper-line networks that have fallen into disrepair, and that cannot 
support today’s needed broadband data speeds). 
  
While some of these rural challenges could be solved by upgrading existing technologies (e.g., replacing old copper-
line networks with fiber); rurality and all of its conditions could also be a platform for innovation. Designing rural 
intelligent infrastructure that is robust in the face of power outages, works in the heat of the Mojave and the 
wetlands of the Atchafalaya swamp, and is located 100s of miles from any form of significant data processing 
capability or IT experts, presents important socio-technological challenges. Further, as the history of innovation in 
computing finds, technologies designed with these goals in mind are likely to find other relevant uses, and generate 
new industry and market opportunities fueling the American economy.6 
  
This innovation begins with government investment. Rural communities today experience the same disadvantage 
with Internet access as they did with electricity access. By the 1930s, over 90% of urban dwellers had electricity, but 
only 10% of rural Americans did.7 Companies argued that it was too expensive to bring the grid to these rural 
areas—much as the private sector argues that it is not profitable to bring today’s networking technologies to sparsely 
populated areas. Rural residents benefited from the Rural Electrification Act (REA) that fueled the development of 
infrastructure, which in turn encouraged the private sector to invest. 7 Government investment in a rural Internet-

                                                 
4 Mynatt et al. (2017) “A National Research Agenda for Intelligent Infrastructure” CCC Led Whitepapers 
http://cra.org/ccc/resources/ccc-led-whitepapers/, last accessed April 12, 2017.  
5 West et al. (2016) “Rural and urban America divided by broadband access” TechTank by Brookings. 
https://www.brookings.edu/blog/techtank/2016/07/18/rural-and-urban-america-divided-by-broadband-access/. Last accessed 
April 12, 2017. 
6 NAS (2016) “Continuing Innovation in Information Technology: Workshop Report” National Academies of Sciences, 
Engineering, and Medicine. https://www.nap.edu/catalog/23393/continuing-innovation-in-information-technology-workshop-
report, last accessed April 14, 2017. 
7 FERI (2016) “TVA: Electricity for All” http://newdeal.feri.org/tva/tva10.htm Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute, New 
Deal Network, last accessed April 10, 2017. 

 

2 

based intelligent infrastructure would position American corporations to partner in the development of applications 
and services, providing rural Americans with the same opportunities as their counterparts in the cities. 
  
3.0 The Potential of Intelligent Rural Infrastructure 
  
Alongside the foundations for intelligent rural infrastructure as described in Section 2, we revisit problem domains 
that are candidates for increased efficiency, resilience and safety through research-informed development of 
intelligent infrastructure. We follow Mynatt et al. (2017), similarly organizing opportunities around seven large 
domains represented in the rows of Table 1 and four levels of integration into municipal decision making 
represented in the columns of Table 1. For two row categories—intelligent disaster response and intelligent 
agriculture—the analysis in Mynatt carries over well to the rural setting; we repeat those rows for completeness. 
Notably, each row develops a focus within the given problem domain to demonstrate how the opportunities change 
as the use of intelligence moves from descriptive through proactive. The rural focus for each domain is included in 
the row label. 
  
  

Prescriptive 

Descriptive 

Predictive 

Proactive 

Intelligent 
Transportation 
(Focus: regional 
airports) 

Monitor regional 
airport use and 
passenger travel 
patterns 

Intelligent Energy 
Management 
(Focus: alternative 
energy production) 

Measure energy 
production and 
efficiency 
delivered from 
rural regions 

Recommend choice 
in regional airports 
and drive/fly 
combinations based 
on near and real-
time weather, road 
conditions 

Monitor 
nationwide and 
regional energy 
demand and adjust 
delivery based on 
market conditions 

Anticipate re-
routing of flights to 
regional airports as 
necessitated by 
storms; adjust 
regional capacity 
on-demand to 
strengthen the 
national air system 

Anticipate mid-
term demand and 
grow or shift 
production 
capacity 

Intelligent Public 
Safety and Security 
(Focus: maximizing 
resource use) 

Combine citizen 
monitoring with 
remote sensor 
monitoring for 
real-time safety 
dashboard 

Adjust public 
safety officer 
deployments based 
on real-time 
information 

Anticipate 
vulnerable settings; 
increase 
monitoring, pre-
deploy assets 

Compare and plan 
for most cost 
effective regional 
transportation 
plans; including 
high speed trains. 

Develop new solar 
and wind farms 
with delivery 
channels for 
economic 
development 

Coordinate near 
and long-term 
plans across 
communities for 
full resource 
sharing, response 
to peak events 

 

3 

Intelligent Disaster 
Response (from [1], 
Focus: floods) 

Real time water 
levels in flood 
prone areas 

Timely levee 
management and 
evacuations as 
needed 

Anticipate flood 
inundation with 
low-cost digital 
terrain maps 

Intelligent City 
(and Community) 
Systems 
(Focus: drinking 
water safety and 
public health) 
 

Map drinking 
water sources and 
delivery lines; 
digitize historical 
information 
regarding 
underground 
systems 

Advise on targeted, 
cost-effective plans 
to replace water 
system components 

Combine 
technology 
monitoring, citizen 
reports, and public 
health indicators to 
anticipate and 
respond to water 
quality crises 
before they occur 

Intelligent 
Agriculture (from 
[1], Focus: seed and 
farm mgmt) 

Characterize 
spatial and 
temporal 
variability in soil, 
crop, and weather 

Advise based on 
environmental 
stressors and crop 
traits 

Forecast crop 
yield; Anticipate 
seasonal water 
needs 

Intelligent Health 
(Focus: epidemic 
opioid use) 

Track opioid use 
and response at 
community level; 
identify 
geographic hot 
spots 

Advise on public 
health response 
based on best 
practices from 
similar community 
settings 

Anticipate 
individual and 
community-based 
conditions 
predictive of 
increases in 
addiction; 
intervene via 
policing and 
community support 

Inform National 
Flood Insurance 
Program; Inform 
vulnerable 
populations 

Inform public 
health and water 
safety policy to 
ensure water 
system quality and 
security 

Customize 
management 
practices and seed 
selection to local 
conditions 

Model opioid eco-
system from 
original supply 
through individual 
use and plan cost-
effective locations 
to intervene 

  
The table presents an overview of the opportunities presented by a rurally focused intelligent infrastructure. In the 
remainder of this section we highlight a few more details of the uniqueness of a rural focus on these various areas of 
infrastructure development. 
  
Intelligent Public Safety and Security: real-time monitoring and analysis is more challenging in rural settings. First, 
the sheer number of monitoring sensors needed to cover the terrain may well prohibit a naïve approach to blanket 
the region. Further, sensors for rural areas must function in potentially more hostile environments (deserts, forests) 
than sensors in urban areas. How we collect data from rural sensors, as well as move it to a computation facilities 
(whether local or in the Internet) for real-time analysis relies on protocols and technologies that can span distances, 
and are robust to power outages (which may take longer to resolve when they are in sparsely populated areas). To 
the extent that city-focused solutions may use people as part of the solution (e.g., police officers are part of an urban 
network that senses crimes) this may need to be rethought in areas where human resources are harder to find. 
Applications that partner humans and technologies may have to reconsider the balance of automation and human 
intervention in rural settings. 

 

4 

  
Intelligent Disaster Response: natural disasters can happen in urban areas, but some types of natural disasters are 
particularly likely in rural areas. Dams breaking impact rural communities immediately, wildfires start in forested 
lands, dust storms are associated with farmed areas, tornado alley cuts through largely rural communities, and so 
forth. As citizens become increasingly engaged with disasters—reporting locations and directions—so we can 
leverage the human-intelligence in rural communities. However, those same people also need help, roads may be 
damaged, hospitals are fewer and further between, so we need an intelligent infrastructure that can support their 
needs, while leveraging the opportunities that they provide to officials trying to determine how best to tackle a crisis. 
  
Intelligent City (and Community) Systems: small towns and villages comprise communities. Taking community as a 
central design feature, many of the concepts proposed for cities might have relevance to more rural communities. 
For example, cities are interested in technologies that identify and report things that need to be fixed (trash bins to be 
emptied, potholes to be repaired, water safety to be monitored). Why should this be any different in rural 
communities—indeed, given the more sparse nature of these areas, reporting potential problems early (e.g., cracks in 
roads/walls) maybe of more importance given that they pose risk but fewer people see them. 
  
4.0 Next Steps to Rural Intelligent Infrastructure 
 
Rural America is not a set of needs, but a set of possibilities. Yes, rural communities need and deserve the same 
applications that urban Americans will have. However, the infrastructure that provides them will need to address 
problems not present in urban settings. It is critical to experiment with infrastructure that works in harsh conditions, 
where power is sparse and potentially intermittent, with novel distributed architectures. These investigations require 
basic computing research, resulting in innovations generalizable to other resource limited environments ranging 
from disaster response to space exploration. Additionally, with intelligent infrastructure in place, we see significant 
opportunities for workforce training, and developing new cyber-related industries that employ rural Americans. 
 
Internet Access: Novel Networking Innovations 
  
To bring Internet access to rural areas, a number of wireless technologies have been trialed, and have met with 
varying levels of success. The technical challenges involved in the deployment of a wireless network in rural areas 
include network planning, protocols, power management, and hardware failures to inaccessibility of network access 
locations and remote fault diagnosis. Long distance WiFi-based networks, typically utilizing directional antennas, 
have been used to connect remote communities both within the United States and abroad.  More recently, wireless 
networks operating in white space spectrum (that is, unused TV spectrum) have shown promise.  One of the first 
such White Space broadband deployments occurred in Claudville, VA, a small community of 20,000 people in the 
Blue Ridge Mountain terrain.8 Since this 2009 deployment, white space networks have seen operation in a variety of 
remote contexts.  However, many of these networks are still being run as trials, and more research is needed before 
this technology is ready for widespread utilization. Beyond white space networking as a technology, rural areas are 
likely to see a collection of other ad-hoc networking and diverse link level technologies combined to provide the 
best possible connectivity for reasonable capital and recurring costs.  
 
Distributed and Localized Computing: Local Clouds  
 
To create rapid-response capabilities and resilience, rural areas will rely on a computation hierarchy that begins with 
highly localized computing such as provisioned or on-demand edge clouds (even at the personal or home scale) and 

                                                 
8 GT (2010) “Unused Television Spectrum Could Deliver New Broadband Services” Government Technology. 
http://www.govtech.com/templates/gov_print_article?id=99262679, last accessed April 14, 2017. 
 

 

5 

includes unlimited Internet-based cloud computation and storage as the top level of the hierarchy. Just as in the rural 
electrification case, where generators are used for resilience, local clouds will play a similar role. Unlike generators, 
local clouds will see regular everyday use due to their proximity and thus low latency. Algorithms for local and 
efficient computation will work in concert with heavy-weight computation in the Internet-based cloud for cases 
where more precision and/or more detailed data analytics are needed.  
  
Rural Testbeds: Engaging Rural Americans 
  
The rural United States has a staggering range of difficult terrain to support innovation in intelligent infrastructure. 
Deserts, swamps, young and old mountain ranges with the variance in topography, prairies, tropical and temperate 
forests, rainforests, the list is endless. Americans live and visit all these places; they are the rural living laboratories. 
We need testbeds that will initially challenge our scientific and technological imaginations as we design solutions 
that can function in these environments and across these vast terrains, as well as the supporting systems that allow 
local residents to work with them. Testbeds would also provide the platform to explore remote operation and 
maintenance of infrastructure (e.g., upgrading devices), as well as the advantages and disadvantages of centralized 
and distributed architectures. 
  
Education and Workforce Development: Employment Opportunities 
  
Testbeds serve a second importance, as location for training the local population. The government already has a 
number of initiatives to retrain American workers for the digital economy, and the demand for digital skills will only 
grow as intelligent infrastructure evolves. Americans need to be more than just consumers of a smart digital grid, 
they should be able to maintain and evolve it. In rural communities this is even more important since it is the local 
population who may end up managing far more than just their own consumer needs. Agricultural, forestry, fishery, 
and mine workers may play a vital role in maintaining networks of sensors in remote places that serve Americans in 
rural and urban populations. Indeed, we posit a digital dimension to many of these traditional employment sectors 
for rural Americans, digital farming may mean the management of watering, crop harvesting and so forth informed 
by intelligent infrastructure. Thus rural intelligent infrastructure, which many Americans will increasingly rely on, 
can be the source of education and employment opportunities for rural residents. 
  
Beyond testbeds, rural communities could leverage intelligent infrastructure for education and workforce needs. For 
example, the recent explosion in digital education (e.g., Massive Online Open Courses), could provide valuable 
educational opportunities for Americans in rural settings, but only if Internet access is available and sufficient to 
make theses on-line training opportunities high quality. 
 
Conclusion 
 
A National Agenda for Intelligent Infrastructure is not complete without explicit consideration of the needs of rural 
communities. And yet, Intelligent Infrastructure is often imagined as “smart cities” with bias towards urban needs. 
We propose a Rural-focused Intelligent Infrastructure Act: technological platforms, applications, supported by 
appropriate policy that empowers rural communities. At its core, we believe that the rural United States presents 
exciting possibility for groundbreaking innovations with outcomes that will benefit not just those who live and work 
there, but the American economy more broadly. 
 
 
 
 This material is based upon work supported by the National Science Foundation under Grant No. 1136993. Any 
opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this material are those of the authors and do 
not necessarily reflect the views of the National Science Foundation. 

 

6 

