Nicholas V. Giamblanco

981 A College Street

Toronto, Ontario M6H 1A6

nicholas.giamblanco@mail.utoronto.ca

(416) 455-8863

OBJECTIVE

A position in the eld of computing, with interests in communication systems, em-
bedded system design, software development, hardware development, and research &
development.

EDUCATION

Master of Applied Science, Electrical & Computer Engineering
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Supervised by Prof. Jason Anderson

Bachelor of Engineering, Electrical & Computer Engineering
Ryerson University, Toronto, Ontario, Graduated Top of Class on June 9th 2017
CGPA: 3.74 (A-)

AWARDS

COMPUTER
SKILLS

Edward S. Rogers Sr. Graduate Scholarship, University of Toronto
Deans List, Ryerson University
Deans List, Ryerson University
DRF URE, Ryerson University
REC, Ryerson University
Deans List, Ryerson University
Entrance Scholarship, Ryerson University

Sept 2017
Sept 2017
Sept 2016
Apr 2016
Nov 2015
Sept 2015
Sept 2013

Hardware Description Languages: VHDL, Verilog
Procedural Languages: MIPS, x86 and ARM Assembly, C, PHP
Databases: PostgreSQL, Oracle, MySQL, sqlite3, MongoDB
Markup Languages: HTML, XML, DTD, LATEX
Object Oriented Languages: Java, Python, Ruby, C++
Scripting Languages: Javascript, JQuery, Bash, Matlab
Style Sheets: CSS, XSLT
Version Control Systems: git
Web Development: Flask, Ruby on Rails, JRuby on Rails
Big Data: Hadoop, Spark
Cloud Computing Systems: AWS
Operating Systems: Mac OSX, Microsoft Windows, Linux, Android, RTOS
Hardware Development: LegUp High-Level Synthesis, Vivado High-Level Synthesis
Hardware: Arduino, USRP, Raspberry Pi, Arduino, Xilinx, Altera

EXPERIENCE

Teaching Assistant for ECE216
The University of Toronto, Toronto, ON

January 2018 - Present
 Responsible for understanding and conveying theories of signals and systems to

a tutorial based class

Professor Substitute
The University of Toronto, Toronto, ON

October 2017

 Responsible for organizing and conveying materials for the class ECE253 - Dig-

ital and Computer Systems for two lectures.

Secondary School Tutor
Toronto, ON

September 2017 - Present
 Responsible for assisting students with all subjects at the Grade 12 level, by

preparing notes, practice examples, assistive tools and micro lectures.

Webmaster
ECEGSS, Toronto, ON

September 2017 - Present
 Responsible for updating content on the ECEGSS (Electrical and Computer
Engineering Graduate Student Society) website, redesigning the layout and
high-level logic, and implementing new features upon request of the ECEGSS.

Software Engineer
LynkUp, Inc., Toronto, ON

July 2017 - September 2017
 Responsible for development of the web platform optimized to pair individuals
 Logic was written in an ecient and optimized matter, making use of data
 Implemented the web platform using a full stack (HTML, JS/JQuery, Flask[Python2.7],

structures and algorithms to increase performance.

seeking long distance travels.

sqlite3).

Software Developer
DataChili, Inc., Toronto, ON

Database Connectors, User Functionality, low level operations).

May 2017 - July 2017
 Development of core features of the software platform (Social Media Connector,
 Identied and corrected logic issues (software bugs).
 Optimized: code execution by analyzing or modied data structures, process
 Big-Data development with Hadoop and Spark.
 Interfaced with Social Media, and Database APIs.
 Improved overall User Experience with responsive front end adjustments,

handling protocols and switching and database queries.

(https : //www.datachili.com/)

Freelance Developer
G-Dev Engineering, Toronto, ON

Dec 2015 - Present
 Developed a user interactive game (KeyFinder) for Android capable devices.
 Developed an accessible music production application (m4Pi) for Android ca-
 Developed a 2D game engine.
 Developed two independent websites, and associated android applications.

pable devices.

Junior Researcher
Ryerson University, Electrical Engineering Department, Toronto, ON
 Investigating security with modern wireless communication systems.
 Interested in optimizing mobile communication system security.
 Developed security software for Software Dened Radio devices.
 Developed a exible and scalable software system.
 Developed the OPR website (http : //www.ee.ryerson.ca/opr/).

Sept 2015 - March 2017

Freelance Application Developer
Semple-Gooder Roong Corporation, Toronto, ON

 Developed a mobile tracking application.

Dec 2015 - Feb 2016

 Initiated a back-end development for a GPS mapping service.

PUBLICATIONS Conference Papers

 Nicholas Giamblanco and Prathap Siddavaatam. Keyword and keyphrase ex-
traction using newtons law of universal gravitation. In 2017 IEEE 30th Cana-
dian Conference on Electrical and Computer Engineering (CCECE) (CCECE
2017), pages 625628, Windsor, Canada, April 2017

COMMUNITY
SERVICE

Academic Tutor

Ryerson University
 Provided academic support for students enrolled in the Electrical & Computer
 Provided lessons and tutorials for students, with connections to the real world

Engineering program.

for ease of understanding

Professors Assistant

Ryerson University
 Prepared assignment and examination questions for a Robotics Course (Course
 Assisted with the execution of computational experiments in cryptography, ma-

Code: ELE869).

chine learning, and optimization.

EXTRA-
CURRICULAR
ACTIVITIES

Musician: was in a garage band and played various instruments (Guitar, Bass, Piano,
Drums).
Wood-Working: Interested in wood-working. Crafted a canoe paddle, ower stand,
and a ower box.

