1 Deep Q-Network (DQN)

1.1 Take-away

 DQN approximates a non-linear reinforcement learning algorithm through

experience.

 Conveys choices through a uniform distribution.

 Gives rise to a large yet nite Markov Decision process.

2 Neural Network Based Reinforcement Learn-

ing Acceleration on FPGA Platforms

2.1 Architecture Overview

Authors note on:

 Multi Mode Matrix Multiplication (MMMX)
 For Feed Forward (FF) use in tandem with Multiply Accumulate (MAC)
 For BP use in tandem in Multiply adder tree (MADD)
 This allows for streaming in the memory access pattern for both FF BP.

Has three modes,

1

1. Feed Forward (FF)

2. Hidden Gradient (HG)

3. Weight Gradient (WG)

2.2 FF Mode

For FF mode,

 Layers are segmented into columns (Columns are weights of the nodes)

 Each Layer is then fed through the MMMX structure with utilizations on

the MAC.

 Outputs are then fed into hidden layer memory block (H).

 Rinse/Repeat with each previous layer

2.3 HG Mode

For HG mode,

 Working backwards, we are calculating the gradients of the Hs.

 This utilizes the MADD logic.

 The output of this computation is fed back into dH-1.

 Rinse/Repeat.

2.4 WG Mode

For WG mode,

 Using the computed hidden gradients, we need to calc the new weights.

 Using the dH from current layer and H-1, we then multiply and produce:

dw1,2 = Hi1  dHi1

(1)

 Rinse/Repeat.

1This is piecewise.

2

2.5 Evaluation

 The CPU & GPU alloted for testing purposes were out-of-date. More

recent hardware should be used to compare performance.

 FPGA used is modern: 10AX066 (Arria 10). Not fair comparison.

 Tests were on object identication and collection. Collecting a desired item
was rewards, incorrect specimens were penalized, and boundaries/obstacles.

 The mechanism had nine distance identiers, with 3 data points collected

at each identier. In total, the mechanism collected 27 data points.

3 FPGA Architecture for Deep Learning and its

application to Planetary Robotics

3.1 Application Details

 Interesting application for space exploration

3

