Eurographics/ IEEE-VGTC Symposium on Visualization 2009
H.-C. Hege, I. Hotz, and T. Munzner
(Guest Editors)

Volume 28 (2009), Number 3

DocuBurst: Visualizing Document Content

using Language Structure

Christopher Collins1, Sheelagh Carpendale2, and Gerald Penn1

1University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada; 2University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada

Abstract
Textual data is at the forefront of information management problems today. One response has been the development
of visualizations of text data. These visualizations, commonly based on simple attributes such as relative word
frequency, have become increasingly popular tools. We extend this direction, presenting the ﬁrst visualization of
document content which combines word frequency with the human-created structure in lexical databases to create
a visualization that also reﬂects semantic content. DocuBurst is a radial, space-ﬁlling layout of hyponymy (the
IS-A relation), overlaid with occurrence counts of words in a document of interest to provide visual summaries
at varying levels of granularity. Interactive document analysis is supported with geometric and semantic zoom,
selectable focus on individual words, and linked access to source text.

Categories and Subject Descriptors (according to ACM CCS): Document And Text Processing [I.7.1]: Document and
Text Editing—Document Management; Computer Graphics [I.3.6]: Methodology and Techniques—Interaction
Techniques; Information Storage and Retrieval [H.3.7]: Digital Libraries—User Issues

1. Introduction
‘What is this document about?’ is a common question when
navigating large document databases. In a physical library,
visitors can browse shelves of books related to their inter-
est, casually opening those with relevant titles, thumbing
through tables of contents, glancing at some pages, and de-
ciding whether this volume deserves further attention. In a
digital library (or catalogue search of a traditional library)
we gain the ability to coalesce documents which may be lo-
cated in several areas of a physical library into a single list-
ing of potentially interesting documents. However, the ex-
perience is generally quite sterile: people are presented with
lists of titles, authors, and perhaps images of book covers. In
feature-rich interfaces, page previews and tables of contents
may be browsable. If the library contents are e-books, users
may even open the entire text, but will have to page through
the text slowly, as interfaces are often designed to present
a page or two at a time (to dissuade copying). Our goal in
this work is to bring some of the visceral exploratory expe-
rience to digital libraries, to provide interactive summaries
of texts which are comparative at a glance, can serve as de-
cision support when selecting texts of interest, and provide
entry points to explore speciﬁc passages.

c(cid:13) 2009 The Author(s)
Journal compilation c(cid:13) 2009 The Eurographics Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.
Published by Blackwell Publishing, 9600 Garsington Road, Oxford OX4 2DQ, UK and
350 Main Street, Malden, MA 02148, USA.

Prompted by the ever increasing volume and open access
to digital text, developing overviews of document content
has been an active research area in information visualiza-
tion for many years. However, reported works do not make
use of existing richly studied linguistic structures, relying
instead on simple statistical properties of documents (e.g.,
[AC07]), or analytic methods such as latent semantic analy-
sis (e.g., [DFJGR05]), which can produce unintuitive word
associations. The resulting visualizations provide detail on
content without a consistent view that can be compared
across documents. In DocuBurst, we provide a complement
to these works: a visualization of document content based
on the human-annotated IS-A noun and verb hierarchies
of WordNet [Fel98] which can provide both uniquely- and
consistently-shaped glyph representations of documents, de-
signed for cross-document comparison (see Figure 1).

2. Related Work
2.1. Document Content Visualization
Visualizations of document content take two common forms:
synoptic visualizations for quick overviews and visualiza-
tions specialized for discovering patterns within and be-
tween documents. Specialization in the type of document

Collins et al. / DocuBurst

Figure 1: DocuBurst of a science textbook rooted at {idea}.
A search query for words starting with ‘pl’ has been per-
formed. Nodes matching the query are highlighted in gold.

used as input further divides the reported research: books
and long documents, historical documents, multilingual
texts, and computer-mediated communication archives such
as emails, instant messages, and threaded discussions. In
this space, DocuBurst focuses on long texts, such as books,
and provides a visualization that is simultaneously synoptic,
comparative, and allows for deeper intra-document analysis
of occurrence patterns. In the remainder of this section we
will review signiﬁcant examples in each of these categories,
describing how their feature sets compare.

Synoptic visualizations of text most often use a selected
subset of the language to create a glyph based on word oc-
currence counts. Glyphs are then combined in small mul-
tiples visualizations to perform comparisons. Glyph tech-
niques include Starstruck [HWMT98], which creates glyphs
by arranging lines of varying length in a circular pattern,
and Gist Icons [DFJGR05], which builds on this idea by
drawing a smoothed contour around this pattern. The vo-
cabularies used are either restricted user-selected term sets
(Starstruck) or automatically selected and potentially unre-
lated (Gist Icons). Subtle shape perturbations can be hard to
compare in side by side radial glyphs. Other synoptic visu-
alizations of document content use space-ﬁlling techniques
to provide an overview of the vocabulary a single document,
such as TextArc [Pal02] and tag clouds (e.g., [Fei08]). These
techniques provide a quick overview of document content.

A second category of document visualizations are
those created to reveal patterns within texts. FeatureLens
[DZG∗07] suggests repeated phrases that may be of inter-

Figure 2: Comparison of features available (Y), possible
with a trivial extension (P), or not possible (N) in document
visualizations. * denotes cases that only visualize a selected
subset of words; + denotes a coordinated visualization.

est, and visualizes selections, while Arc Diagrams [Wat02]
provide an overview of repetition throughout a document.
DocuBurst also provides views of the distribution of selected
words. Other pattern-based visualizations focus on distribu-
tions of signiﬁcant features in a document such as emotion
(e.g., extensions [OBK∗08] of TileBars [Hea95]), or hand-
annotated properties (e.g., Compus [FD00]). The Word Tree
[WV08] is an example of a pattern-based visualization fo-
cused on repetition in context. While Word Trees provide a
unique view on repetition, overall word frequencies and full
document overviews are not visible.

generalize by clustering words into concepts

To compare document visualizations, we order a list of
the types of features document visualizations have provided
from most unique to DocuBurst to the most common in other
visualizations:
semantic indicate word meaning
cluster
overview provide quick overviews of an entire text
zoom
freq
compare compare multiple documents
search
search for speciﬁc words/phrases
read
drill-down to original text
pattern
reveal patterns within or between texts
features
reveal extracted features (e.g., emotion)
suggest
suggest interesting focus words/phrases
phrases
can show multi-word phrases
all words can show all parts of speech

support varying the semantic or graphical detail
reveal frequency of individual words

Figure 2 summarizes how these features relate to
DocuBurst and other well known text visualizations. Note
that only DocuBurst provides some reﬂection of seman-
tics through integrated word deﬁnitions and the use of a
semantically-deﬁned linguistic structure. Only DocuBurst
and Gist Icons provide word clustering into higher concepts,
however in Gist Icons the groups are only one level deep

c(cid:13) 2009 The Author(s)
Journal compilation c(cid:13) 2009 The Eurographics Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

Collins et al. / DocuBurst

and based on statistical measures whose meaning may not
be readily apparent to a reader. Note that all visualizations
that provide overviews of entire text suffer from screen real
estate issues with large texts.

2.2. Graph Drawing
Radial graph-drawing techniques have been previously re-
ported and serve as the basis of this work. Of particular in-
terest are the semi-circular radial space-ﬁlling (RSF) hier-
archies of Information Slices [AH98] and the focus + con-
text interaction techniques of the fully circular Starburst vi-
sualization [SZ00]. The InterRing [YWR02] visualization
expands on the interaction techniques for RSF trees, sup-
porting brushing and interactive radial distortion. TreeJux-
taposer [MGT∗03] illustrates methods for interacting with
very large trees, where nodes may be assigned very few pix-
els. We adapt techniques such as tracing the path from a node
of interest to the root and performing interactive accordion
expansion from this work.

3. Background on WordNet
Despite the growing dependence on statistical methods,
many Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques still
rely heavily on human-constructed lexical resources such as
WordNet [Fel98]. WordNet is a lexical database composed
of words, collocations, synsets, glosses, and edges. Words
are literally words as in common usage. A collocation is a
set of words such as “information visualization” which are
frequently collocated and can be considered a unit with a
particular deﬁnition. For the purposes of this paper, we will
use words to refer to both words and collocations — they
are treated equally in the visualization. Sets of synonymous
words and collocations are called synsets. Glosses are short
deﬁnitions that the words in a synset share, thus they are
deﬁnitions of synsets. An edge in WordNet represents a con-
nection between synsets.

Synsets are the most important data unit in WordNet.
Throughout this paper, we will refer to words in single
quotes (e.g ‘thought’), and synsets using a bracketed set
notation (e.g. {thought, idea}). A word may be a member
of multiple synsets, one for each sense of that word. Word
senses are ranked, either by order of familiarity (a subjec-
tive judgement by the lexicographer) or, in some cases, by
using a synset-tagged reference corpus to provide numerical
relative frequencies.

Synsets in WordNet are connected by many types of
edges, depending on the part of speech (noun, verb, etc.).
WordNet contains 28 different types of relations, but the
most widely used part of WordNet is the hyponymy (IS-A)
partial order. An example of hyponymy is {lawyer, attorney}
IS-A {professional, professional person}. When traversing
this graph, we remove any cycles (they are very rare) by
taking a depth-ﬁrst spanning tree at the user-selected root.
In this work we focus on the noun hyponymy relationships

c(cid:13) 2009 The Author(s)
Journal compilation c(cid:13) 2009 The Eurographics Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

in English WordNet (v2.1), rooted under the synset {entity}
having 73,736 nodes (synsets) and 75,110 edges, and a max-
imum depth of 14. Verb hyponymy is also supported — that
hierarchy is smaller and takes a more shallow, bushier form.
In addition, there is no single “root” verb. The visualizations
produced can be generalized to any partial order of a lexicon.

3.1. WordNet Visualization
Many interfaces for WordNet exist, the most popular of
which is the text-based WordNet Search which is part of
the publicly available WordNet package. With the excep-
tion of the work of Kamps [KM02], the existing interfaces
for WordNet either provide for drill-down textual or graph-
ical interaction with the data starting at a single synset of
interest or provide path-tracing between two synsets e.g.,
[Alc04, Thi05]. We do not know of any visualization of
WordNet that uses the graph structure to enhance a visual-
ization of other data such as document content.

4. DocuBurst Visualization
The combined structure of WordNet hyponymy and docu-
ment lexical content is visualized using a radial space-ﬁlling
tree layout implemented with prefuse [HCL05]. Traversing
the tree from center to periphery follows a semantic path of
increasing speciﬁcity using the IS-A relation. In WordNet,
synset members are ordered according to their polysemy
count, which WordNet researchers call familiarity. Since
more familiar words come ﬁrst, we chose the ﬁrst word in
a synset as the node label. Label fonts are maximized, ro-
tated to ﬁt within the node, and overlap is minimized.

4.1. Linguistic Processing and Scoring
In order to populate a hyponymy hierarchy with word
counts, several pre-processing steps are necessary. Starting
with raw text, we subdivide the text into tiles based on
the pre-existing structure, such as section headings. If no
structure is detectable, we break the text into roughly co-
herent topic segments using a segmenter [Cho00]. For each
tile, we label parts of speech (NOUN, VERB, etc.) [Bri93].
Nouns and verbs are then extracted and stemmed (e.g., books
→ book, going → go) using a morphological processor
[Did03]. Punctuation is omitted. If short word sequences,
noted in WordNet, are found in the document, the words are
combined into a collocation, and treated as a single word.

Next we look up in which WordNet synsets the (word,
part-of-speech) pairs occur. Because pairs usually occur in
multiple synsets, we do not perform word sense disambigua-
tion. Instead, we divide the word count amongst the available
synsets. If WordNet supplies relative sense frequency infor-
mation for a word, we use this to distribute the count. Oth-
erwise, we distribute the count weighted linearly by sense
rank. This results in weighted occurrence counts that are not

Collins et al. / DocuBurst

transparency proportional

(a) Node ﬁll
to
number of occurrences of words in subtree
(cumulative view). Node size based on leaf
count.

transparency proportional

(b) Node ﬁll
to
number of occurrences of words in a single
synset (single node view). Node size based on
leaf count.

(c) Single node view, node size pro-
portional to occurrence count total for
subtree rooted at that node.

Figure 3: DocuBurst of a science textbook rooted at ‘thought’; node hue distinguishes the synsets containing ‘thought’.

integers, but the overall results more accurately reﬂect doc-
ument content. By dividing the counts, we dilute the contri-
bution of highly ambiguous terms. The full text of tiles and
their associated (word, part-of-speech, count) triples are then
read into the data structure of the visualization.

4.2. Visual Encoding
Node Size
Within the radial tree, angular width can be proportional to
the number of leaves in the subtree rooted at that node (leaf
count) or proportional to the sum of word counts for synsets
in the subtree rooted at that node (occurrence count). The
leaf count view is dependent on WordNet and so is consistent
across documents. The word count view maximizes screen
space for synsets whose words actually occur in the docu-
ment of interest, thus the shape, as well as node colouring,
will differ across documents. Depth in the hyponymy tree
determines on which concentric ring a node appears. The
width of each annulus is maximized to allow for all visible
graph elements to ﬁt within the display space.

Node Colour
It is possible to look at multiple senses of a word in one view.
Views rooted at a single word contain a uniquely coloured
subtree for each synset (sense) containing that word. In con-
trast, trees rooted at a single synset use a single hue. Since
luminance variation in the green region of the spectrum
is the most readily perceived, it is the ﬁrst colour choice
[Sto03, 30]. Gray is used for nodes with zero occurrence
counts, since their presence provides a visual reminder of
what words are not used.

Transparency is used to visualize relative word or synset

count. Similar to the concept of value, transparency pro-
vides a range of light to dark colour gradations, thus of-
fering ordered [Ber83] and pre-attentive [War04] visuals.
Highly opaque nodes have many occurrences; almost trans-
parent nodes have few occurrences. Word senses that are
more prominent in the document stand out against the more
transparent context.

Two ways to visualize word occurrence are provided:
single-node and cumulative. In the single-node visualization,
only synset nodes whose word members occur in the docu-
ment are coloured. In the cumulative view, counts are propa-
gated up to the root of the tree. In both views, transparency is
normalized so maximum counts achieve full opacity. When
multiple documents are visualized, the cross-document max-
imum is used to set the scale. These modes support a grad-
ual reﬁnement of focus. The cumulative, or subtree, view
uses the association of words into synsets and synsets into
a hyponymy tree to aggregate counts for related concepts.
Similar to the TreeJuxtaposer techniques for visualizing dif-
ferences embedded deep in a large tree [MGT∗03], by high-
lighting the entire subtree containing the node, salient small
nodes can be more easily located, even if hidden from view
by a ﬁlter. The single-node view reveals precise concepts in
the document and supports the selection of synsets whose
word members appear in the document being analyzed. In
addition, for a fully expanded graph, the single node view
may highlight nodes that are otherwise too small to notice.
The subtree and cumulative views are compared in Figure 3.
While transparency is an effective visual method for dis-
tinguishing large differences and trends, it is impossible to
read exact data values using it. To facilitate the exact read-
ing of synset occurrence counts for the selected text tiles, we
provide a dynamic legend (see Figure 4).

c(cid:13) 2009 The Author(s)
Journal compilation c(cid:13) 2009 The Eurographics Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

Collins et al. / DocuBurst

(a)

(b)

(c)

Figure 4: DocuBurst of a general science textbook rooted at {animal}. Single-node colouring and occurrence count sizing were
used with zero-occurrence synsets hidden. Mouse hover point is revealed by blue trace-to-root colouring. (a) Synset {cattle,
cows, kine, oxen} highlighted. (b) Synset {world, human race, humanity, mankind, man, ...} highlighted. (c) Detail of the
dynamic legend, showing, from top to bottom, no selection, selection from (a), and (b).

Second, we implement a generalized ﬁsheye view [Fur86]
that collapses all subtrees which are more than a user-
speciﬁed distance from the central root node. Changing this
distance-based ﬁlter allows for a semantic zoom, creating vi-
sual summaries of varying speciﬁcity. The presence of non-
zero word occurrence counts within collapsed subtrees is in-
dicated by using the cumulative colouring, in which counts
are propagated to the root. Optionally, all highlight nodes
can be exempted from the distance ﬁlter (by increasing their
a priori importance in the DOI function), effectively ab-
stracting the graph to all synsets within a given distance from
the root or highlight nodes (see Figure 1).

Double clicking on a node of interest restricts the visual-
ization to the hyponyms of the node’s synset; double right-
clicking reverses this action by reloading the graph at the
parent of the clicked node, thus providing bi-directional data
navigation through the hyponymy relation. To create more
space for the details of the children of a given synset, the
angular width of a node and its subtree can be manually in-
creased using the mouse wheel. This increase provides a ra-
dial detail-in-context view which causes the node’s siblings
to be correspondingly compressed. Changes to a node’s an-
gular width affect its children equally and its siblings in an
inverse manner (see Figure 5).

The visualization can be based on selected subsections
of the document. The initial view is based on all text tiles
in the document, but a selection can limit the tiles from
which counts are drawn. Unrestricted visual pan and geo-
metric zoom of the display space are also supported, as well
as a zoom-to-ﬁt control to reset the pan and zoom to a best-ﬁt
for the currently visible tree. Rendering is dependent on the
zoom factor: node borders are not rendered when the nodes
are very small, and labels are not rendered when they would
not be legible. All highlighting, navigation, and emphasis in-
teractions are provided in real time.

Figure 5: DocuBurst of a general science textbook rooted
at {energy}. At right, mouse wheel interaction was used to
shrink the angular width of the subtree rooted at {radiation}
and expand the subtree under {electricity} exposing the pre-
viously illegible node {signal}.

5. Interaction
A root node can be a word, in which case its immediate chil-
dren are the synsets containing that word. Alternatively the
visualization can be rooted at a synset. Root nodes in the vi-
sualization are selectable by searching for either a word or
synset of interest. Once a root is chosen, the visualization is
populated with all its hyponyms.

As there are more than 70,000 English noun synsets in
WordNet, techniques to abstract and ﬁlter the data are im-
portant. First, we provide a highlight search function which
visually highlights nodes whose label matches any of the
given search terms. Highlight nodes have a gold background
and border, and a darker font colour, drawing attention to
even the smallest of search results. The transparency of the
highlight (gold) background is attenuated to the word occur-
rence counts so as to not disrupt this data-carrying value and
to provide for stronger pop-out of search results with high
occurrence counts.

c(cid:13) 2009 The Author(s)
Journal compilation c(cid:13) 2009 The Eurographics Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

Collins et al. / DocuBurst

(a) Linked visualizations for details-on-demand.

(b) The details window showing the concordance lines for the selected synset.

Figure 6: A search for ‘electricity’ reveals synsets containing that word (gold). On selecting a node, the distribution of the word
is revealed in the tile browser. Selecting a tile reveals the text with occurrences of the selected synset highlighted.

6. Drill Down
The full text can be read through accessing the text tiles at
the bottom of the interface. To navigate the text, we use a
linked visualization: the text tile browser. Rectangles repre-
senting the text tiles appears in a linear, vertical array to the
right of the DocuBurst. A ﬁsheye distortion [Bed00] facil-
itates navigation and selection of text tiles within this list.
Clicking any tile brings it into view. Furthermore, this vi-
sualization can be used to see occurrence patterns in the
document. By clicking nodes in the DocuBurst visualiza-
tion, synsets and entire subtrees can be selected. Text tiles in
which selected synsets appear show as varying intensity of
orange in the text tile browser, depending on number of oc-
currences in the tile. Occurrences of those synsets and words
are also highlighted in the full text window.

Concordance lines are a standard linguistic analysis tool

in which all occurrences of a word of interest are extracted
and displayed with their left and right N (usually 5) context
words. Concordance lines for selections are extracted and
shown in the concordance window. Patterns of orange in the
tile browser can indicate how localized concepts are in the
document. For example, in Figure 6, we see that {electricity}
appears more frequently toward the end of the document. We
can use the tile browser and full text window to quickly ﬁnd
occurrences of the terms of interest in context. By clicking
the text tile rectangles in the tile browser, we ﬁnd, in the tile
detail window, that there is a chapter on ‘electricity’ at the
end of the book.

7. Example: Document Comparison
DocuBurst can be used to compare multiple documents.
Trees rooted at the same synset but coloured based on differ-

c(cid:13) 2009 The Author(s)
Journal compilation c(cid:13) 2009 The Eurographics Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

Collins et al. / DocuBurst

problem. Additionally the use of uneven tree cut models to
abstract the DocuBurst in a dynamic way may clarify the
view. For example, if the subtree under a node has only one
leaf with a non-zero count, we may omit that subtree.

Finding a place to begin exploration is a challenge
with the current implementation. Providing hints for which
synsets may be of interest as visualization roots for a partic-
ular document or set of documents may assist an analyst to
ﬁnd views of interest. Methods which may be useful include
suggesting synsets with a high fraction of non-zero leaves
below them, or when the cumulative count divided by the
number of leaves is high, indicating an area of unusual con-
centration.

Word sense disambiguation is an area of active research
in computational linguistics that could beneﬁt DocuBurst.
Currently, an occurrence of a word is divided among all
synsets in which it appears. Thus ‘river bank’ will augment
the count for {bank, savings bank, depository ﬁnancial in-
stitution}. Incorporating word sense disambiguation into the
preprocessing step would greatly enhance the value of the
visualization. For example, in the general science textbook
used for the examples in this paper, ‘man’ occurs quite often
in the sense of ‘people’ (“man invented the wheel”). How-
ever, these occurrences are also counted towards the biolog-
ical {hominid} sense of ‘man’, resulting in the incorrectly
strong appearance of the {primate} subtree. Additionally,
we currently use word occurrence count as the only avail-
able word scoring function. Other scoring functions, such as
the Dunning Log-likelihood ratio [Dun93], could be used to
highlight important or unusual words in a document. Other
text features, such as hapax legomena (words which occur
only once) could be used with the WordNet-based layout to
provide special-purpose summaries of content.

Visually, the use of transparency to indicate word occur-
rence is useful for the intuitive mapping between data and vi-
sual appearance. However, it also introduces the possibility
of misleading illusions. For instance, siblings in DocuBurst
are unordered; furthermore, non-sibling nodes may be adja-
cent. By chance, unrelated nodes that both have high occur-
rence counts can appear as a large swath of strong colour.
Gestalt perception may lead viewers to impart signiﬁcance
to this coincidence. Stronger node borders would distinguish
these regions, but node borders become obstructive on small
nodes. Finding an experimentally validated solution to this
design trade-off could impact space-ﬁlling visualizations in
general.

9. Conclusion
DocuBurst provides an overview visualization of document
content which is based on a human-centered view of lan-
guage whereas previous works were based on far simpler,
derivative statistical analyses. The visual design is grounded
in established research on human abilities in colour percep-
tion. Semantic and geometric zooming, ﬁltering, search, and

(a) First 2008 debate

(b) Third 2008 debate

Figure 7: DocuBursts rooted at {skill worker} reveal the
traditional US focus on military ofﬁcers and veterans was
eclipsed in the third US Presidential debate by discussions
of plumbers.

ent texts will reveal relative frequency differences between
them. While the other examples in this paper were visualiza-
tion of a high school general science text book, we also can
apply the technique to other forms of electronic text. In Fig-
ure 7 we applied DocuBurst to the transcripts of two 2008
US presidential debates. Note that to ensure comparability
when viewing multiple documents, colour scaling is based
on the maximum count for visible nodes across all docu-
ments.

A high level view of the debates rooted at {person} re-
vealed strong colour for the {leader} and {serviceman, mil-
itary personnel, military man} subtrees. Drill down revealed
{senator} is a descendant of {leader} (both participants
were senators). Attention to military issues and veterans is
also expected given current conﬂicts. Examining the third
debate showed an additional region of colour under the
{craftsman} subtree. Further investigation, by switching to
the occurrence count size function, revealed a dramatic shift
in concentration within the {skilled worker} subtree. Mil-
itary people became relatively less important compared to
craftspeople — speciﬁcally, plumbers. This is the effect of
Senator McCain’s focus on “Joe the Plumber” in the third
debate, and was the genesis point of this phrase which dom-
inated the remainder of the campaign.

8. Challenges and Future Work
Reﬂecting on this work has suggested several interesting op-
portunities for future research in both the data and visual-
ization realms. From a data perspective, the original goal of
viewing what parts of an entire language are included in a
document merits further research. As with all text visual-
izations, it is necessary to view a subset of language due to
limited display space and computational resources with ex-
tremely large data. Views rooted at {entity} and covering all
English nouns appear cluttered and interaction is slow. It is
commonly held that WordNet sense-divisions are too ﬁne-
grained for many computational applications; investigation
into other ways to abstract WordNet may help alleviate this

c(cid:13) 2009 The Author(s)
Journal compilation c(cid:13) 2009 The Eurographics Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

Collins et al. / DocuBurst

details-on-demand provide a visual document summary, re-
vealing what subset of language is covered by a document,
and how those terms are distributed.

Initially motivated by the current lack of a digital equiva-
lent of ﬂipping through a book, this work leads well into an
investigation of the DocuBurst technique to view the differ-
ences between two or more documents, which may be useful
for plagiarism detection, document categorization, and au-
thorship attribution. Existing digital library interfaces could
be enhanced with arrays of DocuBurst icons, allowing com-
parison against one another or a baseline reference corpus to
portray content in more pleasing and information-rich ways.

Acknowledgements
Thanks to Ravin Balakrishnan for advice and guidance.
Funding for this research was provided by NSERC, iCore,
SMART Technologies, and NECTAR.

References
[AC07] ABBASI A., CHEN H.: Categorization and analysis of
text in computer mediated communication archives using visual-
ization. In Proc. of the Joint Conf. on Digital Libraries (2007),
ACM, pp. 11–18.

[AH98] ANDREWS K., HEIDEGGER H.: Information slices: Vi-
sualising and exploring large hierarchies using cascading, semi-
circular discs. In Proc. of IEEE Symp. on Information Visualiza-
tion (InfoVis), Late Breaking Hot Topics (1998), pp. 9–12.

[Alc04] ALCOCK K.:. WordNet relationship browser [online].
June 2004. Available from: http://www.ultrasw.com/
alcock/ [cited 20 February, 2006].

[Bed00]

BEDERSON B.: Fisheye menus. In Proc. of the ACM
Symposium on User Interface Software and Technology (UIST
2000) (2000), ACM Press, pp. 217–226.

[Ber83]

BERTIN J.:

Semiology of Graphics: Diagrams, Net-

works, Maps. University of Wisconsin Press, 1983.

[Bri93]

[Cho00]

BRILL E.: POS tagger. Software, 1993. Available from:
http://www.cs.jhu.edu/~brill/RBT1_14.tar.Z.
CHOI F. Y. Y.: Advances in domain independent linear
text segmentation. In Proc. of the 2000 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguis-
tics (2000), pp. 26–33.

[DFJGR05] DECAMP P., FRID-JIMENEZ A., GUINESS J., ROY
D.: Gist icons: Seeing meaning in large bodies of literature. In
Proc. of IEEE Symp. on Information Visualization, Poster Session
(Oct. 2005).

[Did03] DIDION J.:. Java WordNet Library [online]. 2003. Avail-
able from: http://jwordnet.sourceforge.net [cited
28 August, 2005].

[Dun93] DUNNING T.: Accurate methods for the statistics of sur-
prise and coincidence. Computational Linguistics 19, 1 (1993),
61–74.

[DZG∗07] DON A., ZHELEVA E., GREGORY M., TARKAN S.,
AUVIL L., CLEMENT T., SHNEIDERMAN B., PLAISANT C.:
Discovering interesting usage patterns in text collections: Inte-
grating text mining with visualization. In Proc. of the Conf. on
Information and Knowledge Management (2007).

[FD00]

FEKETE J.-D., DUFOURNAUD N.: Compus visualiza-
tion and analysis of structured documents for understanding so-
cial life in the 16th century. In Proc. of the Joint Conf. on Digital
Libraries (2000), ACM.

[Fei08]

FEINBERG J.:. Wordle: Beautiful word clouds [online].
2008. Available from: http://www.wordle.net [cited 2
December, 2008].

[Fel98]

FELLBAUM C. (Ed.): WordNet: An Electronic Lexical

Database. MIT Press, Cambridge, USA, 1998.

[Fur86]

FURNAS G. W.: Generalized ﬁsheye views.

In Proc.
of the SIGCHI Conf. on Human Factors in Computing Systems
(Apr. 1986), ACM Press, pp. 16–23.

[HCL05] HEER J., CARD S. K., LANDAY J. A.: prefuse: a
toolkit for interactive information visualization. In Proc. of the
SIGCHI Conf. on Human Factors in Computing Systems (Apr.
2005), ACM Press.

[Hea95] HEARST M. A.: Tilebars: visualization of term distri-
bution information in full text information access. In Proc. of the
SIGCHI Conf. on Human Factors in Computing Systems (1995),
ACM Press, pp. 59–66.

[HWMT98] HETZLER B., WHITNEY P., MARTUCCI L.,
THOMAS J.: Multi-faceted insight through interoperable visual
information analysis paradigms. In Proc. of the IEEE Symp. on
Information Visualization (Oct. 1998), pp. 137–144.

[KM02] KAMPS J., MARX M.: Visualizing WordNet structure.
In Proc. of the 1st International Conference on Global WordNet
(2002), pp. 182–186.

[MGT∗03] MUNZNER T., GUIMBRETIÈRE F., TASIRAN S.,
ZHANG L., ZHOU Y.: Treejuxtaposer: Scalable tree comparison
using focus+context with guaranteed visibilit. ACM Transactions
on Graphics 22, 3 (2003), 453–462. SIGGRAPH 2003.

[OBK∗08] OELKE D., BAK P., KEIM D. A., LAST M., DANON
G.: Visual evaluation of text features for document summariza-
tion and analysis. In Proc. of the IEEE Symp. on Visual Analytics
Science and Technology (VAST) (2008), pp. 75–82.

[Pal02]

PALEY W. B.: TextArc: Showing word frequency and
distribution in text. In Proc. of the IEEE Symp. on Information
Visualization (Oct. 2002), Poster, IEEE Computer Society.

[Sto03]

STONE M. C.: A Field Guide to Digital Color. AK

Peters, Ltd., 2003.

[SZ00]

STASKO J., ZHANG E.: Focus+context display and nav-
igation techniques for enhancing radial, space-ﬁlling hierarchy
visualizations. In Proc. of the IEEE Symp. on Information Visu-
alization (2000), pp. 57–65.

[Thi05]

THINKMAP:

thesaurus, Apr.
2005. Available from: http://www.visualthesaurus.
com [cited 10 April, 2005].

ThinkMap visual

[War04] WARE C.: Information Visualization: Perception for De-

sign, 2nd ed. Morgan Kaufmann, 2004.

[Wat02] WATTENBERG M.: Arc diagrams: Visualizing structure
in strings. In Proc. of the IEEE Symp. on Information Visualiza-
tion (2002).

[WV08] WATTENBERG M., VIÉGAS F. B.: The word tree, and
interactive visual concordance. IEEE Transactions on Visualiza-
tion and Computer Graphics (Proc. of the IEEE Conf. on Infor-
mation Visualization) 14, 6 (Nov/Dec 2008), 1221–1229.

[YWR02] YANG J., WARD M. O., RUNDENSTEINER E. A.: In-
terRing: An interactive tool for visually navigating and manip-
In Proc. of the IEEE Symp. on
ulating hierarchical structures.
Information Visualization (2002), pp. 77–84.

c(cid:13) 2009 The Author(s)
Journal compilation c(cid:13) 2009 The Eurographics Association and Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

