Hamlet Scene Questions 

 

Act 1 Scene 1 
 

1. How do the opening lines reinforce the mood of the first scene? 

 
The first lines are when Bernardo comes in to take the other guard off duty. Their first sentences 
to each other are Whos there? followed by Nay, answer me. Stand and unfold yourself. This 
all shows all the characters are very jumpy and not quick to trust. This continues throughout the 
scene and is a main point of the mood in the first scene.  
 
    2. What background information is revealed? 
 
It is revealed that there was a war and between the King of Denmark and the King of Norway. 
The King of Denmark was killed and then Hamlet came in and avenged him. The King of 
Norways son gathered up troops with the promise to have revenge. That is why the guards are 
jumpy and a bit scared.  
 
 
Act 1 Scene 2 
 

1. Evaluate Claudius as a king. Give reasons. 

 
Claudius seems like a fair ruler. He let Laertes go to France meaning he respects his peoples 
wishes. What seemed a bit off about him was he told Hamlet he was being honorable by 
mourning his fathers death but it was time to move on which made him seem to be trying to say 
yeah your father was a great guy but he is dead im king now so move on and forget about 
him. Claudius seemed like he wanted to take Hamlets fathers place by taking his old role as 
king and marrying his wife. Overall I think they could take Claudius as a character either way. 
 
    2. Describe Hamlets behaviour in this scene.  
 
Hamlet did not behave well in this scene. He is still mourning the loss of his father and not 
hiding it very well. He reveals to the audience that he does not like the new king and has lost 
some respect for his mother by marrying again so soon after her husbands death.  
 
 
Act 1 Scene 3 
 

1. What character traits does Ophelia show us in this scene? 

 

Ophelia seems sort of like a pushover. All she does in this scene is stand back and listen to one 
person after the other lecture her about her relationship with Hamlet. First her brother tells her to 
watch out for him and then her father and she just takes it.  
 
 
Act 1 Scene 4 
 

1. Of what particular habit of Claudius does Hamlet disapprove? Why? 

 
Claudius thinks that Hamlet needs to get over the death of his father and move on. Hamlet has 
been only focusing on his fathers death and Claudius wants him to forget about it and accept 
Claudius as the new king. Claudius wants this because it benefits him, he does not want Hamlet 
to turn against him. 
 
 
    2. Why does Marcellus state: Something is rotten in the state of Denmark?  
 
Marcellus states this because of the recent events in Denmark. Recently the king died and the 
queen married the new king within weeks. Also the prince of Norway might attack Denmark. The 
ghost of the previous king appears which indicates that something might not be right. 
 
 
Act 1 Scene 5 
 

1. Why was King Hamlets murder Most foul and Unnatural?  

 
King Hamlets murder was these things because he died not in battle or old age but instead by 
murder. Worse yet the murder was committed by his own brother. His brother than took his 
crown as king.  
 
    2. What does Hamlets line O my prophetic soul indicate?  
 
This indicates that Hamlet had suspected that his uncle killed his father all along. Hamlet knew 
something was up so when the ghost of king Hamlet returns and tells prince Hamlet that it was 
indeed Claudius who killed king Hamlet.  
 
 
Act 2 Scene 1 
 

1. Do you think Polonius is happy or saddened by Ophelias story? Give reasons. 

 

I think that Polonius is happy from Ophelias story. I think Polonius is happy about Ophelias 
story because he never liked Hamlet in the first place, and he now has a solution to Hamlets 
madness which will make him liked by the king. 
 
Act 2 Scene 2  
 

1. What is the cure to Hamlets madness?  

 
At this point in the story it is believed that Hamlets madness is because he was rejected by 
Ophelia. So the cure was for Ophelia to go and talk to him and for Polonius and Claudius to 
listen in to make sure that was the reason for him going mad.  
 
 
Act 3 Scene 1 
 

1. Why does Hamlet treat Ophelia so badly here? Does she deserve such treatment?  

 
Hamlet treats Ophelia badly here because he wants people to believe that the reason he went 
mad was because Ophelia rejected him. He also has a lot of disappointment from women in 
his life. His mother married his fathers murderer and Ophelia rejected him. Ophelia does not 
deserve such treatment. In the time this story took place it was the role of the daughter to listen 
to her father. Ophelia was just listening to what her father told her to do so she does not 
deserve the treatment she is getting.  
 
Act 3 Scene 2  
 

1. What do Hamlets remarks (about acting) to the players reveal about him?  

 
Hamlet keeps telling the players exactly how to act out the play. This shows that he does not 
really trust anyone to do what he wants them to and he feels like he might get let down if he 
doesnt control what they say. He also seems to be a pretty stressed as we can see by him 
constantly telling the players what to do. He wants the play to go perfectly so that he can 
confirm his uncle murdered his father.  
 
 
Act 4 Scene 1  
 

1. How does Claudius get Gertrudes approval for his decision to ship him (Hamlet) 

hence? What potential problems might Claudius encounter in carrying out his plan?  

 
Claudius gets Gertrudes approval because it is now apparent that Hamlet is completely mad 
and if he were to stay in Denmark he may try to kill the king. Hamlet will not want to go to 
England so Claudius may struggle to convince him to go.  

Act 4 Scene 2 and 3 
 

1. What are the dramatic purposes of these two scenes?  

 
The dramatic purpose of these scenes is to show that the story is really picking up and that 
Hamlet has gone completely mad. Hamlet seems to not be making any sense and not care at all 
that he has just killed someone.  
 
   2. How many times have Hamlet and Claudius confronted each other in the play so far? 
When? Why this time?  
 
Hamlet and Claudius have confronted each other several times now. Claudius confronted 
Hamlet about his mourning his fathers death for too long. Then Hamlet confronts Claudius at 
the play and now Claudius is confronting Hamlet about killing Polonius.  
 
 
Act 4 Scene 4  
 

1. What is Hamlets point of view concerning: the current war and honour?  

 
Hamlet thinks that the war is pretty stupid and that it is a waste of money for such a small piece 
of land. On the other hand though Hamlet thinks that the troops are doing this for honour and he 
respects that. This brings Hamlet to think about how he still has not killed Claudius and how he 
is not honourable for waiting so long to do so.  
 
Act 4 Scene 5  
 

1. Why do you think Shakespeare chooses to have Ophelia go mad? 

 
I think that Ophelia go far in the story has just been going along with what everyone else says 
and just stays calm even when so much is going on in her life. Now her life is falling apart even 
more and the only person who was supporting her is now dead. I think Shakespeare chooses 
Ophelia to go mad because she has been holding in so much throughout the play it only makes 
sense for her to release it all now at the end in the form of madness. 
 
    2. Interpret Ophelias mad song.  
 
In Ophelias mad song she talks about two main things. One is her love for Hamlet and how he 
abandoned her after he told her that he loved her and the other that she is sad about her 
fathers death.  
 
 
 

Act 4 Scene 6 and 7  
 

1. Compare Laertes revenge seeking to that of Hamlet. 

 
Hamlets method of revenge was to make a long drawn out plan to kill Claudius. On the other 
hand is Laertes who immediately after finding out his father was killed rushed into action to find 
out who did it and when he did find out launched an immediate plan.  
 
 
Act 5 Scene 1 
 

1. How does Shakespeare prepare us for the revelation that the funeral is Ophelias? Why 

must we know before Hamlet? 

 
Shakespeare lets us know about the Ophelias death before Hamlet for dramatic purposes. This 
makes us able to see how Hamlet watches the funeral without knowing it is Ophelias and then 
finds out it is Ophelias and we get to see how he reacts.  
 
     2. Why does Hamlet leap into the grave? 
 
Hamlet wants to show Laertes and everyone else that he loved Ophelia. After Laertes jumps 
into the grave Hamlet wants to prove that he loved Ophelia just as much or even more than her 
own brother did. He wants to show that he did not want for this to happen to her even though he 
was in a way the cause of her madness.  

