ParallelTopics: A Probabilistic Approach to Exploring Document

Collections

Wenwen Dou
UNC Charlotte

Xiaoyu Wang
UNC Charlotte

Remco Chang
Tufts University

William Ribarsky

UNC Charlotte

Figure 1: Overview of ParallelTopics. Topic07 is highlighted. Top left: Document Distribution view, top right: Temporal view, bottom left: Topic
Cloud, bottom right: Document Scatterplot. A user is hovering the mouse over Topic 07 (light blue) in the Document Distribution view.

ABSTRACT
Scalable and effective analysis of large text corpora remains a chal-
lenging problem as our ability to collect textual data continues to
increase at an exponential rate. To help users make sense of large
text corpora, we present a novel visual analytics system, Parallel-
Topics, which integrates a state-of-the-art probabilistic topic model
Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA) with interactive visualization.
To describe a corpus of documents, ParallelTopics rst extracts a
set of semantically meaningful topics using LDA. Unlike most tra-
ditional clustering techniques in which a document is assigned to
a specic cluster, the LDA model accounts for different topical as-
pects of each individual document. This permits effective full text
analysis of larger documents that may contain multiple topics.To
highlight this property of the model, ParallelTopics utilizes the par-
allel coordinate metaphor to present the probabilistic distribution of
a document across topics. Such representation allows the users to
discover single-topic vs. multi-topic documents and the relative im-
portance of each topic to a document of interest. In addition, since

e-mail: wdou1@uncc.edu
e-mail:viztang@gmail.com
e-mail:remco@cs.tufts.edu
e-mail: ribarsky@uncc.edu

IEEE Symposium on Visual Analytics Science and Technology 
October 23 - 28, Providence, Rhode Island, USA 
978-1-4673-0013-1/11/$26.00 2011 IEEE 

most text corpora are inherently temporal, ParallelTopics also de-
picts the topic evolution over time. We have applied ParallelTopics
to exploring and analyzing several text corpora, including the scien-
tic proposals awarded by the National Science Foundation and the
publications in the VAST community over the years. To demon-
strate the efcacy of ParallelTopics, we conducted several expert
evaluations, the results of which are reported in this paper.
Index Terms: H.5.2 [INFORMATION INTERFACES AND PRE-
SENTATION]: User InterfacesGraphical user interfaces (GUI);

1 INTRODUCTION
The management of large and growing collections of text informa-
tion is a challenging problem. Data repositories of knowledge-rich
texts have become widely accessible, leading to an overwhelming
amount of information to organize and explore. As the number of
documents increases, identifying the gist of the corpora becomes
cognitively costly and time consuming.

The challenge of automated summarization of large text corpora
has been a primary area of interest for researchers in the natu-
ral language processing (NLP) domain. To summarize a text cor-
pus, researchers have developed techniques such as Latent Seman-
tic Analysis (LSA) for extracting and representing the contextual-
usage meaning of words [21]. The LSA produces a concept space
which could then be used for document classication and cluster-
ing. More recently, probabilistic topic models have emerged as a
powerful new technique for nding semantically meaningful topics
in an unstructured text collection [6]. To further provide a visual

229

summary of text corpora, researchers from the knowledge discovery
and visualization community have developed tools and techniques
to support visualization and exploration of large text corpora based
on both LSA (e.g. [32, 12]) and topic models (e.g. [19, 22, 30, 24]).
Although probabilistic topic models have demonstrated their ad-
vantages in interpretability and semantic association [15], few inter-
active visualization systems have leveraged such models to support
exploration and analysis of text corpora. The exemplar-based vi-
sualization [11] and probabilistic latent semantic visualization [19]
projected documents onto static 2D plots while estimating topics
of a text corpus. Although the clusters of documents conform
well to the labels, there is little room for interactive exploration
and analysis of the document clusters. One exception is the time-
based visualization system TIARA [22, 30, 29], which applies the
ThemeRiver [16] metaphor to visually summarize a text collection
based on the topic content. Through analysis with the TIARA sys-
tem, users could answer questions such as: What are the major top-
ics in the document corpus? and How have the topics evolved over
time?

However, when analyzing large text corpora, there are many
other real-world questions that current text analysis visualization
systems have difculty answering. In particular, questions pertain-
ing to the relationships between topics and documents are difcult
to answer with existing tools. Such questions include: what are the
characteristics of the documents based on their topical distribution?
and what documents contain multiple topics at once (and what are
they)? In the eld of science policies, documents with multiple top-
ics could indicate publications that are interdisciplinary (i.e.
that
cover more than one body of knowledge). Similarly, in the con-
text of social media analysis, a document with multiple topics may
signify a unique news article that is relevant to different hot topics.
To address such needs in real-world applications, we have devel-
oped a visual analytics system ParallelTopics, which tightly inte-
grates interactive visualization with a state-of-the-art probabilistic
topic model. Specically, in order to answer previous questions,
ParalleTopics utilizes the Parallel Coordinate metaphor to present
the probabilistic distribution of a document across topics. This care-
fully chosen representation not only shows how many topics a doc-
ument is related to, but also the importance of each topic to the doc-
ument of interest. Moreover, ParallelTopics provides a rich set of
interactions that can help users to automatically divide a document
collection based on the number of topics in the documents. In ad-
dition to depicting the relationships between topics and documents,
ParallelTopics also supports other tasks, which are also essential to
understanding a document collection, such as summarizing the doc-
ument collection into major topics, and presenting how the topics
evolve over time.

To summarize, the set of questions that ParallelTopics can effec-

tively address when analyzing large text corpora include:

 Q1: What are the major topics that well capture the document

collection?

 Q2: What are the characteristics of the documents based on

their topical distribution?

 Q3: What documents address multiple topics at once?
 Q4: How do the topics of interest evolve over time?
To help users answer these questions, ParallelTopics rst extracts
a set of semantically meaningful topics using the Latent Dirichlet
Allocation (LDA) mode [9]. To support visual exploration of a doc-
ument collection based on the topic model, ParallelTopics employs
multiple coordinated views to highlight both topical and temporal
features of document corpora. The novel contribution of Paral-
lelTopics lies in the depiction of the probabilistic distributions of
documents over topics and supporting interactive identication and

230

more detailed examination of single-topic and multi-topic docu-
ments. To evaluate the efcacy of the ParallelTopics, we conducted
an evaluation with several expert users on two different text corpora.
Our evaluation indicates that ParallelTopic is effective in addressing
the four intended questions in the context of specic domains.

2 RELATED WORK AND BACKGROUND
Two lines of work, namely text analysis models and text visualiza-
tion techniques, were the main inspiration for the design of Paral-
lelTopics.

2.1 Text processing
The rst major progress in text processing was due to the vector
space model [28]. In this model, a document is represented as a
vector in a high-dimensional space where each dimension is asso-
ciated with one unique term within the documents. One well-known
example of VSM is the tf-idf [27], which evaluates how important
a word is to a document in a corpus. Although the VSM has empir-
ically shown its effectiveness, it suffers from a number of inherent
shortcomings to capture inter- and intra-document statistical struc-
ture [3].

To address the shortages of the VSM, researchers have intro-
duced latent semantic analysis (LSA) [21], which is a factor anal-
ysis that reduces the term-document matrix to a much lower di-
mension subspace that captures most of the variance in the corpus.
Although LSA overcomes some of the drawbacks from the VSM,
it has its limitations as well [3]. The new feature space is difcult
to interpret since each dimension is a linear combination of a set of
words from the original space.

Being aware of the limitations of LSA, researchers have pro-
posed generative probabilistic models to document modeling. Blei
et al. introduced a generative model that represents the content of
words and documents with probabilistic topics instead of a purely
spatial representation [9]. One distinct advantage of such represen-
tation is that each topic is individually interpretable, providing a
probability distribution over words that picks out a coherent cluster
of correlated terms [5]. The LDA model postulates a latent structure
consisting of a set of topics; each document is produced by choos-
ing distribution over topics, and then generating each word at ran-
dom from a topic chosen by using this distribution. The extracted
topics capture meaningful structure in the otherwise unstructured
data, as shown in analyzing scientic abstracts [14] and newspa-
per archives [31]. On a cognitive level, the LDA model performs
well in predicting word association and the effects of semantic as-
sociation and ambiguity on a variety of language-processing and
memory tasks [15].

Because of various advantages of the LDA model, ParallelTopics
rst utilizes the model to extract a set of semantically meaningful
topics given a text corpus. ParallelTopics then present the proba-
bilistic results in an intuitive manner to make the complex model
easily consumable by users when analyzing large text corpora.

2.2 Visualization of text corpora
Despite advances in automatic text processing techniques, human
intelligence still plays a key role when analyzing text corpora.
Therefore, a number of visualization systems and techniques have
been developed based on the text processing methods to keep users
in the loop.

Utilizing the VSM model, Themail was introduced by Viegas et
al.
to visualize email content with the purpose of portraying re-
lationship from conversational histories. The keywords within the
visualization are generated based on the tf-idf algorithm.

Storylines [32] enables users to visually explore text corpora
through a social network metaphor based on latent semantic analy-
sis results. Other visualization systems have used multidimensional

projection methods (e.g. PCA [25], MDS [20]) to visualize text cor-
pora. These projection techniques are similar to LSA in spirit since
they represent the documents as vectors with term frequency as
their features and then identify a lower-dimension projection space
[11]. Visualization systems based on these projection techniques
include IN-SPIRE [1] and Infosky [4]. More recently, to visual-
ize large classied document collections, Oesterling et al.
[24]
proposed a two-stage framework for a topology-based projection
and visualization. Unlike most traditional clustering techniques in
which a document is assigned to a specic cluster, ParallelTopics
accounts for different topical aspects of each individual document.
Since the debut of topic models, visualization systems have uti-
lized such models for their advantages over previous text process-
ing techniques. The exemplar-based visualization [11] and proba-
bilistic latent semantic visualization [19] projected documents onto
static 2D plots while estimating topics of a text corpus. Although
the visual clustering results are better than the ones obtained from
the multidimensional projection methods, there are several limita-
tions. First, as the number of extracted topics grows, the document
clusters in the 2D projection are no longer separable based on top-
ics. What is more, there is little room in these visualization tools
for interactive exploration and analysis of the document clusters.
Most recently, Wei et al introduced TIARA, a time-based interac-
tive visualization system that presents the extracted topics from a
given text corpus in a time-sensitive manner [30]. TIARA provides
a good overview of the topics with respect to their evolution over
time. However, the relationship between documents and topics is
less clear.

In ParallelTopics, we present the probabilistic distribution of
documents across the extracted topics in addition to describing
topic evolution over time. Thus we provide an overview of the
characteristics of documents based on their topical distribution and
enable users to identify documents that address multiple topics at
once.

3 PARALLELTOPICS
ParallelTopics supports the exploration of a document collection on
multiple levels. On the overview level, the system assists users in
answering questions such as: What are the major topics of the doc-
ument collection? (Q1) and What are the characteristics of the doc-
uments in this collection? (Q2) On the facet level, ParallelTopics
supports activities such as identifying temporal trend (Q4) of a spe-
cic topic and identifying documents that are related to multiple
topics of interest (Q3). On the detailed level, the ParalllelTopics
system allows access to details of each individual document on de-
mand.

Figure 2: System architecture of ParallelTopics.

Based on the state-of-the-art topic model, ParallelTopics em-
ploys multiple coordinated views with each view addressing one
of the aforementioned questions. In this section, we describe the
design of the ParallelTopics system. Figure 2 illustrates the overall
architecture of ParallelTopics. Starting from the top, document pro-
cessing and topic modeling are done ofine. Based on the ofine
processing results, each online module serves one specic visual-
ization view in the ParallelTopics. We start by introducing the topic
model that underpins the ParallelTopics system.

3.1 Topic-based text summary
As described in section 2.1, topic models have several advantages
over traditional text processing techniques. Therefore we employ
a probabilistic topic model in the ParallelTopics to summarize doc-
ument collections. More specically, we used Latent Dirichet Al-
location (LDA) [9] to rst extract a set of semantically meaningful
topics. LDA generates a set of latent topics, with each topic as
a multinomial distribution over keywords, and assumes each doc-
ument can be described as a probabilistic mixture of these topics
[10]. To introduce the notation, we write P (z) for the distribution
over topics z in a particular document. We assume that the text col-
lection consists of D documents and T topics. These notations will
be used throughout the rest of paper.

In our system, we rst process the document collection and re-
move stopwords such as in IN-SPIRE [1]. We then use the Stan-
ford Topic Modeling Toolbox (TMT) [26] to extract a set of topics
from the document collection. The extracted topics and probabilis-
tic document distributions serve as input to the visualizations in the
ParallelTopics.

3.2 Interactive visual exploration of text corpora
In this section, we introduce the visual design of ParallelTopics.
The system consists of four coordinated overviews: a Document
Distribution view that displays the probabilistic distribution of doc-
uments across topics; a Topic Cloud that presents the content of
the extracted topics; a Temporal view that highlights the temporal
evolution of topics; and a Document Scatterplot that facilitates in-
teractive selection of single-topic vs. multi-topic documents. Each
of the four views in the ParallelTopics system serves a distinct pur-
pose, and they are coordinated through a rich set of user interac-
tions. In addition, upon selection of any documents, we provide a
Detail view that presents the text content on demand.

3.2.1 Topic Cloud : Revealing the major topics (Q1)
To help the users quickly grasp the gist of a document collection,
we present the topics as a tagcloud. In the Topic Cloud view, each
line displays a topic, which consists of multiple keywords. Since
each topic is modeled as a multinomial distribution over keywords,
the weight of each keyword indicates its importance on the topic.
To encapsulate such information in the Topic Cloud, we align the
keywords from left to right with the most important keyword at the
beginning. In addition, since one keyword may appear in multiple
topics, the size of each keyword reects its occurrences within all
topics. An example of the Topic Cloud view is shown in gure
3. To assist users in understanding the major topics in a document
collection, we present the topics in a sequence that semantically
similar topics are close by so that there is continuity when scanning
over the topics sequentially. Since the LDA model does not model
the relationship between topics, we reorder the topics by dening
a similarity metric. The details of the reordering is described in
section 3.2.2.

The Topic Cloud view also provides users with a set of interac-
tions to help users quickly make sense of the topics. For example,
hovering over a particular keyword would highlight all other occur-
rences in the Topic Cloud. A user may also search for a particular
keyword of interest. In addition, the Topic Cloud view is tightly

231

Figure 3: Topic Cloud with keyword interaction highlighted. Each interaction has a slightly different meaning under the context of its topic. The
topics are extracted from the abstracts of proposals awarded by NSF from 2000 to 2009.

coordinated with all other views to promptly provide information
regarding a specic topic on demand.

3.2.2 Document distribution: Depicting the characteristics

of the documents (Q2)

To provide an overview of documents as mixtures of topics, we
highlight the distribution of each document across all extracted top-
ics. Our representation converts the documents probabilistic distri-
butions to signal-like patterns that signify each document. More
specically, we adopt the parallel coordinate metaphor [18] with
each axis denoting a topic and each line representing a document
in the collection (gure 1, top left view). In our use of the parallel
coordinate, all variables (topics) are uniformly spaced, and every
variable share the same value range from 0 to 1. Therefore, when
viewing the document distribution view, it is not necessary to make
sense of a document based on its value on each individual axis but
based on the pattern across all the axes as a whole. In the following
subsections, we rst introduce an important consideration regarding
the visual order of the axes. We then categorize the characteristics
different documents may present across topics.

Topic ordering One limitation of LDA is that it does not di-
rectly model the correlation between topics, but in most text cor-
pora, it is natural to expect the correlation between the occurrences
of topics [6]. We want to address this limitation so that similar
topics appear next to each other in the visualization. Coinciden-
tally, one characteristic of the parallel coordinate visualization is
that correlation between adjacent axes are much easier to discover
[13]. Therefore we use Hellinger distance to order the topics so
that the correlation between similar topics become visually salient.
We consider the distribution of each topic across all documents as a
probability distribution f (x). We then dene topic similarity as the
Hellinger distance between two topic distribution among all docu-
ments:

distance(i, j) =

1
2

(cid:90)

((cid:112)fi(x) (cid:112)fj(x))2 dx

(1)

Here fi(x) and fj(x) are the ith and jth topic probabilistic dis-
tribution over all D document in the entire collection. Therefore,
the derived distance measures how similar any two topics are given
a text corpus. When plotting the topics as axes in our interface,
we start with a topic with the most probabilistic concentration and

232

then always look for the most similar topic to the current one based
on their distances. Figure 4 demonstrates the visualization of docu-
ments across topics after topic reordering. The relationship between
any two most similar topics (adjacent axes) becomes visually iden-
tiable.

Figure 4: Similar topics are ordered to be next to each other so that
the relationship between them are visually identiable.

Document Characteristics When exploring the document
distribution over topics, one can easily discover that documents
present different characteristics based on the number of topics they
have. Figure 5 illustrates documents that focus on only one topic,
two topics, and more than two topics. Different number of topics
within documents can be interpreted as distinct characteristics given
a context of the text collection. For example, in a collection of sci-
entic publications, documents with one topic denote publications
on a specic research eld. Documents with two or more topics are
more likely to represent interdisciplinary research articles, which
often integrate two or more bodies of specialized knowledge [2].

In addition, the document distribution view provides a rich set of
interactions, such as brushing, highlighting, etc. Brushing a prob-
ability range on a topic allows users to select documents that have
a certain probability for that specic topic. Through synthesizing
the information from both Topic View and Document Distribution
View on the major topics and document characteristics, a user could
effectively develop an overview of the document collection.

3.2.3 Document Scatterplot:

Investigating documents

based on their number of topics (Q3)

The document distribution view enables users to identify docu-
ments that focus on a specic topic through brushing the top range
on the topic. However, identifying documents that are related to
two or more topics in a large corpus is not as straightforward since

Here, P (dk) is the probabilistic distribution of the kth document
over all topics. We then plot each document based on its entropy
and its maximum probability value over topics (normalized to [0,
1]) in a scatterplot view.
In this presentation, single-topic docu-
ments (with higher max value and lower entropy) are at the top
left corner within the scatterplot while bottom right corner cap-
tures documents with more number of topics (lower max value and
higher entropy). Upon selection, pie glyphs are shown to describe
the topical contribution to a specic document. In gure 6, each pie
glyph represents a selected document, with each color denoting a
topic. As shown, documents with smaller entropy values appear as
pie glyphs as a solid circle; whereas documents with larger entropy
values appear to have multiple colors, indicating that entropy values
do correspond to the number of topics in the input documents.

In summary, the Document Scatterplot enables users to interac-
tively identify subgroups of documents with desired number topics
through selecting document within different regions.

3.2.4 Temporal View: Presenting topic evolution over time

(Q4)

Since most document collections are accumulated over time, it is
helpful to present such temporal information to assist users in un-
derstanding how topics of a corpus evolve. Our Temporal view is
created as an interactive ThemeRiver [16], with each ribbon denot-
ing a topic (gure 7). In the text corpus, each document is asso-
ciated with a time stamp, therefore the height of each ribbon over
time could be determined by summing document distribution on
this topic within every time frame. The unit of time frame depends
on the corpora, for example, year might be a proper time unit for
scientic publications while month or even date would be more ap-
propriate for news corpora. After the time unit has been chosen, we
divide the documents into the corresponding time frame based on
the time stamp. Then for each time frame, we calculate the height
of each topic by summing the distribution on the topic from the
documents within the time frame.

Figure 7: Temporal view with three topics highlighted. Each topic
is labeled with its rst ve keywords. Topic in red: participants task
study collaborative interaction; topic in green: query trafc aggrega-
tion database source; topic in purple: analyst entity context relation-
ship evidence.

The order of the topics (from top to bottom) is the same as in
both the Document Distribution view and the Topic Cloud. We
assign the topic colors by interpolating a color spectrum using the
normalized distance (Equation 1) among all adjacent topics. As a
result, a more similar pair of topics is assigned with colors that are
more alike.

Overall, the Temporal view provides a visual summary of how
topics of the document collection evolve over time. Beyond the

233

Figure 5: Document Characteristics: Top - Single Topic document;
Middle - Bi-topic document; Bottom - Multi-topic document.

they are shadowed by high probability values of the single-topic
documents. To alleviate this problem, we represent all documents
in a way that single-topic and multi-topic documents are easily sep-
arable.

Figure 6: Document Scatterplot: the position of each document in the
scatterplot correlates to its number of topics. Single-topic documents
are in the top left corner while multi-topic documents reside in the
bottom right corner. Each pie glyph is colored based on number of
topics in each document.

Document Entropy As seen in the Document Distribution
view, each document is converted into a signal-like probabilistic
distribution pattern (gure 1).
In this representation, documents
with multiple topics appear noisier than the ones that clearly focus
on one topic.
In information theory, Shannon entropy is a mea-
sure of the amount of uncertainty associated with a random vari-
able. Assuming the topic as a random variable for each document
in our context, Shannon entropy could be used to separate clear
signal from noisy ones. Therefore, we applied Shannon entropy to
distinguish documents based on the number of topics they have. We
calculate the entropy of each document based on their probabilistic
distribution across topics:

T(cid:88)

i=1

Hk = 

P (dk|z = i)log2P (dk|z = i)

(2)

representation, various interactions are supported within the Tem-
poral view. Selection of a time frame (one vertical time unit) would
result in the ltering of all documents published within the selected
time frame. Similarly, clicking on an intersection of a topic ribbon
and a time frame in the Temporal view will lead to the selection of
documents published during the time period with more than 30%
probability on the selected topic (Figure 8). Therefore one may
identify what documents contribute to the rise of a topic in a certain
time period. The view adds richness to ParallelTopics by revealing
temporal information hidden in a document collection and allowing
users to perform ltering based on time and topic.

3.2.5 Details on Demand
In ParallelTopics, upon selection of any documents, we provide de-
tails of the actual text content of the documents of interest. Since
any topic models are far from perfect, the function of the detail
view is two-fold: rst, it provides context for users to develop a
deep understanding of a topic and its associated keywords. Sec-
ond, the detail view helps users to validate the patterns shown in
the visualization.

3.2.6 View Coordination and Interactions
Since making sense of a large text corpus may involve the utiliza-
tion of all four views, coordination among all views is carefully
crafted within the ParallelTopics. On the topic level, hovering over
a topic in any view that involves topic representation would high-
light the same topic in other views. For example, if a user hovers
the mouse over an axis in the Document Distribution view, the same
topic would be highlighted in both Topic Cloud view and Temporal
view (Figure 1). Thus the user could quickly synthesize informa-
tion regarding keywords, document distribution, and temporal trend
of the particular topic. In addition, the views are also coordinated
by colors, with each topic being the same color in all views.

On the document level, selecting any set of documents in views
that involve individual document would highlight the same set of
documents in other views. For example, brushing in the Document
Scatterplot would be immediately reected in the Document Distri-
bution view, and vice versa. When a user selects a few documents
with two prominent topics (mid-range) in the scatterplot, seeing the
distributions of these documents helps the user understand their top-
ical combinations.

Figure 8: Selection of topic dimension reduction and year 2010 in
the Temporal view. Documents that focus on this topic and were
published in 2010 are shown in other views.

With regard to the temporal aspect, ltering documents that were
written/published within a certain time period is supported. For in-
stance, clicking on a time frame (one vertical time unit) in the Tem-
poral view would result in the ltering of all documents published
within the selected time span. Similarly, clicking on an intersec-
tion of a topic ribbon and a time frame in the Temporal view will
lead to the selection of documents published during the time period

234

with the topic accounting for a major contribution (more than 30%
probability) to those documents (Figure 8). Such selection will be
shown in both the Document Distribution view and the Document
Scatterplot view. The function allows users to lter documents
based on time and topic of interest and then examine the documents
published within the selected time frame.

The ParallelTopics supports users to explore and query large
document corpora from multiple aspects. Starting with the Topic
Cloud, a user could view a summary of the corpus and may iden-
tify topics or even keywords of interest. From the Document Dis-
tribution view, the user may locate the topic of interest and select
documents that focus on this topic by brushing on the topic. The
user could then visually identify what other topics the selected set
of documents are related to through viewing the distributions in
the Document Distribution View and Document Scatterplot. Fur-
thermore, the user could always examine details of the documents
upon selection(section 3.2.5). If the user wants to identify inter-
disciplinary/multidisciplinary publications from the corpus, she is
equipped to do so in the Document Scatterplot view by selecting
documents in the mid to lower right corner. Whats more, if the
user is interested in querying the corpus by temporal factor, she may
perform selections in the Temporal view though either clicking on
one time frame or on an intersection of a certain time frame and a
topic. In summary, ParallelTopics employed multiple coordinated
views to support interactive exploration of text corpora. Each of the
views is designated to address one out of four important questions.
As we will see in the next section, different combinations of these
questions constitute a versatile set of tasks within specic domains.

4 CASE STUDIES
To evaluate the efcacy of our system in answering the four in-
tended questions, we applied ParallelTopics to exploring and ana-
lyzing two text corpora: the scientic proposals awarded by the Na-
tional Science Foundation and the publications in the IEEE VAST
proceedings from 2006 to 2010. We then conducted user evalua-
tions with experts from both domains. For our study with the NSF
proposals, we invited a former program manager to use the Parallel-
Topics system to explore the proposals to evaluate whether the sys-
tem could assist her in decision-making and award portfolios man-
agement. For our study with the VAST publications, 4 researchers
in the eld of visual analytics used the ParallelTopics to freely ex-
plore the publications from the most important venue in the eld.
In both studies, we performed expert evaluations in which we rst
provide training to the participants and then asked them to analyze
the corresponding dataset using our system. We recorded the feed-
back from these participants, and conducted a post-study interview
to collect their general feedback about the visualizations, the tasks,
and the efcacy of the overall system.

4.1 Case Study 1 Analyzing science proposals
In this case study, we rst describe the data we collected. We then
characterize the targeted domain and present a set of tasks that are
summarized based on our conversations with program managers at
NSF. Last, we present how ParallelTopic could assist the expert user
in solving these tasks.

4.1.1 Data Collection and Preparation
To examine whether ParallelTopics could assist program managers
in making funding decisions and managing award portfolios, we
rst collected the awarded proposals from 2000 to 2010 under the
IIS (Information & Intelligent Systems) division, which is part of
the CISE (Computer & Information Science & Engineering) direc-
torate. The collection consists of nearly 4,000 awards, with struc-
tured data on the Award Number, Directorate, Division, Program,
Program Manager, Principal Investigator, and Award Date; as well
as Abstract of the proposals, which is in the form of unstructured

demonstrating the system design and functionality of each visual-
ization. Then we asked the participant to perform the following
three tasks using the ParallelTopics system.

Task1: To group 200 newly submitted proposals based on

topics 1

Starting with the Topic Cloud, the participant quickly scanned
the extracted topics to gain an overview of the newly submitted pro-
posals. Since the participant was responsible for proposals in the ar-
eas of robotics and computer vision, she quickly focused her atten-
tion on these two topics. Upon selection of the proposals that focus
on the topic regarding robotics (gure 9), the participant quickly
glanced over the titles in the detail view to validate their relevancy.
While the participant was making sure that each selected proposal
is relevant, she also noticed that the positions of the proposals are
scattered in the Document Scatterplot. Since the proposals in the
lower right positions are more likely to contain two or more topics,
the participant was interested in knowing what other topics these
proposals relate to. Through further ltering the proposals that ap-
pear to be more interdisciplinary in the Document Scatterplot, the
participant found that they are related to other elds such as neuro-
science and social communication.

text. We processed all collected abstracts with each abstract con-
stituting a single document in the corpus. We removed a list of
standard stopwords. This gave us a vocabulary of 334,447 words.
We then extracted 30 topics from the corpus using the LDA model.

4.1.2 Domain Characterization
A core part of NSFs mission is to keep the United States at the lead-
ing edge of discovery, both by funding research in traditional aca-
demic areas, including identifying broader impacts, as well as fund-
ing transformative and interdisciplinary research. In order to do the
former, the program managers at NSF need to identify appropriate
reviewers and panelist to ensure the best possible peer review. In
order to effectively perform the latter, the program managers need
to identify emerging areas and research topics for funding interdis-
ciplinary and transformative research. In addition to making fund-
ing decisions, program managers also need to manage their award
portfolios. While the program managers have done a great job in
the past, they are in need of new methods to help them due to the
rapidly changing nature of science, and the signicant increase in
the number of proposal submitted [23]. Mapping the high-level
mission to actionable items, we designed 3 tasks that are related to
decision-making and award portfolio analysis. Task 1 focuses on
dividing new proposal submissions into groups based on their top-
ics. This task requires understanding the major topics of the text
corpus (Q1), and ltering sub document collections based on their
characteristics over topics (Q2). Task 2 is to identify appropri-
ate reviewers for the proposal submissions, which further involves
knowing whether a submission is related to multiple topics (Q3) in
order to gather the right expertise. Last, Task 3 focuses on the tem-
poral aspect of the award portfolios which involves discovering the
topical trend over time (Q4).

Figure 10: Upon selecting the relevant document in the Document
Distribution view, the Detail view is invoked so that the program man-
ager can look for previously awarded PIs.

Task2: To identify appropriate reviewers For the purpose of
identifying reviewers, the participant rst wanted to roughly divide
the proposals into groups. Based on the initial exploration, the par-
ticipant concluded that there are roughly two groups of proposals:
one group that focus on the core of robotics area, and the other that
utilized body of knowledge from other elds such as neuroscience
and social communication. To identify reviewers for the two groups
of proposals, the participant would like to nd PIs from previously
awarded proposals. Through examining the historic data, the pro-
gram manager located the topic regarding robotics in the Document
Distribution view. She then brushed the top range of the axis to se-
lect proposals pertinent to the topic. Finally, the participant turned
to the detail view (gure 10) to look for PIs that were previously
awarded in the robotics area. For interdisciplinary proposals in
group2, the participant went through similar processes to identify

1Since awards that were not accepted are considered proprietary, we col-
lected 200 awarded proposals in the year 2010 to mimic the newly submitted
proposals. The proposals awarded from 2000 to 2009 serve as historic data.

235

Figure 9: Exploration scenario. Top: Selection of documents on the
topic robotics. Bottom: Pie glyphs in the Document Scatterplot
show the number of topics for each selected document respectively.

4.1.3 Expert Evaluation
Since program managers at NSF are extremely busy, we invited a
former NSF program manager for our expert evaluation. The par-
ticipant has two years of experience working as a program manager
at NSF. At the beginning of the evaluation, we spent 30 minutes

additional experts from other related eld (e.g. neuroscience) to
serve on the review panel to ensure the best possible peer review.

Figure 11: Although the total number of proposal grew continuously
over the years, the awarded proposals regarding topic robotics re-
mained steady (light blue).
In contrast, more proposals related to
using interfaces to help people with impairment were awarded over
the years (green).

Task3: Analyzing temporal trend of award portfolio On a
portfolio level, the former program manager was interested in see-
ing the temporal trend of the areas she is in charge with over years.
Through exploring the Temporal View, the participant discovered
that the trend of awarded proposals in the eld of robotics is steady,
although the overall number of proposal awarded grew during year
2006 and 2009. Unlike the steady trend of robotics, the number of
awarded proposals on the topic of using technology to help people
with disability grew over the years (Figure 11). The former pro-
gram manager commented that this view is valuable to her since it
enabled her to see funding trends regarding different topics that are
otherwise hard to discover.

In summary, the participant thought each view in the Parallel-
Topics system is well designed with a clear purpose. She com-
mented that the tool could play a facilitating role in a program
managers workow.
In particular, she liked the fact that our
tool could automatically suggest proposals that are more interdisci-
plinary since this was difcult to judge traditionally. She also liked
coordination between views, which helped her to quickly synthe-
size information from different aspects of the same corpus.

During the post interview, the participant suggested a few po-
tential areas of improvements. Specically, the participant would
like the ParallelTopics system to provide information on identify-
ing conict of interest when assigning reviewers. On a portfolio
management level, she would also like to see funding trend over
other aspect such as geographic regions.

into two groups: discovering causal relationship between tempo-
ral evolution of topics (Q1,Q4) and funding sources; learning about
interesting subelds in the realm of visual analytics (Q1, Q2, Q3).

4.2.1 Data Collection and Preparation
We rst collected all articles published in the VAST confer-
ence/symposium from 2006 to 2010. A total number of 123 publi-
cations were collected. We then parsed each publication into elds
including Title, Author, Year Published, Abstract, Body, and Ref-
erences. We performed topic modeling on the full body of each
paper (from introduction to conclusion) with each paper constitut-
ing a document in the corpus. Removing standard stopwords left
us a vocabulary of 317,315 words. Based on our tally of different
tracks for every VAST conference, we extracted 19 topics from the
corpus.

4.2.2 User Evaluation
Among the 4 researchers we recruited, 2 are senior researchers in
the eld of visual analytics and the other two are Ph.D. students
with visual analytics as their main research interest. In this evalua-
tion, we provided all participants a high-level task and encouraged
more free exploration. After introducing the ParallelTopics system,
we asked each participant to identify core topics within the eld
and how the eld has evolved over the course of last 5 years. We
roughly categorized the usage patterns into two groups: identifying
rising/falling topics and using the system as an educational tool.

Identifying rising/falling topics After glancing through all
topics in the Topic Cloud, one senior researcher commented that
the topics conform well to the paper tracks from the VAST confer-
ences. When viewing the temporal trend of each topic, the partic-
ipant noticed a few clear rising and falling patterns. For instance,
the topic on video news analysis attracted lots of interest at the be-
ginning, but the interest quickly diminished over the years (Figure
12, yellow ribbon). He also noticed a similar trend on the topic re-
garding network trafc monitoring and analysis (Figure 12, green
ribbon). Associating the patterns with his knowledge, the partici-
pant explained the trends as when the eld began, the areas of in-
terest were guided by DHS which is the primary funding source at
the time. Next, the participant turned to the rising patterns which
indicate interests in those topics grew over the years. In particular,
both topic trend and uncertainty analysis and topic dimensional-
ity analysis and reduction attracted more interests since year 2008
(Figure 13). Again associating the patterns with his own knowl-
edge, the participant commented that this is likely the outcome of
the FODAVA (Foundations of Data and Visual Analytics) program
introduced by NSF and DHS jointly.

4.2 Case Study 2 Analyzing VAST conference proceed-

ings

As the eld of visual analytics mature, it is helpful to review how
the eld has evolved. One means to approach this problem is to
analyze the publications that have been accepted by the most im-
portant venue in Visual Analytics. In this case study, we recruited
4 researchers to explore articles published in the VAST confer-
ence/symposium since the eld began in 2006. Since all users were
familiar with the eld of visual analytics, we wanted to encourage
free exploration as opposed to following well-structured tasks. Af-
ter the evaluation, we categorized the ndings from the participants

236

Figure 12: Falling topics identied by the expert user.

Figure 13: Rising topics identied by the expert user.

Learning about the eld of visual analytics The other se-
nior researcher who was teaching a visual analytics course at the
time commented that he can see the tool being useful for his class.
Students could explore all VAST publications and identify papers
that related to topics of interest for course presentation. Similarly,
another participant wanted to see what has been done on text anal-
ysis in the eld of visual analytics. He rst located the topic and
then selected publications that ranked high on this topic in the Doc-
ument Distribution view. He quickly glanced through the paper
titles in the detailed view and validated all papers selected were of
his interest. He also noticed that some papers within the selection
appear related to other topics such as entity extraction and database
queries (gure 14). After the study, he asked for a screen capture of
the detailed view so that he could look for the papers he identied
during the study.

In summary, the participants considered the ParallelTopics sys-
tem useful in helping them explore the evolution of the eld of
visual analytics and identify publications for further investigation
based on their own interest.

5 DISCUSSION AND FUTURE WORK
ParallelTopics utilizes LDA as the automatic text summarization
method. Since the debut of LDA in 2003, a lot of research ef-
forts have been devoted to improving the initial generative topic
model. As a result, variations of LDA extensions such as the corre-
lated topic model (CTM) [8], the dynamic topic model [7] and On-
lineLDA [17] have been developed to address limitations of LDA.
Given the large number of topic models available, the best model
for summarizing text corpora may depend on the characteristics of
the corpora. However, the visual metaphors built in the Parallel-
Topics that are rather invariant to the underlying probabilistic mod-
els. In other words, the visual metaphors could easily adapt to many
variations of probabilistic topic models.

One issue worth noting when using topic models to summarize
text corpora is the decision on the number of topics that best de-
scribe the corpora. Since there has been no explicit way to quan-
titatively evaluate the topics , researchers have employed a vari-
ety of metrics of model t, such as perplexity of a probility model
or held-out likelihood [10]. However, such measures do not indi-
cate how interpretable the latent space is [10]. Therefore, human
involvement is still the best way to ensure the generation of se-
mantically meaningful topics. ParallelTopic allows users to quickly
glance over the extracted topics and more importantly, to visualize
how the documents distribute across topics. If one of the topics only
attracts very few documents with low probability on the topic, it is
likely to be an outcome of too many topics that overt the corpus.
Therefore the user may decide to extract fewer topics based on such

Figure 14: Top: Selection of documents on the topic document anal-
ysis. Bottom: Pie glyphs in the Document Scatterplot show the num-
ber of topics for selected documents. The documents on the bottom
right contain mutiple topics.

observation.

In terms of the scalability of ParallelTopics, large number of top-
ics and documents will result in visual clutter. In the future, we plan
to reduce such clutter in two ways: from the computational side, we
plan to build a hierarchical structure for the topics and allow users
to drill down to lower-level topic hierarchy on demand; on the vi-
sual side, we wish to group documents based on their similarity and
select an exemplar for each group to reduce document clutter within
the visualization.

6 CONCLUSION
In this paper, we present a novel visual analytics system, Parallel-
Topics, to enable users to interactively explore large text corpora.
The ParallelTopics system utilizes a probabilistic topic model to
summarize the text corpora and highlights the probabilistic nature
of each document across topics. Such representation allows users
to interactively identify multi-topic documents, which os difcult to
do with existing visual analytics systems. In addition, the Parallel-
Topics system presents the probabilistic distributions of documents
from a temporal perspective, which supports the exploration of topi-
cal trends. Synthesizing information from multiple views provided
by ParallelTopics, a user could gain a deep understanding of the
otherwise unstructured text collection. Our evaluation with expert
users on two different corpora demonstrates that ParallelTopic ef-
fectively assists users in multiple text analysis tasks through ad-
dressing four fundamental questions regarding a text corpus.

ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This work is supported by the National Science Foundation under
award number 0915528.

237

jection and visualization of classied document collections. In Visual
Analytics Science and Technology (VAST), 2010 IEEE Symposium on,
pages 91 98, 2010.

[25] K. Pearson. On lines and planes of closest t to systems of points in

space. Philosophical Magazine, 2(6):559572, 1901.

[26] D. Ramage and E. Rosen.

Stanford Topic Modeling Toolbox,

http://nlp.stanford.edu/software/tmt/tmt-0.3/.

[27] G. Salton and C. Buckley. Term-weighting approaches in automatic

text retrieval. Inf. Process. Manage., 24:513523, August 1988.

[28] G. Salton, A. Wong, and C. S. Yang. A vector space model for auto-
matic indexing, pages 273280. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers Inc.,
San Francisco, CA, USA, 1997.

[29] L. Shi, F. Wei, S. Liu, L. Tan, X. Lian, and M. Zhou. Understanding
In Visual Analytics Science and
text corpora with multiple facets.
Technology (VAST), 2010 IEEE Symposium on, pages 99 106, 2010.
[30] F. Wei, S. Liu, Y. Song, S. Pan, M. X. Zhou, W. Qian, L. Shi, L. Tan,
and Q. Zhang. Tiara: a visual exploratory text analytic system.
In
Proceedings of the 16th ACM SIGKDD international conference on
Knowledge discovery and data mining, KDD 10, pages 153162,
New York, NY, USA, 2010. ACM.

[31] X. Wei and W. B. Croft. Lda-based document models for ad-hoc re-
trieval. In Proceedings of the 29th annual international ACM SIGIR
conference on Research and development in information retrieval, SI-
GIR 06, pages 178185, New York, NY, USA, 2006. ACM.

[32] W. Zhu and C. Chen. Storylines: Visual exploration and analysis in la-
tent semantic spaces. Computers & Graphics, 31(3):338  349, 2007.

REFERENCES

[1] Pacic northwest national laboratory. http://in-spire.pnl.gov/.
[2] Committee on facilitating interdisciplinary research committee on
Facilitating interdisciplinary research, National

science policy.
Academies. Washington: National Academt Press 2004.

[3] L. Alsumait, P. Wang, C. Domeniconi, and D. Barbar. Embedding
Semantics in LDA Topic Models. John Wiley & Sons, Ltd, Chichester,
UK, 2010.

[4] K. Andrews, W. Kienreich, V. Sabol, J. Becker, G. Droschl, F. Kappe,
M. Granitzer, P. Auer, and K. Tochtermann. The infosky visual ex-
plorer: exploiting hierarchical structure and document similarities. In-
formation Visualization, 1:166181, December 2002.

[5] D. Blei, L. Carin, and D. Dunson. Probabilistic topic models. Signal

Processing Magazine, IEEE, 27(6):55 65, 2010.

[6] D. Blei and J. Lafferty. Text Mining: Theory and Applications, chapter

Topic Models. Taylor and Francis, 2009.

[7] D. M. Blei and J. D. Lafferty. Dynamic topic models. In Proceedings
of the 23rd international conference on Machine learning, ICML 06,
pages 113120, New York, NY, USA, 2006. ACM.

[8] D. M. Blei and J. D. Lafferty. A correlated topic model of Science.

Annals of Applied Statistics, 1(1):1735, June 2007.

[9] D. M. Blei, A. Y. Ng, and M. I. Jordan. Latent dirichlet allocation. J.

Mach. Learn. Res., 3:9931022, March 2003.

[10] J. Boyd-Graber, J. Chang, S. Gerrish, C. Wang, and D. Blei. Reading
Tea Leaves: How Humans Interpret Topic Models. In Neural Infor-
mation Processing Systems (NIPS), 2009.

[11] Y. Chen, L. Wang, M. Dong, and J. Hua. Exemplar-based visualiza-
tion of large document corpus (infovis2009-1115). Visualization and
Computer Graphics, IEEE Transactions on, 15(6):1161 1168, 2009.
[12] P. Crossno, D. Dunlavy, and T. Shead. Lsaview: A tool for visual
exploration of latent semantic modeling. In Visual Analytics Science
and Technology, 2009. VAST 2009. IEEE Symposium on, pages 83 
90, 2009.

[13] A. Dasgupta and R. Kosara. Pargnostics: Screen-space metrics for
parallel coordinates. Visualization and Computer Graphics, IEEE
Transactions on, 16(6):1017 1026, 2010.

[14] T. L. Grifths and M. Steyvers. Finding scientic topics. Proceedings
of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America,
101:52285235, Apr. 2004.

[15] T. L. Grifths, J. B. Tenenbaum, and M. Steyvers. Topics in semantic

representation. Psychological Review, 114:2007, 2007.

[16] S. Havre, B. Hetzler, and L. Nowell. Themeriver: Visualizing theme
changes over time. In Proceedings of the IEEE Symposium on Infor-
mation Vizualization 2000, INFOVIS 00, pages 115, Washington,
DC, USA, 2000. IEEE Computer Society.

[17] M. D. Hoffman, D. M. Blei, and F. Bach. Online Learning for La-
tent Dirichlet Allocation. In Neural Information Processing Systems,
2010.

[18] A. Inselberg. The plane with parallel coordinates. The Visual Com-

puter, 1:6991, 1985. 10.1007/BF01898350.

[19] T. Iwata, T. Yamada, and N. Ueda. Probabilistic latent semantic vi-
sualization: topic model for visualizing documents. In Proceeding of
the 14th ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge dis-
covery and data mining, KDD 08, pages 363371, New York, NY,
USA, 2008. ACM.

[20] J. B. Kruskal. Multidimensional scaling. Sage University Paper se-
ries on Quantitative Application in the Social Sciences, pages 07011,
1978.

[21] T. K. Landauer and S. T. Dumais. A solution to platos problem: The
latent semantic analysis theory of acquisition, induction, and represen-
tation of knowledge. Psychological Review, 104(2):211  240, 1997.
[22] S. Liu, M. X. Zhou, S. Pan, W. Qian, W. Cai, and X. Lian. Interactive,
In Proceeding
topic-based visual text summarization and analysis.
of the 18th ACM conference on Information and knowledge manage-
ment, CIKM 09, pages 543552, New York, NY, USA, 2009. ACM.
[23] NSF. Discovery in a research portfolio: Tools for structuring, analyz-

ing, visualizing and interacting with proposal and award portfolios.

[24] P. Oesterling, G. Scheuermann, S. Teresniak, G. Heyer, S. Koch,
T. Ertl, and G. Weber. Two-stage framework for a topology-based pro-

238

