Article

pubs.acs.org/jcim

Freely Available Conformer Generation Methods: How Good Are They?
Jean-Paul Ebejer,†,‡ Garrett M. Morris,‡ and Charlotte M. Deane*,†
†
Oxford Protein Informatics Group, Department of Statistics, University of Oxford, 1 South Parks Road, Oxford OX1 3TG, U.K., and
‡
InhibOx Limited, Oxford Centre for Innovation, New Road, Oxford, OX1 1BY, U.K.
*S Supporting Information

four

ABSTRACT: Conformer generation has important implications in cheminformatics,
particularly in computational drug discovery where the quality of conformer generation
software may aﬀect the outcome of a virtual screening exercise. We examine the
performance of
freely available small molecule conformer generation tools
(BALLOON, CONFAB, FROG2, and RDKIT) alongside a commercial tool (MOE). The aim
of this study is 3-fold: (i) to identify which tools most accurately reproduce experi-
mentally determined structures; (ii) to examine the diversity of
the generated
conformational set; and (iii) to benchmark the computational time expended. These
aspects were tested using a set of 708 drug-like molecules assembled from the OMEGA
validation set and the Astex Diverse Set. These molecules have varying physicochemical
properties and at least one known X-ray crystal structure. We found that RDKIT and
CONFAB are statistically better than other methods at generating low rmsd conformers to
the known structure. RDKIT is particularly suited for less ﬂexible molecules while CONFAB, with its systematic approach, is able to
generate conformers which are geometrically closer to the experimentally determined structure for molecules with a large number
of rotatable bonds (≥10). In our tests RDKIT also resulted as the second fastest method after FROG2. In order to enhance the
performance of RDKIT, we developed a postprocessing algorithm to build a diverse and representative set of conformers which
also contains a close conformer to the known structure. Our analysis indicates that, with postprocessing, RDKIT is a valid free
alternative to commercial, proprietary software.

■ INTRODUCTION

The vast majority of small molecule drugs work through
physical
interaction with speciﬁc biological macromolecules,
usually proteins. The principal determinants of molecular re-
cognition are complementarity of shape and properties between
the two molecular entities. Thus the biological function of a
drug is intimately related to its three-dimensional structure.
Furthermore, most drug molecules are ﬂexible and can adopt a
variety of shapes (conformations) in aqueous solution, existing
as an ensemble of low-energy conformations in equilibrium
with one another. The “biologically active” conformation (that
which binds to the target protein) may be similar to one of the
solution conformations or it may be a new conformation
induced by protein binding.1 Diﬀerent proteins may induce
diﬀerent conformations of the same ligand. For example, two
arbitrarily selected conformations of the same ligand cellotriose,
with the Protein Data Bank (PDB)2 chemical component
identiﬁer CTR, bound to two diﬀerent cellulases from diﬀerent
micro-organisms (PDB entries 2rfz and 2xqo), have a root-
mean-square deviation (rmsd) of 3.25 Å from each other. This
also serves to highlight that a molecule’s “shape” may be more
accurately described by an ensemble of low-energy conforma-
tions that it may adopt, and thus the diversity of conformations
generated by a method is an important consideration.3

Therefore,

for Computer-Aided Drug Design (CADD)
studies, an eﬀective method is required for generating confor-
mational models that captures the bioactive conformation as
one of a set of diverse, energetically accessible conformations

(because this bioactive conformation will generally not be
known in advance). Figure 1 shows a comparison of the crystal

randomly selected conformations

Figure 1. Examples of
for
quisqualate (PDB chemical component identiﬁer QUS) with four
rotatable bonds generated by the various tools in our review: (a) the
X-ray crystal structure (taken from PDB entry 1p1o), (b) CONFAB, (c)
RDKIT, (d) BALLOON, (e) FROG2, and (f) MOE.

structure with the various conformations obtained for each of
the methods reviewed here, when only a single conformation is
generated. CADD methods that use such models are wide-
spread and include shape-based similarity searches,4 pharmaco-
phore modeling,5,6 3D QSAR,7 structure-based,8−10 and ligand-
based11 methods in virtual screening.

Received: October 2, 2011
Published: April 8, 2012

© 2012 American Chemical Society

1146

dx.doi.org/10.1021/ci2004658 | J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2012, 52, 1146−1158

Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling

The aim of the conformer generation process is to build a set
of representative conformers that covers the conformational
space of a given molecule. The generated conformers should
reasonably sample the energy landscape and not produce highly
unlikely structures. In applications such as virtual screening,
conformational models must be generated for a very large
number of compounds, and, as a result, methods that are very
computationally intensive are impractical. All the conformer
generation methods we consider are therefore based on a mol-
ecular mechanics approach.

While reviews of conformer generation software have been
published, most of these do not reﬂect recent developments12
and/or review only commercial software.3,13−15 Test set sizes in
these publications vary from 32 to 778 molecules.

In this study we benchmark the performance of four freely
available conformer generation methods and one implemented
in the commercial package MOE. Key metrics are the ability to
reproduce the experimentally determined conformation, the
coverage of conformational space, and the computational
eﬃciency of the methods.

Conformer Generation. Conformer generation algorithms
may be broadly classiﬁed as either systematic or stochastic.16 In
the systematic approach, a regular sampling of each of the
dimensions of the search space, and hence of all possible
conformers, is conducted. This is achieved by incrementing the
torsion angles of all rotatable bonds by some predeﬁned amount.
Each conformer is therefore enumerated. This is impractical for
molecules with a large number of rotatable bonds, due to the
combinatorial explosion in the number of rotameric states. In the
stochastic approach,
the conformational space is randomly
sampled using techniques such as Monte Carlo simulated
annealing,17,18 genetic algorithms,19−21 and distance geometry.22,23
Knowledge-based methods24,25 use predeﬁned libraries for
torsion angles and ring conformations.26,27 These libraries are
created by considering known, experimentally determined struc-
tures in databases such as the Cambridge Structural Database
(CSD)28 and the PDB. A molecule is decomposed into its
constituent fragments and libraries of the possible conformations
of these fragments are used to reassemble the whole molecule, in
either a stochastic or systematic manner. Energetically favorable
conformers are subjected to energy optimization in torsion angle
space. The output conformer ensemble is typically generated
based on energetic and geometric criteria.

Tools Compared. The conformer generation tools
reviewed and compared in this study are BALLOON,20 CONFAB,29
FROG2,30,31 RDKIT,32 and MOE.33 All of these tools are free
and publicly available, with the exception of MOE. CONFAB,
FROG2, and RDKIT are open source. FROG2 is also accessible
through a Web interface. We give a brief description of each
tool and refer the interested reader to the cited literature and
the user manuals of these software packages for more details.
RDKIT. RDKIT uses the distance geometry approach des-
cribed by Blaney et al.34 In this approach, a matrix representing
the lower and upper bound of all pairwise distances in a
molecule is created. This matrix eﬀectively describes the whole
structural space for a molecule. The triangle inequality rule is
applied to smooth and further reﬁne this matrix (where the
three vertices of the triangle are diﬀerent atoms, so for atoms A,
B, and C the distance AC ≤ AB + BC). To generate multiple
conformers, random distance matrices which satisfy the bounds
matrix are generated. These conformers are then typically
cleaned up using a force ﬁeld. RDKIT does not guarantee that
the generated structures are low energy, but it is possible to

Article

discriminate and keep only conformers which are a certain
rmsd threshold apart. The documentation35 suggests optimiz-
ing the generated conformers using the Universal Force Field
(UFF).36 It also states RDKIT’s conformer generation is designed
to supply 3D structures quickly.

RDKIT is an open source cheminformatics toolkit made
available under the permissive Berkeley Software Distribution
(BSD) license.

BALLOON. BALLOON uses distance geometry to generate an
initial 3D structure for a ligand, followed by a multiobjective
genetic algorithm approach which modiﬁes torsion angles, the
stereochemistry of double bonds, tetrahedral chiral centers, and
ring conformations. The aim is to generate conformers which
are near the global energy minimum, while also being diverse and
distinct. Generated conformers are optimized using a parametrized
force ﬁeld. Conformers which are closer than an rmsd threshold to
a lower energy conformer are discarded, ensuring that
the
conformers generated are diﬀerent from each other.

BALLOON is free and supports a number of diﬀerent operating
systems (Linux, Mac OS X, and Windows). The source code is
not available, and its use is governed by a proprietary license.
CONFAB. CONFAB is a knowledge-based conformer generation
tool. It uses a systematic approach to generate and test all
conformers described by a set of torsion rules. Conformers are
generated by varying torsion angles; therefore, no conformers
are generated for molecules with zero rotatable bonds. The
number of conformers to test may be speciﬁed by a cutoﬀ
(default 106), in which case the conformational space is visited
randomly in order to ensure adequate sampling. Only the con-
formers within a certain energy threshold of the lowest energy
conformation are kept. Conformers are also discarded if they
are similar in shape to other selected structures (i.e., their rmsd
falls within a user-selected value; the default is 0.5 Å). Note that
it is not possible to generate a user-speciﬁed number of con-
formers using CONFAB. Furthermore, and unlike the other tools
reviewed here, it only accepts 3D structures as an input. CONFAB
does not explore ring conformations.

CONFAB is an open source project available under the GNU

General Public License (GPL) version 2 license.

FROG2. Given a one- or two-dimensional description of a
molecule, FROG2 will break it down into a graph of rings and
acyclic elements. This graph is then used to generate con-
formers. For the ring nodes, a conformation is selected from a
library using a knowledge-based approach. The acyclic elements
are built using literature-based canonical bond lengths and
valence angles. Various combinations of dihedral angles are
considered, supplemented by using a Monte Carlo search to
vary these angles by a small amount. Conformations are then
energy minimized using the AMMOS force ﬁeld.37

FROG2 has a Web interface,38 and the source code is available
under the GNU General Public License (GPL) version 3
license.

MOE. Molecular Operating Environment (MOE) is a fully
integrated commercial drug discovery software package.33 It
oﬀers a wealth of functionality covering structure-based design,
pharmacophore discovery, protein modeling, molecular simu-
lations, cheminformatics, QSAR, and medicinal chemistry applica-
tions. MOE oﬀers three methods for conformer generation:
systematic search, stochastic search, and low mode molecular
dynamics. The systematic search method generates conformers by
rotating the dihedral angles of the molecule by a discrete
predeﬁned amount (this type of generation is only suitable for
molecules with a small number of rotatable bonds). In the

1147

dx.doi.org/10.1021/ci2004658 | J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2012, 52, 1146−1158

Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling

Article

stochastic search method all
the rotatable bonds in the
molecule are randomly rotated (including ring bonds), and
stereochemistry may also be randomly inverted. The low mode
molecular dynamics
simulation generates conformers by
running a brief molecular dynamics simulation, with velocities
initialized to low-frequency vibrational modes. Although this
method is eﬃcient for small molecules, chiral centers are rarely
inverted. Irrespective of the method chosen the output is
subjected to energy minimization (by default, a modiﬁed
version of the MMFF9439 force ﬁeld).

MOE is commercially available from Chemical Computing

Group.

Other Tools. There are several other popular, commercial
conformer generation software tools not featured in this review.
CORINA is a commercial product available from Molecular
Networks40 which generates a single, high-quality conformer. It
takes a rule and data-based approach to generate a low-energy
conformer.41 First, bond lengths and bond angles are set to
standard values based on a table. Bond lengths are speciﬁc to
atom types, hybridization states, and bond order of a particular
atom pair. Bond angles depend on the atom type and hybrid-
ization state of the central atom. Second, the molecule is
fragmented into ring systems and acyclic parts. CORINA can
handle small-ring, rigid polymacrocyclic systems and ﬂexible
macrocyclic systems in diﬀerent ways and is able to produce a
list of conformations for ring systems. The resulting geometries
are optimized using a reduced force ﬁeld.42 ROTATE is a
complementary program also available from Molecular Net-
works which generates diverse conformational ensembles by
applying a set of rules that resulted from a statistical analysis on
the conformational preferences of experimentally determined
molecular structures of small molecules.

OMEGA is another commercial conformer generation tool
available from OpenEye Scientiﬁc Software43 and uses a sys-
tematic, knowledge-based approach.
It works by ﬁrst
assembling the initial 3D structure from a library of fragments.
Second, it exhaustively enumerates all rotatable torsions using
predeﬁned libraries and ﬁnally samples this large conforma-
tional space using geometric and energy criteria.44

For a more detailed and comprehensive review of these (and
other) tools we direct the interested reader to a review by
Schwab.5

Test Set. Our validation of

freely available conformer
generation methods is based on a test set of 708 distinct small
molecules. The selection of these molecules is derived from the
work of Hawkins et al.44 as well as the ligands found in the
Astex Diverse Set.45 These molecules come from high quality
X-ray crystal structures in the PDB and CSD. A list of PDB and
CSD identiﬁers and Simpliﬁed Molecular Input Line Entry
Speciﬁcation (SMILES)46 representations of the ligands used in
this study can be found in the Supporting Information. For the
PDB structures we also supply the reference ﬁle used. The mol-
ecular weight, heavy atom counts, and rotatable bond distribu-
tions for the molecules in the test set are shown in Figure 2.
Note that these distributions are similar to the distributions for
drug compounds published in the literature47,48 and com-
parable to other data sets used for conformer validation.13,15
■ METHODS AND MATERIALS
Conformer Generation Tools. The program installations

used in this review are described in Table 1.

Default parameters recommended by the creators of the
respective programs have been used throughout when running

Figure 2. Test set distributions for (a) molecular weight, (b) number
of heavy atoms, and (c) number of rotatable bonds.

Table 1. Tools Used for Conformer Generation

tool
MOE

2010.10

version

platform

BALLOON

1.2.0.915

CONFAB

1.0.1

FROG2

2.13 (patched

from authors)

RDKIT

2011.09.1

cost/license
commercial

free/

proprietary

free/GNU

GPL

free/GNU

GPL

free/BSD

distribution

binary

binary

source

source

source

Linux (Ubuntu
10.10 64-bit)
Linux (Ubuntu
10.10 64-bit)
Linux (Ubuntu
10.10 64-bit)
Linux (Ubuntu
10.10 64-bit)
Linux (Ubuntu
10.10 64-bit)

the conformer generation applications, but in order to make a
fair comparison we try to replicate the same behavior across all
the diﬀerent tools. For each tool, input and output molecule ﬁle
parameters were speciﬁed as command line arguments. Wherever
present the option to generate conformers which are at least 0.5 Å
apart was set (before energy minimization). The following points
of interest are relevant to each application:

(cid:129) MOE is very rich in terms of the options for conformer
generation.
In this work a MOE Scientiﬁc Vector
Language (SVL) script was written that uses the Conforma-
tion Import functionality (i.e., conf_Import) with all
function
ﬁltering options turned oﬀ. The conf_Import
breaks a large molecule into smaller
fragments. For
common fragments it uses conformations from a standard
library. If a fragment is not found in the standard library,
these fragments are generated using a stochastic con-
formation search. The number of conformers was speciﬁed
by setting the outputConformationLimit parameter. Note
that the generated structures undergo energy minimization
using MOE’s MMFF94 modiﬁed force ﬁeld (the out-
putReﬁne parameter was set to 1). The output was con-
verted to an MDL SD ﬁle to keep the same workﬂow
and input/output requirements as the other tools. The
mmSuperposeRMSD parameter which sets the criterion for
conformer equality was set to 0.5 Å rmsd.

1148

dx.doi.org/10.1021/ci2004658 | J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2012, 52, 1146−1158

Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling

Article

(cid:129) BALLOON was run using the settings listed on the usage
page (on the Web site49), with the MMFF94 force ﬁeld
(option f) and the number of conformers to generate
(option nconfs) speciﬁed. Note that the latter parameter
does not specify the number of ﬁnal conformations, which
may be slightly more or less depending on the ﬂexibility of
the molecule, but rather the initial ensemble size. The
default value for RMSDtol, which speciﬁes the intercon-
former rmsd for the ﬁnal pruning of conformers, is 0.5 Å.
(cid:129) For FROG2, apart from specifying the work path (option
wrkPath) and log ﬁle (option logFile), the multi option
was also set to 10, 50, or 100, depending on the number
of conformers being generated. This setting, together
with the gnb option, limits the number of conformations
for each compound. We also set the rmsd parameter to
generate conformers which are at least 0.5 Å diﬀerent
from each other.
(cid:129) We generated RDKIT conformers by writing a simple
Python script as shown in Section 3.5 in the RDKIT User
Manual.35 As a ﬁrst step, molecules are loaded from a
SMILES ﬁle, and hydrogens are added to each using
RDKIT. The only diﬀerence from the code snippet
provided in the manual was that a call to AllChem.Em-
bedMultipleConfs (instead of AllChem.EmbedMolecule)
was made. This function generates a user-deﬁned number of
conformers rather than just one. Also,
the parameter
pruneRmsThresh in this function call is set to 0.5 Å to
ensure that the generated conformers are at least this far
apart from each other. The script then loops over the
conformers to energy minimize them using RDKIT’s
implementation of the UFF force ﬁeld, as suggested in
the manual.
(cid:129) The CONFAB conformers were generated using default
parameters, which include an rmsd diversity cutoﬀ of
0.5 Å. The conformers outputted from CONFAB were
subjected to energy minimization using the MMFF94
force ﬁeld. This was done using the Obminimize
program available in OpenBabel version 2.3.1.50−52

Test Set Selection. One of the main challenges was to
acquire a diverse test set of high quality structures of small
molecules on which to base our conformer tools comparison.
Our starting test set was originally built by combining the 85
bound small molecules from the Astex Diverse Set and a further
677 molecules used in the testing of commercially available
conformer generation tool OMEGA.44

The Astex Diverse Set is made up of high quality, high
resolution crystal structures of complexes containing drug-like
ligands from the PDB. It is typically used for protein−ligand
docking performance validation. From this set of 85 small
molecules, we removed the ligand for PDB entry 1x8x, since
this was a duplicate ligand also seen in entry 1of6. This
duplication may be an oversight in the Astex Diverse Set as the
PDB entries label the ligands as D- and L-isomers of tyrosine for
1of6 and 1x8x respectively, but in fact these structures are both
L-tyrosine.

The molecules from the OMEGA test set included the PDB
codes of 197 drug-like, high quality structures from well
resolved structures in the PDB and 480 molecules from the
CSD originating from a previous publication.27 Unfortunately,
there is often more than one ligand associated with each PDB
code provided, but the ligand identiﬁer is not supplied. In order
to determine which ligand to use for a particular PDB code, the

following procedure was applied: (1) apply similar ﬁltering
criteria used in the OMEGA validation publication (i.e., 0 ≤
rotatable bonds ≤16, and 8 ≤ heavy atom count ≤50); (2) use
the CoFactor database53 to remove any cofactors present in the
structure ﬁle; (3) review the literature describing the PDB
deposition to determine which was the inhibitor molecule; (4)
search the ligands in DrugBank54 to ﬁnd a match to one of the
ligands listed (and manually select the match).

If after this rigorous manual process there were still multiple
potential ligands for a particular structure, the PDB entry was
removed from the test set. For each ligand in our test set which
has more than one instance in its corresponding PDB entry, we
selected an arbitrary structure.

Each identiﬁer for the CSD molecules corresponds to exactly

one 3D structure.

The selected molecules from the OMEGA test set were
validated using the test set distributions published in the OMEGA
paper.

Test Set Preparation. A one-dimensional SMILES
representation with stereochemical information was produced
from the reference 3D structures of the molecules in the test set
using both OPENBABEL 2.3.1 and RDKIT 2011.09.1. From these
two equivalent SMILES representations we generated the corre-
sponding InChI keys (with the stereochemistry layer). Where
there were mismatches between these keys, the molecule’s
SMILES representation was inspected manually and, where
possible, replaced with the correct SMILES. Otherwise the
molecule was removed from the test set. This gives us
conﬁdence that
the SMILES representations with stereo-
chemistry information (which are available in the Supporting
Information) have been correctly generated and are true
representations of the 3D reference molecule.

Also, the canonical SMILES and InChI keys were generated
for each ligand (also using OPENBABEL 2.3.1) to make sure that
there were no duplicates across the whole set. The SMILES
representation of the molecule is the starting point of our
conformer generation process, ensuring that the conformers are
not geometrically biased by the coordinates of the original
X-ray structures.

Not all conformer generation tools accept a SMILES string
as an input: CONFAB accepts only a 3D structure ﬁle. In order to
get around this limitation, we generated 3D coordinates from
the SMILES representation using OPENBABEL 2.3.1 (with the
gen3d option). We then used this as the input ﬁle to CONFAB.
Once again, we generated InChI keys (with the stereochemistry
layer) on the 3D ﬁles generated by OPENBABEL and compared
them to the InChI keys of the 3D reference molecule ﬁle from
the test set. If these did not match, we removed the molecule
from the test set so as not to negatively bias the results for
CONFAB.

The above processing removed 37 out of the initial 197
OMEGA PDB entries, 11 out of the initial 480 OMEGA CSD
entries, and 5 out of the 84 Astex Diverse Set entries (duplicate
ligand entry 1x8x had already been removed). The remaining
629 molecules from the OMEGA test set were added to the 79
small molecules from the Astex Diverse Set to give a combined
set of 708 molecules.

Determining Molecular Descriptors and rmsd be-
tween Molecules. The molecular weight, the number of heavy
atoms, and the number of rotatable bonds were calculated using
the PYBEL API55 (available when building OPENBABEL 2.3.1 with
Python language bindings). The rotatable bonds deﬁnition used
does not include ring bonds as rotatable.

1149

dx.doi.org/10.1021/ci2004658 | J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2012, 52, 1146−1158

Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling

The rmsd between the experimental structures and con-
formers generated by each tool were calculated using OBFIT
(a program in the OPENBABEL 2.3.1 suite) and considering only
heavy atoms.

Number of Conformers Generated. In a small number of
cases the software tested failed to generate any conformers
(CONFAB: 20 cases, FROG2: 4 cases for the 50 generation run,
and BALLOON: 2 cases for the 50 conformer generation run). In
some cases this may be attributed to software bugs (e.g.,
segmentation fault). CONFAB does not generate conformers for
molecules with zero rotatable bonds as its approach is based on
changing torsion angles of rotatable bonds.

RDKIT was set to generate 10, 50, and 100 conformers for
each molecule. Similarly, FROG2 has a command line argument
to generate a set number of conformers per stereoisomer.
BALLOON has a parameter for the number of conformers to
generate, but this is used as an indication only and the number
may slightly vary depending on the ﬂexibility of the structure.
MOE has an option to limit the number of conformations
output. CONFAB does not have any options in this regard so the
number of conformers varies greatly e.g. the ligand UN6 in
PDB entry 2f70 has 10 rotatable bonds and generated 53,340
conformers. The histogram of
the number of conformers
generated by CONFAB is shown in the Supporting Information,
Figure A. Moreover, sometimes CONFAB generates just one
conformer for ﬂexible molecules. This is a known issue because
if a molecule has a very large conformer space and a systematic
search is carried out within that space only a small fraction of
conformers will fall within 50 kcal/mol of the lowest energy
conformer. Apart from this, in general and as expected, fewer
conformations are generated for less ﬂexible structures (smaller
number of rotatable bonds).

For tools which generate more than the required number of
conformers (i.e., mostly CONFAB but occasionally also BALLOON)
we sample the set randomly.

Statistical Tests. The following tests were performed to
ﬁnd whether the distributions of minimum rmsd values from
the theoretical conformer to the experimentally determined
for each
structure were statistically signiﬁcantly diﬀerent
method.
First, a Kruskal−Wallis rank sum test was performed for each
toolkit’s rmsd distribution when generating 50 conformers.
This test was selected as there are ﬁve groups (tools), and we
cannot assume a normal distribution in the underlying
minimum crystallographic rmsd values. Second, since the
Kruskal−Wallis test only indicates if there is an eﬀect, a posthoc
test using the pairwise Wilcoxon signed-rank test (paired and
with Bonferroni correction) was carried out on toolkit pairs to
ﬁnd which conformer generation methods are statistically
diﬀerent from each other.

■ RESULTS AND DISCUSSION

We consider the following three criteria in our review: (1)
accuracy: how close in terms of positional rmsd is a generated
conformer
the experimentally observed X-ray
crystallographic structures? (2) diversity: how diﬀerent or
similar are the generated conformations? (3) speed: how much
computational time is required to generate the conformers?

to one of

Our ﬁndings show that on average RDKIT and CONFAB are
the best conformer generators among the tools we considered.
Statistically there is no diﬀerence between selecting one of
these two tools. However, RDKIT is much faster.

Article

Even if the conformer diversity threshold parameter is set,
RDKIT generates many similar conformers after energy
minimization (with rmsd <0.5 Å) for molecules with few
rotatable bonds. We later describe an algorithm which corrects
this.

Quality of Conformers Generated. In order to determine
which of the methods most frequently produces conformers
closest to the crystallographic conformation, we carried out the
following test. Taking each molecule in the test set in turn, we
generated 50 conformers using each of the ﬁve methods, and
for each method we computed the rmsd from each of the 50
conformers to the same arbitrarily selected X-ray structure for
that ligand. We then selected the minimum rmsd value, which
gives us the closest conformer to the X-ray structure. For tools
such as CONFAB that do not have the option of generating a
user-speciﬁed number of conformers, we sampled randomly
from the generated set (for more details see Methods and
Materials). The eﬀects of selecting randomly, selecting the
minimum energy conformers, and selecting the minimum rmsd
structures out of the whole conformer ensemble for CONFAB are
shown in Supporting Information, Figure B.

The pairwise comparison of methods can be performed using
these minimum crystallographic rmsd values, as shown in
Figure 3. In each panel two methods are compared: each point
corresponds to a molecule from the test set with its minimum
rmsd for each of the two methods providing the x- and
y-coordinates. Note that the points on each graph are smoothed
using a kernel density function (i.e.,
function,
bkde2D, in R’s smoothScatter routine) to avoid overplotting.
The diagonal
line indicates the theoretical position if both
methods performed identically for every molecule in the
test set.

the default

Taking the plot of RDKIT (y-axis) versus FROG2 (x-axis) in
Figure 3 as an example, it can be seen that more points fall
below the diagonal than above it. In practice, this means that
generally the rmsd between a theoretical conformer and its
corresponding experimentally determined structure is greater
for FROG2 than RDKIT. Thus, RDKIT tends to be more accurate
in terms of generating experimentally observed structures of
drug-like molecules than FROG2.

The distribution of

the minimum crystallographic rmsd
values for all 708 small molecules for each method based on 10,
50, and 100 conformer generation runs is shown in Figure 4 (a).
Each boxplot shows the minimum rmsd value (from the
X-ray crystal structure) for a set of conformers for each molecule
in the test set. Thus each boxplot is made up of 708 data points.
Figure 4 (a) shows that RDKIT and CONFAB have better
(lower) average minimum rmsd values than the other tools and
for more than 75% of the ligands (when generating 50 and 100
conformers) they generate a structure with an rmsd that is less
than 0.9 Å from the experimentally observed conformation of
the molecule.

Using the OMEGA tool, it is reported that approximately 83%
of the PDB structures and 84% of the CSD structures are
reproduced within a 1 Å rmsd of the experimental structure
(generating a maximum of 200 conformers and using default
settings).44 In order to make our test set comparable to the
validation set used in the OMEGA study, we removed the ligands
from our test set originating from the Astex set. For the 50
conformer run, RDKIT generates 70.0% of
the 160 PDB
structures and 90.4% of the 469 CSD structures in our set
within a 1 Å rmsd of the experimental structure. All the other
tools show inferior performance to RDKIT.

1150

dx.doi.org/10.1021/ci2004658 | J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2012, 52, 1146−1158

Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling

Article

Figure 3. Pairwise comparison of minimum rmsd values between all the conformers generated by the method and the X-ray structure for all toolkits.
These plots represent the densities of the 708 molecules in the test set. It can be seen that RDKIT performs better than the other toolkits, because it
tends to generate conformations with rmsd values from the crystallographic structure that are generally lower than the second method it is compared
to, e.g. RDKIT versus FROG2, there is a higher density of points below the diagonal than above. The percentages next to the method labels show the
proportion of all ligands in the data set (708) for which that particular method is closer to crystallographic structure than the other method plotted
on the same panel. All units shown are in Å.

Plots of the average minimum rmsd from the experimentally
determined structure (with the standard error indicated by
error bars) versus the number of rotatable bonds in the test set
for the 50 conformer generation run are shown in Figure 4 (b).
Unsurprisingly, as the number of rotatable bonds in the
molecule increases it becomes more diﬃcult to generate the
crystallographic form. With a couple of exceptions, both RDKIT
and CONFAB achieve better results than the other methods, with
RDKIT doing better or similar to CONFAB when the number of
rotatable bonds is less than ten, and CONFAB showing better
performance for molecules with ten or more rotatable bonds.
When considering all 50 conformers generated by each tool
across all 708 molecules (rather than just the best conformer),
the percentage of the generated structures with crystallographic
rmsd values less than 2 Å is as follows: RDKIT 76.7%; CONFAB
73.2%; BALLOON 70.9%; FROG2 70.1%; and MOE 63.4%. These
this frequently used threshold14,21 give an
percentages at
indication of how plausible the generated conformations tend
to be. On the other hand, a lower percentage might indicate
more diversity in the conformational model.

The distributions for the 50 conformer runs presented in
Figure 4 are all statistically signiﬁcantly diﬀerent from each
the BALLOON-FROG2 and
other with the exception of

CONFAB-RDKIT pairs (α = 0.05). This means that there is a
statistical diﬀerence in selecting one conformer tool over another.
A Kruskal−Wallis test revealed a signiﬁcant eﬀect of the
toolkit on the minimum rmsd distance to the experimentally
determined structures (χ2(4) = 194.961, p < 0.01). The Wilcoxon
signed-rank test (paired) with Bonferroni correction showed
signiﬁcant diﬀerences between the tools shown in Table 2.

Diﬃcult Cases. As discussed earlier, the larger the number
of rotatable bonds the more diﬃcult it is for these tools to
generate the X-ray crystallographic structure. The reason for this is
that the conformer space grows exponentially with the number of
rotatable bonds.

There are a small number of molecules which consistently
score badly across all tools. These molecules typically have a
central core with ﬂexible, large parts of the molecule stemming
from that core as shown in Figure 5 (a). The rmsd calculation is
based on the position of these heavy atoms, and even a small
torsional rotation of the bonds emanating from the “core” will
oﬀset many of the heavy atoms. The presence of macrocycles in
the molecule, such as the one in Figure 5 (b), also makes the
conformer generation tools perform badly as most of them are
unable to sample the ring conformer space correctly. In most
cases,
tested are unable to reproduce the

the tools

1151

dx.doi.org/10.1021/ci2004658 | J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2012, 52, 1146−1158

Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling

Article

Figure 4. (a) Box plots showing the minimum rmsd from the crystal structure for each of the 708 molecules in the test set, when generating 10, 50,
and 100 conformers. In general, as the number of conformers generated increases, the mean rmsd from the crystal structure decreases. (b) The
variation in the ability of each method to reproduce crystallographic conformations as the number of rotatable bonds increases. Note that the data
points in this graph are jittered horizontally to avoid overplotting. Also, the molecules with 12 or more rotatable bonds are grouped together. It can
be seen that in general, among all methods, RDKIT and CONFAB are best at ﬁnding the lowest crystallographic rmsd values for the molecules in the
test set.

Table 2. Statistical Tests for Generated Conformers Show
That There Is a Diﬀerence between the Generated
Conformer Sets for the below Pairs

toolkits

median (Å)

BALLOON vs CONFAB
BALLOON vs MOE
BALLOON vs RDKIT
CONFAB vs FROG2
CONFAB vs MOE
FROG2 vs MOE
FROG2 vs RDKIT
MOE vs RDKIT

0.663
0.697
0.646
0.651
0.598
0.696
0.637
0.581

Z score
12.357
6.496
13.706
−11.844
−5.357
5.730
13.052
6.003

p-value
<0.01
<0.01
<0.01
<0.01
<0.01
<0.01
<0.01
<0.01

experimentally determined ring conformation for rings with
seven or more atoms (refer to Supporting Information, Figure C
for more details).
Diversity of

the Set of Generated Conformers.
Diversity is an important consideration in conformer
generation. Running a docking experiment using rigid ligands
where these have very similar structures is clearly suboptimal
both in terms of the experiment’s running time and the space
needed to store these conformers (assuming they are stored on
the ﬁle system or in a database rather than generated on the
ﬂy). On the other hand, structures that are very diﬀerent from
the experimentally determined conformation may be unlikely in
practice because of energetic and conformational constraints.

1152

dx.doi.org/10.1021/ci2004658 | J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2012, 52, 1146−1158

Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling

Article

by sets of molecules with an odd number of rotatable bonds,
and the toolkit used. The resulting graph in Figure 6 shows that
as expected, the average of the minimum crystallographic rmsd
increases with the number of rotatable bonds. This is because as
the ﬂexibility of the molecules increases, the size of the search
spaces increases, and this allows for more diverse conformers to
be generated. Note that even if
the conformer diversity
threshold for these tools was set to 0.5 Å, this is applied before
the energy minimization step.

RDKIT appears to produce many very similar conformations
for molecules with low numbers of rotatable bonds (Figure 6).
The multimodal peaks can be attributed to the fact that when
there are few rotatable bonds, the conformer space is limited
and energy minimization will make some of the conformers
converge to similar geometries. This highlights the problem
with checking for diversity before running the selected energy
minimization protocol (as happens with most of these tools).
the conformer
generation runs were executed in isolation and benchmarked
using the same hardware (using an Intel Core i7−2600K CPU
running at 3.40 GHz with 4 GB RAM) and the same operating
system (Ubuntu Linux 10.10 64-bit) to get comparable results.
Also, the same system tool (i.e., the time command line utility
in Linux) was used for benchmarking the execution speed of
each conformer generation tool.

Conformer Generation Speed. All

We measured the CPU time taken by the conformer genera-
tion runs. Our data set consists of 708 separate SMILES ﬁles
for each molecule in our test set. Each ﬁle is run as a separate
process. The average CPU time (in seconds) per molecule in
the 708 molecule test set for 10, 50, and 100 generated con-
formers is shown in Figure 7.

FROG2 is an order of magnitude faster than any other tool.
Speed is of primary importance for FROG2 considering its Web
application nature. MOE shows constant time regardless of the

Figure 5. (a) Small molecule with identiﬁer NM1 taken from PDB
entry 1g2k in the test set produces conformers across all toolkits which
are, on average, 3.459 Å from the experimental structure. (b) Small
molecule with identiﬁer PI4 taken from PDB entry 1b6l in the test set
produces conformers across all toolkits which are, on average, 2.790 Å
from the experimental structure. In this case, the inability to reproduce
the experimental structure may be attributed to the macrocycle.

A representative sample that covers all the low energy struc-
tures in each molecule’s conformational space is therefore
required.

For every molecule in the test set and then for each con-
former generation method, we have calculated the pairwise
rmsd distances between every pair of generated conformers (for
the 50 conformer generation run) and partitioned the results

Figure 6. Density-smoothed distribution showing the variation in pairwise rmsd values for conformers per molecule for each toolkit, for sets of
molecules with an odd number of rotatable bonds.

1153

dx.doi.org/10.1021/ci2004658 | J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2012, 52, 1146−1158

Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling

Article

took 254 min of CPU time for a total of 638,887 conformers
generated for the 708 molecules in the test set. The MMFF94
energy minimization for
took
approximately 53 h. This ﬁgure is biased by the huge number
of conformers (>10,000) generated for a few molecules (refer
to Supporting Information, Figure A for more details).

this whole conformer set

A Note on Energy Minimization. While an in-depth
comparison of energy minimization on small molecules using a
variety of force ﬁelds is beyond the scope of this paper, we
comment on the eﬀect of energy minimization on the generated
conformers. Taking the set of 10 conformers for each molecule in
the data set generated by RDKIT, we investigate the eﬀect of the
force ﬁeld on the ability to reproduce the conformation of the
experimentally determined structure.

Figure 7. The average time (in seconds) for each molecule for each of
10, 50, and 100 conformer generation runs. CONFAB is not shown due
to the inability to generate a speciﬁc number of conformers.

number of conformers generated. When running a diﬀerent
experiment, we noticed that MOE was considerably faster when
all the molecules were in the same ﬁle and a single MOE
process launched as opposed to launching a new process for
every molecule. The reason for this is 2-fold; ﬁrst there is a
setup cost involved in running a conformer generation job
(such as license acquisition or database creation) and, second,
the common fragments ﬁle is cleared at every single molecule
run. RDKIT and BALLOON both show an increase in the time
taken with respect to the number of conformers generated, with
BALLOON having a much steeper gradient (i.e., slower).

CONFAB is not included in this comparison because it is not
possible to generate a speciﬁc number of conformers and make
a side-by-side comparison to the other conformer generation
programs. The CONFAB run (without energy minimization)

Figure 8 shows that minimization is important to increase the
quality of
the conformational models. Moreover, energy
minimization is a critical step after RDKIT’s distance geometry
approach as it is required to produce “clean” structures. The
MMFF94 force ﬁeld seems to be better suited for molecules
with zero or one rotatable bonds, while UFF does better for the
rest of the molecules. The mean rmsd value for all conformers
from their respective experimental structures is of 1.113 Å when
not using any optimization, 0.878 Å when minimizing using
UFF, and 0.945 Å when minimizing using MMFF94.

Another point of interest is the diﬀerence between the energy
of the experimental structure compared to the energies of the con-
formers generated (shown in Supporting Information, Figure D).
The prevalence of positive values on this histogram shows that the
experimental structures have higher energies than the conformers
generated. This may indicate an inherent deﬁciency in these force
ﬁelds, that the force ﬁeld used when reﬁning the crystal structure is
diﬀerent, or could be due to crystal packing eﬀects or constraints
placed by the bound protein when the ligand crystal structure is
taken from a complex.

Generating ten conformers for every molecule in the data set
using RDKIT and without any energy minimization took 1 min 46 s

Figure 8. Boxplots showing the minimum rmsd from the experimental structure to the RDKIT set of 10 generated conformers for every molecule in
the test set, partitioned by number of rotatable bonds. We show the results for conformers with no optimization (yellow) and with UFF (blue) and
MMFF94 minimization (green).

1154

dx.doi.org/10.1021/ci2004658 | J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2012, 52, 1146−1158

Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling

Article

Figure 9. Variation in minimum crystallographic rmsd versus the number of rotatable bonds in the ligand and how these values change with number
of conformers generated using RDKIT.

on the machine described in the previous section. UFF
minimization on these molecules took 8 min 2 s, while MMFF94
minimization took 113 min 10 s. Considering energy minimization
makes up the most computationally expensive operation in the
conformer generation workﬂow it may be beneﬁcial to optimize the
energy minimization parameters (e.g., maximum iterations or force
tolerance).

RDKIT - Conformer Generation Postprocessing. The
positive results for RDKIT in terms of accuracy and speed make
it a viable candidate for inclusion in a computational drug
discovery project.

One of the main issues with RDKIT is that the number of
conformers generated must be speciﬁed. This means that for
less ﬂexible molecules with a small number of (or even no)
rotatable bonds, most conformers generated will be similar to
each other. This has important repercussions for both the space
needed to store the conformers as well as processing time.

RDKIT has an option to keep only conformations that are at
least a particular rmsd threshold apart
from one another
(pruneRmsThresh), but this gives distinct conformers before
the force ﬁeld is applied. Theoretically, performing a force ﬁeld-
based energy minimization after the ﬁltering might cause two
diﬀerent conformers close to one another in conformational
space to fall into the same local energy minimum and become
structurally very similar after energy minimization.

We therefore developed the following alternative approach for
ﬁltering the conformers generated by RDKIT to resolve this con-
formational diversity problem: (1) Using RDKIT, generate n con-
formers in set Cgen. (2) Energy minimization (using the UFF force
ﬁeld) is performed on every conformer. The conformer list is

sorted by increasing energy value and the lowest energy conformer
(the ﬁrst conformer in the list), clow, is recorded. (3) Remove clow
from Cgen and add it to Ckeep. (4) For each conformer, c, in Cgen,
compute the rmsd between c and each conformer in Ckeep.

(a)

If any rmsd value is smaller than a ﬁxed threshold,
dmin, discard c as we already have a representative
of that point in conformational space.

(b) Otherwise add c to Ckeep

There is ongoing debate as to whether bioactive conforma-
tions lie close to an energy minimum56 or are signiﬁcantly above it.1,57
We use the lowest energy conformer as an initial starting point
for the sampling of conformational space.

The advantage of sorting the list by increasing energy values
is that this will give us the lowest energy conformer in the dmin
partition.

At the end of the above procedure the set Ckeep will contain
the lowest energy conformer and all its elements will be at least
dmin Å rmsd apart.

We have performed several experiments to determine the
optimal values for the parameters specifying the initial number
of conformers to be generated (n) and the minimum threshold
distance between each conformer kept (dmin). The value of n is
a function of the number of rotatable bonds. As expected, more
ﬂexible molecules require a larger value of n to cover suﬃciently
the conformational space.

A good starting value of n is one which still generates a
conformer that
is similar to the X-ray crystallographically
determined structure. Figure 9 shows the minimum rmsd to the

1155

dx.doi.org/10.1021/ci2004658 | J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2012, 52, 1146−1158

Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling

Article

Figure 10. (a) This graph shows the average number of conformers generated for each rotatable bond subset using the RDKIT-based algorithm
presented here. Note that increasing the dmin threshold ﬁlters out more conformers (if dmin was large enough only one conformer would be left after
postprocessing). (b) This graph shows the density distribution of the pairwise rmsd values between conformers of a molecule. Note also that the
initial peak of very similar conformers for RDKIT is removed using the post processing algorithm.

experimentally determined structure versus multiple RDKIT
runs that generate 10, 50, 100, 200, 300, 400, 500, and 1000
conformers for each molecule in our test set (partitioned by
number of rotatable bonds). Based on Figure 9, plausible values
≤ 12, use
for n could be for nrot
n = 200; and for nrot

≤ 7, use n = 50; for 8 ≤ nrot
≥ 13, use n = 300.

We also estimated the value of the clustering threshold, dmin,
and studied its eﬀects on the number of ﬁltered conformers.
Figure 10 shows that as expected the larger the value of dmin, the
more conformers are ﬁltered.

When applying our postprocessing algorithm on RDKIT,
using n = 50 and dmin = 0.35 Å we obtain distinct conformers
and the initial peak which can be seen in Figure 10(b) for RDKIT
disappears. This is because similar molecular geometries are
ﬁltered out from the generated conformer set. It can also be seen
that RDKIT with ﬁltering behaves similarly to MOE in terms of
number of conformers generated and conformer diversity.

So, using the number of conformers to generate (n) as

n
rot
n
rot

≤
50
if
≥
200 if
300 otherwise

7
8 and

n
rot

≤

12

⎧
⎨⎪
⎩⎪

=

n

and a dmin value of 0.35 Å, the total CPU running time for the
whole test set was 102 min. This is signiﬁcantly faster than
using the one-size-ﬁts-all value of 300 conformers per molecule
without compromising the quality of the results. The minimum
crystallographic rmsd distributions were similar to those shown
for the 50, 200, and 300 conformer generation runs in Figure 9.

■ CONCLUSIONS

We have reviewed the performance of four free and/or open
source conformer generation software packages, BALLOON,
CONFAB, FROG2, and RDKIT, and compared them to the
Conformation Import method implemented in the commer-
cially available package MOE.

We are interested in three measures, speciﬁcally the ability of
these tools to generate a conformation close to the experi-
mentally observed structure; the coverage of the conformational

space of a molecule; and the performance of these tools in terms
of speed. These are critical aspects of the computational drug
discovery process.

For our benchmarks, we rebuilt the data set used to validate
another popular commercially available conformer generation
toolkit, OMEGA, and augmented it with the ligands present in the
Astex Diverse Set. The resultant data set consists of 708 molecules
from the PDB and CSD with high resolution X-ray crystal
structures and which are mostly drug-like in their properties.

When considering the ability to generate conformers which
are structurally similar
to the experimentally determined
structures, we have found that both RDKIT and CONFAB do
better than the other toolkits, with the latter performing better
with more ﬂexible molecules (i.e., ≥ 10 rotatable bonds). This
can be attributed to the systematic exploration of the conformer
space as opposed RDKIT’s stochastic approach.

When analyzing the ability of a method to explore or “cover”
conformational space (by measuring the pairwise rmsd between
each conformer generated) RDKIT tends to generate more
similar conformers than the other methods. We presented a
postprocessing algorithm we developed to ﬁlter out similar
structures from the RDKIT output, using the lowest energy
conformer as the starting point of the conformational space
sampling.

In terms of speed, FROG2 was the fastest conformer generator
by an order of magnitude and is only slightly aﬀected by the
number of conformers generated. After
that, RDKIT is
signiﬁcantly faster than the other toolkits.

Finally, the choice of a conformer generation tool depends
on a number of factors other than the primary ones considered
above, e.g. ability to explore the energetic landscape, the ability
to integrate with other software (either through source code or
in a workﬂow), licensing model, and pricing. Even in conformer
generation, open source tools oﬀer a viable alternative to
commercial, closed source, proprietary software.

■ ASSOCIATED CONTENT
*S Supporting Information
We provide the PDB entry identiﬁers, the PDB chemical
component three letter codes, and the CSD codes of the 708

1156

dx.doi.org/10.1021/ci2004658 | J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2012, 52, 1146−1158

Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling

ligands in our test set (ﬁlename ci2004658_si_002.txt). We
also supply the SMILES representations of each molecule in the
test set (ﬁlename ci2004658_si_003.zip). For the PDB mole-
cules we also supply the experimentally determined 3D reference
structures used in this study (ﬁlename ci2004658_si_004.zip).
The supplementary ﬁgures referred to in the text may be found in
the document ci2004658_si_001.pdf. This material
is available
free of charge via the Internet at http://pubs.acs.org.

■ AUTHOR INFORMATION
Corresponding Author
*E-mail: deane@stats.ox.ac.uk.
Notes
The authors declare no competing ﬁnancial interest.

■ ACKNOWLEDGMENTS

the tools
The authors declare no aﬃliations with any of
reviewed. This work is
supported by European Union
Framework Programme 7-funded Marie Curie Initial Training
Network STARS, grant agreement PITN-GA-2009-238490.
The authors thank Dr. Paul Finn and Dr. Simone Fulle for their
helpful suggestions and discussions.

■ REFERENCES

(1) Perola, E.; Charifson, P. S. Conformational Analysis of Drug-Like
Molecules Bound to Proteins: An Extensive Study of Ligand
Reorganization upon Binding. J. Med. Chem. 2004, 47, 2499−2510.
(2) Berman, H. M.; Westbrook, J.; Feng, Z.; Gilliland, G.; Bhat, T.
N.; Weissig, H.; Shindyalov, I. N.; Bourne, P. E. The Protein Data
Bank. Nucleic Acids Res. 2000, 28, 235−242.
(3) Agraﬁotis, D. K.; Gibbs, A. C.; Zhu, F.; Izrailev, S.; Martin, E.
Conformational Sampling of Bioactive Molecules: A Comparative
Study. J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2007, 47, 1067−1086.
(4) Hahn, M. Three-Dimensional Shape-Based Searching of
Conformationally Flexible Compounds. J. Chem. Inf. Model. 1997,
37, 80−86.
(5) Schwab, C. H. Conformations and 3D pharmacophore searching.
Drug Discovery Today: Technologies 2010, 7, e245−e253.
(6) Kristam, R.; Gillet, V. J.; Lewis, R. A.; Thorner, D. Comparison of
Conformational Analysis Techniques To Generate Pharmacophore
Hypotheses Using Catalyst. J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2005, 45, 461−476.
(7) Verma, J.; Khedkar, V. M.; Coutinho, E. C. 3D-QSAR in Drug
Design - A Review. Curr. Top Med. Chem. 2010, 10, 95−115(21).
(8) Makino, S.; Kuntz, I. D. Automated ﬂexible ligand docking
method and its application for database search. J. Comput. Chem. 1997,
18, 1812−1825.
(9) Lorber, D. M.; Shoichet, B. K. Flexible ligand docking using
conformational ensembles. Protein Sci. 1998, 7, 938−950.
(10) Lyne, P. D. Structure-based virtual screening: an overview. Drug
Discovery Today 2002, 7, 1047−1055.
(11) Stahura, F. L.; Bajorath, J. New Methodologies for Ligand-Based
Virtual Screening. Curr. Pharm. Des. 2005, 11, 1189−1202(14).
(12) Sadowski, J.; Gasteiger, J.; Klebe, G. Comparison of Automatic
Three-Dimensional Model Builders Using 639 X-ray Structures. J.
Chem. Inf. Model. 1994, 34, 1000−1008.
(13) Kirchmair, J.; Wolber, G.; Laggner, C.; Langer, T. Comparative
Performance Assessment of the Conformational Model Generators
Omega and Catalyst: A Large-Scale Survey on the Retrieval of Protein-
Bound Ligand Conformations. J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2006, 46, 1848−
1861.
(14) Boström, J. Reproducing the conformations of protein-bound
ligands: A critical evaluation of several popular conformational
searching tools. J. Comput.-Aided Mol. Des. 2001, 15, 1137−1152.
(15) Chen, I.-J.; Foloppe, N. Conformational Sampling of Druglike
Molecules with MOE and Catalyst: Implications for Pharmacophore

Article

Modeling and Virtual Screening. J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2008, 48, 1773−
1791.
(16) Gu, J.; Bourne, P. E. Structural Bioinformatics, 2nd ed.; Wiley-
Blackwell: Hoboken, New Jersey, USA, 2009; Chapter 27, p 639.
(17) Chang, G.; Guida, W. C.; Still, W. C. An internal-coordinate
Monte Carlo method for searching conformational space. J. Am. Chem.
Soc. 111, 4379-4386.
(18) Wilson, S. R.; Cui, W.; Moskowitz, J. W.; Schmidt, K. E.
Applications of simulated annealing to the conformational analysis of
ﬂexible molecules. J. Comput. Chem. 1991, 12, 342−349.
(19) Mekenyan, O.; Dimitrov, D.; Nikolova, N.; Karabunarliev, S.
Conformational Coverage by a Genetic Algorithm. J. Chem. Inf. Model.
1999, 39, 997−1016.
(20) Vainio, M. J.; Johnson, M. S. Generating Conformer Ensembles
Using a Multiobjective Genetic Algorithm. J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2007,
47, 2462−2474.
(21) Liu, X.; Bai, F.; Ouyang, S.; Wang, X.; Li, H.; Jiang, H. Cyndi: a
multi-objective evolution algorithm based method for bioactive
molecular conformational generation. BMC Bioinf. 2009, 10, 101.
(22) Spellmeyer, D. C.; Wong, A. K.; Bower, M. J.; Blaney, J. M.
Conformational analysis using distance geometry methods. J. Mol.
Graphics Modell. 1997, 15, 18−36.
(23) Havel, T.; Kuntz, I.; Crippen, G. The theory and practice of
distance geometry. Bull. Math. Biol. 1983, 45, 665−720.
(24) Klebe, G.; Mietzner, T. A fast and eﬃcient method to generate
biologically relevant conformations. J. Comput.-Aided Mol. Des. 1994, 8,
583−606.
(25) Feuston, B. P.; Miller, M. D.; Culberson, J. C.; Nachbar, R. B.;
Kearsley, S. K. Comparison of Knowledge-Based and Distance
Geometry Approaches for Generation of Molecular Conformations.
J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2001, 41, 754−763.
(26) Sadowski, J.; Boström, J. MIMUMBA Revisited: Torsion Angle
Rules for Conformer Generation Derived from X-ray Structures. J.
Chem. Inf. Model. 2006, 46, 2305−2309.
(27) Brameld, K. A.; Kuhn, B.; Reuter, D. C.; Stahl, M. Small
Molecule Conformational Preferences Derived from Crystal Structure
Data. A Medicinal Chemistry Focused Analysis. J. Chem. Inf. Model.
2008, 48, 1−24.
(28) Allen, F. H. The Cambridge Structural Database: a quarter of a
million crystal structures and rising. Acta Crystallogr., Sect. B: Struct. Sci.
2002, 58, 380−388.
(29) O’Boyle, N.; Vandermeersch, T.; Flynn, C.; Maguire, A.;
Hutchison, G. Confab - Systematic generation of diverse low-energy
conformers. J. Cheminf. 2011, 3, 8.
(30) Leite, T. B.; Gomes, D.; Miteva, M.; Chomilier, J.; Villoutreix,
B.; Tuﬀéry, P. Frog: a FRee Online druG 3D conformation generator.
Nucleic Acids Res. 2007, 35, W568−W572.
(31) Miteva MA., G. F.; Tuﬀéry, P. Frog2: Eﬃcient 3D conformation
ensemble generator for small compounds. Nucleic Acids Res. 2010, 38,
W622−W627.
(32) RDKIT: Open-source cheminformatics. http://www.rdkit.org
(accessed December 12, 2011).
(33) MOE (The Molecular Operating Environment) Version
2010.10. http://www.chemcomp.com (accessed December 13, 2011).
(34) Blaney, J. M.; Dixon, J. S. Distance Geometry in Molecular
Modeling; Rev. Comp. Chem.; John Wiley & Sons, Inc.: Hoboken, New
Jersey, USA, 2007; Vol. 5, Chapter 6, pp 299−335.
(35) Landrum, G. Getting Started with the RDKIT in Python,
Version Q1 2011. http://www.rdkit.org/GettingStartedInPython.pdf
(accessed December 12, 2011).
(36) Rappe, A. K.; Casewit, C. J.; Colwell, K. S.; Goddard, W. A.;
Skiﬀ, W. M. UFF, a full periodic table force ﬁeld for molecular
mechanics and molecular dynamics simulations. J. Am. Chem. Soc.
1992, 114, 10024−10035.
(37) Pencheva, T.; Lagorce, D.; Pajeva, I.; Villoutreix, B.; Miteva, M.
AMMOS: Automated Molecular Mechanics Optimization tool for in
silico Screening. BMC Bioinf. 2008, 9, 438.
(38) FROG2 web interface. http://bioserv.rpbs.univ-paris-diderot.fr/
cgi-bin/Frog2 (accessed December 7, 2011).

1157

dx.doi.org/10.1021/ci2004658 | J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2012, 52, 1146−1158

Article

Journal of Chemical Information and Modeling

for

(39) Halgren, T. A. Merck molecular force ﬁeld. I. Basis, form, scope,
parameterization, and performance of MMFF94. J. Comput. Chem.
1996, 17, 490−519.
(40) Molecular Networks. http://www.molecular-networks.com
(accessed December 6, 2011).
(41) Gasteiger, J.; Rudolph, C.; Sadowski, J. Automatic generation of
3D-atomic coordinates for organic molecules. Tetrahedron Comput.
Methodol. 1990, 3, 537−547.
(42) Sadowski, J.; Gasteiger, J. From atoms and bonds to three-
dimensional atomic coordinates: automatic model builders. Chem. Rev.
1993, 93, 2567−2581.
(43) OpenEye Scientiﬁc Software. http://www.eyesopen.com
(accessed December 6, 2011).
(44) Hawkins, P. C. D.; Skillman, A. G.; Warren, G. L.; Ellingson, B.
A.; Stahl, M. T. Conformer Generation with OMEGA: Algorithm and
Validation Using High Quality Structures from the Protein Databank
and Cambridge Structural Database. J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2010, 50,
572−584.
(45) Hartshorn, M. J.; Verdonk, M. L.; Chessari, G.; Brewerton, S.
C.; Mooij, W. T. M.; Mortenson, P. N.; Murray, C. W. Diverse, High-
Quality Test Set
the Validation of Protein-Ligand Docking
Performance. J. Med. Chem. 2007, 50, 726−741.
(46) Weininger, D. SMILES, a chemical language and information
system. 1. Introduction to methodology and encoding rules. J. Chem.
Inf. Model. 1988, 28, 31−36.
(47) Feher, M.; Schmidt, J. M. Property Distributions: Diﬀerences
between Drugs, Natural Products, and Molecules from Combinatorial
Chemistry. J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2003, 43, 218−227.
(48) Oprea, T. I. Property distribution of drug-related chemical
databases. J. Comput.-Aided Mol. Des. 2000, 14, 251−264.
(49) BALLOON website. http://users.abo.ﬁ/mivainio/balloon (ac-
cessed December 7, 2011).
(50) O’Boyle, N.; Banck, M.; James, C.; Morley, C.; Vandermeersch,
T.; Hutchison, G. Open Babel: An open chemical toolbox. J. Cheminf.
2011, 3, 33.
(51) The Open Babel Package, version 2.3.1. http://openbabel.
sourceforge.net (accessed December 6, 2011).
(52) Guha, R.; Howard, M. T.; Hutchison, G. R.; Murray-Rust, P.;
Rzepa, H.; Steinbeck, C.; Wegner, J. K.; Willighagen, E. L. The Blue
Obelisk-Interoperability in Chemical Informatics. J. Chem. Inf. Model.
2006, 46, 991−998.
(53) Fischer, J. D.; Holliday, G. L.; Thornton, J. M. The CoFactor
database: organic cofactors in enzyme catalysis. Bioinformatics 2010,
26, 2496−2497.
(54) Knox, C.; Law, V.; Jewison, T.; Liu, P.; Ly, S.; Frolkis, A.; Pon,
A.; Banco, K.; Mak, C.; Neveu, V.; Djoumbou, Y.; Eisner, R.; Guo, A.
C.; Wishart, D. S. DrugBank 3.0: a comprehensive resource for ‘Omics’
research on drugs. Nucleic Acids Res. 2011, 39, D1035−D1041.
(55) O’Boyle, N.; Morley, C.; Hutchison, G. Pybel: a Python wrapper
for the OpenBabel cheminformatics toolkit. Chem. Cent. J. 2008, 2, 5.
(56) Butler, K. T.; Luque, F. J.; Barril, X. Toward accurate relative
energy predictions of the bioactive conformation of drugs. J. Comput.
Chem. 2009, 30, 601−610.
(57) Nicklaus, M. C.; Wang, S.; Driscoll, J. S.; Milne, G. W. A.
Conformational changes of small molecules binding to proteins.
Bioorg. Med. Chem. 1995, 3, 411−428.
■ NOTE ADDED AFTER ASAP PUBLICATION

This article was published ASAP on April 19, 2012, with in-
correct or missing ﬁle names in the Supporting Information
Section. The correct version was published ASAP on April 26,
2012.

1158

dx.doi.org/10.1021/ci2004658 | J. Chem. Inf. Model. 2012, 52, 1146−1158

