 1 This is an appeal from a decision of Emmett FM dismissing an application for relief in relation to a decision by the Refugee Review Tribunal that affirmed the decision of a delegate of the respondent Minister not to grant a protection visa pursuant to the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) (the Act) to the appellant ( SZDCC v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] FMCA 243).
 It is, in any event, apparent that it would be a factual decision rather than establishing any principle of law. 3 The ground of bias was not raised in the Federal Magistrates Court and, as it is a factual question, is not appropriate to be raised for the first time on appeal.
 In any event, it is apparent that the claim of bias is based merely upon the terms of the decision which, as counsel for the respondents submits, is extremely difficult to establish ( SCAA v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2002] FCA 668). 4 Although the third ground was not spelled out in advance of the hearing as it should have been, the appellant referred to s 424A of the Act, linking it in a general way with a finding by the Tribunal.
 The relevant part of the Tribunal decision is as follows: 'I also reject the applicant's 'Certificate' signed by Bishop Yin provided that refers to restriction of freedom of belief, disruption of the mass by the PSB and that the applicant and Missionary Lin have been chased by the PSB and that Missionary Lin had been arrested.
 As a result of these findings, I find further that the applicant's claims regarding his role in the Catholic Church and the adverse attention shown to him as a result are inconsistent with the independent country information, and I reject them.
 Accordingly, I find that the applicant does not have a well-founded fear of persecution based on these claims. ' 6 Earlier in the decision the Tribunal had referred to a report in the following terms: 'Obtaining False and/or faked documents According to advice from the China Section of DFAT on 20 October 2002, the experience of the Australian Consulate in Shanghai is as follows.
 Documents from this province are therefore always regarded suspiciously (DFAT, 21/10/92 CX643). ' 7 Counsel for the respondent Minister accepts that the information in relation to forgery was part of the reason why the Tribunal affirmed the decision under review and therefore accepts that, prima facie, s 424A(1) of the Act was engaged.
 I accept the submission by counsel for the respondent Minister that the proper construction of that subsection has been settled by a series of Full Court decisions such that the information in question here is within that subsection and so not caught by the section ( VHAP of 2002 v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 82 , (2004) 80 ALD 559; Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs v NAMW [2004] FCAFC 264 ; (2004) 140 FCR 572; WAJW v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 330 ; QAAC of 2004 v Refugee Review Tribunal [2005] FCAFC 92 ; and VJAF v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2005] FCAFC 178). 8 The appeal is dismissed.
