 The applicant submits that this representation is false and misleading, as the proposed AWAs will substantially diminish a number of EBA protections for employees in respect of how termination of employment or discipline may be affected.
 An AWA that is made after the amended legislation comes into force (ie a post-reform AWA) can be terminated on 90 days notice by you, your bargaining agent (which might be the union), or the University after the AWA reaches its nominal expiry date.
 In contrast, the December 2005 statements were sent by email to all staff members. 19 Mr Walker deposes that information sessions concerning the proposed AWAs were held with academic and general staff in late December 2005 and in January and February 2006.
 Dr Jessup criticised the second order on the grounds that it was expressed in broad and sweeping terms, and no Court would issue a restraining order in terms that UB must refrain from making false or misleading statements to group members.
 Dr Jessup criticised the third injunctive order that was sought on the ground that a mandatory order requiring UB to correct the false or misleading statements in the December 2005 email would prejudge the outcome of the case.
 Under the AWA, the Appeal Committee is constituted by: an independent chairperson nominated by the VC, a representative of management and a representative of staff nominated by the employee from a pool of elected staff member. 12 Under the EBA, the EBA Review Committee makes recommendation to the VC who must take into account findings.
 Superannuation 27 Under the EBA, in addition to the obligations in the Superannuation Trust Deeds, there is an obligation to maintain superannuation arrangements in respect of membership of, access to, and contribution rates, as existed as at the date of certification of the agreement.
 CLARIFICATION STATEMENT - GENERAL STAFF 28 Set out below is a statement by the University of Ballarat ( University ) to all staff. 29 This statement is a clarification of statements initially made in an email dated 14 December 2005 to all staff at the University.
 Under the AWA, an employee may appeal termination to a Appeal Committee against a decision to terminate on grounds that; relevant procedures in the agreement have not been followed and natural justice has not been afforded.
 Under the AWA, the Appeal Committee is constituted by: independent chairperson nominated by the VC, a representative of management and a representative of staff nominated by the employee from a pool of elected staff member.
