 On the same day the sole director of the company, Mr Norman Carey, appointed Mr Ian Francis and Mr Michael Ryan, of Taylor Woodings, as administrators of the company and they have acted as administrators of the company since then. 2 The application for winding up is brought by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ('ASIC').
 The liquidators have filed proofs of debt of $12,370,370.40 in respect of North Sydney Finance and $25,288,098.98 in respect of Emu Brewery Mezzanine. 5 The reason why I have given leave for those companies to appear today is because there is a controversy as to who should be appointed as liquidators of the company.
 The liquidators of those companies wish to make submissions only in relation to this controversy. 6 The controversy arises because Mr Herbert and Mr Read, with the support of ASIC, have consented to act as liquidators of the company; and the administrators, Mr Francis and Mr Ryan have also indicated that they are prepared to act as liquidators of the company.
 Mr Greg Nairn said words to him to the effect that, he was the only director of Westpoint Management Pty Ltd, and he was going to apply to Court on 6 February 2006 for the appointment of a provisional liquidator to Westpoint Management Pty Ltd and that he wanted Mr Ryan and Mr Francis to act as provisional liquidators of Westpoint Management Pty Ltd.
 Mr Francis says that, after having given the matter some consideration, he said to Mr Nairn on 3 February 2006 words to the effect that given the position of the loan accounts between the companies and the issues of the charges, he and Mr Ryan would not be able to accept the appointment because he considered there was a conflict of interest given their role as administrators of the company. 14 Further, in his evidence, Mr Francis says that his firm, Taylor Woodings, has undertaken a considerable amount of work since the commencement of the administration.
 Mr Shaw, on behalf of North Sydney Finance and Emu Brewery Mezzanine, has taken me to an annexure to the affidavit of Mr Francis which indicates that the amount of money which is said to be chargeable in respect of those investigations is $153,230.00. 15 As a consequence of carrying out that work, Mr Francis has produced a draft report to creditors which he has exhibited to his affidavit.
 A more detailed investigation will be undertaken by the Liquidator, should one be appointed. ' 16 Mr Herbert has said in his affidavit that he has been asked by Mr Jackson of ASIC whether the appointment of Mr Read and himself as liquidators would lead to additional costs to the creditors of the company.
 He also says that, to the extent that there is a need to undertake work to replicate work undertaken by Taylor Woodings, he undertakes to the Court that he and Mr Read will not seek approval of costs or fees from creditors of the company in respect of this work. 17 Mr Herbert goes on to say that through his limited investigations of the affairs of Westpoint Management Pty Ltd to date: '...it would appear that the operating systems, document control, management systems, directorships and other matters relating to these to have been undertaken in common.
 I believe that my appointment as liquidator, together with Mr Read, will allow significant synergies to be offered to the creditors, reducing costs of the liquidation. ' 18 I deal now with the submissions of the parties. 19 Senior Counsel for ASIC, made submissions in support of the appointment of Mr Herbert and Mr Read as liquidators.
 He submitted that a factor which should be taken into account in considering whether to appoint Mr Read and Mr Herbert, is that the affairs of Westpoint Management Pty Ltd and the company are substantially intertwined, and that the on-going investigations would be assisted if there was one set of liquidators in respect of both companies.
 He said that the secured creditor, represented by the receivers and managers of the company and the Australian Taxation Office both supported the appointment of Mr Herbert and Mr Read as liquidators. 23 Mr Colvin SC also acknowledged that in their capacity as administrators Mr Francis and Mr Ryan had carried out work in relation to the affairs of the company.
 He said that a substantial amount of the work which was carried out by Mr Francis and Mr Ryan was in discharge of their duties as administrators. 24 Mr Colvin SC also submitted that the Court should take into account that these administrators were appointed to their position by a director of the company and this could give rise to the spectre of a lack of independence on the part of Mr Francis and Mr Ryan. 25 Mr Thomson who appeared on behalf of the receivers and managers of the company, also made submissions in support of the appointment of Mr Herbert and Mr Read.
