 Whilst the Tribunal accepted certain claims such as the appellant's involvement in the UNP, it did not find that the level of his involvement was such that it resulted in, or would in the future result in, a risk of harm.
 The appellant also contended before the Federal Magistrate that he had been denied natural justice because the Tribunal had failed to notify him of certain country information referred to in its reasons, being a United Kingdom Home Office report and a European Union report.
 The Federal Magistrate found that the information was of the same nature as that which had been dealt with by the appellant in both his visa application and his evidence before the Tribunal. 5 The Federal Magistrate also referred to the findings of the Tribunal that there was adequate police protection available to the appellant and that even a change of political power would not result in the police shifting allegiance so that they would refuse to entertain complaints from citizens involved in political issues.
 The Tribunal found that there was not a real chance that the appellant would be persecuted for his political opinion and that the appellant therefore did not have a well-founded fear of persecution for a Refugees Convention reason. 8 The Tribunal accepted that the appellant was a member of the UNP and had provided some assistance during the elections in December 2002 and April 2004.
 The Tribunal did not accept that the appellant received telephone threats in December 2003 or that he had moved house in January 2004, which he submitted before the Tribunal at the hearing but had not previously raised in his written submissions.
 However, the Tribunal referred to country information to the effect that the 2004 elections were generally free and fair and conducted in a democratic manner, apart from areas in the north and the east and some LTTE ("Liberation Tigers of Tamil Eelam") motivated violence.
 This country information indicated a greatly diminished incidence of violence in the 2004 elections. 11 Finally, the Tribunal accepted that the police are often influenced by local politicians but found that this did not mean that the appellant did not have state protection in Sri Lanka.
 The Tribunal did not accept that the political influence of the PA would have changed the attitude and the allegiance of the police within a short time after the elections so that they would refuse to entertain complaints from the citizens.
 The relevant principles are conveniently set out by Kenny J in Abeyesinghe v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCA 1558. 17 I can find no basis for considering that the Tribunal misconstrued its task or failed to address the correct inquiry.
 The appellant also submitted the Tribunal failed to consider whether the facts as it found them to have occurred led to the conclusion that the appellants had a well-founded fear of persecution for a Refugees Convention reason.
