 After providing two false reports in December 1999 and January 2000, the appellant said that in February 2000 he was called to the offices of the FSB, told that the FSB knew his reports were false, and detained and beaten for three days.
 The appellant says he was released on condition that he would provide truthful information about the Democratic Party to the FSB in the future. 4 The appellant claimed that in February 2000 he applied for an international passport and sought a visa for any western country.
 With his son's assistance, he provided documents vouching for his financial status, and was granted a tourist visa to Australia, where he arrived in April 2000. 5 A delegate of the first respondent refused the appellant's application for a protection visa on 26 June 2000.
 In his response to that letter, the appellant indicated that his authorised recipient (that is, migration adviser) was Michael Ryvchin of Rykono International Pty Ltd. 7 The appellant attended a hearing of the Tribunal on 6 August 2002, and was assisted by an interpreter.
 On 1 July 2005 the respondent filed a notice of motion seeking that the appellant's application be dismissed as an abuse of process pursuant to Pt 13 r 13.10 of the Federal Magistrates Court Rules 2001 . 13 On 26 July 2005, Raphael FM heard the respondent's notice of motion.
 In view of the fact that the appellant is unrepresented and does not speak English, and of the importance of the matters in dispute, I consider it appropriate that the Court consider this issue, even though it has not been specifically raised in the notice of appeal. 20 At this hearing, the appellant provided some evidence relating to the reasons for discontinuing the Adelaide proceedings and for the delay in instituting these proceedings.
 That is clearly distinguishable from the present case, in which the appellant's application for judicial review has never had a merits hearing, and the first respondent conceded as much. 24 The first respondent, however, says that Raphael FM relied upon Walton v Gardiner rather than Applicants S503 .
 In that case, Lander J was satisfied that the applicants were unaware that they had brought proceedings in this Court, and that the failure to file the notice of appeal in time was the fault of his migration agent: see at [51] and [52].
 The respondent has pointed to an exchange between the appellant's migration agent and Raphael FM contained in the transcript as follows: 'MIGRATION AGENT: This is as well actually, that's why I don't think it's an abuse of process here because the person was clearly unaware of the failure of his application ...
 Given these circumstances, I do not think the above exchange can be considered determinative, and I consider the appellant should be given the benefit of the doubt. 41 In all of the circumstances, I do not believe that this is a case which warrants dismissal as an abuse of process.
