 Responsibilities Taskforce officers will have the powers of inspectors and authorised officers under the Workplace Relations Act to enter premises, inspect documents and interview persons of interest. ' 6 The substantive affidavit filed to establish the privilege is that of Gregory Charles Alfred who, at the relevant time, was employed as an Investigator by the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations attached to the Building Industry Taskforce under the operational control of the second applicant.
 He was an Inspector pursuant to s 84(2) of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) (the Act). 7 In cross-examination Alfred accepted that his role, having received a complaint, was to investigate that complaint either by himself or with others to see if there was sufficient evidence and if it was in the public interest for the Taskforce to take further action.
 After an investigation, a brief of evidence was to be completed for submission to one of the Taskforce's internal lawyers. 8 On 24 October 2003, Alfred received information concerning the action of certain 'CFMEU organisers' in relation to a construction project at 26 Market Street Wollongong.
 That was regarded as a complaint and was investigated by Alfred in conjunction with one Julie Siciliano, also employed by the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations attached to the Building Industry Taskforce and also an Inspector under the Act .
 On or around 10 February 2004, after Ms Siciliano and I had completed our interviews I prepared a brief containing the statements and records of interview referred to in paragraphs 6 to 16 above and those documents over which privilege is claimed by the Second Applicant, for the in house legal counsel at the Building Industry Taskforce, Bill Clarke.
 I was referred to the decision of Graham J in Seven Network Ltd v News Ltd [2005] FCA 864 at [57] ---[59] in which, in similar circumstances, it was held that O 33 r 11 would apply and doubt was cast upon what I had said in Arrow Pharmaceuticals Ltd v Merck Co Inc (2004) 210 ALR 593 at [10].
 As this dispute is essentially about discovery and inspection it is clear, in my opinion, that the question of privilege is to be governed by the common law as defined in Esso Australia Resources Ltd v Commissioner of Taxation (Commonwealth) [1999] HCA 67 ; (1999) 201 CLR 49 rather than by the provisions of the Evidence Act 1995 (Cth).
 The classic statement of the dominant purpose test, which is now accepted, was that by Barwick CJ in Grant v Downs [1976] HCA 63 ; (1976) 135 CLR 674 (at 677): 'a document which was produced or brought into existence either with the dominant purpose of its author, or of the person or authority under whose direction, whether particular or general, it was produced or brought into existence, of using it or its contents in order to obtain legal advice or to conduct or aid in the conduct of litigation, at the time of its production in reasonable prospect, should be privileged and excluded from inspection. ' 11 In my opinion, once this complaint was received by Alfred acting in his capacity as a member of the Building Industry Taskforce, it was his duty to investigate that complaint in a thorough manner, including the interviewing of all persons potentially able to throw light upon the facts.
 Even on that footing, it cannot be concluded that the interviews after 10 November 2003 took place for the dominant purpose of obtaining legal advice about, or assisting in the conduct of, any such litigation rather than completing the task of investigation which had been begun months earlier.
 In Mitsubishi Electric Australia Pty Ltd v Victorian WorkCover Authority [2002] VSCA 59 ; (2002) 4 VR 332, Batt JA (with whom Charles and Callaway JJA agreed) stated (at [10]): 'In its ordinary meaning "dominant" indicates that purpose which was the ruling, prevailing, or most influential purpose.
 That, as it seems to me, shows the meaning of "dominant". ' 13 Evidence given by a person involved in the making of the document is not decisive as to the purpose for which the document came into existence (per Branson J in Sparnon v Apand Pty Ltd (1996) 68 FCR 322 at 328A.
 The onus is on the party claiming the privilege to make it out ( Mitsubishi at [11]). 14 The mere involvement of an internal lawyer in an investigation does not, of itself, establish that seeking legal advice is the dominant purpose of an investigation.
