 His Honour refused an application for intervention of the Federal Magistrates Court by way of constitutional writs in relation to a decision adverse to the appellant made by the Refugee Review Tribunal ('the Tribunal'). 2 The appellant had claimed to be a democrat, a supporter of the independence of Tibet and a Falun Gong adherent in Communist, authoritarian and imperialist China.
 Unsurprisingly, the Tribunal felt that there was insufficient information before it to found a conclusion that the appellant was entitled to refugee status. 3 Before the Federal Magistrates Court the appellant claimed that the Tribunal had failed to consider particular aspects of his claims or his claims at all, had failed to give him adequate particulars of the independent information (although there was none), had failed to provide a rational foundation for its decision, and had failed to provide him with an adequate opportunity to respond to the substance of the information.
 Nevertheless, the learned Federal Magistrate burdened himself with some pages of detailed consideration of what might possibly have existed to found any of the generalised and, as counsel for the Minister describes them, formulaic claims that were asserted in the documentation before his Honour.
 Further, his Honour said (at [22]): 'As the applicant is self-represented, this places an obligation on this Court to independently consider whether any argument based on the material could have been made out: Yo Han Chung v University of Sydney and Ors [2002] FCA 186.
 Spender J (at [34]) noted that Driver FM had said: 'I accept that there is an obligation upon me to satisfy myself that there is no arguable case to be put forward by Mr Chung in these proceedings before I accede to the application to dismiss the proceedings, and that I should in that consideration not limit myself to the arguments put by Mr Chung but independently consider whether an arguable case based on the material could be made out. ' However, Chung's case was before Driver FM on an application by the respondent to strike out the proceedings as hopeless, and his Honour was at pains to emphasise the high barriers to success for a respondent with such an application.
 A strike-out application may stand in a special condition where a self-represented applicant is involved, but on an ordinary hearing it is for an applicant, self-represented or not, to make out his or her case. 5 In refugee cases it has become common for members of this Court, and of the Federal Magistrates Court, to run their eye over the materials lest, when so much might be at stake, an unrepresented applicant might either fail altogether to see an obviously arguable ground for the Court's intervention or, as Mr Johnson aptly put it, by the scatter gun approach commonly employed, aim at everything but the right point.
 He further passed up the opportunity to profit from the legal advice which, in the charity of the Australian people, he had been given. 6 I am not critical of the learned Federal Magistrate for considering the matter with the extreme care with which he did.
