 1 This is an appeal from orders made by a Federal Magistrate on 24 May 2006 in which the Federal Magistrate dismissed the appellant's application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal made on 13 December 2005 and handed down on 5 January 2006.
 The Tribunal there affirmed a decision of a delegate of the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs to refuse the grant of a protection visa to the appellant. 2 The appellant is a citizen of India.
 He claimed in that application his family was tortured but that he was not. 6 An Australian citizen who had been born in the Punjab was called as a witness at the hearing.
 He said that he had met the appellant in the year 2000, that they had become good friends, and that he had spoken to the appellant's father in India and had visited him.
 It was his evidence that the appellant would be in danger if he were to return to India. 7 During the hearing, and during the appellant's evidence, it was put to the appellant that the country information suggested that the conflict which had existed in the Punjab for the 10 years prior to 1995 had ended and that the Punjab was peaceful, and that the rule of law had been restored.
 Yes my uncle was running a restaurant and his involvement in terrorist activities was established when police found arms and ammunition in his restaurant and later declared him one of the members of armed Khalistan Commando Force. 2.
 As told, after my uncle went underground and managed to flee out of India and me being the link because of my employment in his restaurant the police started harassing and torturing my parents.
 To counter this move the police shifted over to me and started torturing me to accept in written (sic) that I knew about my uncle's terrorist activities and was also assisting him otherwise they will liquidate me in false police encounter case.
 I was left with no alternative other than to flee out of India for my life. ' 11 The Tribunal accepted that the appellant was a citizen of India but rejected the rest of the appellant's claims. 12 The Tribunal found that the appellant's reply on 8 December 2005 did not resolve the conflict between the claim which he originally presented and his oral evidence.
 The Tribunal also found there was a conflict between his original complaint about his uncle's involvement with the Armed Khalistan Commando Group and his later claim that his uncle ran a restaurant where Sikh militants used to eat. 13 The Tribunal found that the appellant's account was inconsistent with independent country information.
 The Tribunal found that the appellant did not have a well-founded fear of persecution for a Convention reason. 14 The appellant brought proceedings in the Federal Magistrates Court seeking a review of that decision.
 The appellant is aggrieved that the dismissal order of the review application by FM SCARLETT on 24 May 2006 would jeopardise the appellant's safety upon return to his country as mentioned in his protection visa application that the applicant has been previously persecuted in India before coming to Australia. 2.
 The Tribunal cited so many reports and references, which are not relevant to the appellant's protection visa application when the appellants applied for protection visa with his own circumstances and claims. 6.
