 FOR LEAVE TO ISSUE SUBPOENAS The respondents, through their common director, Mr Norman Carey, apply for leave to issue subpoenas to the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) seeking production from ASIC of their financial and other records said to be in the possession of ASIC as a result of its ongoing investigation into matters relating to Westpoint Corporation.
 I have already set out in the reasons I gave earlier dealing with the validity of the originating process, the nature of the statutory demands, the fact that there was evidence of their service, supported by verifying affidavits, and subsequently evidence that the demands were not met, and that no application was made to set them aside.
 I referred also, in my earlier reasons, to the requirements for an affidavit verifying continuing debt in support of both a statutory demand and an application for a winding up for non-compliance with a demand where something other than a judgment debt is being relied upon.
 That much having been established, that is to say that the originating process is valid, the respondents, through their director, Mr Carey, now seek leave to issue subpoenas to ASIC in respect of documents which it has seized or otherwise acquired in connection with its ongoing investigation into the Westpoint Property Group.
 These were reconciled in the accounts of the group's central treasury, namely Westpoint Corporation, where they were recorded as non-current related party loans, as an accounting device to reflect the accruals made by the subsidiaries in the group in respect of each other.
 He also referred to the final statement in the relevant note to the accounts: from related parties incur no interest and have no fixed term for repayment. ' He expressed his belief that this is a reference to the fact that they were not intended to become payable on strict terms, as in reality they were not true loans.
 Mr Carey also referred to Mr Zohar's affidavit, which was the verifying affidavit in relation to the existence of the debts set out in the statutory demands and said he believed that each of the debts referred to in the table in Mr Zohar's affidavit was: a related party accrual, such as described above, which is not presently due and payable. ' The notes to and forming part of the financial statements of Westpoint Corporation for the year ended 30 June 2004 showed substantial sums of money under the heading 'Loans from related parties --- unsecured'.
 He said that in March 2006 the system he had in place to obtain hand delivered correspondence was as follows: document that was delivered by hand addressed to me was received by the receptionist, who recorded receipt of the document in a correspondence log, and brought it immediately to my office.
 I known about any of the statutory demands respectively served on the respondents, I would have immediately obtained legal representation for each and issued instructions to apply to have the statutory demands set aside on the grounds that the debts to which they relate were not due and payable, as deposed to above. ' Mr Nixon submitted that, notwithstanding the service of demands, where they have not been received there is authority to support the proposition that if directors of a company who haven't seen a statutory demand within 21 days of its service would have acted reasonably and proceeded to set it aside or apply to set aside, had they received it, or have otherwise acted reasonably, then there is room for consideration of the question, going to the solvency of the company, as to whether the debts exist.
 So far as the respondent's application for leave to issue subpoenas to ASIC is based upon an intention to raise a question as to whether the debts relied upon were due and payable, that is a matter which could have been raised in a challenge to the statutory demands.
 The presumption of insolvency, arising from non-compliance with the statutory demand, is provided for in s 459C(2) of the Act, which states inter alia that: Court must presume that the company is insolvent if, during or after the 3 months ending on the day when the application was made: the company failed (as defined by section 459F) to comply with a statutory demand; ...
 In my opinion I should refuse leave to issue the subpoenas in their present form but make directions with a view to allowing ASIC and the respondents to see whether they can reach agreement on the terms of the subpoenas or the classes of documents which might be produced consensually for the purpose of these proceedings.
