 The letter of notification was also sent to the appellant's adviser. 3 The Tribunal recorded the following history concerning that application: 'On 3 April 2002 the Tribunal wrote to the [appellant] advising that it had considered all the papers relating to his application but it was unable to make a favourable decision on that information alone.
 In these circumstances, and pursuant to s 426A of the Act, the Tribunal has decided to make its decision on the review without taking any further action to enable the [appellant] to appear before it. ' 4 Its conclusions were in essence as follows: 'In sum, in view of the lack of detail contained in the [appellant's] claims, the Tribunal cannot make findings of fact in relation to his claims.
 Based on the evidence before it, the Tribunal is unable to be satisfied that the [appellant] has been persecuted for a Convention reason in the past, or that there is a real chance that he would be persecuted for a Convention reason in the reasonably foreseeable future.
 Accordingly, it cannot be satisfied that he is a refugee under the Refugees Convention. ' 5 The Tribunal thereupon proceeded to conduct its review and determined in summary that it was not satisfied that the appellant was being pursued by the Lebanese intelligence, following upon an alleged incident said to have occurred on 21 April 2000, the Tribunal observing in that regard inter alia that he had no difficulties in obtaining travel documents to Australia.
 The Tribunal found that the appellant lacked any viable basis for his protection visa application. 6 The appellant sought review of the Tribunal's decision by the Federal Magistrate's Court, by pursuant to s 39B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth), by an application filed on 4 June 2004, and an amended application filed on 16 November 2004, on the ground of denial of any opportunity to be heard.
 The Tribunal gave valid notice of the hearing to the [appellant] pursuant to s 425A of the Migration Act 1958 ("the Act ") by sending the invitation to hearing dated 3 April 2002 to the [appellant's] adviser, who was a person authorised by the [appellant] pursuant to s 441(2)(b) of the Act to receive documents of that kind on behalf of the [appellant].
 The invitation to hearing sent to the [appellant's] advisor on 3 April 2002 was a valid notice pursuant to s 425A of the Act , and was sent in compliance with the provisions of s 441A(2)(a) of the Act , and was thus, pursuant to s 441A(2)(a) of the Act , deemed to have been duly given to the [appellant]. 3.
 The deemed receipt of the invitation to hearing of 3 April 2002 by the [appellant]meant that the Tribunal committed no jurisdictional error by proceeding pursuant to s 426A of the Act to determine the appellant's application without a hearing, and without taking any further action to allow him to appear.
 Particulars (a) The [appellant]had been invited to a hearing pursuant to ss 425 and 425A of the Act , and the Tribunal was thus entitled to proceed pursuant to s 426A. ' 14 The appeal came on for hearing before me on 14 December 2005.
 The appellant submitted in summary that he was denied the opportunity to present his case and be heard at the Tribunal proceedings, because he did not receive notification of the hearing date. 15 For the Minister's part, extensive written submissions were provided, which summarised in detail the circumstances of the appellant leading up to the hearing by the Federal Magistrate, and which addressed comprehensively well known and established authority governing the present circumstances.
 In the end, the circumstance remained that no error is discernible in and from the careful and well framed reasons for judgment of the Federal Magistrate, and the court is left with no alternative short of dismissal of the appeal with costs.
