 Dr Lynch rang the industrial relations officer at the Australian Medical Association, and was told that, if the applicant was not following instructions, if her behaviour was not improving, or if she was not responding to Dr Lynch's requests, then she should be issued with warnings.
 She said that, in the applicant's employment, "there were incidents that occurred that upset her enormously, and that triggered her whole illness". 47 In the period following 7 February 2005, the applicant remained away from work.
 Dr Lynch said that she did not know if the applicant had "fallen down the stairs and injured her leg". 50 Finally, on about 22 February 2005, Dr Lynch succeeded in contacting the applicant on her mobile phone.
 The applicant said it was not, adding: "I am off on work stress", or more specifically, as Dr Lynch accepted under cross examination, "I have a medical certificate for stress leave".
 Dr Lynch could not recall whether, as the applicant said in her evidence, she (the applicant) had told Dr Lynch that she saw the note and became "sick and distressed". 51 In her conversation with the applicant on 22 February 2005, just what Dr Sandra Lynch said to the applicant about returning to work, and why she said it, were not entirely unambiguous in the evidence.
 I find that, as a result of reading the note left by Dr Lynch, the applicant became distressed and depressed --- in the medical sense --- as described by Dr Stewart.
 On 23 November 2004 the applicant was presented with the withdrawal memorandum by Dr Sandra Lynch, but by then a contract, in the legal and not merely the popular sense, had come into existence.
 She did not follow it up again with Ms Febey, and it was some time later --- December or possibly even January --- that she realised that the contract was missing and could not be located.
 Counsel for the respondents called for the contract, but it was not produced. 64 Once a contract had come into existence on 20 November 2004, unilateral comments by Dr Lynch of the kind alleged by the applicant would be ineffective to terminate or revoke that contract.
 It would be based on the proposition that, if her intention was that the contract would not thereafter subsist, Dr Lynch, acting reasonably, would have returned the executed original to the applicant.
