 For instance, Mr Tracey QC provided memoranda of advice on 31 March 2005 and 12 August 2005 in relation to Project Rose and the question whether AWB had paid inflated prices for transport or port charges in breach of the United Nations' sanctions or Australian domestic law.
 Its scope also broadened to include the provision of legal advice and assistance in connection with the PSI investigation, the inquiry undertaken by the IIC and, lastly, the inquiry that is being undertaken by the Commission. 32 As time passed, Blakes, Minters and ABL each provided advice and assistance to AWB under the umbrella of Project Rose.
 In AWB Limited v Honourable Terence Rhoderic Hudson Cole [2006] FCA 571 ( 'AWB v Cole' ), I held that litigation privilege was not available to protect documents brought into existence in contemplation of the Commission and none of the parties has disputed that decision.
 Mr Judd, senior counsel for AWB, informed the Commission that AWB had taken the view that, as Mr Tracey QC's advice was based upon a review of documents, and turned on the question whether or not the documents disclosed evidence, the advice could not be separated from the documents.
 AWB'S DISCLOSURES IN RELATION TO PROJECT WATER 116 The Commonwealth contends that AWB has disclosed the gist of legal advice which it obtained in connection with Project Water and, consequently, it should be taken to have waived privilege over other documents associated with Project Water.
 In my view, Lindberg disclosed, and a reasonable listener would have understood that Lindberg was disclosing, the gist or substance of all of the legal advice that AWB had obtained up to 4 October 2005 in relation to the question whether AWB had acted in accordance with the sanctions regime.
 In the course of his evidence, Lindberg went out of his way to assert that the legal review that Cooper had instituted, assisted by external legal advisers, had reported periodically and did not find any evidence to substantiate the allegations that AWB had made payments in breach of the sanctions.
 I find that in his evidence to the Commission Lindberg was referring to the combined effect of all of the legal advice that AWB received during the course of the internal review as periodical reports were made to the boards of AWB and AWBI.
 In my view, the consequence of this production is that AWB must be taken to have waived legal professional privilege in any other legal advices that it obtained prior to Mr Tracey QC's last advice of 12 August 2005 in relation to the same subjects or issues.
 To adapt the language used by McClellan CJ at Common Law in Thomas at [17] and [20], AWB's disclosures of its legal advice effect a waiver of privilege in the documents which were reviewed for the purposes of that advice or which influenced its content.
 Having regard to the form of the legal advice disclosed by AWB, the relevant legal exercise or transaction encompassed a review of original documents and witness interviews, as well as summaries, chronologies or other analytical documents prepared by the lawyers, with a view to determining whether there was any improper or wrongful conduct by AWB.
 AWB's disclosure of the memorandum of 7 February 2003 and its tender by the Commonwealth as an exhibit in these proceedings, without any objection or claim to confidentiality by AWB, effects a waiver over the subject matter of the legal advice set out in the memorandum.
