 (REVISED FROM TRANSCRIPT) Introduction 1 This is an appeal from a decision and orders of Federal Magistrate Nicholls given on 26 September 2006 dismissing an application for review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal dated 9 May 2006.
 The Tribunal affirmed a decision of a delegate of the Minister not to grant the appellant a protection visa. 2 The claim for protection which was the subject of the application before Federal Magistrate Nicholls was the second claim for protection made by the appellant.
 That decision was affirmed by a differently constituted Tribunal in 2002. 3 The only issue which arises on the appeal is whether the second Tribunal constructively failed to exercise jurisdiction either by failing to consider the appellant's claim cumulatively or by failing to consider the whole of the material put before it.
 The Tribunal observed that it did not accept the Appellant's suggestion that the payment of a bribe had ensured the re-issuing of a Chinese passport at a time when the appellant was allegedly under investigation and subject to detention by the authorities.
 Thus the Tribunal did not accept that the events of 2000 gave rise to a well-founded fear of harm at the present time. 17 Broadly, the Tribunal did not accept that the appellant had told the Chinese authorities when she returned to China in February 2005 that she applied for a protection visa in Australia on the basis of an association with Falun Gong.
 The Tribunal gave reasons for this which are not necessary to repeat in my reasons for judgment. 18 The Tribunal also rejected the claim that the appellant was contacted by Falun Gong practitioners by text messages and by leaflets after she returned to China in February 2005.
 It said that in "light of the foregoing and in the absence of any political activity on the part of the [appellant]" the Tribunal did not accept that on her return to China she faced harm for reason of any imputed political opinion.
 Accordingly, applying the principles stated by a Full Court in VUAX v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 158 at [46] to [48], I would be prepared to grant leave to the appellant to raise the grounds on the appeal.
 Discussion 25 The principles relied upon by the appellant were stated by the High Court in Dranichnikov v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2003] HCA 26 ; (2003) 77 ALJR 1088 at [24] and [95]. 26 The principle is that there will be jurisdictional error if the Tribunal fails to make a finding on "a substantial, clearly articulated argument relying on established facts".
 The court also referred at [57] to the nature of the review function as described by Allsop J in Htun v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs (2001) 194 ALR 244 at [42]; this is that the tribunal is to consider all of the component integers of the appellant's claim. 27 The essence of the appellant's argument was that there was nothing in the Tribunal's reasons to show that it had dealt with the question of how the Chinese authorities would deal with a person of the appellant's profile upon her return to China.
