 All documents (both in draft and final form), including without limitation: ... 1.4 Board papers; and 1.5 Board minutes; relating to Project Colour which consider, examine, project, assess or estimate: (a) any potential or anticipated change (whether expressed in monetary terms, as a proportion of existing value or otherwise) to the value of Telstra's actual pay television interests or any pay television interests Telstra was contemplating acquiring; and/or (b) any potential or anticipated synergies, in the form of cost savings or increased revenue, with Telstra's actual pay television interests or any pay television interests Telstra was contemplating acquiring; if Telstra were to acquire an interest (whether directly or indirectly held) in a free-to air television network. 2.
 Definitions For the purpose of this notice to produce: ... "valuation" means an assessment of all or any of the monetary value, the market value, the indicative worth, or potential range of values of any thing. ' 2 It is common ground that Project Patrick involved Telstra giving consideration to acquiring an interest in Publishing and Broadcasting Ltd, which owns all of the issued shares in Nine Network Australia Pty Ltd, whose wholly owned subsidiaries operate free to air commercial television stations.
 The recorded calculations appear to suggest that very large 'savings' might be achieved and that 'integration' might produce more modest, but nonetheless substantial increases in revenue. 4 The Federal Court Rules ('FCR'), O 33 r 12, provide as follows: (1) Where a party to any proceedings serves on another party notice ... requiring the party served to produce at any trial or hearing in the proceedings, or before any Judge ... having authority to take evidence in the proceedings any document or thing for the purpose of evidence and the document or thing is in the possession, custody or power of the party served, the party served shall, unless the Court otherwise orders, produce the document or thing in accordance with the notice, without the need for any subpoena for production. (2) ...'.
 The steps were described by Glass JA (with whom Moffitt P and Hutley JA agreed) in National Employers' Mutual General Insurance Association Ltd v Waind Hill [1978] 1 NSWLR 372, at 381, as follows: 'The first is obeying the subpoena, by the witness bringing the documents to the court and handing them to the judge.
 In these three steps the stranger and the parties have different rights, and the function of the judge differs. ' 6 It is now established that lack of apparent relevance is a ground for setting aside a subpoena or notice to produce: Trade Practices Commission v Arnotts Ltd (1989) 88 ALR 90 at 101-103, per Beaumont J.
 In an earlier interlocutory judgment delivered in these proceedings, I said that the test of apparent relevance is whether the documents are 'reasonably likely to add, in the end, in some way or other, to the relevant evidence in the case': Seven Network Ltd v News Ltd (No 5) , at [10], citing Spencer Motors Pty Ltd v LNC Industries Ltd [1982] 2 NSWLR 921 at 927, per Waddell J.
 The 'pith' of that component is said to be that: '(a) the forced closure of the second applicant [C7], resulting from the alleged anti-competitive conduct of the respondents, impaired [Seven's] strategy to become an IMC; (b) unimpaired that strategy would have generated synergies between [Seven's] various media interests, including their free-to-air and pay television interests; and (c) accordingly, in assessing the loss to [Seven] caused by the alleged anti-competitive conduct, it is necessary to take account of the value of these synergies'. 8 Telstra argues that Seven's IMC damages claim provides no justification for opening up a 'collateral investigation of the supposed existence, nature, and quantification of synergies thought to be associated with unexecuted projects'.
 Mr Castle, who appeared with Mr Pike for Telstra , submits that the documents sought by the notice to produce are not likely to be useful in the proceedings. 9 Mr Castle also contends that there are sound reasons why, in the interests of ensuring an orderly trial, Seven should not be permitted to open up a new line of enquiry at this stage. 10 The notice to produce is drafted in wide terms, notwithstanding that it is limited to Board Papers and Minutes relating to Project Patrick and Project Colour.
 Documents of this character might well bear on the question of whether Seven lost the opportunity of achieving 'synergies' of the kind identified in the experts' reports. 11 It is true, as Mr Castle submits, that before any internal Telstra documents of this kind could be of probative value, it almost certainly would be necessary to examine the assumptions upon which the projections were based, the reasons why Telstra chose not to proceed with the proposals and the similarities and differences between Telstra's position and the hypothetical circumstances facing Seven.
 However, in my view, these matters do not detract from the conclusion that Seven have shown that some of the documents they seek satisfy the test of apparent relevance. 12 It is important to stress, however, that as Waind demonstrates, granting a party access to documents is one thing; admitting the documents into the proceedings is another.
 If the documents are tendered, or if Seven's experts seek to add material to their reports in order to refer to documents produced by Telstra in answer to a notice to produce, it will be necessary to consider whether it would be compatible with the just and orderly conduct of the trial to permit Seven to introduce the evidence at this stage.
