 Under the agreement, SEA received a dealer discount of 2 per cent on the price invoiced by the Mill. 6 SEA sold and distributed carbonless paper through two merchants in Australia, CPI and the Boomerang companies.
 CPI was not given any preferential treatment in relation to trading terms with SEO's mills and provision of credit to CPI by the mills was governed by the credit policies of SEO.
 Mr Fabrello accurately described the position in relation to credit insurance for Boomerang Melbourne in October 2001 and, with one qualification, it remained the position until July 2003 and beyond.
 The memorandum of understanding between CPI and the Mill and its implementation 57 On 12 and 17 June 2003, Mr Fabrello met with Mr Cassell and Mr Koeppen, in Melbourne.
 The meeting of 17 June 2003 is discussed in more detail shortly. 58 On 17 June 2003, a draft memorandum of understanding between CPI and the Mill was prepared to reflect the agreement reached at the June meetings.
 Mr Fabrello said that he understood, in June 2003, that CPI had the financial records of Boomerang and, as far as he was concerned, they must have known its position.
 In fact over this period, SEA received at least $3.153 million from Boomerang Melbourne and Boomerang Brisbane in amounts paid by Boomerang to SEA, preferentially, in reduction of its pre-existing debt. 79 In October 2003, Mr Cassell sought to withdraw from the invoicing agreement.
 The second is whether Mr Ellenberg said there was a credit issue with Boomerang, and the third was whether Mr Ellenberg said, in relation to Boomerang, they 'had a shaky customer here'.
 However SEA and SEO denied that this statement was false in that it represented that, as CPI alleged, 'SEA had no intention of restricting supply of paper to the Boomerang Companies in respect of Moore'.
 The meeting of 17 June 2003 98 As noted earlier, a meeting took place on 17 June 2003 between Mr Cassell, Mr Fabrello and Mr Koeppen from which emerged the memorandum of understanding.
 The meetings of 12 and 17 June 2003 were designed to, and did, establish a relationship between CPI and the Mill which was intended to endure. 109 I accept Mr Fabrello's evidence that he believed, at this time, Mr Cassell would have known the true trading position of the Boomerang companies.
