 Under policy, it requires [sic] the applicant to demonstrate that . they have exercised responsibility within the main business(es) in terms of decision-making authority, responsibility for employees and/or responsibility for expenditure; . such responsibility has been exercised on a continuous (as opposed to on an occasional basis); and . their skills have been fundamental to, or have exerted direct influence on, the operation of the main business(es).
 Rather, if an applicant satisfies this criterion in respect of a failed or declining business, this should be considered in assessing whether the applicant "has overall had a successful business career". ' 8 The Full Court held, following a concession by the Minister, that the requirements of the identically worded policy did not correspond to the requirements of the Regulations.
 There is a variety of ways in which a person might maintain direct and continuous involvement in the management of a business and in making decisions affecting its overall direction and performance. ' (emphasis added) 9 It is unsatisfactory that the Minister, despite a Full Court of this Court holding that the wording of this policy was narrower than the Regulations, and thus not justified by law, had nonetheless since August 2003 to at least June 2005 persisted in promulgating that 'policy'.
 And again, the Tribunal noted that Mr Schultz's evidence showed that the appellant worked in the position of floor manager of the shop (which comprised the business) but this did not satisfy it that the appellant had met the criteria in cl 845.216. 13 Another employee of the business who was a sales assistant gave evidence to the Tribunal of his understanding that the appellant was an owner.
 There was nothing in the findings or other material set out in its reasons that enabled it to come to the conclusion that it could not be satisfied on the issue of the appellant's involvement in the business. 22 In Minister for Immigration v Yusuf [2001] HCA 30 ; (2001) 206 CLR 323 at 346 [69] McHugh, Gummow and Hayne JJ referred to s 430 of the Act, a cognate provision of s 368.
 That is not to say that another tribunal could not come to the same decision, but if it did so it would have to apply the law correctly, make findings and give reasons which were capable of supporting the decision. 36 The question then is whether the error that I have found in the Tribunal's decision amounts to first, a jurisdictional error, and even if it does, whether I should grant relief in respect of it.
 Although the Tribunal's acceptance of the submissions of the appellant that his English was 'at an appropriate level' raised a question as to whether or not that satisfied the requirements for 'functional English' under the points test, having regard to the terms of the submission, it was open to the Tribunal to find that the appellant did not meet the requirements of the policy.
 The Tribunal did not make any finding to suggest that the appellant's ability to read and understand English texts about familiar topics had been established to any level before it. 50 It follows that the Tribunal's ultimate finding, that it was not satisfied that the appellant had functional English, was open to it on the material before it.
 In Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Wang [2003] HCA 11 ; (2003) 215 CLR 518 at 541-542 [74] Gummow and Hayne JJ said that: '... to attempt to divorce the Tribunal's statement of its findings on what it considered to be a material question of fact, from the decision it made and, in particular, from its reasons, may be dangerous in cases like the present where it is accepted that the Tribunal made an error of law.
 That error consisted of the Tribunal failing to accord natural justice to the visa applicant by informing him of the substance of what was in the letter and seeking his response. (The case was decided on the law prior to the enactment of s 422B: see 222 ALR at 414 [10]. ) The Court said: 'The information which was contained in the letter was relevant to that inquiry and it could not be ignored by the Tribunal.
