 The main offer for present purposes is that made on 9 December 2005, which purported to be in the required form and provided for the payment of $1,050,000.00 by the defendants to the plaintiffs, together with interest on that amount at 9% until the date of acceptance.
 In addition, other documents such as the Certificate of Registration, Classification Society records, Bridge Master's standing orders, sounding records, echo sounding records, course recorder trace manoeuvring data documents, fuel and fresh water figures, location documents and Port State inspection reports were destroyed on board the ship prior to the sale of the vessel, or were disposed of in France following the completion of the vessel's sale.
 The plaintiffs say that the destruction and failure to preserve records or copies of the records constitutes reprehensible disentitling conduct on the part of the defendants, providing a sufficient basis for the Court to refuse to make any Order that the plaintiffs should bear costs of the defendants on and after 10 December 2005 on an indemnity basis.
 Other disentitling conduct alleged relates to the fact that documents regarding the question of the identity of the beneficial owner were only made available at a late stage. 10 The defendants responded by saying that the documents which had been destroyed or were not available could not have played an important part in the decision as to the quantum of the award.
 In my view, although open to some criticism in the circumstances of this case, I am not persuaded that the conduct of the defendants in respect of the documents is sufficient to displace the general rule that costs should be paid by plaintiffs where an Offer of Compromise such as that in the present case has been made.
 Furthermore, I do not consider that the late discovery of documents relating to the beneficial ownership issue amounts to conduct which attracts criticism or should disentitle the defendants from recovery of costs on an indemnity basis. 11 The second matter relied on by the plaintiffs is the alleged uncertainty and oppressiveness of the offer in requiring the plaintiffs to execute a "satisfactory deed of release".
 It is said that this expression is undefined and subjective, and that if it were enforced, it would result in oppression to the plaintiffs because it would expose the plaintiffs to the unilateral requirements of the defendants and may allow unreasonable requirements, including indemnity obligations, to be imposed by the defendants. 12 It is correct that no deed of release was proffered by the defendants with the Offer of Compromise.
 Moreover, I am not persuaded that the expression "satisfactory deed of release" or that particular requirement is uncertain or oppressive. 13 In Meehan v Jones [1982] HCA 52 ; (1982) 149 CLR 571, the Court considered a contract which referred to "a satisfactory agreement ... for the supply of a satisfactory quantity of crude oil. " In that case, it was submitted that the contract was illusory and that it merely gave a discretion or option to one party as to whether the promise would be carried out.
 The Court rejected this submission, and although it agreed that it was for the purchaser to determine whether he had entered into a satisfactory agreement for the supply of a satisfactory quantity of crude oil, it also held that the purchaser had an obligation to act honestly in deciding whether the terms of an offer of finance were satisfactory.
 Although each case must turn on its factual context, in my opinion, the Court can and will give content to the expression "satisfactory deed of release" as expressed in the Offer of Compromise in the present case. 14 Having regard to the evidence, it is my view that the insertion of this requirement played no significant part in the rejection of the Offer of Compromise because there was no reference to it in the challenges to the terms of the Offer made by the plaintiffs'solicitors.
 The requirement relating to a "satisfactory deed of release" was not an operative cause of the rejection. 15 For these reasons, I do not accept that the Offer of Compromise was uncertain, illusory or oppressive in any sense, or incapable of being accepted by a reasonable addressee. 16 A further matter raised by the plaintiffs is that there were inconsistent assertions and misleading conduct on the part of the defendants in the form of representations made at various times concerning the relationship of the defendants to the ship.
 I do not think, having regard to the fact that the parties were able to reach agreement as to the role of the first plaintiff with respect to the second and third plaintiffs, that any separate award should be made in respect of this issue.
