 He claims to have a well-founded fear of persecution by the Chinese authorities for publishing material criticising the local government. 3 The applicant did not respond to the invitation to attend a hearing before the Refugee Review Tribunal.
 Under s 426A , the Tribunal may make a decision on the review without taking any further action to allow or enable an applicant to appear before it, if it has invited that person to appear before it and she or he fails to do so.
 The Tribunal was not satisfied the applicant had a well-founded fear of persecution in China and refused to grant a protection visa. 4 On 25 January 2005, the applicant filed an application in the Federal Magistrates Court for an order that the respondents show cause why a remedy should not be granted under s 476 of the Act regarding the decision of the Tribunal.
 Federal Magistrate Smith found the particulars which sought to assert the Tribunal failed to comply with ss 425, 425A and 424A(1) of the Act did not support the grounds relied on: the Tribunal invited the applicant to a hearing in compliance with the relevant sections and the Tribunal's reasons for its decision were not based on 'information' but, rather, its inability to be satisfied by the evidence. 5 The applicant asserted he was 'cheated' by his migration agent.
 Federal Magistrate Smith dismissed the application under r 44.12(1)(a) of the Federal Magistrates Court Rules 2001 (Cth) as no arguable case was raised for the relief claimed. 7 Leave to appeal will only be granted where the judgment below is attended by sufficient doubt to warrant it being reconsidered as an appeal and where substantial injustice would result if leave is refused, supposing the judgment to be decided wrongly. 8 In this matter, the judgment below is not attended with any doubt.
 The Tribunal then proceeded to make a decision on the matter before it as it is entitled to under s 426A(1). 10 The Tribunal was entitled to come to the decision it arrived at without serving a notice under s 424A(1) as its decision to reject the application was based, not on information given by the applicant, but rather, a lack of it.
