 The submissions contained an admission that the applicant had used a false name and provided other false information and documentation in support of his visa application and on subsequent occasions when he was asked by Departmental authorities to provide information. 6 On 3 February 2005 the Tribunal wrote to the applicant inviting him to 'a face to face hearing' to be held on 25 February 2005.
 Under cover of a letter dated 15 February 2005 the applicant's solicitors returned a 'Request for Hearing' form to the Tribunal confirming that the applicant proposed to appear before the Tribunal and requesting that the Tribunal take oral evidence from his wife.
 It was sent pursuant to s 359A of the Act and invited comment on 'particulars of any information that the Tribunal consider[ed] would be the reason, or a part of the reason, for affirming the decision which [was] under review ...'.
 Therefore pursuant to s 360(2)(c) the review applicant is not entitled to appear before the Tribunal and pursuant to s 363A cannot be permitted to do so. ' 15 The Tribunal further advised that it had made its decision based on the documentary material which it had received.
 It further followed that the applicant was not a person to whom subsection 359C(2) of the Act applied and he remained entitled to the oral hearing mandated by s 360 of the Act. (b) Even if the applicant had, by operation of ss 359C, 360 and 363A of the Act, ceased to have an entitlement to an oral hearing, it remained within the discretion of the Tribunal to conduct such a hearing.
 That case, like the present, involved a failure of an applicant to make a timely response to an invitation (in that case extended under s 359A of the Act) with the result that the Tribunal dealt with the application on the papers.
 That error, so it was submitted, was that the letter 'failed to provide the correct 'prescribed further period' in accordance with s 359B(4) of the Act because the Tribunal granted the applicant an extension of two weeks rather than the prescribed period of five working days from notification of the extension'.
 ALLEGED ERROR (e) 53 The applicant contends that, even if the Tribunal lacked power to invite him to attend an oral hearing, it nonetheless retained a discretion to invite his wife to attend and give evidence in support of his application.
 It is contended that the Tribunal did not consider the exercise of such a discretion and thereby made a jurisdictional error. 54 The legislative scheme provided for in Division 5 of Part 5 of the Act, as has been seen, deals in great detail with the circumstances in which an applicant is and is not entitled to an oral hearing before the Tribunal.
 If the Act operates so as to deny the Tribunal the power to conduct a hearing with the applicant present, it is unlikely that, in the absence of any express enabling provision, the Tribunal would have the power to hear (orally) from a witness nominated by such an applicant.
 Moreover, the Tribunal is not bound to accede to such a request. 55 For these reasons I consider that the Tribunal was not required to give consideration to conducting an oral hearing for the purpose of taking evidence from the applicant's wife.
