 LEGISLATION 20 Section 228 of the Act provides, relevantly: '(1) The Governor-General may make regulations, not inconsistent with this Act: (a) ... ; (b) prescribing matters necessary or convenient to be prescribed for carrying out or giving effect to this Act; and (c) prescribing matters necessary or convenient to be prescribed for the conduct of any business relating to the Patent Office; ... (2) Without limiting subsection (1), that subsection includes the power to make regulations: (a) ... ; (b) ... ; (c) ... ; (e) making provision for and in relation to the amendment of an entry in the Register to correct a clerical error or an obvious mistake, or for any other purpose; ...' It is common ground that reg 10.7(7) is not supportable as a regulation making provision for correction of a clerical error or an obvious mistake, but the Commissioner relies on the words 'or for any other purpose' in para (e) of s 228(2). 21 Section 70 provides for the making of applications for an extension of the term of a patent by the patentee of a standard patent.
 It provides: 'Acceptance (1) If a patentee of a standard patent makes an application for an extension of the term of the patent, the Commissioner must accept the application if the Commissioner is satisfied that the requirements of sections 70 and 71 are satisfied in relation to the application. (2) If the Commissioner accepts the application, the Commissioner must: (a) notify the applicant in writing of the acceptance; and (b) publish a notice of the acceptance in the Official Journal.
 Refusal (3) The Commissioner must refuse to accept the application if the Commissioner is not satisfied that the requirements of sections 70 and 71 are satisfied in relation to the application. (4) If the Commissioner refuses to accept the application, the Commissioner must: (a) notify the applicant in writing of the reasons for the refusal; and (b) publish a notice of the refusal in the Official Journal. ' 27 Two aspects of this provision may be noted.
 If the grant of an extension is opposed, the Commissioner must decide the case in accordance with the regulations, having first given the patentee and the opponent a reasonable opportunity to be heard: subss 75(2) and (3). 32 If there is no opposition, or, in spite of opposition, the Commissioner decides that the extension should be granted, the Commissioner must grant an extension: s 76(1).
