 In addition, because that application for leave to appeal was not brought within 21 days, the time specified by O 52 r 5(2) of the Federal Court Rules , the applicant also seeks an order that compliance with that rule be dispensed with.
 I propose, nevertheless, to look at the Tribunal decision to see whether there is any prospect of the applicant succeeding on an appeal from that decision, assuming the events in the Federal Magistrates Court may be ignored.
 The Tribunal was not satisfied that the applicant has a well founded fear of persecution for a convention reason if he returns to Pakistan in respect of any of the five grounds upon which he asserted the existence of such a fear.
 Secondly, he claimed that he and his family had been targeted by Jihadi organisations since at least 1993 and that if he were to return to Pakistan he would be further persecuted by those organisations, the more so because he would be perceived as having changed his religion so as not to have to pay those organisations money.
 It regarded his conduct in attending church and apparently taking steps to enhance his knowledge of Christianity whilst he was in Australia as information which the Tribunal could not take into account by reason of s 91R(3) of the Act, because it was not satisfied that he had engaged in that conduct otherwise than for the purpose of strengthening his claim to be a refugee.
 The Tribunal also rejected the applicant's claim that he would be persecuted for reasons of his real or imputed political opinion or his previous dealings with Jihadi organisations if he were to return to Pakistan.
 I have considered the material the applicant has submitted comprising, in particular, his affidavit filed on 4 July 2006, his proposed notice of appeal and a subsequent letter dated 17 July 2006.
 One piece of information which the Tribunal took into account as indicating to a degree some inconsistency in his evidence was contained in a letter from Sister Pat Sealey, dated 1 November 2005, and provided to the Tribunal after the hearing.
 In the case of the other person, the applicant claimed that that he may have told the authorities of the applicant's interest in Christianity to save himself upon his return to Pakistan.
 Moreover, it was on an assumption which was not made out, namely, that that other person had been deported to Pakistan when in fact, so far as the Tribunal was informed, that other person had returned voluntarily to Pakistan, so that there was no reason why he would have needed to have fear for his own safety upon his return.
