 This was superseded by an (Amended) Statement of Claim filed 17 January 2006 and a later Further (Amended) Statement of Claim filed 16 March 2006. 12 Following the delivery of my earlier reasons for judgment on 22 March 2006, the matter came before me for further directions on 20 April 2006.
 The applicant says that when located in Stage One he worked for about three or four hours a day spending about an hour on breakfast duties, about an hour and a half on lunch duties and an hour and a half on dinner duties.
 Under s 196(1) such unlawful non-citizens must be kept in immigration detention until they are: '(a) removed from Australia under section 198 or 199; or (b) deported under section 200; or (c) granted a visa. ' 24 Section 197A makes it an offence punishable by imprisonment for a detainee to escape from immigration detention. 25 Section 208 of the Act empowers the Minister to determine in writing a daily amount for the maintenance of a non-citizen detained at a specified place in a specified period.
 The ANAO acknowledge the establishment, in February 2005, of a quarterly committee involving representatives from DIMIA, GSL and the subcontractors to review performance and improve communication between all parties. ...' 37 The contract under which services are provided at the Villawood Immigration Detention Centre is not presently before the Court.
 The first respondent failed to monitor the conduct of the second respondent consequently allowing the third and fourth respondent to aid and abet crime within the detention centre against the will of the Parliament clearly expressed in the Section 235 ss (3), (5) of the Migration Act 1958 by: a.
 The second respondent failed to discourage and stop the third and the fourth respondents from aiding, abetting and involving in crime by engaging the detainees in detention work by: a) Overlooking and ignoring the fact that the detainees are unlawfully engaged in detention work by the third and fourth respondents; b) Failing to perform his duty of care towards detainees by failing to discourage and or stop them from falling into criminal activity; c) Failing to stop the continuing illegal work within the detention centre. 10.
 The first and second respondent also failed to ensure that the detainees including me are provided with the proper quality of food and services within the detention. ...' 42 After claiming 'the relief specified in the application', the applicant's pleading continued with ' PARTICULARS OF RELEVANT FACTS '.
 Furthermore, no occasion has arisen for an order substituting the Commonwealth for the Secretary of the Department as the first respondent. 51 I do not accept the applicant's submission that the power of the Court under Order 20 rule 2 does not permit the Court to dismiss proceedings as against a party where disparate claims are made against numerous respondents.
 The Applicant's claims against the Third and Fourth Respondents 52 Apart from the claim for such other relief as the Court considers fit and just in the circumstances, the claims for relief against the third and fourth respondents as contained in the Further Amended Application were as follows: '1.
 Particulars a) Particulars to be provided upon discovery' 55 It was submitted for the third and fourth respondents that a strict approach should be taken to the use of the present tense in respect of claim for relief 1 where a declaration was sought that 'it is unlawful ...'.
 An obligation to pay fair and just compensation for a benefit which has been accepted will only arise in a case where there is no applicable genuine agreement or where such an agreement is frustrated, avoided or unenforceable. (See also Trimis v Mina [1999] NSWCA 140 at [54] . ) 58 The applicant submits that there was an applicable genuine agreement between the applicant and the third and/or fourth respondent for the performance of work by the applicant within the Villawood Immigration Detention Centre at the time when he was located in Stage One.
