 Introduction 1 The Cancer Research Institute Incorporated (CRI) is an incorporated association established to support cancer research and education in general and in particular activities recommended by the Medical and Scientific Advisory Committee of the Lions Cancer Institute.
 The University claims a declaration against CRI that it holds, on trust for the University, such of the shares and options in Sirtex as are found by the Court to be impressed with the trust.
 On 30 November 2006 the orders were varied by consent to require the receiver to serve the affidavits on CRI. 14 On 8 December 2006 the matter came on for hearing on the question of the receiver's powers.
 On 10 September 2006 Dr Gray wrote to the company secretary of Sirtex requesting that a motion for the removal of Mr Hill as a director of Sirtex be considered at the 2006 annual general meeting of Sirtex which was scheduled for 24 October 2006.
 He also requisitioned, in conjunction with other shareholders, a meeting for 6 October 2006 to consider the same motion. 23 Dr Gray wrote to the shareholders of Sirtex on or about 11 September 2006 attaching a notice of the requisitioned meeting fixed for 6 October 2006.
 His firm was prepared to continue on the record for CRI provided that some provision be made for payment of legal costs. 29 Mr Tottle's affidavit evidence was supported by that of a solicitor working in his firm, Yin Chieh Fang sworn 24 October 2006. 6.
 Affidavit of Timothy Randolph Price sworn 1 December 2006 30 Mr Price referred to his earlier affidavit of 5 October 2006 and to the meeting of members of Sirtex convened by requisition from Dr Gray and his associates for the purpose of considering a motion to remove Mr Hill, the chairman of Sirtex, as a director of that company.
 Mr Price referred in his affidavit to claims that Mr Bennett had said after the adjournment that Dr Gray had been given a proxy by CRI to vote its Sirtex shares at the meeting and that, notwithstanding the appointment of the receiver, he could still vote on those proxies as he saw fit.
 He produced a copy of the minutes of the board meeting of 27 July 2004 in which the following resolution was passed (proposed by P Jones and seconded by Dr Gray) that: 'The Board resolve to dispose of all the assets of the CRI by way of a donation to an existing entity involved in cancer research.
 According to Dr Gray's affidavit, this decision was made because he was no longer involved in cancer research and the research team who had been working with him at CRI had been dissolved. 58 Dr Gray also exhibited minutes of what was said to be the annual general meeting of CRI held on 27 September 2006.
 A resolution was then passed that: 'subject to the resolution of the current litigation in the Federal Court, that the CRI donate all its residual assets to the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute and the Cancer Research Institute Inc then immediately be disestablished. ' The meeting then purported to make the appointments to the board referred to earlier, namely Messrs Gray, Sanders and Ms Daebritz. 11.
