 He did so in circumstances where he held no licences or authorities to conduct any insurance business, and in which he represented that the underwriter of the policies was a well known insurer, Zurich Australia, or Zurich International. 2 In 2005, Mr Haddad's and Liban Net's activities came to the attention of the Australian Securities and Investments Commission, which obtained interim relief from this Court prohibiting further conduct of this kind.
 They opened one in a shopping centre in Fairfield, Mr Haddad making arrangements for Ms Robinson to be helped by, in effect, obtaining the loan with which she could run that business. 12 On her evidence, which I accept, Mr Haddad handled, all the financial arrangements and had her sign documents for the benefit of the bank.
 Ms Robinson arranged for that change and a day later Mr Haddad phoned her and said: 'I want you to change Australian Private International into API. ' 19 When she asked why Mr Haddad told Ms Robinson: 'All my other business is API and it comes together under API.
 He said that on about 15 July 2003, a Mr Albert Dano said to him that he had taken out some motor vehicle insurance policies through Zurich Insurance and invited Mr Haddad to join in the business with him. 26 He said that Mr Dano told him that that business would operate like his road assist business and that Mr Haddad would sell policies for which he would get a commission.
 The evidence satisfies me that the Zurich Insurance Group had absolutely nothing to do with the business in which the defendants were involved. 35 Some of the declarations involve representations to the members of the public that claims made under policies would be met in full, and that Liban Net was in a position to, and would, provide appropriate administrative support in respect of claims made under the policies.
 Mr Khoury submitted that Mr Haddad had been foolish and naive, that he had learned his lesson, that he would not offend again and that he had lost virtually everything as a result of his business and his judgment in involving himself in, among other things, the business the subject of the current proceedings. 39 I am mindful that apart from Mr Haddad's affidavit of 9 September 2005, he has given no evidence whatsoever to the Court.
 When finally contact was made between Mr Hurst and Mr Haddad on or shortly after 29 September 2005, Mr Hurst said: 'Where is my campervan? ' Mr Haddad said, 'No problem, you can have it back but you will have to talk to ASIC as it is in their control'.
 Factors that have led to the imposition of the longest periods of disqualification (that is, disqualifications of 25 years or more) include: (a) large financial losses; (b) high propensity that the defendant may engage in similar activities or conduct; (c) activities undertaken in fields in which there was potential to do great financial damage such as in management and financial consultancy; (d) the defendant's lack of contrition or remorse; (e) disregard for the law and compliance with corporate regulations; (f) dishonesty and intent to defraud; and (g) previous convictions and contraventions for similar activities. 14.
 I infer that this is so because of the complaints that were made by members of the public to him, including in February 2005 when a significant cheque was not met on presentation for the payment of a repair bill for one of the insureds, and was never thereafter met by Liban Net or Mr Haddad.
 At best, that bespeaks recklessness. 54 I am satisfied that the failure of Mr Haddad to give any explanation whatsoever as to the myriad of failures to make payments, shows that he chose which claims he would meet, which he did not meet, and was not running a bona fide insurance business, and knew he was not doing so.
