 Mr Cowie and his wife Genevieve are the only directors and shareholders of Linset Pty Ltd. 17 The applicant conducts, in its own right and not merely as trustee, a viable and, it appears, generally successful business based upon the licensing of third parties to use its Infosafe 2000 System.
 In the circumstances I am persuaded that there is a real chance that the applicant will be unable to pay the respondents' costs, if judgment goes against the applicant, and therefore that the respondents have satisfied the factual requirement of s 1335 of the Corporations Act necessary to enliven the discretion to make a security order of the kind contemplated by the section.
 In this matter the trial judge had declined to order security against Jet Corporation, for which company a receiver and manager had been appointed, after taking into account a number of factors, including the fact that it had not been proved that an order for security would mean that Jet Corporation would not proceed with its claim, and the court not being satisfied that Jet Corporation was not suing for its own benefit, but for the benefit of Citicorp, the secured creditor which had appointed the receiver and manager.
 Having considered some factors which weighed against the making of an order for security, his Honour said: "The main contention put forward by the respondents, which I regard as their strongest ground for the ordering of security, is that the shareholders of the applicant are the real beneficiaries of any litigation and of the applicant's business.
 Further, the respondents contend that I ought to assume that for that reason those shareholders are likely to have a significant role in funding the litigation, and if they are able to fund the litigation, in the absence of evidence to the contrary, they will be able to meet any order for security for costs.
 I raised my concerns on this issue with counsel for the applicant in the course of argument and he quite properly conceded that there was no evidence upon which I could act which would lead to the conclusion that an order for security for costs would not be met or to the conclusion that such an order would necessarily stifle the litigation.
 No application was made for further evidence to be filed to establish that Linset Pty Ltd or Mr Cowie would not be able to meet an order for security for costs, nor was any evidence adduced which suggested that it would be unfair for them to be required to meet such an order.
 In each of these cases the fact that there were persons behind the applicant company who were likely to benefit from the litigation and who appeared to be in a position to provide the necessary security weighed heavily in favour of the exercise of the discretion to grant security for costs.
 Mr Anderson submitted, however, that delay as such was not disentitling: what mattered were the reasons for, and the circumstances surrounding, the delay, and the question whether the applicant was prejudiced thereby, and if so in what way. 57 Mr Anderson pointed to the following facts and circumstances.
 Thirdly, he submitted that the applicant was not prejudiced by the delay, or at least that the kind of prejudice to which it pointed was not such as was recognised in the authorities as a legitimate basis for resisting an order for security on the ground of delay.
 The discretion under s 1335 is not confined, and if I should be persuaded in the present case that, for any reason, the applicant would suffer prejudice as a result of the respondents' delay in bringing the present application, I can think of no reason why such a circumstance should not be placed on the scales for its appropriate weight. 67 An examination of the applicant's accounts has satisfied me that compliance with an order for security would constitute a significant financial commitment for the applicant.
