 You have custody, joint custody or access to; or a residence order or contact order made under the Family Law Act 1975 relating to at least 1 child in respect of whom the sponsoring spouse has been granted custody or access or maintenance obligations. " 14 The letter then provided as follows: "The Tribunal has noted reference to a child that you have with the sponsoring spouse.
 Under s 61C(1) of the Family Law Act , a parent has parental responsibility for a child to the extent that it is not displaced by a parenting order of the Court, and under s 61C(2) , that legal position is not affected by changes in the nature of the parents' relationship, such as separation.
 The Tribunal had before it evidence that the applicant had recently seen the two children of his marriage to the sponsor at a cousin's house, which the applicant claimed established that he had "access" to the children for the purposes of item (A).
 His Honour noted that "There was no evidence that a court order existed that entitled the applicant to access the children" (at [9]). 37 However, his Honour should not necessarily be taken to have excluded the possibility that something less than a court order could establish "access".
 Prior to considering the decision in Yazbeck , Dowsett J considered the meaning of "residence order", "contact order" and "child maintenance order" used in items (B), (D) and (E), and notes that the terms were introduced by the 1995 amendments to the Family Law Act .
 First, there was the issue of the relevance of the express reference in items (B), (D) and (E) to orders "made under the Family Law Act 1975 ", and to rights granted "by a court" in the case of item (C), whereas item (A) does not contain any such a reference.
 His Honour also observed that, even assuming only the visa applicant and sponsor had direct links, item (C) does not provide a counterpart to item (A) for a case where a visa applicant has "access", since sole custody by the sponsor will not satisfy item (C).
 Dowsett J noted that, as Sundberg J had himself pointed out, the amended Act gives effect to orders made under the old Act (custody and access orders) as if they were orders made under the amended Act (residence and contact orders).
 On that basis, his Honour concluded that item (B) applied both to orders made under the old Act and the amended Act, and that item (A) must have been intended to deal with arrangements other than orders made under the old Act (at [36]). 48 Dowsett J considered Sundberg J's conclusion that an absurdity would arise if s 66C of the Family Law Act satisfied item (E).
 On Dowsett J's reasoning, the second limb of item (E) would not automatically be satisfied where a visa applicant satisfied items (A) or (B) since it could not be assumed that the sponsor was a parent for the purposes of s 66C. 49 Dowsett J also considered the policy implications of construing item (A) as requiring court orders, telling against the construction favoured by Sundberg J (at [34]): "...
