 The Registered Design was granted on 27 May 2003 and since September 2004 Midamarine has, through arrangements with a licensee, Britz Innovation Pty Ltd ('Britz Innovation') and a related company Kalinin Pty Ltd ('Kalinin'), a company trading as 'Britz Marketing', been selling an inflatable surfcraft described as the ' Wavestar '.
 The Applicant also sells another surfcraft article described as the ' Surfster '. (b) The Applicant contends that the Wavestar is an embodiment of the Registered Design. (c) In June 2005, Mr Russell Joel Binkin ('Mr Binkin'), 'an associate of the applicant, provided a sample of the Wavestar to Mr Corrick and endeavoured to persuade him that he should licence the design of the Wavestar from the applicant.
 It is to be expected, I would have thought, that there was copyright in somebody in that formulation of the Warning. ' [6] (d) 'After the meeting and the supply of the sample and artwork, Mr Corrick indicated he was not interested in pursuing a licence for the product. ' [7] (e) In January 2006, Midamarine and Britz Marketing entered into an exclusive distributorship in relation to the Wavestar surfcraft.
 In particular, Mr Arenson drew Mr Corrick's attention to the reproduction on the DMC article of the claim, 'The shape of this inflated product is a Registered Design' . (h) On 27 September 2006, the solicitors for DMC applied to register a design of a surfcraft in the name of DMC and, in that Application, Mr Corrick was described as the designer.
 His Honour observed that: 'No documents supporting his design exist, for the good reason that, in fact, the DMC product is a direct and complete copy of the Wavestar. ' [11] (i) His Honour noted: 'It is now conceded that the DMC surf mat is indeed a copy - and a deliberate copy --- of the Wavestar ' .
 The fact that the Wavestar was left with Mr Corrick, the comparison of the two and the identity of the words used in the Warning on the back of the DMC surf mat and, in particular, "the shape of this inflatable product is a Registered Design", lead inevitably to the conclusion that the DMC product is a direct copy of the Wavestar '. [12] 'The words on the Wavestar reflect the contention by Mr Arenson that the Wavestar is an embodiment of the Registered Design.
 Mr Corrick says this: (a) Approximately 18 months ago, Mr Binkin approached him in relation to a proposal to use DMC's relationship with the NRL to obtain licences to apply the logos of the NRL football teams to an inflatable surf mat. (b) Mr Corrick says, 'I was already aware of inflatable surf craft prior to that approach' . (c) At no time did Mr Binkin disclose to him that Mr Binkin had any relationship or possible relationship with Midamarine.
 Mr Binkin did not indicate to Mr Corrick that he was an agent for Midamarine or for any other person, or that rights were required from any person. (d) Mr Binkin approached him with a number of products including a proposal for a 'team' branded rug or floor covering, wall hangings and the surf mat. (e) Mr Binkin said to him that he came to Mr Corrick because Mr Binkin knew that Mr Corrick had an existing relationship with the NRL as a result of the activity of DMC and that Mr Corrick could approach the relevant NRL individuals to propose a licensing arrangement of NRL team names and logos. (f) Mr Corrick did not proceed with any of the proposals.
 Mr Corrick says, 'I also mentioned the surf mat at that stage, but the NRL was not interested' . (g) Mr Corrick says that, 'In any event, I was not interested as the pricing proposed by Mr Binkin was prohibitive, it included the cost of the surf mat, a 15% royalty payment to the licensor and the store's margin.
 Mr Binkin did not leave with me any drawings or graphic representations of his proposal for the use of team logos on a surf mat' . 20 In those responsive paragraphs of Mr Corrick's affidavit, Mr Corrick makes reference to drawings or graphic representations only for the purpose of denying that he was left with any such material.
