 In essence, three principal bases of error were argued before me. 2 The Chief Federal Magistrate was alleged to have erred in failing to grant constitutional writ relief or prerogative relief on the following bases; first, that the Tribunal had committed a jurisdictional error in failing correctly to identify the appellant's claims and to apply the decision in Appellant S395 of 2002 v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs [2003] HCA 71 ; (2003) 216 CLR 473.
 She said that she had become a practitioner of Falun Gong in May 1998 in Australia. 5 She pointed to the fact that as far as she knew, all Falun Gong practitioners suffered persecution in China and that many of them had been jailed, many detained and those who might not be detained or arrested could be suffering mentally from discrimination and could have been discriminated against by the Chinese authorities in their employment or through some forms of administrative punishment.
 The dilemma was said to occur out of the substantive paragraph which I have quoted from her application for a visa: namely, that she would either have to give up practising Falun Gong or be jailed if she returned to China. 14 The first function of the Tribunal in a review of a decision whether to grant a protection visa is to identify the claims made by the applicant for review.
 Correct identification of a claim is essential to enable the Tribunal effectively to exercise the jurisdiction which the Parliament has confided it to exercise under s 414(1) of the Act: see Dranichnikov v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs [2003] HCA 26 ; (2003) 197 ALR 389 at 394-395 [26] - [27] per Gummow and Callinan JJ. 15 What the Tribunal did was to set out in a section headed, 'Claims and Evidence', the fact that it had before it the Department's file.
 It then referred to the original application and to her claim that she feared she may be persecuted if she returned to China as she now practised Falun Gong and that she had been aware that many Falun Gong practitioners in China had been arrested. 16 The Tribunal recorded that the appellant had started practising Falun Gong in May 1998 and had attended the Convention at that time.
 I am not satisfied that any fear of persecution that the Applicant may have is well founded. ' 22 It can be seen in the Tribunal's reasons and recitation of the claims that there is no explicit reference to the appellant facing a dilemma were she to return to China.
 But persecution does not cease to be persecution for the purpose of the Convention because those persecuted can eliminate the harm by taking avoiding action within the country of nationality. ' 29 The real problem in this case is that the appellant made claims that she was a Falun Gong practitioner, that she wished to practice if she were to return to China and that she would be placed at risk.
 Further, and alternatively, it was argued that the Tribunal should have given her notice that it would use the fact or reasoning that she had offered very little support for those claims even in the form of evidence which she herself could give. 35 Whether or not something is information of the kind which is within the definition in section 424A has been the subject of considerable debate in the authorities.
 It did make a positive finding based on the country information, as it was entitled to do under s 424A(3)(a), that there was differential attention by the Chinese authorities to practitioners of Falun Gong and that various factors could influence whether or not someone was persecuted and how they were persecuted. 38 The Tribunal then evaluated, it seems to me, the applicant's claims on the basis of that country information.
 The information that the Tribunal was taking into account when it referred to her 'offer[ing] very little support for her claims, even in the form of the evidence which she herself could give', appears to me to be information which was a reason for the rejection of her claims, or part of the reason, and it was not information directly provided by the appellant. 41 From time to time decisions of the Tribunal refer to questions which it might have been able to ask of persons had they attended hearings.
 It later embarked on a further review of his case and the court upheld that exercise on the ground that the Tribunal initially had not performed a review at all because it failed to have regard to the applicant for review's communication to it and had not decided in accordance with the Act. 60 Here the Act gave the Tribunal the discretion to proceed or not once the appellant did not appear on 22 March 2001.
 Their Honours said ([2006] FCAFC 73 [38]-[39]): 'The respondent says the Tribunal was on notice that he may not have received the letter because the "Response to Hearing Invitation" form was not returned, because the letter to his residential address was returned unclaimed, and because he did not appear at the hearing.
