 On 14 February 2006, the Tribunal handed down and sent to the applicant a copy of its decision dated 23 January 2006, affirming the delegate's decision not to grant a protection visa.
 An application for an order to show cause why relief should not be granted in relation to Tribunal's decision was made to the Federal Magistrates Court on 20 March 2006.
 The Federal Magistrate dismissed the application pursuant to rule 44.12(1)(a) of the Federal Magistrates Court Rules 2001 (Cth), with costs fixed in the sum of $2000. 3 The applicant did not attend the Tribunal hearing.
 It said that due to his non-attendance it did not have the opportunity to "explore the veracity of his claims". 4 The Federal Magistrates Court allowed the applicant to file an amended application and evidence due to concerns about the "generality of the grounds of review in the application".
 The Federal Magistrate held that the Tribunal's decision was based on a simple insufficiency of information and there was no obligation to provide notice of adverse material under s 424A.
 This allegation was found to be baseless and no jurisdictional error was found. 5 In this Court, the applicant claimed that the Tribunal "failed to carry out its statutory duty", "did not provide particulars of the information that was the reason, or part of the reason for affirming the decision according to s 424A" and referred to the decision in SAAP v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2005] HCA 24 ; (2005) 215 ALR 162 (" SAAP ").
 The learned Federal Magistrate correctly determined in accordance with SZEEU v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] FCAFC 2 ; (2006) 150 FCR 214 that the Tribunal based its decision on an insufficiency of information rather than on any particular information (see also SZCIA v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs [2006] FCA 238 at [9] to [12] per Allsop J, where the Tribunal's decision was also based on an absence of information rather than any particular information).
 Further, no substantial injustice arises from a refusal to grant leave given that the Tribunal's reasons for decision do not disclose any jurisdictional error. 6 In the original application for leave to appeal, the applicant named a single respondent.
 In accordance with the judgment of the High Court of Australia in SAAP , the Court will order that the Tribunal will be added as a respondent. 7 The application for leave to appeal is refused with costs.
