 It is not in contention that this advice was the only material that the Minister relied upon in making his decision and therefore its specific terms are of critical importance to this appeal. 7 According to the advice, the applicant, who is a citizen of the United States of America, was arrested in Australia on 20 May 2006, at the request of the United States government.
 The advice states: 'He [the applicant] is wanted in the United States for prosecution for the following offences: (i) wilful attempt to evade federal income tax for tax year 1999, in violation of 26 United States Code SS 7201 (one count) (ii) wilful attempt to evade federal income tax for tax year 2000, in violation of 26 United States Code SS 7201 (one count), and (iii) wilful attempt to evade federal income tax for tax year 2001, in violation of 26 United States Code SS 7201 (one count). ' 8 After setting out the statutory requirements for the issuing of a notice under s 16, the advice to the Minister states: '8.
 Mr Williams is an 'extraditable person' for the purposes of section 6 because: (i) a warrant is in force in the United States for his arrest in relation to offences he is accused of having committed against the law of the United States (ii) the United States offences for which Mr Williams' extradition is sought are punishable by a maximum penalty of five years, and accordingly each offence is an extradition offence in relation to the United States, and (iii) Mr Williams is in Sydney and is therefore outside the United States. ' 10 Further, the detailed analysis states, in respect of the requirement in s 16(2)(a)(ii): '5.
 The conduct may also constitute an offence of general dishonesty contrary to subsection 135.1(1) of the Criminal Code , which attracts a maximum penalty of five years imprisonment. ' 11 This advice is repeated with reference to each of the tax years 2000 and 2001 and concludes: 'You may therefore be of the opinion that if Mr Williams committed the conduct comprising each of the United States offences in Sydney at the time the extradition request was received, each of the offences for which the United States has requested his extradition would have constituted an extradition offence in relation to Australia. ' The extradition process 12 The steps involved in the extradition process under Part II of the Act were considered by the Full Federal Court in Harris v Attorney-General of the Commonwealth (1994) 52 FCR 386 at 389.
 Further, the issues at each stage are not the same, although there may be some overlap, eg, the existence or possible existence of extradition objections. ' Applicant's submissions 16 According to the applicant, the information not included in the advice to the Minister is more significant than the information provided.
 Specifically he claims that the advice did not: (a) attach the indictment setting out the offences alleged against him in the United States; or (b) attach any material from the United States in relation to the charges or the conduct alleged to constitute the charges or any other supporting or explanatory material; or (c) attach any supporting or explanatory material from the Office of the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) in relation to the charges or the alleged conduct of the applicant. 17 In oral submissions the applicant's counsel emphasised that s 16 refers to the alleged conduct of the extradition subject rather than to the charges levelled at that person.
 It would not be unreasonable for him to rely on a summary of the relevant facts furnished by the officers of his Department. ' 27 In the same case Brennan J said at 65-6: 'The department does not have to draw the Minister's attention to every communication it receives and to every fact its officers know.
 The dual criminality requirement is that the 'conduct or the equivalent conduct' to that in respect of which extradition is sought should be an 'extradition offence' in relation to Australia. 30 It is not to be expected that the Minister would be aware of which offences, if any, in Australia would equate to a wilful attempt to evade federal income tax.
 If the United States were to seek the extradition of a person on the basis that he or she had attempted murder it would not be necessary for the Minister to know what form the attempt took to appreciate that there is an allegation of certain conduct.
 In many, if not most, cases the description of the relevant conduct will be found in the naming of the charge. 31 I respectfully accept the view expressed by Young J in von Arnim (see [18] above) that the Minister must carefully scrutinise the case for extradition before issuing a s 16 notice.
