 Paragraph 15 would allege that the SIRT 1 applications were filed without the knowledge, approval or authority of the University and were in respect of a 'patentable invention developed and/or discovered while Dr Gray was an employee of the University'. 10 In proposed par 16 it would be alleged that, by making and maintaining the SIRT 2 application and causing or procuring Sirtex to make each of the SIRT 1 applications, Dr Gray breached his fiduciary duties to the University.
 Paragraph 17 would assert constructive trusts in relation to any rights or entitlements received by Dr Gray and Sirtex in relation to SIRT 2 and SIRT 1. 11 In a new par 19A it would be alleged that, on or about 25 October 2001 Dr Gray caused or procured Sirtex to file and Sirtex did file the SIRT 1 PCT Application.
 Before the inspection of the documents referred to in Mr Cox's affidavit, the University understood that SIRT 1 had been discovered after the SIR-Spheres Invention known as SIRT 2 and that SIRT 1 was developed after Dr Gray had ceased to be employed by the University.
 To the extent that the application seeks damages in lieu of an assignment, the relief is unavailable if the invention is not patentable. 16 A copy of the response to the SIRT 1 patent application by the USPTO is exhibited to the affidavit of Ms Donald.
 A request for continued examination was lodged on 23 November 2005 and, according to information provided to Ms Turner by Wray Associates, the application is still pending before the USPTO for the continued examination. 18 The substantive basis upon which Sirtex opposes the amendment is that the relevant patent application was filed after any employment of Dr Gray by the University and after the assignment of other patents to Sirtex in April-May 1997.
 Sirtex says it is wrong to assume, as the University evidently does, that the invention as so claimed correlates to the product or technology referred to as 'SIRT 1' in the proposed pleading and the documents exhibited to Mr Cox's affidavit. 20 Sirtex submits that unlike the patents currently included in the University's pleading, the new patent application has been the subject of significant commercialisation by Sirtex.
 In so saying, Sirtex acknowledged that its view was that the additional allegations would not give rise to any further documentary discovery. 21 Sirtex submits that the Court ought not to grant leave to the University to introduce the proposed amendments at this late stage of the litigation.
 Patentability can then be determined by, eg, testing the invention, as notionally claimed and properly construed by reference to the specification, against prior art to determine whether it would have been invalid for want of inventive step or novelty or on any other ground relating to patentability. ' The difficulty thus identified gave rise to a corresponding difficulty in the pleading in the defence to par 12.
 In this case, however, the proposed amendment identifies the relevant invention by reference to the disclosure in the Australian provisional patent application, PRO983. 23 Then it is said that the rejection of the patent application by the USPTO arose out of its prior disclosure in a paper published by Dr Gray and others at the University of Melbourne in 1982/1983.
 The introduction of SIRT 1 would take the inquiry back to 1983 and earlier and an inquiry into what was happening at the University of Melbourne prior to Dr Gray's employment at the University by reference to prior art there developed. 24 In answer counsel for the University contends that the factual implications are not large.
 It is also asserted that before his employment by the University, Dr Gray carried out research into the use of micro-sphere and micro particle preparations incorporating radioactive material to be used in the treatment of cancer and primarily liver cancer and published his research.
