 Its registered office is at Level 14, 111 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, NSW, AUSTRALIA, 2000. (b) WCG has been admitted to the official list of ASX and WCG Shares have been granted official quotation on the stock market conducted by ASX. (c) As at 14 July 2006, 42,036,123 WCG Shares were on issue. 2.2 MLB (a) MLB is a public company incorporated in Australia and registered in Victoria and is a company limited by shares.
 Dealings In Wcg Shares 8.1 Entitlement To Participate Every WCG Shareholder entered onto the WCG Register as the holder of a WCG Share on the Record Date is entitled to participate in this Scheme. 8.2 Dealings Prior To Record Date (a) For the purpose of establishing the persons who are Scheme Shareholders, dealings in WCG Shares will only be recognised if: (i) in the case of dealings of the type to be effected using CHESS, the transferee is registered in the WCG Share Register as the holder of the relevant WCG Shares by the Record Date; and (ii) in all other cases, registrable transfers or transmission applications in respect of those dealings are received at the WCG Share Registry by the Record Date. (b) WCG will register registrable transfers or transmission applications of the kind referred to in clause 8.2(a)(ii) by the Record Date.
 WCG will not accept for registration, nor recognise for any purpose, any transfer or transmission application in respect of WCG Shares received after the Record Date (other than the transfers contemplated by clause 4.2). 8.3 Dealings After Record Date (a) For the purpose of determining entitlements to the Scheme Consideration, WCG will, until the Scheme Consideration has been provided in accordance with the Scheme, maintain or procure the maintenance of the WCG Share Register in accordance with this clause 8, and the WCG Share Register in this form will solely determine entitlements to the Scheme Consideration.
 Each entry on the WCG Share Register at the Record Date relating to Scheme Shares will cease to have any effect other than as evidence of the entitlement to the Scheme Consideration. (b) From the Record Date, all certificates and holding statements for Scheme Shares existing as at the Record Date will cease to have effect as documents of title in respect of those Scheme Shares, other than for the purpose of registering dealings in WCG Shares in accordance with clause 8.2. 8.4 Provision Of Information On or before 9.00am on the Implementation Date, WCG must give to MLB details of the names, Registered Addresses and holdings of Scheme Shares of every Scheme Shareholder as shown in the WCG Share Register at the Record Date, such details to be provided in such form as MLB may reasonably require. 9.
