 The form explained that, if such a person was nominated, all correspondence would be sent to that person, identified by the form as the "authorised recipient". 4 Letters addressed to the applicant were sent to Mr Mollah regarding the Tribunal proceeding.
 Smith FM summarised the steps taken by the Tribunal to notify the applicant of the hearing date through Mr Mollah (at [10] to [14]). 5 Prior to its attempts to contact the authorised recipient, the Tribunal was aware that the signature on the application form to the Tribunal did not match the signature on the Department's file.
 There is no evidence that the Tribunal was on notice that the signature on the application, while not that of the applicant, had been placed there without her authorisation. 6 When the Tribunal received no reply to its correspondence, it made numerous attempts to contact the authorised recipient.
 She says that this was required for a ' fair decision to be made according to law ' and that the Federal Magistrate failed to properly consider and apply s 494D of the Act. 11 Consistent with her affidavit, the grounds in the draft notice of appeal assert a failure on behalf of the Federal Magistrate to apply s 494D of the Act and to consider the circumstances which led to the applicant not receiving the hearing invitation.
 Evidence on the application for leave 13 The applicant, in unsworn evidence, informed the Court that she had given all of her documents to Mr Mollah and that he did not notify her of the Tribunal hearing, that he was not a responsible person and had been suspended. 14 Her attention was drawn to a file entry by the Tribunal recording that the signature on the application to the Tribunal does not match that on the Department file, the latter being, presumably, the signature on the application for a protection visa.
 A cursory examination of the two signatures confirms that notation. 15 This raised the question of the validity of the application to the Tribunal and the authority given to the migration agent to complete the form for the purposes of s 441G of the Act.
 Every time that she went to her migration agent he told her not to worry and that he would take care everything, including the review proceeding before the Tribunal. 18 The applicant's evidence about the application to the Tribunal was not clear.
 She said that she gave her materials to Mr Mollah and that he acted on her behalf and submitted all matters on her behalf. 19 The applicant's evidence was ' I just gave all my materials, all my documents to [the agent] and he acted on my behalf ' and ' I asked him to convey my, to submit my application saying all the matters on my behalf '.
 Consideration 20 It is theoretically possible that the migration agent's authority was limited and extended to lodging the application for review but not to completing the details of the application, including signing the application and authorising the agent to receive documents.
 There is no evidence that the applicant did not intend her instructions to extend to the signing of the application on her behalf or to authorise the agent to receive correspondence on her behalf. 21 To the contrary, in the ordinary course, the instruction to the agent to submit "all the matters on my behalf" would include the completion of the application form and lodgement of the application with the Tribunal.
 On the basis of the evidence before me, and in circumstances where the applicant gave that general authority and expected it to result in an appearance before the Tribunal, I am satisfied that the agent's authority extended to an authorisation to sign the application form on her behalf. 22 I am also satisfied, in the circumstances, that the agent's authority extended to an authority for Mr Mollah to receive correspondence in relation to the review by the Tribunal.
 If the application was valid the Tribunal was entitled to proceed pursuant to s 426A of the Act and no jurisdictional error has been established. 25 The parties did not make submissions on whether an application to the Tribunal must be signed personally by an applicant in order to be in approved form.
