 It will prove to be important to identify precisely the conditions of tax liability specified in the ITAA, and to distinguish between provisions referring to the Commissioner's state of mind, eg his "opinion", or his being "satisfied" or "not satisfied", on the one hand, and provisions referring to his taking a step, such as making a "determination" or "decision" on the other hand.
 I will refer to them as "state of mind" and "Commissioner's determination" classes of cases, respectively. 43 Avon Downs Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Taxation [1949] HCA 26 ; (1949) 78 CLR 353 (" Avon Downs "), a state of mind case, was an appeal to the High Court in its original jurisdiction against an objection decision.
 The conclusion he has reached may, on a full consideration of the material that was before him, be found to be capable of explanation only on the ground of some misconception. " 44 There was no reference to s 177(1) or s 190(b). 45 Avon Downs does not address the question whether the Commissioner could be required to give particulars.
 The object of the present application is really to have the commissioner say whether he is prepared to assign a source or sources for the moneys included in taxable income in the assessment over and above those disclosed as taxable income in the return, and to admit that if they did not come from that source, or from one or more of those sources, those moneys were not liable to be included in the appellant's taxable income.
 In substance, Walsh J held that on this slim material, the Commissioner had not been entitled not to be satisfied of continuity of beneficial ownership. 68 In allowing an appeal, all members of the Full Court also referred to Dixon J in Avon Downs , but considered that the taxpayer had not established any of the grounds to which Dixon J had referred.
 In other words, so far as the evidence led by the taxpayer showed, the Commissioner had been entitled not to be satisfied. 69 Barwick CJ said (at 45) that the primary Judge had rightly regarded the Commissioner's lack of satisfaction as examinable on Avon Downs grounds, noting that the taxpayer had not taken the course of seeking from the Commissioner "an account of the material upon which he acted in rejecting the claim to the deduction" (at 45).
 It is implicit, I think, that Barwick CJ thought that the taxpayer would have been entitled to particulars of the material that was before the Commissioner, and, perhaps, of the matters he had taken into account. 70 Menzies J likewise thought it "unfortunate that the basis of the Commissioner's not being satisfied of what was requisite for allowing the deduction claimed was not revealed" (at 52).
 Thus, the order was for further particulars of matters that the Commissioner had already positively asserted as having formed part of his assessment. 87 There is no suggestion that the Commissioner would not have been permitted to identify the arrangement concerned in alternative ways, or to amend later the particulars given of the arrangement, subject to any special order as to costs. 88 Bailey was neither a state of mind nor a Commissioner's determination class of case.
 If the taxpayer fails to do so, the possibility will always remain that the Commissioner's assessment is not excessive. 119 The distinction between state of mind cases and Commissioner's determination cases was referred to by the High Court in Commissioner of Taxation v Peabody [1994] HCA 43 ; (1994) 181 CLR 359 (" Peabody "), a Part IVA case.
 I hold, in accordance with Peabody, Sleight and Syngenta , that the Commissioner should not be required to supply the particulars sought because, under the statutory provisions mentioned, it is not open to the Taxpayers to make the Commissioner's state of mind and reasoning processes leading to the making of the determinations under s 136AD an issue in the appeals.
