 No wheat was ever delivered under the Second Contract and no payments have been made under it. 5 By a letter dated 20 October 2003 AWB Limited formally notified Bective Station of its default in relation to taking delivery of wheat under the Second Contract.
 In this context a 'washout' involves a notional sale of the wheat the subject of the contract whereby the difference in value between the contract price of the wheat and its fair market value as at the 'washout' date is determined.
 Additionally AWBA cross-claimed for damages in the amount of $1 368 500 alleging that Bective Station had refused to take delivery of wheat under the Second Contract. 8 The primary issue for determination in this proceeding is whether AWBA is entitled to damages for any breach by Bective Station of the Second Contract.
 Particulars The Claimant is entitled to the difference between the Contract price of $395.00 per tonne and the market price of the Wheat at 30 August 2003. ' 26 AWBA did not suggest that AWB Limited was not authorised to act on its behalf in respect of dealings with Bective Station concerning the Second Contract.
 Clause 9, in the case of default, gives the innocent party an entitlement ' to terminate this contract and thereafter to sue the party in default for breach of contract and if the Seller, to resell the commodity as owner ' (emphasis added).
 On 27 October 2003 it issued an invoice to Bective Station claiming payment of a ' washout amount ' of $1 368 500; that is, the amount which its letter of 20 October 2003 advised would be the cost of a 'washout' based on the October price for wheat.
 AWBA did not ever allocate wheat to the Second Contract. 31 The second basis on which I reject the contention of AWBA that the Second Contract has not been terminated is that by each of the invoice of 27 October 2003, the statement of claim which formed part of the notice of arbitration and the cross-claim in this proceeding, AWB Limited or AWBA has claimed common law damages for loss of bargain.
 The Second Contract was terminated, at the latest, on 27 October 2003. 39 AWBA alternatively contended that it commenced proceedings for the recovery of damages by giving Bective Station a notice of arbitration within the twelve month period referred to in clause 9.
 AWBA did not dispute that if the representations, or any of them, were made, they were representations with respect to future matters which AWBA did not have reasonable grounds for making (s 51A of the TPA). 53 Mr Vickery had negotiated his first contract to purchase wheat from AWBA with Mr Adams.
 If you don't order promptly wheat will be unprocurable at the price we are now offering, and there'll be no wheat available from March onwards. "' 57 Mr Vickery's diary for 31 October 2002 contains the following note: 'Rang AWB - $375 tonne March + $3.50' 'Pet Food Gunnedah 10,000 tonnes Gunnee 6,000 " Moses 5,000 " Killara Gunnee 5,000 " ' 58 Mr Adams' affidavit evidence was that he spoke to Mr Vickery by telephone on 30 October 2002 and advised him that Bective Station needed to start drawing down wheat under its first contract to purchase wheat from AWBA.
 There is more demand for feed wheat than supply. " Adams or Setter: "So prices will rise higher until supply runs out. " Setter or Adams: "That would be expected. " Adams: "There is only 50,000 to 60,000 tonnes of wheat in Northern NSW and it has nearly all been purchased.
 The application on which I was invited to rule, however, was an application to adduce the evidence pursuant to s 97(1). 82 For the evidence of Messrs Rowland, Setter and Gillogly to be admissible under s 97(1) it was necessary for the requirements of both paragraphs (a) and (b) of the subsection to be satisfied.
 However, notwithstanding Mr Vickery's jaundiced view of 'AWB', I accept his evidence that he caused Bective Station to enter into the Second Contract because of a concern that, if he did not, Bective Station may have been unable, after March 2003, to obtain the wheat which it would require to operate its feedlot.
