 The Registrar may also conduct searches, have regard to relevant information supplied by the Commonwealth, a State or Territory in relation to the requirement of s 190B or s 190C ' and may have regard to such other information as he or she considers appropriate '.
 Section 190D(2) provides that if the applicant is given a notice that the Registrar does not accept the claim for registration, the applicant may apply to the Federal Court ' for a review of the Registrar's decision not to accept the claim'.
 The First Application The review sought is of the third in a series of decisions by the same delegate as to whether applications and amended applications, said to have been made on behalf of the Wakaman People, should be accepted for registration.
 On 9 August 2004 (incorrectly referred to by the delegate as 9 April 2004) the persons named as applicant in these proceedings lodged an application for a determination of native title under s 61(1) of the NTA.
 The description of the native title group in the amended application was as follows: Wakaman People are all of those persons who are descendants of : who identify as Wakaman People. means cognatic descent. ' There followed the names of the same persons listed with respect to the first application).
 The NQLC then certified that it was of the opinion that the requirements of paragraphs of 203BE (2)(a) and (b) of the Act had been met and in particular that: all the persons in the Native Title claim group have authorised the applicant to make the application and to deal with matters arising in relation to it; and (b) all reasonable efforts have been made to ensure that the Application describes or otherwise identifies all the other persons in the native title claim group. ' Brief reasons were given for those opinions.
 In Sch R to the application which was entitled ' Certificate or Authorisation [see Act, s 190C] ' a copy of a certificate was to be provided ' if the application has been certified by each Aboriginal/Torres Strait Islander Body ... '.
 The applicant also submitted that the delegate was in error in finding that the native title claim group described in the third application was a wider, and significantly different, group from that referred to in the previous application, which had been subject of certification.
 The intervenor submitted that the conclusion that there had been a significant change was obviously correct because the words ' and who identify as Wakaman People ' in the second application referred, at least potentially, to a smaller group.
 In that regard it was submitted that a person might be a biological descendant of a named ancestor, but not identify themselves as a member of the group claiming native title, but some other group to whom they are also related.
 The contrast between paragraphs (a) and (b) of subs (4) indicate that responsibility in the former rests with the representative body which is required to address the requirements of s 251B; and in the case of paragraph (b) the responsibility lies with the Registrar.
 In his Honour's view it followed that s 190C(4)(a) does not leave some residual obligation upon the Registrar, once satisfied of the matters to which it expressly refers, to revisit the certification of the representative body (at [81]).
