 It is clear that the Tribunal answered this question in the negative but the process of reasoning which led the Tribunal to its negative answer is not clear. 11 Mr Koosasi drew attention to the evidence before the Tribunal which showed that, as at the date of the cancellation decision, Great Bamboo had exported Australian goods (see the outcome identified in (c) of the definition of 'eligible business' ).
 Alternatively, the respondent submitted that the Tribunal found both that the business of Great Bamboo was not resulting, and would not result, in one or more of the outcomes identified in (a)-(f) of the definition of 'eligible business' . 13 It is thus necessary for this Court to determine by reference to all of the material before it which is capable of throwing light on the proper understanding of the Tribunal's reasons for decision, what process of reasoning led to the Tribunal's conclusion that Mr Koosasi's substantial ownership interest in Great Bamboo did not constitute a substantial ownership interest in an 'eligible business' . 14 The material before this Court includes the respondent's statement of facts and contentions before the Tribunal.
 The respondent's statement of facts and contentions before the Tribunal argued that Mr Koosasi's business did not appear 'to have been carried out on an ongoing or repetitive basis' . 15 At [28] the same document advanced the alternative contention that Great Bamboo was not an eligible business because it did not meet any of the requirements listed in the definition of 'eligible business' in s 134(10).
 It also noted that Great Bamboo had not created and was unlikely to create employment, that it had not introduced new or improved technology into Australia nor had it increased commercial activity or competitiveness in the Australian economy. 16 At [39] of its written reasons for decision the Tribunal conflated the two submissions of the respondent identified above, noting: 'The respondent also submits that the business is not an "eligible" business as it has only completed four export transactions since its registration in January 2003 and such limited number could not be considered continuing or repetitive ... there is no evidence the company has developed links with international markets; and the company has not created employment; exports of wheat, flour and juice has not introduced any new or improved technology to Australia. ' (a reference to authority omitted) 17 The Tribunal's consideration of the issue which it identified, namely whether Mr Koosasi's substantial ownership interest in Great Bamboo was in an 'eligible business' , is recorded in [41] of its reasons for decision as follows: 'Great Bamboo executed one export transaction in October 2003, two in September 2004 and one in April 2005.
