 Since November 2005 the applicant has been aware that certain stalls at the Queen Victoria Market in Melbourne were selling t-shirts which had not been supplied by the applicant but which bore the pictures for which the applicant held exclusive licence.
 The applicant obtained the names and addresses of the stall holders and, in December 2005, sent letters to those stall holders asserting that they had infringed the applicant's copyright in relation to the pictures and contravened provisions of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
 The applicant sought advice as to the names and addresses of the manufacturers and importers of the infringing t-shirts, the quantity involved and the price for which the t-shirts were purchased and sold.
 It appears that no response was received from the stall holders and no follow up action was taken by the applicant. 2 In early May 2006 the applicant was again advised that there were stalls at the market selling t-shirts bearing the pictures.
 Again the names and addresses of the stall holders were ascertained and letters were sent by the applicant's solicitors to those stall holders in similar terms to the December 2005 letters.
 Again legal action was threatened but no follow up action was taken. 3 On 27 October 2006 the applicant's managing director again attended the Queen Victoria Market and again found that the same three stalls were still selling the t-shirts emblazoned with the pictures. 4 By an amended application, filed in the New South Wales District Registry of the Court (but subsequently transferred to the Victoria District Registry by Order of Allsop J made on 12 December 2006), the applicant seeks various orders designed to protect its intellectual property rights in the pictures.
 An amended statement of claim was filed asserting causes of action under the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) against each respondent. 5 This afternoon the applicant made an ex parte application for orders in the nature of Anton Piller orders or search orders. 6 Such orders are only made in exceptional circumstances.
 Thirdly, there must be clear evidence that the defendants have in their procession incriminating documents or things, and that there is a real possibility that they may destroy such material before any application inter partes can be made. ' 7 In order to satisfy the Court that it is appropriate to make the orders sought the applicant relies on two affidavits, sworn by its managing director, and affidavits of Jian Ping Gao and Chen Ben He. 8 Having read those affidavits and considered submissions made by counsel appearing for the applicant I have been persuaded that the first precondition identified by Ormrod LJ has been satisfied.
 The pictures appearing on t-shirts being sold by the defendants appear to be identical with those commissioned by the applicant. 9 The evidence does not, however, satisfy me that the other two preconditions have been satisfied.
 The action taken by the applicant in the 12 months since it first became aware that the offending t-shirts were being sold at the Victoria Market hardly suggest the need to take urgent remedial action to protect the company from serious economic loss.
 There is no evidence that any attempt was made to ascertain whether the respondents had taken such action and no other steps appear to have been taken by the applicant despite the failure of the respondents to reply to the solicitor's letters. 10 There is absolutely no evidence to suggest that a real possibility exists that any of the respondents might destroy any material before an inter partes application can be made.
