 The Dingaal People are the traditional owners of lands and islands at and around Cape Flattery which is approximately 60 kilometres north of Cooktown in far North Queensland. (b) On 8 December 1997, Justice Beaumont made a native title consent determination which recognised the common law native title of various clans in connection with lands at Hope Vale of which the Dingaal People were one.
 The Applicants on behalf of the Dingaal claim group included Gordon Charlie and Jonathon Charlie. (i) On 14 April 2003, at a meeting held at Hope Vale of claim group members, resolutions were passed that had the effect of removing the authority of Gordon Charlie and Jonathon Charlie to make a claim for and act as applicants in connection with the native title claim on behalf of the claim group.
 These resolutions represent a renunciation of traditional Dingaal law and custom in removing the senior elder as the individual entitled to make such a claim. (j) Approximately 70 members of the Charlie and Brim family groups from the Kuranda area have signed a mandate which recognises Gordon Charlie as senior Elder and spokesperson for the signatories and indicates that at least 70 members of the Dingaal clan oppose other clans being joined as clan group members in QUD6004/98.
 If you would like to know more about the meeting please contact Simon Downing or Kathrine Scott on free call 1800 623 548' . (m) On 20 October 2006, Gordon Charlie wrote to the Land Council advising that approximately 85 people would need to travel to the meeting and because of an apprehension about fights and threats, those attendees would require a security guard for the two days whilst those members were present at Hope Vale for the meeting.
 An application was then made to the Court for an order pursuant to s 66B(1) of the Act that Gordon Charlie and Jonathon Charlie be replaced as 'current applicants' on behalf of the claim group by Gary Yoren, Ned Yoren and Elaine Baru. 8 On 17 September 2003, Cooper J considered that application and found that notwithstanding Gordon Charlie's contention that the traditional law and custom of the Dingaal People meant that only Gordon Charlie was entitled and thereby authorised to make a claim for native title on behalf of the claim group, there was no acceptable evidence of any such traditional law and custom and Cooper J was not prepared to find the existence of such a law or custom; and that the applicants on the motion were authorised by the meeting on 14 April 2003 for the purposes of s 251B(b) of the Act to make the application and be appointed as applicants on behalf of the claim group in lieu of Gordon Charlie and Jonathon Charlie.
 The meeting was attended by the applicants on behalf of the claim group, family representatives of the claim group, CYLC representatives, NNTT representatives and Dr Fiona Powell. 10 Based upon the presentation by NNTT representatives and a presentation concerning an anthropological overview of research conducted in the claim area by Dr Powell, the claim group, having considered those matters overnight on 28 February 2006, unanimously resolved to amend the Dingaal native title claim and include other groups, namely, Thanil, Nguuruumungu, Gulaal, Ngaatha and Thittaar.
 A further letter was sent to Gordon Charlie on 24 May 2006 by the CYLC further confirming those matters and advising Gordon Charlie that although an extension of the Application of the registration test had been sought from the NNTT, the registration test would be applied on 31 May 2006 and that: 'The Dingaal claim requires more work for it to pass the registration test which will be re-applied after we have made the necessary changes to the claim.
 Please see Part B on page 2 that sets out the time table for meetings, anthropological work and amending the application. ...' 12 On 17 October 2006, the CYLC wrote to Gordon Charlie enclosing the Notice of Meeting of clan members to consider and, if thought appropriate, authorise the amendment of the Native Title Application to include other groups and make any other amendments to the Application that might arise.
 Gordon Charlie on 20 October 2006 wrote to the CYLC advising that 85 people sought travel assistance and that a private security guard would need to be available for two days. 13 At no time after the receipt of the letters dated 24 March 2006 and 24 May 2006 from the CYLC did Gordon Charlie, on the evidence, write to the CYLC and set out those matters contended for by paragraphs 5(d), (e), (f) and (g).
 Plainly, the CYLC has incurred considerable cost in convening the meeting of group members and clan members and the delay and dislocation caused by enjoining the meeting will inflict significant prejudice upon the Applicant representatives for the claim group, the claim group members and, in addition, the CYLC in the provision of support to claim group members in the prosecution of the Native Title Application.
