 1 The applicant (the Commission) seeks the following orders against the second respondent (Mr Rae): 1. a declaration; 2. an order that the undertakings referred to in order 1 of the Orders of this Court made on 21 March 2001 cease and Mr Rae's passport be returned to him; and 3. an order that Mr Rae pay the Commission's costs of these proceedings in the amount of $12 165. 2 Pursuant to an agreement between the parties, the Commission and Mr Rae have filed a minute of proposed consent orders dated 18 October 2006, setting out the orders that the Commission and Mr Rae propose in order to resolve these proceedings (Minute of Consent Orders).
 The effect of the admissions is to trigger the application of O 18 r 4 of the Federal Court Rules (FCR) which provides: '4(1) If an admission is made by a party, whether by a pleading or otherwise, the Court may pronounce any judgment or make any order to which the applicant is entitled on the admission. 4(2) The Court may exercise its powers under sub-rule (1) notwithstanding that other questions in the proceeding have not been determined. ' 4 The nature of the proceedings is as follows.
 Mr Rae admits all the matters alleged in the further amended statement of claim. 7 The Commission recognises that, notwithstanding the agreement reached between the parties as to the terms of the proposed consent orders, it is for the Court to determine whether or not it has the power to make the orders proposed, and whether, in all the circumstances it is appropriate to do so. 8 The Court must not exceed its power in the making of consent orders.
 The parties cannot by consent confer power to the Court to make orders which the Court lacks the power to make: Thomson Australia Holdings Pty Ltd v Trade Practices Commission [1981] HCA 48 ; (1981) 148 CLR 150 at 165 and followed by French J in Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Real Estate Institute of Western Australia (1999) 161 ALR 79 at [19] ( ACCC v REIWA ). 9 In considering proposed consent orders the Court should not impede settlements between parties legally represented and able to understand and evaluate the desirability of agreeing to that settlement.
 Nor should it simply substitute its own view of the orders or undertakings which it would have made if those proffered fall within the range of an appropriate disposition of the case: ACCC v REIWA at [22] and Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Virgin Mobile Australia Pty Ltd (No 2) [2002] FCA 1548 at [2] . 10 So far as concerns the declaration proposed in the Minute of Consent Orders, I consider it is within power and appropriate for the Court to make the declaration for the following reasons.
 In the present proceedings the declaration sought is directed to the determination of a legal controversy and not to answering abstract or hypothetical questions by reason that, firstly, in its further amended statement of claim, the Commission identifies and particularises the alleged representations and conduct giving rise to liability under the TPA and asserts that by those representations and conduct, Info4PC has contravened the TPA and Mr Rae has been directly or indirectly knowingly concerned in or party to those contraventions.
 The declaration will serve to mark the Court's disapproval of particular conduct engaged in contravention of the TPA ( Tobacco Institute of Australia Limited v Australian Federation of Consumer Organisations Inc (1993) 113 FCR 257 at 268). 12 As stated by Lee J in Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Midland Brick Co Pty Ltd [2004] FCA 693 at [21] : '... it may be said that there is some utility in declaring contraventions of the Act to have occurred in order to define and publicise the type of conduct that constitutes a contravention of the Act and to set out clearly the foundation on which the consequential orders by way of injunction and pecuniary penalty, including those based on accessorial liability, are grounded. ' In Rural Press Limited v Australian Competition and Consumer Commission [2003] HCA 75 , Gummow, Hayne and Heydon JJ (with whom Gleeson CJ and Callinan J agreed) observed that where the Court declares conduct to be in contravention of the TPA close attention should be paid to the form of the declaration, particularly those 'by consent'. 13 The orders ceasing the undertaking given by Mr Rae and the handing up of his passport were necessary when made to maintain the status quo while the proceedings continued.
