 Austal is concerned that the report which came into Mr Thurlow's hands may have been obtained as a result of a breach of obligations of confidentiality on the part of Mr Merrigan and that its reproduction involved infringement of Austal's copyright in the report.
 The analysis was carried out by a process of mathematical modelling based on wave data for a ferry route from Dublin to Douglas in the Isle of Man and then to Liverpool and return.
 He referred to a series of later investigations culminating in a report dated 10 June 2004 which concluded that the catamaran was significantly inferior to the trimaran on the routes and in the conditions stated by the Austal Report.
 It extended to documents evidencing communications by or from Incat during a period called 'the Relevant Period' and involving a reference, directly or indirectly, to: the Thurlow Email; the Austal Report; the Austal 126 trimaran; and any comparison between the Austal 126 trimaran with an Austal 101 catamaran and/or Incat Catamaran. ' (sic) Inspection of such documents was sought by Friday 23 June 2006.
 On 21 June 2006 Mr Craig Clifford, who is a Director or the Managing Director of a number of the Incat Group of Companies, sent an email to John Rothwell the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Austal.
 He also asserted his belief that Austal's rights to obtain relief might well go beyond Mr Thurlow and involve his relationship with other persons or entities who may have authorised or been responsible for his actions or who might possess infringing copies of the Austal Report.
 He said that he was unable to ascertain a direct or indirect involvement, if any, of the first to ninth respondents in the distribution of the Austal Report attached to Mr Thurlow's email.
 The evidence and information in the possession of Austal did not allow him to determine how Mr Thurlow came to be in possession of the Austal Report and the circumstances surrounding his apparent distribution of that report to Irish Ferries.
 The offer of further investigation by Mr Clifford in the email sent to Mr Rothwell did not promise the kind of disclosure necessary for Austal to make the decision which it wants to make in relation to the institution of proceedings.
 There is reasonable cause to believe that Mr Merrigan and Mr Thurlow are likely to have in their possession documents, including email communications and copies of the Austal Report, relevant to the question whether Austal has a right to obtain relief against them.
 The question of whether, and to what extent, any cause of action upon which Austal could rely arises in whole or in part within Australia may emerge with greater clarity when discovery is provided.
