 It was the second time the Tribunal had reviewed the appellants' application for the visa, the first Tribunal decision having been set aside by the Full Court of this Court and remitted to the Tribunal for reconsideration (see Lobo and Others v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCAFC 168 ; (2003) 132 FCR 93).
 Clause 845.216 required that: 'In the 12 months immediately preceding the making of the application, the applicant, as the owner of an interest in a ... business ... in Australia, maintained direct and continuous involvement in the management of that business ... from day to day and in making decisions that affected the overall direction and performance of that business ....' 6 The Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs ('the Department') as it then was, had produced a policy guideline concerning decisions regarding visa applications entitled the Procedures Advice Manual 3 ('the Policy').
 Gyles J found that the Tribunal had erred because it had assessed whether Mrs Lobo satisfied cl 845.216 based on paragraphs 3.5.1 to 3.5.3 of the Policy (extracted above at [6]) and not the statutory criterion in cl 845.216 itself (see Lobo v Minister for Immigration Multicultural Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCA 144 at [9] - [11] ).
 There is a variety of ways in which a person might maintain direct and continuous involvement in the management of a business and in making decisions affecting its overall direction and performance. ' The Full Court quashed the Tribunal's decision and ordered it to redetermine Mrs Lobo's application for review. 13 The High Court subsequently dismissed the Minister's application for special leave to appeal.
 She was responsible for invoices, banking, payrolls and correspondence. ' 19 The Tribunal accepted that Mrs Lobo performed the following tasks in relation to the business: prepared invoices for the business under her husband's direction; signed off on invoices; attended to the banking and correspondence; purchased stationery; acted as a telephonist; and possibly prepared payrolls.
 Second, prior to setting out cl 845.216, the Tribunal made one of two observations which the appellants identified as crucial to their claim: that cl 845.216 'requires the Tribunal to assess the extent to which the visa applicant exercised direct and continuous involvement in the management and strategic decision making of the business...'.
 The appellants submitted that Mrs Lobo was not required to show she was a 'decision maker' or that she was 'fully cognisant' of the direction and performance of the business; she had only to show that she had a direct and continuous involvement in the stipulated matters.
 Nor is it relevant that the AIRC material, to use the approach in NARV and Others v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCAFC 262 ; (2003) 133 FCR 89 at [18] (relied upon by the court below) might be, 'of a type which is difficult to controvert'.
 In any case, the Tribunal did not find against Mrs Lobo on the new basis introduced by his Honour, and there was conflicting and possibly erroneous evidence before the Tribunal about the number of staff employed by City Professionals, which the Tribunal failed to comment upon.
 Counsel for the appellants referred to observations of Hayne J in SAAP v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2005] HCA 24 ; (2005) 215 ALR 162 at [192] that 'it is not right to see [an] applicant's appearance before the tribunal pursuant to s 425 ... as the focus or culmination of the review process.
 Further, I note that in SZEEU v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] FCAFC 2 ; (2006) 150 FCR 214, the majority of the Full Court departed from the decisions in VAF and Paul v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs [2001] FCA 1196 ; (2001) 113 FCR 396 and held that, in light of SAAP , it is only necessary that the information be a part of the reason --- the stature, importance or character of the information is not determinative of a Tribunal's need to comply with s 424A (see Weinberg J at [155] and [182], and Allsop J at [215]).
 The expression 'strategic decision', appears to me accurately enough to reflect the gist of the regulatory phrase 'decisions that affected the overall direction and performance of [the] business ...'. 53 Dealing with the evidence, the Tribunal observed that none of the activities Mrs Lobo had engaged in 'demonstrate involvement' of the relevant kind.
 On balance of the evidence, the Tribunal is not satisfied that the visa applicant "maintained direct and continuous involvement in the management of that business ... from day to day and in making decisions that affected the overall direction and performance of that business" in the 12 months prior to the date of application.
