 On 20 April 2006 the respondent filed a notice of motion seeking the striking out of a number of grounds in the notice of appeal and an order that 'the applicant file and serve within 14 days of this order a statement which identifies with precision the grounds on which the respondent's application for registration is opposed'.
 The only substantive matter in that affidavit was as follows: Notice of Appeal includes various grounds relating to issues of alleged bias and collusion which the Respondent considers to be irrelevant to the matters before the Court on the appeal.
 On behalf of the Respondent, I request that the Court make orders sought by the Respondent in the Respondent's Notice of Motion dated 18 April 2006. ' The notice of motion was made returnable at 10.15 am on 27 April 2006.
 The respondent indicate to the applicant whether it consents to the filing of the proposed amended notice of appeal on or before 25 May 2006.
 The proceeding, including the respondent's notice of motion filed on 20 April 2006, be stood over to 9.15 am 1 st June 2006. ' Those orders were made in chambers on 26 April 2006 and the listings for the following day were vacated.
 The matter has proceeded in the normal way since this time, the applicant having filed an amended notice of appeal in substantially different form from the original notice of appeal.
 There are factual issues as to what occurred between the filing of the motion and 26 April 2006, including service or attempted service on the one hand, and what was done by the applicant by way of instructing a solicitor on the other.
 On the one hand, it is clear enough that the applicant must bear and pay the costs occasioned by the filing of an inappropriately framed notice of appeal.
 Although it is not critical to this decision, it is to be noted that there is no evidence that service occurred sufficient to entitle the respondent to proceed with the motion on 27 April 2006.
 It follows, in my opinion, that the respondent is not entitled to its costs of the motion and the applicant should have his costs of the argument about costs.
 The respondent should bear its own costs of and concerning the preparation of and filing of the motion filed on 20 April 2006 and the affidavit in support, any costs associated with service or attempted service thereof and of the argument as to costs of the motion.
