 Some documents were produced in response to the order but copies of documents which had been obtained in the Concord search, and the letter which had been found at the Rosebery premises, were not included.
 The documents over which privilege was claimed were placed in an archive box and delivered to the Downing Centre Local Court Chamber Magistrate, but the claim for privilege was not pursued and the documents were collected by the AFP.
 Cole J observed at 730: 'There seems to me to be no reason in principle why a party may not, by conduct, waive legal professional privilege by omitting to claim that privilege when it is available.
 However, in the preceding six months, the applicant had made no claim for legal professional privilege in respect of the Concord documents, several of which were identical to the Dimocks documents. 29 The applicant submits that she was unaware of her right to claim legal professional privilege.
 She submits that in these circumstances, the fact that she took no action to assert a claim for privilege was not inconsistent with the continuance of the privilege. 30 I agree that the PSR which was filled out in respect of the Concord search did not describe the documents sufficiently.
 The most significant difference is that the documents seized in the second Rosebery raid were seized after the claim for privilege in respect of the Dimocks documents had been made and these proceedings had been commenced.
 The AFP may have had good reasons to suspect the documents seized in the second Rosebery search were the same documents which had been seized in the Dimocks search, and in respect of which a claim for legal professional privilege had already been made.
 It would be unreasonable to expect the AFP to treat seized documents as subject to privilege on the basis of a claim arising from a separate search warrant, when it could not be certain that the documents were in fact the same.
 The applicant should, in my opinion, have made a second claim of privilege in respect of the documents seized in the second Rosebery search. 39 The question, therefore, is whether her failure to do so is such that a waiver of privilege should be imputed by operation of law.
 No claim was made by Mr O'Brien for legal professional privilege on behalf of the applicant, despite the fact that Mr O'Brien was contacted in respect of a claim for legal professional privilege made by Robert Norman at the time of the search.
