 Alternatively, it claimed a declaration that Ringrow was liable to pay to BP all costs and expenses incurred by BP in those proceedings pursuant to cl A16.9(a) of the POSA. 19 At the trial, BP sought only to recover under cll A14.2(f) and 16.9(a) specific sums for costs of enforcement of the POSA totalling $119,619.41, which had been incurred by it prior to the commencement of the litigation (see Hely J's findings at 203 ALR at 319 [174]).
 The dealers and guarantors had argued that the word ' terminated' in cl 1.2(a) of the option deed referred only to termination for breach (222 ALR at 310 [17]) and that that could occur for trivial matters as well as substantial ones so that, in effect, the option constituted a penalty.
 The High Court did not need to consider whether cl 1.2(a) of the option deed could enable the option to be exercised if the POSA were terminated for breach under cl A13.2.1 or that the option could be exercised and the POSA were terminated on grounds other than breach under cl A13.2.2.
 Thus, in cl A13.1, if either a dealer or BP failed to pay money due to the other under the POSA and that default were not totally rectified within 30 days after written notice of the default were given by the dealer or BP (as the case required), the party giving notice was entitled to terminate the POSA immediately or at any time after that by giving written notice of termination to the party in default.
 Ringrow argued that the same reasoning applied to cl A16.9(a) so that so much of the costs incurred by BP involved in dealing with the validity of the option deed which it now seeks to recover did not arise from a breach of the POSA by Ringrow. 30 Ringrow also argued that the word 'costs' in the chapeau to cl A14.2 was ambiguous and should not be read as referring to legal fees for which the words in parenthesis provided.
 Thus, the costs of the exercise or enforcement of BP's rights under the deed of option were not the subject of either clause. 32 Ringrow points to the fact that under its written demand, BP recited that it had incurred legal costs on account of the proceedings before Hely J and the appeals 'and its exercise of the [deed of] Option.
 BP'S ARGUMENT 33 BP argued that because Ringrow put in issue whether the deed of option constituted a penalty for breach of the POSA and connected that argument to BP's rights under SC 1.2(b) and (e), BP's costs of enforcement of the deed of option or its rights thereunder were caught by either cll A14.2(f) or A16.9(a).
 So, BP argued, the costs of the proceedings, appeals and actual exercise of the option fell within the expression in cl A14.2(f) 'costs ... arising out of ... any default by ...' Ringrow under the POSA. 36 BP noted that, while cl A16.9(a) did not use the adjective 'legal' to qualify 'costs', the clause is framed broadly enough to encompass those.
 That issue was whether the deed of option or its enforcement amounted to a penalty. 48 Leaving aside any unperformed obligations under the POSA, such as the payment by Ringrow and the guarantors of any amounts due to BP, including for costs, once Hely J made the final orders, BP and Ringrow were not contesting issues to do with Ringrow's defaults under or breaches of the POSA.
 QUESTION 6(a) - WHAT SCALE OF COSTS IS RECOVERABLE? 72 The first substantial issue under question 6 is whether cl A14.2(f) or cl A16.9(a) of the POSA entitles BP to recover, as an incident of the contract in the POSA, either its taxed costs or those costs together with costs over and above those the subject of the costs orders made by Hely J, the Full Court and the High Court ('the costs orders').
