 Those words reflected the Lundbecks' view that inspection should be confined to Alphapharm's external legal representatives only --- Mallesons Stephen Jaques ("Mallesons"), and counsel and senior counsel briefed by them. 5 According to the affidavit of Matthew Guy Swinn, sworn 20 September 2006, in proceeding NSD 1120 of 2005 there are 49 documents so labelled comprising 1,921 pages, and in proceeding NSD 1870 of 2005 there are 888 documents so labelled comprising 115,364 pages.
 The Secretary appeared by solicitor, whom I excused from further attendance. 9 In an affidavit filed in NSD 1120 of 2005 and sworn 20 September 2006, Matthew Guy Swinn, solicitor and partner of Corrs Chambers Westgarth, the solicitors for the Lundbecks, states that in the time available since service of the notices of motion, there has not been an adequate opportunity for the Lundbecks to review each discovered document with a view to justifying, on a document-by-document basis, their claim to confidentiality. 10 The affidavit of Lynne Elizabeth Ann Peach, solicitor of Mallesons, sworn 18 September 2006 in support of Alphapharm's motions, describes the role and qualifications of Dr Traugott.
 During his employment by Mallesons, and both prior to and after the commencement of these proceedings, Dr Traugott assisted the solicitor for Alphapharm at Mallesons in the day-to-day carriage of these two proceedings. 14 As internal general counsel for Alphapharm, Dr Traugott is responsible for, inter alia , advising Alphapharm in respect of Australian legal issues that confront the company and instructing external solicitors retained by Alphapharm in respect of Australian and foreign legal proceedings in which Alphapharm is a party. 15 In the context of any patent issues affecting Alphapharm, Dr Traugott is responsible, in conjunction with Dr Howard Rosenberg and Dr Paul Jenkins of the Merck group, for ensuring that Alphapharm's legal strategy is consistent with the Merck group's global strategy as determined by the Patents and Raw Material Support Group.
 However, bearing in mind that Dr Traugott is based in Australia, and the focus of his work is in Australia, it would probably require a deliberate effort on his part to use the information he acquires to assist Dr Rosenberg and Dr Jenkins, or other members of the Patents and Raw Material Support Group overseas, to the prejudice of Lundbeck. 21 Accordingly, the balancing exercise which is always required in a case of this kind leads me to think that the Lundbecks have not discharged the onus which they bear and that the documents in the category of "Confidential --- External Counsel Only" discovered by them should be disclosed to Dr Traugott upon his first giving an undertaking in a suitable form. 22 It is conceivable, however, that there is a particular document, or that there are particular documents, in respect of which the Lundbecks would wish to make a specific application seeking orders that that document or those documents not be made available to Dr Traugott.
