 The Trustee alleges that CGU has refused to indemnify Mr Greaves in respect of an order made by the Supreme Court of New South Wales on 6 September 2004, pursuant to s 1317H of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) , that Mr Greaves pay compensation to One.Tel Limited (in liq) ('One.Tel') in the amount of $20 million.
 The other proceedings to which I shall refer also arise out of the same corporate collapse. 3 CGU has applied by motion pursuant to s 5(4) of the Jurisdiction of Courts (Cross-Vesting) Act 1987 (Cth) that the proceedings in this Court be transferred to the Commercial List of the Equity Division of the Supreme Court of New South Wales.
 Section 5(4) provides as follows: 'Where: (a) a proceeding (in this subsection referred to as the relevant proceeding ) is pending in the Federal Court or the Family Court (in this subsection referred to as the first court ); and (b) it appears to the first court that: (i) the relevant proceeding arises out of, or is related to, another proceeding pending in the Supreme Court of a State or Territory and it is more appropriate that the relevant proceeding be determined by that Supreme Court; (ii) having regard to: (A) whether, in the opinion of the first court, the relevant proceeding or a substantial part of it would have been incapable of being instituted in that court, apart from this Act and any law of the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory relating to cross-vesting of jurisdiction; and (B) whether, in the opinion of the first court, the relevant proceeding or a substantial part of it would have been capable of being instituted in the Supreme Court of a State or Territory, apart from this Act and any law of a State or Territory relating to cross-vesting of jurisdiction; and (C) the extent to which, in the opinion of the first court, the matters for determination in the relevant proceeding are matters arising under or involving questions as to the application, interpretation or validity of a law of the State or Territory referred to in sub-subparagraph (B) and not within the jurisdiction of the first court apart from this Act and any law of the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory relating to cross-vesting of jurisdiction; and (D) the interests of justice; it is more appropriate that the relevant proceeding be determined by that Supreme Court; or (iii) it is otherwise in the interests of justice that the relevant proceeding be determined by the Supreme Court of a State or Territory; the first court shall transfer the relevant proceeding to that Supreme Court. ' 4 To understand CGU's application, some background is necessary.
 Mr Rich and Mr Silbermann rely on the same insurance policy as does the Trustee in the proceedings instituted in this Court. 5 On 5 July 2002, Mr Greaves commenced proceedings in the Supreme Court against CGU, seeking similar relief to that now claimed by the Trustee. 6 On 27 August 2003, CGU sought orders in the Supreme Court that the proceedings brought by Messrs Greaves, Rich and Silbermann be heard concurrently with the proceedings instituted by ASIC against those individuals.
 That application was dismissed by Bergin J on 3 September 2003: Silbermann v CGU Insurance Ltd (2003) 47 ACSR 21. 7 On 9 September 2004, White J, by consent, made the compensation orders in the Supreme Court proceedings brought by ASIC against Mr Greaves to which I have referred: Australian Securities and Investments Commission v Rich (2004) 50 ACSR 500. 8 On 24 September 2004, Bergin J granted leave to Mr Greaves to discontinue the proceedings brought by him against CGU.
 In any event, Mr Street says that the Supreme Court is plainly the Court that ought to determine whether it is appropriate for all three claims against CGU to be heard together and to make appropriate directions for the purpose of bringing them to hearing. 12 Ms Adamson SC, who appeared with Mr Scruby for the Trustee, disputes that the proceedings in this Court and the Rich and Silbermann proceedings are in truth related.
 This means, so Ms Adamson argues, that the principle that a joint or composite policy can be avoided for fraudulent non-disclosure by one co-insured, even if the other co-insured is not aware of the fraud, has no application. 13 Ms Adamson further submits that the Trustee should not be forced to await the outcome of proceedings or applications in the Supreme Court.
 If the Trustee's claim continues in this Court, the question of a concurrent hearing will in effect be resolved without CGU having that opportunity. 16 Moreover, if the proceedings are not transferred, there seems to me to be a significant risk of duplication between the proceedings in this Court and the proceedings in the Supreme Court.
 There is sufficient material before me, including the defence filed by CGU in the discontinued claim by Mr Greaves, to demonstrate the potential overlap between the proceedings in this Court and the Rich and Silbermann proceedings in the Supreme Court. 18 In my view it is in the interests of justice that these proceedings be transferred to the Commercial List of the Equity Division of the Supreme Court of New South Wales.
