 Saulyak LLC holds exploration licence 2146, an activities licence AA599600, and a related investment agreement, which together, permitted it to explore and perform trial mining of the Saulyak gold deposit. 4 The first respondent, which is incorporated in Malta, is a subsidiary of the second respondent, which is a company incorporated and carrying on business in the United Kingdom. 5 Exploration licence 2146 is the principal licence permitting Saulyak LLC to explore the Saulyak gold deposit.
 The licence is subject to a condition that by that date, a body known as the State Reserves Committee of the Ukraine, a Ukrainian government body, should have approved the reserves of the gold deposit, in the sense that, it should have approved the categorisation of, the volume of and grade of the ore body or bodies at the Saulyak gold deposit. 6 The evidence of Mr Gunzburg is that the Transcarpathian Geological Expedition, which is a Ukrainian government geological survey, classified the gold reserves at Saulyak gold deposit as equivalent to 578 000 ounces of contained gold at a cut-off rate of 1.5 grams per ton in the former Soviet C1 and C2 categories.
 This is a task which must be performed by the State Reserves Committee. 7 On 30 April 2006, the applicants entered into an agreement ('the Sale Agreement') with the respondents whereby the first respondent agreed to take an assignment of, and to purchase assets of the applicants, described in the statement of claim as the 'Sale Assets'.
 The matters referred to above constitute a material adverse change since the date of the Agreement to the financial position and assets of the EBL Group as understood by the Oxus Group at the date of the Agreement (" Material Adverse Change "). ' (original emphasis) 11 The applicants treated the service by the respondents of the termination notice as a repudiation by the respondents of the Sale Agreement.
 The applicants say that the misrepresentation arises from a statement in the notice of termination to the effect that the applicants had sought an extension of the Saulyak licence in the Ukraine which appears to have been refused --- which, it is said, contained an inference that it was unlikely that the applicants would be permitted by the Ukrainian authorities to continue to explore and mine the Saulyak gold deposit; and the fact that the respondents knew that the first applicant would be obliged to republish the substance of the statement to the Australian Stock Exchange. 24 The respondents' statement was repeated in the first applicant's release to the stock exchange dated 11 June 2006.
 The first applicant's statement said that the applicants had not sought an extension of the Saulyak licence, the licence is not due for review until November 2007, and progress under the approved work programmes is regularly reviewed by the authorities. 25 Accordingly, the statement which was published to the stock exchange contains both an allegation made by the respondents and a rebuttal by the applicants.
 This raises the question of whether the statement made by the respondents would in that context be construed by ordinary and reasonable members of the receiving audience, as creating a misleading impression that the application for the licence extension appears to have been refused - an impression which could be damaging to the first and second applicants. 26 Counsel for the applicants submitted that the document which was published to the Australian Stock Exchange must be looked at as a whole, with the consequence that the respondents' statement would still have a damaging effect because it was open to a reasonable reader to construe the release as containing no more than assertion and counter assertion. 27 There is some analogy here with defamation law where the courts have recognised the concept of the bane and antidote.
 The impugned statement is to the effect that the respondents had issued the notice terminating the Sale Agreement because a material adverse change had occurred since entering the agreement, including becoming aware that the number of C1\C2 reserves ounces actually approved by the Ukrainian government in respect of the Saulyuk gold deposit, was significantly lower than 578 000 ounces, a figure which the respondent had understood to be the approved amount. 29 The respondents allege that the statement is misleading because the Ukrainian government had not approved any C1/C2 reserves, and the respondents had misstated their understanding of the true position in relation to the obtaining of approval of the reserves.
 The applicants alleged that because of their due diligence activities, the respondents knew there was a distinction between classification of 578 000 ounces by the Transcarpathian Geological Expedition in 2004, and the classification of the Saulyuk ore reserves by the Ukrainian government body, the State Reserves Committee, which had not yet been obtained, and in respect of which, efforts were still being made to achieve that end.
 I am satisfied, therefore, on the basis of Mr Gunzburg's evidence, and, because the onus would be on the respondents, that there is a prima facie case in relation to the contractual claim founded on the alleged repudiation of the Sale Agreement. 32 As to the Loan Agreement, that cause of action turns upon the construction of a clause in the Loan Agreement.
 I am satisfied, having looked at that clause, that there is a prima facie case in relation to that cause of action. 33 Further, insofar as the discretion is concerned, I am satisfied that the connecting factors between the causes of action and the Commonwealth are sufficient and I would not, therefore, exercise my discretion against permitting service out of the jurisdiction. 34 There is the affidavit dated 2 August 2006 of Fiona Joan Callanan, a solicitor of the Supreme Court of England and Wales, who deposes that s 725(1) of the Companies Act 1985 (UK) permits service of originating process by leaving the documents at, or sending them by post to, the company's registered office.
