 Worimi contends, and the original Form 1 claimant application ('the original application') states, that the Port Stephens land is a sacred site for women, in the context of childbirth.
 Mr Dates now applies to be joined to the non-claimant application on the basis of a native title interest held by the claim group of the proposed application, that is, himself and his family.
 Authorisation by the claim group of the original application Authorisation is said to have been given to Worimi ' as the Custodian and Protector of the Garuahgal Women's Business according to Traditional Law and Custom '.
 The claim group of the proposed application is inconsistent with the claim group of the original application and cannot, therefore, be a sub-group of that original claim group.
 The inconsistencies between the proposed claim group and the original claim group, based upon the evidence of Worimi, a member of the proposed claim group, would seem unanswerable.
 The application for an adjournment I do not find determinative at this stage the failure to include in the proposed application evidence of traditional laws and customs of authorisation.
 Despite the urgency pressed on the Court by Mr Hillig, the hearing of the Hillig application has been delayed to enable Mr Dates to obtain evidence in support of his claimant application.
 Mr Wright's submission is that the proposed application is liable to be struck out pursuant to s 84C of the Act by reason of two fatal inconsistencies concerning the claim group.
 Even if the named members of the claim group in the proposed application do authorise him to bring the application, the claim group does not include all the persons who come within the claim description.
 I also propose to direct that Mr Dates file any evidence, as to the identity of the claim group and authorisation, on which he wishes to rely in his application for joinder.
 However, there is also evidence from Mr Dates of his independent concern for the Port Stephens land and his claim to native title and for the women whom he has asserted have an interest in the land.
 Mr Dates should have 14 days in which to file and serve any claimant application and a further 14 days to file and serve any evidence in support of his application for joinder.
