 The Tribunal described the appellant's claims as follows: 'The [appellant] claims that he was born in a conservative Muslim family who had "strong adherence with Islamic rituals and customs" and was forced to go to the Mosque and learn Arabic and was "faced by fanaticism by my parents to follow strict rules" and could not enjoy TV and videos and "had to be Islamic dress at home".
 The [appellant] claimed that in addition to working as a cook from January 1997 until December 2002, he joined the Rangdhany Theatre, Uthichi Naitoogosti, Loko Naitoodal, Kushilob, and Arinok, and he "became a member of a number of social organizations who wished to make a secular orientated Bangladesh and I tried to create awareness to the people by Cultural Revolution" and claims he was "a leading artist in the movement" and as a result he "became a target by the Islamic Chatra Sibir, the student wing of the Jamet-e-Islami" and was attacked by them on many occasions.
 The Tribunal is satisfied that there is not a real chance that the [appellant] would experience serious harm amounting to persecution for a Convention reason on this basis if he returns to Bangladesh, either now or in the foreseeable future. ' 9 Later, the Tribunal said: '... the Tribunal accepts the above independent country information, over the claims made by the [appellant], shows that the courts in Bangladesh are independent and that people can rely on the courts.
 Accordingly, the Tribunal is satisfied that even if legal action is taken against him over property rights, human rights or indeed the claimed false charges, the [appellant] could appeal to the courts for independent consideration of his entitlements and legal protection and so finds that there is not a real chance that will be subjected to serious harm amounting to persecution for a Convention reason on this basis. ' 10 The Tribunal also said: '... the Tribunal is satisfied that if for any reason the [appellant] did not want to return to Dhaka because of a fear of being attacked or for any reason whatsoever, it would be reasonable for him as a young man with established skills as a cook and actor to live in another part of Bangladesh.
 Moreover, and based on independent country information put to the [appellant] at the hearing ... the Tribunal is also satisfied that if he chose to live elsewhere in Bangladesh, and even if he continues to espouse his views on Islam and it becomes known that he is a non believer, there is not a real chance that he will be subjected to serious harm amounting to persecution for a Convention reason on this or any other basis. ' 11 Finally, the Tribunal said: '...
 On this basis, the Tribunal fell into jurisdictional error. ' 13 Scarlett FM was ' satisfied that no jurisdictional error had been demonstrated ', and the decision being a privative clause decision, dismissed the application. 14 Concerning the appellant's complaint about the manner in which the Tribunal dealt with the appellant's return to Bangladesh in October 2002, the Federal Magistrate found that the Tribunal did not consider the appellant's return to Bangladesh as a factor negating the existence of a well-founded fear of persecution, but as a piece of evidence on which the Tribunal was entitled to rely in deciding whether or not there was a well-founded fear of persecution at the time of the hearing.
 His Honour held that there is no obligation under s 424A of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act') for the Tribunal to reveal its thought processes, relying on VAF v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs (2004) 206 ALR 471 at par 24, and SZEEU v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] FCAFC 2 (' SZEEU ') at par 206 per Allsop J . 15 Scarlett FM found ground one, which was styled ' the house attack ' claim, did not reveal jurisdictional error. 16 Scarlett FM considered the second ground, being the claim that the appellant's incarceration before the charges against him were ventilated in the corrupt lower courts constituted persecution, a claim that the Tribunal had failed to consider.
 So long as there is some basis for an inference --- in other words, the particular inference is reasonably open --- even if that inference appears to have been drawn as a result of illogical reasoning, there is no place for judicial review because no error of law has taken place. ' 25 In Minister for Immigration v Eshetu [1999] HCA 21 ; (1999) 197 CLR 611 (' Eshetu '), Gummow J at p 657 propounded the test of 'reasonableness review'.
 His Honour said: 'It would permit review in cases where the satisfaction of the decision---maker was based on findings or inferences of fact which were not supported by some probative material or logical grounds. ' 26 Gummow J commented that the fact finding and reasoning of the Tribunal in Eshetu was discussed in the judgment of the Chief Justice and McHugh J, and said at p 657: 'They show that its decision was not based on findings or inferences of fact which were not supported by some probative material or could not be supported on logical grounds.
 Scarlett FM found no error in the Tribunal's finding that the appellant did not have a well-founded fear of persecution based on a Convention reason. 30 The final ground alleging a breach of s 424A(1) of the Act was that responses by the appellant to questioning by the Tribunal is ' information ' which falls within the exception to the application of s 424A , found in s 424A(3)(b).
