 The usual experience in drug discovery is that many hundreds or thousands of compounds will be synthesised and screened in the course of a drug discovery program before even a single compound is identified and selected for pre-clinical and clinical (human) trials on the ground that it has sufficient activity in an in vitro assay.
 The determination of what to synthesise, the carrying out of the synthesis of the compounds to be tested and discovery of activity by screening of those compounds leading to the identification of a compound or compounds for pre-clinical and clinical trials (or failure to do so), is only the first step in the drug discovery process.
 Table 1 does not report on the biological activity of the R-trans enantiomer, the S-trans enantiomer or unequal mixtures of the S-trans and R-trans enantiomers. 136 The examples are illustrative only, as the text of the specification states, but Ranbaxy contends that it is significant that they produce only racemates.
 The reactions of example 1 produce racemic atorvastatin lactone; example 2 produces racemic atorvastatin sodium salt; and the reactions of examples 3 and 4 produce racemates which according to structural formula I are not atorvastatin. 137 The body of the specification uses the notation R*R* on several occasions.
 Here, the question is whether the Enantiomer Patent claims a different class of compounds having characteristics and constituents that were identified by the US Patent and the 981 Patent; or whether it is nothing but a claim for a known compound with known properties.
 It contended that racemic atorvastatin lactone was a known compound with known properties that were reported in Table 1 (compound 1) of the 981 Patent specification, and that the activity of this racemate is, and was, known to be due to the RR enantiomer.
 In my opinion, the CSI Table does not contain a fair representation of all of the data available to Warner-Lambert, whether attention is focused on the CSI tests alone or whether that data is assessed in combination with the COR assays and AICS data.
 Dr Scallen also observed in his affidavit evidence that, in contrast, the R sodium salt and the R calcium salt showed good agreement in CSI 122, as would be expected. 315 After some equivocation, Dr Roth said that, in general, the results for the racemic sodium salt and the racemic calcium salt should be equivalent or similar.
 This further indicates a problem with CSI 118 ...'. 322 In cross-examination, Dr Watson also said that the results for the racemic calcium and the racemic sodium salt in CSI 118 should not be so different, given that in the assay they both equilibrate and form the acid.
 I have already held that, on its proper construction, the Enantiomer Patent specification represents that Warner-Lambert had found that the R-trans enantiomer achieved surprising and unexpected inhibition of the biosynthesis of cholesterol in the order of a ten-fold increase above the activity levels of the racemate, and that this representation was false and misleading: at [253] and [367].
