 There is a cognate power in bankruptcy (cf Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth), s 133(9) ; see National Bank Ltd v Leroy; In the matter of Woo [2003] FCA 862). 2 Section 568F is in the following terms: ' 568F Court may dispose of disclaimed property (1) The Court may order that disclaimed property vest in, or be delivered to: (a) a person entitled to the property; or (b) a person in or to whom it seems to the Court appropriate that the property be vested or delivered; or (c) a person as trustee for a person of a kind referred to in paragraph (a) or (b). (2) The Court may make an order under subsection (1): (a) on the application of a person who claims an interest in the property, or is under a liability in respect of the property that this Act has not discharged; and (b) after hearing such persons as it thinks appropriate. (3) Subject to subsection (4), where an order is made under subsection (1) vesting property, the property vests immediately, for the purposes of the order, without any conveyance, transfer or assignment. (4) Where: (a) a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory requires the transfer of property vested by an order under subsection (1) to be registered; and (b) that law enables the order to be registered; the property vests in equity because of the order but does not vest at law until that law has been complied with. ' 3 The first question is whether the property in issue is 'disclaimed property' within the meaning of s 568F(1). 4 Condobolin Bila CDEP Limited (the company) purchased a property, 34 William Street Condobolin (being folio identifiers A/302799 and 1/101395), in 2002.
 Section 568(1) is in the following terms (so far as is relevant): '(1) Subject to this section, a liquidator of a company may at any time, on the company's behalf, by signed writing disclaim property of the company that consists of: (a) land burdened with onerous covenants; or ... (c) property that is unsaleable or is not readily saleable; or (d) property that may give rise to a liability to pay money or some other onerous obligation; or (e) property where it is reasonable to expect that the costs, charges and expenses that would be incurred in realising the property would exceed the proceeds of realising the property; ...' 7 The result of the funding agreement and the purposes agreement was that there were significant positive and negative obligations imposed upon the company in relation to the use and disposition of the property.
 The property is 'disclaimed property'. 9 The usual position upon disclaimer would be that the company's interest in the property would estreat to the Crown in right of New South Wales subject to any charges ( Re Middle Harbour Investments Ltd at 662---663; Re Tulloch Ltd (in liq) (1977) 3 ACLR 808; National Bank Ltd v Leroy; In the matter of Woo at [5]).
 The evidence is that that office does not hold the certificates of title and that enquiries of the relevant officer of the liquidator indicate that the certificates of title were not amongst the records of the company. 12 In view of the evidence concerning the loss or destruction of the certificates of title, it is appropriate that an order be made pursuant to s 138 of the Real Property Act 1900 (NSW) to cancel those certificates and issue new certificates reflecting the vesting.
