 Thus under the heading "Benefits" the following appears in each document: "Benefits Pine needles Pest proofing Rainwater collection improves Estimated 20 year life Potential health problems alleviated Safety issues" 7 When one turns to the body of each document, under the heading "Pine needle problems" the Leafbusters document reads: "The Leafbusters mesh will keep out 99% of pine needles.
 A rule of thumb: what stays on the roof stays on the mesh, but the gutters are still clean as a whistle. " The only change in the Four Seasons document is the deletion of "Leafbusters" and the insertion of "Four Seasons". (iii) GSF Disclosure Statement 8 This document is a requirement of the Franchising Code of Conduct, which is a mandatory code of conduct under s 51AD of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
 Leafbusters' claim here is not based on copyright infringement or disclosure of confidential information but rather an alleged misleading and deceptive statement, contrary to s 52 of the Act: (a) that there are no corporate associates, or associates that are not body corporates, of the franchisor (GSF); (b) that there are no current proceedings alleging contravention of trade practices law or misconduct; and (c) that there is not any judgment or pending proceeding that could significantly affect the ownership or use of intellectual property. 9 As to (a), I will assume that Four Seasons is a "corporate associate" of GSF.
 Any inaccuracy in these representations is minor and technical and would not warrant an injunction restraining use of the whole document. 10 As to (b), the document includes the following statement: " Note : The franchisor notes that in 2004 Four Seasons Gutter Protection Pty Ltd, Derek Murphy and Michelle Murphy instituted defamation proceedings against Leafbusters Pty Ltd and Theofani Tsioris in the Victorian division of the Federal Court of Australia.
 The judgments of the Court can be viewed by typing in Four Seasons on www.federalcourt.gov.au under the 'Search Judgments' option. " Counsel for Leafbusters submitted that this did not "disclose the nature of the proceedings by Leafbusters, which include allegations of contravention of trade practices law and misconduct".
 There has been no attempt to hide behind the fact that at the time the document was issued GSF was not a party to the litigation. 11 As to (c), the prescribed form only requires disclosure as to any judgment etc that could affect "the intellectual property".
 In a previous answer "the relevant intellectual property" has been described as the words "Four Seasons Gutter Protection" and logo and patents pending as to the Four Seasons mesh in respect of which Four Seasons holds a licence from the manufacturer Tapex Pty Ltd.
 As I have said, the present litigation has been adequately disclosed. 12 There is not a serious issue to be tried in respect of the GSF Disclosure Statement. (iv) GSF Franchise Agreement 13 The GSF Franchise Agreement is a straight, word for word copy of a complex 43 page legal agreement used by Leafbusters.
 In the non-competition covenant the name of GSF appears but with an ACN that is Leafbusters'. 14 The Leafbusters agreement was prepared by Ebsworth and Ebsworth in about October 1999 for the Leafbusters' parties at a cost of approximately $50,000. 15 If Ebsworth and Ebsworth is the owner of the copyright for the purposes of an interlocutory injunction there is sufficient material to infer that arguably Leafbusters have an implied licence to sue for infringement on that firm's behalf.
 In substance the only discretionary argument put was that of laches. 20 Four Seasons' solicitor Dr Charles Birch deposed that by letter dated 13 October 2005 Leafbusters' solicitors made the same assertions in relation to Four Seasons' "2005 Four Seasons Franchise Opportunity Folder" which contained very similar documents to those in the 2006 version. 21 Dr Birch said in a letter dated 14 October 2005 that he would seek a copy of the Four Seasons Specifications Book from his clients and compare it with that of Leafbusters. (There was also correspondence at this time about the Disclosure Statement, but as this will not be the subject of injunctive relief no more need be said. ) 22 By a letter dated 3 November 2005 Dr Birch forwarded a copy of the Four Seasons Specification Book to Leafbusters' solicitors, but it is said they made no complaint until the service of the present notice of motion on 13 July 2006.
 It appears the 2006 Four Seasons Franchise Opportunity Folder came into possession of Leafbusters in late May/early June 2006. 23 Dr Birch's forwarding of the Four Seasons Specification Book, in contrast to his forwarding of the Disclosure Statement on 2 November 2005, was not subject to a stipulation that Leafbusters' solicitors not release it to this client. 24 Nevertheless, while delay is a relevant factor for the exercise of a discretion it is not conclusive.
