 Schaefer contends that the SEF was therefore not prepared in accordance with law and that it thereby vitiates the subsequent Trade Measures Report as well as the Minister's decision. 13 Schaefer makes this claim notwithstanding that it took up the statutory opportunity accorded to it to make submissions in response to the SEF.
 In particular, Schaefer contends that the primary findings of fact made in the Report do not, as a matter of law, support the finding made by the CEO that the dumping caused material injury. 15 Schaefer relies for this contention upon the provisions of ss 269TEA(1)(d) and 269TG(1) of the Act.
 The effect of these provisions is that the CEO is to make recommendations which enable the Minister to reach a state of satisfaction as to whether there is a causal link between the export price and material injury to the Australian industry. 16 In the Trade Measures Report, Customs dealt with five tender contracts won by Schaefer for the supply of MGBs to local councils or their waste contractors.
 Customs was satisfied that in each of the five tenders price was a "key factor" and "pivotal" to the outcome. 17 However, Schaefer contends that the primary findings of fact recorded in the Report do no more than establish that price was "relevant", not causative. 18 Schaefer also contends that the CEO had evidence before him that factors other than the price of the goods influenced the decision of each of the five purchasers of the MGBs to award the contract to Schaefer.
 The total in the Report is 900,000 to 1 million units, but these include MGBs other than the 120 litre and 240 litre size. 78 In the Report (but not in the SEF) Customs estimates that the contracts awarded to Schaefer in the investigation period represented 8% of the total market. 79 Pages 30 to 31 of the Trade Measures Report are particularly important.
 Despite the claims of Schaefer and Handybin in response to the SEF, Customs is not satisfied that the EN840 specification was a determining factor in the selection of MGBs for the Coffs Coast contract. 93 In the SEF and the Report, Customs states that two Malaysian suppliers had exported MGBs to Australia at dumped prices during the investigation period.
 The Report states that this is significant in terms of the total market and the tender market over the relevant period. 95 The SEF and the Report also state that the Malaysian exports resulted in price depression of 120 litre MGBs by approximately 8% and that price depression in 240 litre MGBs had a flow on effect to the price of all other MGBs. 96 The SEF and the Report go on to consider whether injury to Australian industry was caused, or threatened, by a factor other than dumped imports.
 What is required is the material findings of fact which the CEO actually made and upon which he based his recommendation; see Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Yusuf [2001] HCA 30 ; (2001) 206 CLR 323 at [67] - [68] . 166 The CEO is required by s 269TEA(5)(b) of the Act to provide particulars of the evidence relied on in support of the findings.
 The question which then arises is whether it was irrational, perverse or unreasonable for the CEO not to accept the contractor's statements that factors other than price were determinative. 218 It seems to me that the CEO dealt with the contractor's evidence in the passage I have set out at [97].
 His acknowledgment that "perceptions about quality and service were relevant", was sufficient to address the remarks made by the Coffs contractor as recorded in the confidential site visit report. 219 The CEO went on to find that, notwithstanding this evidence, it was clear to Customs that price was a "key factor".
 The CEO was therefore required to take it into account in the Trade Measures Report; see s 269TEA(3)(iii). 238 An examination of the evidence before the CEO on the question of the relative significance of price and non-price factors shows that there was sufficient to support a finding of causation.
 The passages which I have set out at [97], [100] and [102] show that he considered and weighed the non-price factors (eg. quality and service) against price (including payment terms). 241 Different minds may well have come to different conclusions on the question of whether price was the key factor.
