 INTRODUCTION 1 By notice of motion filed on 2 February 2006, the applicant ('Mr Knight') seeks leave to join three additional respondents: Beyond Productions Pty Ltd as sixth respondent, Simon Schuster Inc t/as Simon Spotlight Entertainment ('S S') as seventh respondent, and John Wiley Sons Inc ('Wiley') as eighth respondent. 2 Associated with the proposed joinder, he also moves for leave to file a second further amended application and a further amended statement of claim. 3 Beyond Productions Pty Ltd is associated with the first respondent, Beyond Properties Pty Ltd, and the second respondent, Beyond International Ltd, and there is no objection to its joinder as sixth respondent.
 Mr Knight's allegations are as follows. 6 Mr Knight, also known as 'Bowvayne', is an internationally acclaimed writer who is, and at all material times has been, involved in the writing of novels and the development of television programs. 7 Beyond comprises three Australian companies that are involved in the production and distribution of television programs. 8 The third respondent, Discovery Communications Inc ('Discovery'), is a foreign corporation that carries on business as a distributor of television programs and pay television broadcaster, and operates the 'Discovery Channel' in Australia. 9 The fourth respondent, the Special Broadcasting Service Corporation ('SBS'), is a statutory corporation that carries on business as a national free-to-air television broadcaster. 10 The fifth respondent, Foxtel Management Pty Ltd ('Foxtel'), is an Australian company that carries on business as a pay television broadcaster. 11 Since 1988, Mr Knight has continuously carried on, in Australia and internationally, a business of, inter alia , writing novels and developing, writing, producing and selling television programs all concerning the investigation of myths, under or by reference to the name and (common law) mark 'MYTHBUSTERS'.
 In addition, Beyond has licensed, authorised or permitted Discovery, SBS and Foxtel to broadcast and promote, or to procure the broadcasting and promotion of, the series in Australia and elsewhere, and they have in fact done so. 14 Mr Knight asserts that the conduct described has given rise to various misrepresentations in contravention of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ('the TP Act') and to various forms of passing off, by Beyond, Discovery, SBS and Foxtel. 15 The motion to join S S and Wiley arises from the alleged publication by them in Australia and elsewhere without his authority of two books which include the word 'MYTHBUSTERS' in their titles: in S S's case the book, Mythbusters: the Explosive Truth Behind 30 of the Most Perplexing Urban Legends of All Time ('the S S book'), and in Wiley's case the book Mythbusters: Don't try this at home ('the Wiley book'). 16 Mr Knight claims that by doing so, S S and Wiley have also made misrepresentations in contravention of s 52 of the TP Act and engaged in various forms of passing off. 17 Mr Knight became aware of the publication of the two books in about mid to late 2005.
 There is also evidence that the S S book is being sold in a Dymocks bookstore in George Street Sydney. 18 Mr Knight learned of the Wiley book on 28 January 2006 when a staff member of the Angus and Robertson bookstore in Adelaide told him that it was due to be released in bookstores within seven days from that date.
 It informs that person as to whom he or she may join as co-applicants or as respondents. 21 A person cannot be made an applicant without his or her consent: O 6 r 8(2). 22 If there is a dispute over whether a person who has been joined as an applicant or respondent falls within para (a), there may be a challenge of wrongful joinder. 23 Addition of parties requires leave of the court, at least because it requires amendment of the application, and, since an application is not a pleading (see the definition of 'pleading' in FCR O 1 r 4), amendment of it always requires leave under O 13 r 1 (contrast the limited right to amend a pleading without leave under O 13 r 3). 24 Accordingly, even where the criteria of para (a) of O 6 are satisfied, an applicant needs the Court's leave to add respondents (or applicants). 25 Rule 2 (b) does not in terms limit the circumstances in which the Court may grant leave.
 Even if para (b) were limited to para (a) cases, para (b) would still have work to do: the Court might refuse leave because of considerations arising from the applicant's failure to join the parties at the outset, any delay of the applicant in seeking leave, the state of progression of the proceeding, any disruption likely to arise from the addition of parties, and other discretionary factors.
 CONSIDERATION 27 Mr Knight could not have joined S S and Wiley at the outset because the facts giving rise to his claims against them (the publishing of the two books) occurred subsequently. 28 If a separate proceeding were brought by Mr Knight against S S and Wiley, it appears that some common questions of law and fact would arise in that proceeding and the present proceeding (see para (i) of r 2(a)), namely, questions relating to Mr Knight's reputation in Australia in connection with the name 'MYTHBUSTERS'.
 It may be, however, that even in relation to this issue, there would be differences between the two proceedings, one proceeding relating to Mr Knight's reputation with television viewers and the other relating to his reputation with the buyers and readers of books. 29 The rights to relief claimed in the two proceedings would clearly not be 'in respect of or arise out of the same transaction or series of transactions': cf Payne v Young [1979] HCA 39 ; (1980) 145 CLR 609.
 The evidentiary fields which would be covered by Mr Knight's claim against Beyond, Discovery, SBS and Foxtel in connection with the television series, and that covered by his claim against S S and Wiley in connection with publication of the two books, would, it seems, be quite different. 30 The inconvenience to the two groups of respondents of having to participate in a hearing in which a substantial number of the issues and a substantial part of the evidence would be no concern of theirs, must be weighed against the inconvenience to Mr Knight of having to prove his reputation (or reputations) in separate proceedings. 31 In my view, the weighing exercise favours the respondents.
 The respondents rely on a 'Brand Licence Agreement' between S S and Discovery Licensing Inc, by which Discovery Licensing Inc granted to S S the right to use certain trade names, trade marks, logos and copyrighted material of the Discovery Channel program 'MYTHBUSTERS' to develop, publish, sell and distribute a 'MYTHBUSTERS' fan book in the United States, its territories and possessions and Canada.
 According to an affidavit sworn 24 February 2006 of Emily Remes, Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of S S, S S has not been licensed the right to sell or authorise the sale of the S S book or of any other 'MYTHBUSTERS' fan book in Australia and has not done so. 33 There is also in evidence a brand licence agreement between Wiley and Discovery Licensing Inc dated 23 March 2005 under which Discovery Licensing granted Wiley the right to use certain trade names, trade marks and logos of the Discovery Channel program 'MYTHBUSTERS' to develop, publish, sell and distribute a 'MYTHBUSTERS' book in the United States its territories and possessions and Canada. 34 Counsel for the respondents agreed that her objection to the joinder as outlined above was in substance a submission that joinder would be futile because no reasonable cause of action would be disclosed and the proceeding would be liable to be summarily dismissed as against S S and Wiley under FCR O 20 r 2. 35 I do not accept the submission.
