 However, for present purposes I assume the validity of the patent and the fact of its contravention by ACOC by the means described. 7 In its defence, the Territory also says that, even if those allegations were made out, it is not liable as an infringer of the patent under s 117 of the Act.
 What has been "supplied" by the Territory to ACOC is the timber, and ACOC has then used bark and wood from the timber to produce blue cypress oil. 16 The timber, or bark and wood from the timber, is but an input into the process by which the (assumed) infringing blue cypress oil by ACOC was produced.
 Consequently, the "supply" of the timber by the Territory to ACOC did not activate s 117(1) at all because the "use" referred to must be an infringing use. 17 Section 13(1) provides a patentee with exclusive rights to exploit the invention or to authorise another person to do so.
 The term "exploit" is defined in Sch 1 to the Act as including: "(a) where the invention is a product --- make, hire, sell or otherwise dispose of the product, offer to make, sell, hire or otherwise dispose of it, use or import it, or keep it for the purpose of doing any of those things; or (b) where the invention is a method or process --- use the method of process or do any act mentioned in paragraph (a) in respect of a product resulting from such use. " It therefore appears that the exclusive rights of the Collins through the patent, it being a process patent, are to use the process to make, sell, hire or otherwise dispose of the product resulting from its use.
 The distinguishing feature, it was said, was that the Territory had "written off" the trees on the Howard Springs land as a commercial crop for use as timber (which they described as included within the term silverculture) in November 1995, and therefore that the Territory thereafter regarded the Howard Springs land as only suitable for clearing so that the licences permitting the removal of the timber were merely part of a "salvage" operation.
 Clearly the timber retained some commercial value because ACOC was prepared to become a licensee of the Territory so as to enter on the Howard Springs land and to remove the timber for its commercial purposes, and to pay to the Territory a licence fee for being able to do so.
 Indeed, the evidence discloses that it was not simply ACOC, but the Collins and others, who were interested in negotiating with the Territory for the right to enter the Howard Springs land and to remove and use the trees or the bark and wood from the trees. 33 The expression that the tree plantation be "written off" as a production area emerged from the recommendations in the Report from the House of Representatives Standing Committee on Expenditure, May 1978, entitled "Northern Territory Forestry Program" (AGPS, Canberra, 1978).
 It also confirms that in fact the timber on the Howard Springs land had, and continued to have, value to the Territory. 34 When the decision was taken that the trees in their then configuration were not suitable for their initially intended forestry use for timber, it was acknowledged that there were other commercial uses for it.
 Mr Collins' proposal suggested a substantial residual net worth of the timber. 35 Those views of Mr Collins, reflect the views of Peter Brocklehurst, forester, about the characteristics and uses of the timer. 36 It was in the light of there being residual commercial value in the timber, which the Territory recognised as including timber processing, oil production, woodchip production and for decorative purposes, that it exposed the utilisation of the timber to a public tender process.
 As noted, they do not rely upon subs 117(2)(a) or (c) for that purpose. 42 The second issue arising under s 117(2)(b) does not arise in view of the conclusion I have reached that the timber was a staple commercial product. 43 I note that the Territory submitted that, at the least, it needed to have reason to believe that the timber would be used by a combination of its bark and wood to produce blue cypress oil before it could be caught by the operation of s 117(2)(b).
 In my view, the Territory had reason to believe that ACOC would use the bark and wood from the timber in combination for the purpose of producing blue cypress oil. 46 There is no direct evidence by which the Territory or its officers is shown to have acknowledged an awareness of the fact that the patent required the process of mixing a combination of bark and wood from the timber.
