 Introduction 1 By an application filed on 29 June 2006 the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) applied for the winding up of thirteen companies in the Westpoint Property and Finance Group.
 In each case the demand was supported by an affidavit verifying that the amount of the debt claimed was due and owing by the company to Westpoint Corporation. 7 The verifying affidavits depended upon examination of the books and records of Westpoint Corporation by Mr Zohar.
 The application is also required to be accompanied by an affidavit verifying that the debt or the total of the amounts of the debts is due and payable by the company. 23 Section C of the application set out particulars of service of the demand on each of the respondents as required by s 459Q(a).
 It had accumulated losses for prior periods of $161,000. (b) As at 31 January 2006 the Unit Trust had: (i) cash on deposit of $2,497.57; (ii) non-current assets comprising loans to Quartz Trust of $712,000; (iii) current liabilities to Westpoint Corporation $172,500; (iv) no non-current liabilities; (v) net positive assets of $539,000.
 If a member of the Group incurred an expense such as a debt to a subcontractor that debt would be paid by Westpoint Corporation and recorded as money owing by the member company to Westpoint Corporation.
 Westpoint Corporation would simply "alter the loan account balance". 60 Mr Carey was pressed in cross-examination with the proposition that any debts owing by Westpoint Corporation to a member company would not be recoverable because Westpoint Corporation was in liquidation.
 He maintained however that the debts owed to Westpoint according to the Triumph accounting system could be offset by debts owed by Westpoint for "income" which had not been recorded by way of invoices from the member companies or adjustments to the loan accounts. 61 Mr Carey was directed to a record of reductions in the Pagelight Nominees' loan account with Westpoint Corporation for the period 1 July 2005 to 31 January 2006.
 This work had not been billed to Westpoint Corporation. 63 As to Bridgeview and the alleged error in the attribution of liabilities as between Bridgeview and Forestview, Mr Carey was unable, in cross-examination, to explain with any precision how that error occurred.
 The presumption applies to satisfy the condition of a prima facie case of insolvency necessary to ground ASIC's application for leave to apply for each of the respondents to be wound up in insolvency. 65 I am satisfied that ASIC should be granted leave to apply to wind up these companies.
 It has been put in a position, because of orders made affecting companies in the Westpoint Group generally, to access the information and records necessary to assess the circumstances of member companies in the Group.
 ASIC which can bring this application against all the respondents at the same time is not confined, as an individual creditor would be, to a particular respondent or respondents owing money to the creditor.
