 The basis of his claim to refugee status, as it was crystallised by the Refugee Review Tribunal, was that if he was returned to India he would suffer persecution for reason of his membership of a particular social group being "persons who have been convicted of sexual offences on children".
 Be that as it may, even if the Tribunal were to accept that the applicant's ex-wife were able to find the location of the applicant in India and were able to somehow publicise his history and the applicant were to be harmed to a degree that could be construed as persecution, the reason would not be because of his membership of any group but because of his actual crimes.
 They are summarised by Gleeson CJ and Gummow and Kirby JJ in Applicant S v Minister for Immigration Multicultural Affairs [2004] HCA 25 ; (2004) 217 CLR 387 at [36] : "First, the group must be identifiable by a characteristic or attribute common to all members of the group.
 It is whether the Tribunal asked and/or properly answered the correct question, hence the reliance upon observations in the joint judgments in Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Yusuf [2001] HCA 30 ; (2001) 206 CLR 323 at [82] and Re Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs; Ex parte Applicant S20/2002 (2003) 198 ALR 59 at [34]-[37] which point up the various routes by which jurisdictional error may be demonstrated.
 I am in consequence asked to infer error from the sequencing of the sentences in the paragraph, the inaptness of some of what is demanded (e.g. "concrete manifestation") and the failure to locate the question in its Indian context. 7 The Minister's submission is that the Tribunal posed the correct question for itself as to whether "one can talk of such a particular social group and in India".
 In any event, it is said the Tribunal concluded that were the applicant to be harmed in India to a degree amounting to persecution, "the reason would not be because of his membership of any group but because of his actual crimes". 8 My own view, which reflects what the applicant has submitted, can be put shortly.
 By discountenancing that there was such a "group" in the manner in which it did, the Tribunal never reached the third Applicant S criteria, let alone a consideration of whether that group was a "particular social group in India" having regard either to societal perceptions in India and to "cultural [etc] factors relevant to India": cf Applicant S at [34]-[35], [68]-[69]. 11 The differentiating characteristic advanced by the applicant was not so semantically uncertain as to render it too uncertain as a criteria for differentiating those to whom it did apply, from those to whom it did not.
 Few, though, of such groups will constitute "particular social groups" in the sense that the characteristic or attribute which individually identifies such groups, distinguishes the groups from society at large. 13 Because of what I infer was the Tribunal's erroneous analysis of the "group" requirement, it failed to address the principal issue before it which was whether, in India, the claimed group was a particular social group.
 From the manner in which it disregarded "the cultural, religious and other factors relevant to India", it equally appears that it misapprehended as well what the third Applicant S criteria would have required of it. 14 The respondent sought to rob this conclusion of legal significance by relying upon the later finding of the Tribunal which, it is claimed, was independently decisive of the matter.
 That was that: "... even if the Tribunal were to accept that the applicant's ex-wife were able to find the location of the applicant in India and were able to somehow publicise his history and the applicant were to be harmed to a degree that could be construed as persecution, the reason would not be because of his membership of any group but because of his actual crimes. " 15 This finding, in my view, is founded upon and reflects the earlier finding that there was not a group as claimed, hence persecution of the applicant would be for his crimes.
 I need only instance societies in which adultery or homosexuality can attract persecutory conduct: cf Appellant S395/2002 v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs [2003] HCA 71 ; (2003) 216 CLR 473; see also Ram v Minister of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs (1995) 57 FCR 565 at 568-569. 16 My conclusion necessitates that this matter be remitted to the Tribunal to be heard and determined according to law.
 Whether or not the applicant will be found to belong to a particular social group and whether he has a well founded fear of persecution if returned to India for reasons of membership of that group are questions yet to be answered. 17 I make the following orders: 1.
