 (REVISED FROM TRANSCRIPT) Introduction 1 This is an appeal from a decision and orders of Federal Magistrate Riethmuller dated 10 July 2006 dismissing an application for review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal handed down on 6 September 2005.
 It went on to say that the appellant claimed that as long as the one child policy existed in China he would not be treated fairly. 4 The Tribunal observed that the appellant claimed he had suffered harm because he and his partner had a child at a time when he was unmarried.
 However, it referred to the observations of Brennan CJ and also those of McHugh J pointing to the principle that, without evidence of selectivity in the enforcement of a law of general application, such an application of the law will not amount to persecution for a Convention reason. 6 The Tribunal concluded its reasons by stating as follows: Looking at the evidence as a whole, the Tribunal is satisfied that any harm suffered by the applicant is a result of a law of general application.
 Accordingly, the Federal Magistrate was of the view that the alleged breach of s 424A was not made out. 8 The second ground of review was that the Tribunal did not make a genuine and realistic attempt to arrive at its decision in a bona fide manner.
 The learned Federal Magistrate said that the fact that the Tribunal did not believe the appellant about the matters that he claimed does not establish that the Tribunal failed to make a genuine and realistic attempt to reach a bona fide decision.
 However, it is clear in my view that this ground of appeal cannot succeed because it is contrary to the well-established principles that apply to the provisions of s 65 of the Migration Act . 11 It is well established that s 65(1) does not require the decision-maker to reach a decision to refuse to grant a visa only if a particular matter is established.
 Rather, what is required is a refusal of an application if the decision-maker is not affirmatively satisfied that the criteria for the visa in question have been satisfied; see for example Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs v VSAF of 2003 [2005] FCAFC 73. 12 The first ground of appeal states in addition that the Federal Magistrates Court failed to give consideration to this claim.
 There is no such suggestion in the present case. 13 The second ground of appeal is that the Tribunal did not provide an opportunity to the appellant to comment on materials which the Tribunal relied upon in its decision and that the Tribunal made an error of procedural fairness in relation to the case.
 This ground of appeal must also fail. 14 Firstly, the natural justice hearing rule did not apply to the application for review because it was filed after the commencement of the operation of s 422B of the Migration Act ; see decision of the Full Court in Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs v Lat [2006] FCAFC 61 ; (2006) 151 FCR 214 at [60] to [67].
 See also SZCIJ v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs [2006] FCAFC 62 at [8] . 15 In any event there is no evidence before the court to demonstrate that the Tribunal member failed to provide the appellant with any opportunity to comment on the critical issues that arose for consideration and upon which the Tribunal member based her decision; see NAOA v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 241 at [21] . 16 To the extent that the second ground of appeal seeks to raise a breach of s 424A(1) of the Migration Act , I do not consider that such an argument can succeed.
 That paragraph has been applied and adopted by other Full Courts. 18 Even if there was information which fell within s 424A(1) of the Migration Act , the information about China's one child policy dealt with an exception contained in s 424A(3)(a) ; see Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs v NAMW [2004] FCAFC 264 ; (2004) 140 FCR 572 at [138] .
