 The first and second respondents file an affidavit stating whether any of the documents or classes of documents referred to in the schedule to this application is or has been in their possession, custody or power and, if it has been but is not then in their possession, custody or power when they parted with it, such affidavit to be filed and served within 7 days of the date of this order. 2.
 The first and second respondents and the solicitors for the first and second respondents file and serve an affidavit within 14 days of the date of this order stating the grounds and reasons why the documents contained in the schedule prepared by the first and second respondents and tendered to the Court on 17 July 2006 --- (a) were not discovered in the first and second respondents' List of Documents filed 29 March 2006; and/or (b) were not discovered by Supplementary List of Documents between 29 March 2006 and the date of the delivery of the first and second respondents' statements to the applicants; and/or (c) have not yet been discovered. 4.
 Communication between Strahley and Wheeler (par 42 Strahley affidavit) 61 The respondents have indicated they have already discovered a document which satisfies this description, and the applicants did not press this claim in correspondence with the respondents. 62 In my view no order for discovery should be made.
 Emails concerning drafting of budgets (par 46 Strahley affidavit) 63 The respondents have indicated they have already discovered documents which satisfy this description, and it appears that the applicants did not press this claim in correspondence with the respondents. 64 In my view no order for discovery should be made.
 Accordingly, the applicants submit that the documents are not in their possession, but are in the possession of the administrator, and they cannot discover them. 112 The respondents submitted that a number of the applicants' responses to requests concerning the documents simply state that the documents are not in their possession.
 The respondents also submit that if documents were in the applicants' possession, custody or power and no longer are, the applicants need to say so in the list of documents. 113 I do not understand the respondents to be submitting that all relevant financial records of the third applicant are not in the possession of the administrator.
 Accordingly, in my view it is unnecessary to order discovery of those documents (O 14 r 2(4)). 176 In relation to the management reports between 22 March 2005 and 23 June 2005, the respondents claimed they would lead to a train of inquiry which would advance their case or damage the applicants' case.
 I have already held that this test is inappropriate in this case. 177 However, the respondents in relation to documents between 22 March 2005 and 23 June 2005 also claim that the documents are relevant to loss or damage claimed by the second and third applicants as to causation and measure of loss.
 On the basis that, as submitted by the respondents, documents of that class are referred to in other documents discovered by the applicants in the circumstances, the appropriate order is that the applicants advise the respondents whether the document is in their custody or power, and if it is, the applicants should discover it.
 Also see Netaf Pty Ltd v Bikane Pty Ltd (1990) 92 ALR 490 at 494. 186 Other than in relation to the '100 day plan' referred to in item 58, and in relation to which an order will be made, it is not possible to identify whose documents these documents are.
