 His fianc came to Australia with him, but has returned to Indonesia as her visa was about to expire. 5 For the purposes of the company, Mr Sim procured through CBFC Limited (CBFC) in his own name certain camera and television production equipment under three hire purchase agreements in 2000 and 2001.
 It is unclear the extent to which the property the subject of the hire purchase agreements remains in Australia, and for how much it might be realised. 7 On 29 June 2006, CBFC applied in the Supreme Court of the Northern Territory (NTSC) for a warrant for the arrest of Mr Sim under the Absconding Debtors Act .
 On 10 July 2006 a judge of the NTSC ordered under ss 6 and 16 of the Absconding Debtors Act that a warrant issue for the arrest of Mr Sim for the purpose of preventing him from leaving the Northern Territory.
 A LAW RELATING TO THE IMPRISONMENT OF FRAUDULENT DEBTORS? 12 Section 60(1)(a) empowers the Court to discharge an order made against Mr Sim only if the order of 10 July 2006 is made 'under any law relating to the imprisonment of fraudulent debtors'.
 Section 78 of the Bankruptcy Act provides, inter alia, that a debtor against whom bankruptcy proceedings are issued may be arrested if the debtor has absconded, or is about to abscond, with a view to avoiding payment of his or her debts or with a view to preventing or delaying proceedings against him or her.
 Moreover, his trustee may communicate with Mr Sim in Indonesia. 32 I note also, as counsel for CBFC and the CBA indicated, there are other inquiries a trustee of Mr Sim's bankrupt estate would be likely to pursue and which could be undertaken in any event.
 Similar considerations apply to the enforcement and recovery process available in the event that the petition is dismissed. 34 I have also taken into account that Mr Sim is entitled to seek review of the orders of 10 July 2006 and 4 August 2006 under the Absconding Debtors Act .
 That is not to say that it was inappropriate to have instituted the proceedings in the NTSC under the Absconding Debtors Act --- that was a matter for CBFC and the CBA --- but simply to reject one explanation for having done so.
 The reason for having done so, as appears from the transcript of the hearing in the SCNT and in his Honour's reasons at [63], is the judicial advantage under the Absconding Debtors Act compared to s 78 of the Bankruptcy Act that, as his Honour accepted, the Absconding Debtors Act does not require proof that Mr Sim was about to abscond with a view to avoiding payment of his debts.
 His trustee, assuming Mr Sim is made bankrupt, will then have sufficient time to investigate Mr Sim's affairs in such manner as the trustee may consider appropriate, and to arrange for Mr Sim to be examined under s 81 of the Bankruptcy Act.
