 On 19 September 2003, the appellant (and her husband) applied for a protection visa and, on 31 October 2003 a delegate of the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs ("the Minister") refused to grant the appellant a protection visa.
 The appellant sought review of that decision, and on 14 July 2004 the Tribunal affirmed the decision of the delegate and refused to grant the appellant a protection visa.
 On 26 August 2004, the appellant sought judicial review of the decision of the Tribunal and a Federal Magistrate dismissed that application on 24 May 2005. 2 On 4 July 2005, the appellant filed an application for an extension of time in which to file and serve a notice of appeal and an affidavit in support of that application.
 Background 3 The following is a summary of the appellant's claims made in support of her application for a protection visa taken from the Tribunal's reasons for decision. 4 The appellant is a citizen of the People's Republic of China and arrived in Australia on 9 September 2003.
 The Tribunal's reasons for decision 5 On 25 May 2004 the Tribunal informed the appellant by letter that it was unable to make a favourable decision on the material before it.
 By letter of 5 July 2004, the advisor informed the Tribunal that while the notification of the hearing date had been forwarded to the appellant, no response had yet been received and the advisor would not be appearing at the hearing on her behalf.
 The appellant did not appear at the hearing before the Tribunal and the presiding member proceeded to determine the application under s 426A of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ("the Act "). 6 In its reasons for decision, the Tribunal noted that further detailed evidence was required before it could be satisfied the appellant had a genuine fear of persecution and that there was a real chance she will be persecuted on returning to China.
 On the evidence before it, the Tribunal could not be satisfied that the appellant was active in Falun Gong and was detained by the Chinese authorities for three weeks in June 2000 and that, as a consequence, she had lost her job and experienced ongoing harassment.
 Counsel for the appellant contended that the Tribunal was obliged to give reasons for deciding to proceed to make a decision without taking any further action, either under the common law or because of s 430.
 In the present case, the Tribunal did not rely upon the failure of the applicant to refer to matters in the application for the protection visa, or any other material submitted by the appellant before the application for review, to support an inference that matters later referred to were false.
 In the present case, the Tribunal was simply articulating a reason why it had not reached the requisite level of satisfaction that the appellant had a well founded fear of persecution.
 I simply cannot see how the Tribunal can be viewed as having had an obligation (in order to provide the appellant with procedural fairness) to do or say anything before exercising the statutory power to decide the matter on the material the appellant had presented to that point.
 The appellant was on notice, by the letter dated 24 May 2004, that on the material then provided to the Tribunal it was unable to make a decision in her favour.
