 1 The appellant appeals from a judgment of Federal Magistrate Scarlett in which his Honour dismissed an application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal.
 The Tribunal had affirmed a decision of a delegate of the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs to refuse to grant a protection visa to the appellant. 2 The appellant is a citizen of the Republic of Korea, also known as South Korea.
 The appellant sought a merits review of that decision before the Refugee Review Tribunal. 4 In its reasons for decision, the Tribunal observed that it invited the appellant to give oral evidence before it at a hearing scheduled for 13 December 2005.
 The Tribunal noted it advised the appellant that if she did not attend the hearing and a postponement was not granted, the Tribunal would make a decision on her review application without further notice to her. 5 The Tribunal received no response to its invitation to the appellant.
 That course was available to the Tribunal under s 426A of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth). 6 The Tribunal accepted the appellant is a citizen of South Korea and is who she claims to be.
 It was not satisfied that she is or was a union member in South Korea or that she was persecuted or feared persecution there because of her union activities.
 She raised two issues: first, she contended the Tribunal breached s 424A of the Act and, second, the Tribunal failed to exercise its discretion under s 426A to hold a hearing. 8 The appellant claimed the Tribunal did not give her particulars of information which it considered would be the reason or part of the reason for affirming the decision under review.
 She claimed that the Tribunal had thereby breached s 424A. 9 Her counsel developed that argument by reference to the Tribunal's letter which invited the appellant to a hearing.
 The Tribunal did not reject the application on the basis of any information but rather on account of a lack of, or insufficiency of, information such that the claims of the appellant were characterised as "untested assertions"; see SZING v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs [2006] FCA 1421 at [4] to [5] and the authorities referred to in that judgment. 10 The appellant's submission based on s 426A is also without merit.
 The Tribunal had nothing before it on which it could exercise its discretion to defer making a decision on the application in circumstances where the appellant had not responded to an invitation to attend a hearing and failed to appear before the Tribunal. 11 The appeal is dismissed with costs.
