 The applicant was seeking to have declared invalid a decision to extend his period of probation as an Australian Public Service Commission ('APSC') employee, given on 17 September 2004, and a decision to terminate his employment made by a delegate of the APSC on 5 November 2004. 2 The applicant sought urgent consideration of the matter in this Court for reasons related to personal economic hardship, and the respondent cooperated in having the matter urgently heard.
 I proceed to deal with the substance of the appeal against his Honour's judgment. 6 The judgment was of course, as the respondent points out, a discretionary judgment, and the appeal cannot succeed unless, in accordance with well known authorities, the learned Magistrate has actually misunderstood some fact or consideration, or misapplied the law or some relevant principle.
 In discussion today, it appears that there might be other arguable matters upon which he could rely by way of an amendment to his process if the delay should be excused, and I proceed on that basis. 7 The applicant did not come to the court below until six months after the termination decision.
 The first was that the applicant's explanations of ignorance of the law were not accepted, and the explanation for the delay was insufficiently persuasive to justify the court enlarging, by a considerable number of months, the time for challenging the decision concerned. 8 The learned Magistrate did not accept some of the positive assertions made in evidence by the appellant.
 A solicitor friend with some background in employment law, whom he had consulted soon after the termination decision, advised the appellant that he had no legal recourse through the unfair or unlawful dismissal provisions of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) because he was, at the time of the termination of his employment, on probation, and that appears to have been correct advice. 9 It did not occur to that solicitor that the AD(JR) Act might apply to a decision to terminate the employment of a public service employee, nor would it have occurred to me.
 The scheme of the legislation provides an unexpected window of opportunity for a dismissed employee who is a probationer to come to the Court under the AD(JR) Act when a permanent officer/employee apparently could not. 10 The learned Magistrate took a view as to the appellant's explanation for delay that: 'the onus was on Mr Twining to resolve the issue. ' 11 It appears that the appellant investigated the AD(JR) Act for himself with the aid of the internet after a document, of some possible relevance to the probation decision, which he had lost, came to light again in early-mid March 2005.
 But, it seems to me, with great respect to the learned Magistrate, that it is an entirely reasonable explanation that when such a solicitor, with such a background, did not consider there was anything to be done, that the appellant did not promptly attempt to second-guess him by lay inquiries. 12 With respect, I think the learned Magistrate applied too heavy a test in relation to the adequacy of the explanation for the delay, although I acknowledge that considerable room must be given for individual reactions to such questions, and nothing I say is intended as any encouragement for people not to take responsibility for their own affairs. 13 The other basis upon which the learned Magistrate rejected the application was that there would be prejudice to public administration.
 Wilcox J, speaking of extensions of time generally and comparing the situation of public administration with that where merely private rights are involved, said (at 312): 'By contrast, in cases involving public administration, especially day-to-day matters such as personnel management, the public interest may well dictate refusal of an extension, even after only a short delay. ...
 An applicant concerned to challenge a decision which has implications for other people or for day-to-day public administration may properly be regarded as being under a heavier duty to act expeditiously than is an applicant who is aware that his case has no such implications. ' 14 The case for the respondent was that the APSC is: 'only a relatively small agency and the reinstatement of Mr Twining would impact on its administration'.
 Evidence accepted by his Honour showed that the APSC's current financial year budget provided for a reduction in staff numbers which would continue for at least another three financial years, that at the time the hearing before his Honour there was only one vacancy at the APS 3/4 level (the level at which the appellant had been engaged), and other matters.
 An adjustment would need to be made to [the respondent's] budget and programs offered by [the respondent, I gather to persons in the Australian Public Service Commission] could be affected. ' 15 Speaking for myself, I would not have attached the same weight to those matters as did his Honour.
 As I observed in the course of argument, to some extent these are co-extensive with questions that might arise in the Court's discretion as to whether a remedy might be granted if, otherwise, purely legal grounds of challenge to the termination decision were made out, and the matters could be more fully debated in that context.
