 His Honour concluded that the history of non-compliance by the applicant was such as to indicate an inability or unwillingness to cooperate with the Court and the other party in having the matter ready for trial within an acceptable period.
 His Honour was also satisfied that the way in which the proceeding had been conducted amounted to an abuse of process under O 20 r 2, such that the process was an instrument of injustice or unfairness to the respondents.
 An order for costs on a solicitor/client basis was founded upon the same findings. 3 Counsel for the applicant recognised the difficulty of upsetting an interlocutory judgment of this kind concerning matters of practice and procedure by the docket judge having an intimate knowledge of the progress of the case.
 The normal considerations to be taken into account are: (a) whether the judgment is attended by sufficient doubt to warrant it being reconsidered by a Full Court; and (b) whether substantial injustice would result if leave were refused supposing the decision to be wrong ( Decor Corporation Pty Ltd and Anor v Dart Industries Inc (1991) 33 FCR 397).
 Even if established, the result is unlikely to be different. 5 One question of potential importance is whether or not it is arguable that the finding that there had been a persistent failure by the applicant to identify any specific incident which had any connection with discrimination was wrong as that was the most significant basis upon which the decision was made.
 Upon examination, that material does not specify particular instances of discrimination in the sense used by Tamberlin J. 6 It was submitted that Tamberlin J did not take into account the fact that the Court in these matters is not bound by technicalities or legal form (s 46PR of the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 ).
 I do not regard the judge as having been concerned with technicalities or legal form but rather with the failure of the applicant to state her case in a manner which could be grappled with by the respondents and dealt with by the Court. 7 It was also submitted that the Court had not taken into account the fact that the applicant had been unrepresented until the notice of motion in question.
 The proceeding had been on foot for more than 12 months. 8 It was submitted that Tamberlin J failed to take into account the fundamental objective of Court process, being to decide cases brought to the Court ( The State of Queensland and Anor v JL Holdings Pty Limited [1997] HCA 1 ; (1997) 189 CLR 146 at 154).
 That argument does not meet the fundamental nature of the problem found by Tamberlin J. 10 It was submitted that the circumstances were not within those recognised as being appropriate for the grant of indemnity costs ( Colgate-Palmolive Company and Anor v Cussons Pty Limited (1993) 46 FCR 225; Re Wilcox; Ex parte Venture Industries Pty Ltd and Others (No 2) (1996) 72 FCR 151).
 I can see no arguable error of principle in the award of costs on a solicitor/client basis, bearing in mind the basis of the order of dismissal, the effect of which was that the proceeding had never been in appropriate form. 11 One aspect of the matter dealing with potential injustice to the applicant requires consideration, although it was not drawn to the attention of Tamberlin J, that is, the time limit for the commencement of the proceedings pursuant to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (s 46PH(1)(b) and s 46PO(2)).
 However, the Court can extend the time for commencing a proceeding and, subject to issues as to costs, it is difficult to imagine that time would not be extended if a properly framed claim was ready for prompt filing. 12 In my opinion, there is not sufficient doubt about the judgment in question to warrant the grant of leave to appeal, taking into account the potential effect upon the interests of the applicant.
