 Particulars a) The Tribunal did not provide the Applicant with particulars of information to the Applicant, in the Australian embassy reports or any other adverse materials, which formed part of the reasons of the Tribunal's decision dated 21 June 2002. b) The Refugee Review Tribunal Member erred in not finding that the delegate of the respondent had not dealt with, or not dealt in applicant's substantive way with, a key component of the applicant's claim, that the serious persecution will face on his return to Bangladesh in foreseeable future.
 By not dealing with this matter, there was a constructive failure to exercise jurisdiction on the part of the Tribunal, and or lack of procedural fairness. c) The Tribunal did not put to the Applicant its doubts about documents containing information personal to the Applicants from the Bangladeshi Authority and Bangladeshi Local court, and the other court case bought against him, and those doubts formed part of the reason for the Tribunal's decision. d) The RRT did not complete the exercise of its jurisdiction as it made no findings as to what sociopolitical changes might occur in Bangladesh in the reasonably foreseeable future and it thus failed to assess whether the applicants' fears of being persecuted by the Bangladeshi government were well founded in the reasonably foreseeable future. e) The honourable member of the Refugee Review Tribunal did not consider applicants physical torture by the opponent.
 Particulars (a) The applicant presented material to the Tribunal. (b) The Tribunal failed to consider that material. (c) The Tribunal failed to satisfy itself that nothing in that material could affect its decision. (d) The applicant provided all relevant material including his court case before the tribunal but the tribunal rejected that claims. (e) The applicant showed the injury in his head due to the well founded persecution and tortured by the opponent but the tribunal rejected the claim without any proper basis.
 Particulars (a) The RRT failed to provide written particulars of certain information forming part of the reason for its decision to affirm the refusal of the protection visa before making the decision to do so. (b) The Federal Magistrate failed to find this error as he, due to his mistaken construction of the s424A misconceived the duty the RRT was under in fulfilling its obligations under provision. ' The application to amend was granted and leave was given to file the amended notice of appeal. 7 The hearing took place after the decision of the High Court in SAAP Anor v Minister for Immigration and Indigenous Affairs [2005] HCA 24 ; (2005) 215 ALR 162 which, when taken together with the decision of the Full Court in Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Al Shamry [2001] FCA 919 ; (2001) 110 FCR 27, had caused considerable upheaval and uncertainty in the way these cases were dealt with. 8 The precise information that it was suggested should have been dealt with as provided for by s 424A could not be discerned from the written and oral submissions on behalf of the appellants.
