 On 16 May 2003 a delegate of the first respondent refused the application and on 29 May 2003 the appellant applied for a review of that decision. 4 In his application for a protection visa the appellant claimed that he is an ethnic Roma/Russian who has suffered discrimination in Lithuania for all of his life.
 The appellant claimed that he had been unable to find a good job in Lithuania since 1984 and had not been able to attain higher education.
 As a result, the appellant spent several years working abroad during the 1990s and up to 2002. 5 Upon his return to Lithuania in July 2002, the appellant claims that his home was raided on three occasions, allegedly because of his Roma ethnicity.
 A letter was sent by the Tribunal on 15 April 2004 and a reply was sent by the applicant on 5 May 2004. 14 On 14 September 2004, the Tribunal handed down its decision which concluded that the appellant was not entitled to a protection visa.
 The Tribunal also noted that the persistence of negative stereotypes about Roma and the general economic hardship in Lithuania caused popular resentment against measures to improve the situation of Roma as a disadvantaged group.
 It noted that the appellant did not suffer any significant physical harassment or ill-treatment and that there was no threat to his life or liberty.
 The issue of bias was not raised in the application to the Federal Magistrates Court, but it was raised in the appellant's submissions filed in that Court.
 The appellant subsequently filed an affidavit in the Federal Magistrates Court in which he directly raised the conduct of the Tribunal member at the hearing as the basis of his claim for bias.
 The Tribunal member in the present case was entitled to, and indeed obliged to, put adverse information to an application for a protection visa.
 As noted above, at one point she expressed the view that he was ' a typical example ' of a Lithuanian who had left Lithuania for work purposes. 26 The statements by the Tribunal member evincing her disbelief in the appellant's claims continued throughout the hearing.
 Tribunal members frequently are able to put adverse views to applicants for protection visas in a professional and objective manner such that no apprehension of bias could arise.
 Regardless of the findings made by the Tribunal member, her conduct at the hearing is such that it would give rise to a reasonable apprehension of bias. 33 For these reasons, I am satisfied that Nicholls FM erred in finding that the Tribunal decision was not affected by apprehended bias.
