 1 This is an application by Midamarine Pty Ltd ('the applicant') seeking interlocutory orders restraining DMC International Pty Ltd ('DMC') and David Maxwell Corrick ('Mr Corrick') from infringing Registered Design 151872 ('the Registered Design') for an 'inflatable surfcraft', and from infringing copyright in a Warning Label that the directors of the applicant say they wrote.
 Consequently, I decline to make any interlocutory order in respect of the alleged breach of copyright. 4 In respect of the claim for infringement, the matters in dispute seem to be whether there is an arguable case on infringement of the Registered Design, whether the Registered Design is valid, whether the balance of convenience favours the grant of the injunctions sought, and whether damages would be an adequate remedy. 5 By way of background, it is sufficient to note that the applicant applied for the Registered Design on 24 December 2001, which was granted on 27 May 2003.
 In particular, both surf mats contained the assertion, 'The shape of this inflated product is a Registered Design. ' 11 On 27 September 2006, the solicitors for the respondents applied for a Design Registration to the Patents Office for a 'surf craft' in the name of the first respondent.
 The fact that the Wavestar was left with Mr Corrick, the comparison of the two and the identity of the words used in the Warning on the back of the DMC surfmat and, in particular, ' the shape of this inflatable product is a Registered Design ', lead inevitably to the conclusion that the DMC product is a direct copy of the Wavestar. 13 The words on the Wavestar reflect the contention by Mr Arenson that the Wavestar is an embodiment of the Registered Design.
 The presence of those words on the DMC product is, in my opinion, damning evidence of copying by DMC of the Wavestar. 14 While now conceding that the DMC is a copy of the Wavestar, Miss Downes, counsel for the respondents, contends that the Wavestar is not an embodiment of the Registered Design, with a consequence that a copy of the Wavestar does not infringe the Registered Design.
 I am satisfied, for interlocutory purposes, that the applicant is the owner of a valid Registered Design. 16 Indeed, the attack on the validity of the Registered Design is seriously undermined by DMC's own application for registration of the design of the DMC product, which application is tainted with dishonesty and fraudulent claims.
 I accept that it has been acknowledged that that application will be withdrawn or otherwise expunged. 17 The principles governing the grant of interlocutory relief are well established, and have recently been reaffirmed by the High Court in Australian Broadcasting Corporation v O'Neill [2006] HCA 46 (' O'Neill ') at pars 19 and 65 and following.
 These are the organising principles, to be applied having regard to the nature and circumstances of the case, under which issues of justice and convenience are addressed ...' 18 The Registered Design claims a monopoly as follows: ' The monopoly claimed resides in the shape and configuration of the inflatable surfcraft as shown in the accompanying representations' .
 The significance of that feature, and of the difference in the location of the handles on the two physical surfmats in evidence, compared with the Registered Design, is ultimately a matter for final trial. 27 For present purposes, being the interlocutory purposes, I am satisfied that, to the eye, the shape of the DMC product is substantially the same as that of the Registered Design.
 That conclusion is the explanation, it seems to me, of the identical ribbing structure and the same construction materials. 32 So, also, is the embarrassing identity of the direct words of the warning label, including the imprinting of the words: 'The shape of this inflatable product is a Registered Design' . 33 It is not denied that Mr Corrick was supplied with a sample of the Wavestar surfmat and had discussed obtaining a licence of the design.
 It seems plain that there is a strongly arguable case of obvious imitation or fraudulent imitation of the Registered Design. 34 The next major question is where the balance of convenience lies and whether the plaintiff is likely to suffer injury for which damages will not be an adequate remedy.
 It seems to me that my approach, in this case, should mirror that of the High Court in Beecham Group Limited v Bristol Laboratories Pty Limited (1967 - 68) [1968] HCA 1 ; 118 CLR 618 at 625, where the Court said: 'The facts which appear to us to be decisive on this question may be stated quite briefly.
