 The trustee also issued an income contribution assessment in relation to the appellant for the period 4 September 2000 to 3 September 2001. 3 The second respondent in two decisions dated 16 September 2003 and 24 October 2003 ('the objection decisions'), affirmed the decision of the trustee to file the notices of objection.
 However, having reviewed the income contribution assessment of the trustee, the second respondent issued a fresh income contribution assessment ('the income contribution decision'). 4 The AAT varied the objection decisions of the second respondent by setting aside those parts of the second respondent's decisions which affirmed the grounds of objection to discharge under ss 149D(1)(n) , 149 (1)(b) and 149 (1)(f).
 In all other respects, the second respondent's decisions, including the income contribution decision, were affirmed by the AAT. 5 The appellant, who was not legally represented, alleged that there were two errors of law by the AAT, namely: (a) the AAT's finding that the appellant's 'income and contribution could be assessed under section 139ZD(b) of the Bankrupcy Act 1966 (Cth) based on an understanding that there was little or no change in the [appellant's] circumstances between March and May 2000 and September 2001'; and (b) 'that the Tribunal erred in law by incorrectly deciding that the [appellant's decision] under section 149D(1)(d) of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) [was] based on the hearsay evidence [and was] Without Legal Proof. ' The first ground 6 The first ground of appeal concerns the AAT's affirmation of the income contribution assessment decision of the second respondent.
 Consequently, the decision in relation to the income contribution assessment should be affirmed. ' 12 It was open to the AAT to determine that there was no relevant change to the appellant's circumstances between the date of the application and the relevant period in so far as those circumstances concerned his income.
 The weight accorded to the evidence before the AAT was a matter for the AAT. 13 Similarly, the stated income of the appellant on a credit card application could not be said to be an irrelevant consideration as described in Peko ; rather, it would seem to be directly relevant to the very question before the AAT.
 Section 149D(1) of the Act relevantly provides: 'The grounds of objection that may be set out in a notice of objection are as follows: ... (d) the bankrupt, when requested in writing by the trustee to provide written information about the bankrupt's property, income or expected income, failed to comply with the request; ...' 15 The appellant alleges that in making its finding on this point, the AAT relied upon hearsay evidence.
 The AAT was not bound by the rules of evidence (see s 33(1)(c) of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (Cth)) and was entitled to act on the material before it, including hearsay evidence. 17 On the substantive aspect of the objection, being the failure of Mr Trkulja to provide written information about his property and income on request from the trustee, the AAT said: 'Mr Trkulja maintained that his reason for the failure to comply was that his computer and records had been seized by the trustee and he no longer possessed the required information.
