 In detailed reasons for judgment his Honour concluded that the allegations relied on to support the applicant's claim in fraud did not support such a cause of action both because the representations pleaded could not support such a cause of action and because the pleading did not sufficiently allege that the representations were made with the intention that the plaintiff should act on them by commencing proceedings in the Federal Court.
 His Honour also pointed out that a claim made purportedly for damages for misleading and deceptive conduct contrary to section 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Commonwealth) failed to allege that the first defendant was a trading corporation, nor was it alleged that any other representations relied on were made by it in trade or commerce, nor, his Honour concluded, was there a proper pleading of a breach of section 52 in respect of which the second defendant could have been knowingly concerned, she being a natural person.
 It is a matter for the trustee, in the proper exercise of discretion and having regard to all the circumstances, to decide whether to pursue an appeal. ' 32 The question then is, what is the character of the rights of action in the present case? 33 In the principal proceedings, instituted on 26 April 2006, the applicant claims: A.
 Declarations pursuant to section 163A of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ("the Act "), alternatively section 21 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 , that the Respondents have contravened section 52 , and/or section 60 and/or section 51A , and/or section 51AC of the Act and/or s 38 of the Fair Trading Act 1989 including declarations that --- 1.
 Such further or other relief and orders as the Court considers appropriate pursuant to section 87(1) of the Act including orders for the indemnification of the Applicant for all liabilities paid out and work done under and pursuant to all legal proceedings in connection with the Federal Court legal claim including consequential legal proceedings in the District Court, Court of Appeal, High Court, Federal Court, Full Court of the Federal Court and the Federal Magistrates Court; and/or G.
 A simple "but for" test: if the respondents had not made the representations that they made, if they didn't issue the L card, if they didn't publish what they published, if they didn't continue to make the representations that they did that [the applicant] was entitled to the discounts of goods and services, we wouldn't be here today. ' 41 The applicant's claim for aggravated damages and exemplary damages are claims consequential upon his primary claims for breaches of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) (' Trade Practices Act ').
 In that regard he referred to Reichel v Magrath [[1889] 14 App Cas 665] and Hunter v Chief Constable of the West Midland Police [[1982] AC 529] . ' 48 Later his Honour continued at pars 69 --- 70: '[69] The public interest considerations underlying the power of courts to stay or dismiss the proceedings for abuse of process extend to preventing the waste of judicial resources and their use for purposes unrelated to the determination of genuine disputes.
 They include the necessity of maintaining confidence in, and respect for, the authority of the courts - Sea Culture International v Scoles (1991) 32 FCR 275 (at 279 French J); Djaigween v Douglas (1994) 48 FCR 535 (at 545 Carr J). [70] The power to strike out a statement of claim or to dismiss an application as an abuse of process is to be exercised sparingly and upon an examination of the relevant circumstances of the particular case before the Court.
 It is now necessary to turn to that task. ' 49 The High Court, in a judgment of Mason CJ, Deane and Dawson J, said in Walton v Gardiner [1992] HCA 12 ; (1992) 177 CLR 378 at p 393: '... it has long been established that, regardless of the propriety of the purpose of the person responsible for their institution and maintenance, proceedings will constitute an abuse of process if they can be clearly seen to be foredoomed to fail.
 Further, it is the best evidence of the existence or otherwise of pamphlets, the contents of those pamphlets, and the identity of the person responsible for the creation and distribution of the pamphlets. ... [20] There is no evidence that the respondents, or either of them, advertised, or advertised and published, advertisements on the internet or by pamphlet as alleged in par 7 of the statement of claim or at all.
 Nor is there any evidence that any servant, agent or person acting within an authority granted by the first or second respondent advertised or advertised and published advertisements as alleged in par 7 of the statement of claim or at all. [21] It is clear that the applicant makes the allegations which he does in par 7 of the statement of claim solely on the basis of what he says he saw in a pamphlet and on a website during the promotion for sale by four university law student societies of a discount card called the L Card in the period January to March 2003. ... [24] The material produced by the applicant does not touch upon the conduct of the first or second respondent in respect of statements made in pamphlets or disseminated material on the four university campuses or on the website in connection with the promotion for sale of the L Card by each of UQLS, QUTALS, GULS and SLA.
