 In its application ASIC relies upon a presumption of insolvency flowing from the appointment of receivers and managers of Forestview under a floating charge and the receiver and manager's subsequent possession and control of Forestview's property for the purpose of enforcing that charge.
 Mr Carey wrote to Corrs on 9 March 2006 stating that the security had been lodged so that Bowesco could "assist Forestview in its funding requirements for the expansion of the Forresfield Shopping Centre, Stage 2" having regard to a recent commitment for expansion by Kmart.
 He further stated that funding would be required for predevelopment costs and that it was in Forestview's interests and ING's to move forward with the Kmart proposal given the significant increase in value this would bring to the shopping centre property.
 He took no steps to remove the mortgage. 8 On 30 March 2006 Oren Zohar, Mark Anthony Korda and David John Winterbottom, all partners of KordaMentha, were jointly and severally appointed receivers and managers of Forestview for the purpose of enforcing the charge.
 The appointment was effected by a deed between them and Perpetual as custodian of The ING Mortgage Pool for ING Funds Management Ltd as the responsible entity of the ING Mortgage Pool. 9 On 28 June 2006 ASIC filed an application in this Court, seeking leave to apply and applying for the winding up of Forestview on the ground of its insolvency.
 The application relied upon the presumption of insolvency, flowing from s 459C(2)(c) of Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (the Act) by virtue of the appointment of the receivers and managers. 10 On 11 August 2006 orders were made requiring Forestview to file and serve any affidavit in opposition to the grant of leave to ASIC to bring the application by 18 August 2006.
 On that date, after hearing argument in related matters concerning Lanepoint Enterprises Pty Ltd (Receivers and Managers Appointed) and Bowesco Pty Ltd (Receivers and Managers Appointed) and by counsel for Forestview, judgment on the question whether funding for legal representation should be made available by the receivers and managers out of the assets of the company was reserved.
 As the Forestview receivers and managers had not been represented at the hearing on 30 October 2006, Forestview was directed to file a minute of its proposed orders for the release of funds for legal representation and to serve on them a copy of that minute together with its supporting affidavits, the written submissions and the transcript of the proceedings on that day.
 These matters and the character of the charge as fixed and floating are either not disputed or not able to be disputed and establish the factual foundation for the presumption of insolvency required by s 459C(2).
 Mr Carey contended that, on that basis, the debt of $15.62 million secured by the Charge could not be said to be presently due and payable. 41 Mr Carey also pointed to what he called a "genuine dispute" about the Mezzanine finance guarantees given by Forestview.
 He cited a letter dated 7 July 2006 from Forestview's solicitors to the solicitors acting for the liquidators of Ann Street Mezzanine Pty Ltd (In Liquidation), Bayshore Mezzanine Pty Ltd (In Liquidation), Bayshore Heritage Mezzanine Pty Ltd (In Liquidation), Market Street Mezzanine Ltd (In Liquidation), Mount Street Mezzanine Pty Ltd (In Liquidation) and York Street Mezzanine Pty Ltd (In Liquidation). 42 In advising that Forestview and other guarantors of debts owed to the Mezzanine companies disputed the validity and enforceability of the guarantee and indemnity agreements, the solicitors made a number of points.
 Forestview has operating against it in this case the presumption of insolvency which the Court is required to apply and which flows from the appointment of the receivers under a floating charge and their entry into possession and control of Forestview's property.
