 1 This proceeding is set down for trial from 20 March until 27 March 2006. 2 On 6 October 2005, consent orders were made dealing with pre-trial steps which included an order that the Applicant was to file and serve the statements of all lay witnesses and any expert reports upon which it intended to rely at trial no later than four weeks after completion of inspection of discovered documents.
 In fact, the trial of the action had been set down for hearing on 6, 7, 8 and 9 February 2006 but prudence at the Directions Hearing on 22 December 2005 suggested that the various interlocutory steps would not be completed within a time which would enable the trial safely to commence on 6 February 2006. 3 In order to avoid potential disruption to the trial, those dates were vacated on 22 December 2005 and the March dates were then allocated. 4 Inspection of documents was completed between 15 November and 25 November which meant that the Applicant's expert report ought to have been filed and served by the end of the week immediately before Christmas.
 The report by Mr Michael Gould was filed and served on the Respondent on 27 February 2006. 5 As a result of further consideration of the Applicant's case, the Applicant advised the Respondent that it would seek to amend the Statement of Claim by deleting reference to 17 of the 19 drawings upon which it would rely and introduce into the action five new drawings as the foundation for the source of its copyright said to have been infringed by the Respondent.
 Those dimensional variations for the three standard base models are reflected in Table A of the log of drawings identified in Mr Gould's report. 10 Having said that, the real difficulty is that since the Applicant relies upon the report of an expert and the Respondent seeks also to rely upon the report of an expert which, in substantial part, is likely to be responsive to the Applicant's expert report, the Respondent in order to properly conduct its case must be given an opportunity to deal with the report.
 Although I am most reluctant to vacate the dates, it seems to me in the face of the affidavit from Mr Philp and the observations of Counsel for the Respondent that the dates will need to be vacated. 11 I propose to discuss with Counsel possible dates including commencing the hearing on 27 March rather than 20 March or alternatively, Monday 3 April.
 Matters that will need to be addressed are these: (a) The Respondent to file an Amended Defence to the Further Amended Statement of Claim by a certain date. (b) The Applicant to file a Reply to the Amended Defence by a certain date. (c) Any additional statements of lay or expert evidence on behalf of the Applicant be filed and served upon the Respondent by a certain date. (d) Any additional statements of lay or expert evidence on behalf of the Respondent to be filed and served upon the Applicant by a certain date. (e) Any evidence in reply on behalf of the Applicant to be filed and served by a certain date. 14 Mr Philp proposes to discuss the possible dates with Mr Burley and, in particular, Mr Burley's availability in the week commencing Monday, 3 April.
