 1 This is an 'ex parte' application under s 411(6) of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) ("the Act ") for approval of a proposed arrangement between the plaintiff ("Gallery Gold") and its members. 2 On 25 January 2006 the Court made orders under s 411(1) of the Act that a meeting of the members of Gallery Gold be convened to consider the proposed arrangement and that the explanatory statement proposed to be sent to members with notices convening the meeting, as required by s 412(1)(a) of the Act , be approved.
 Of course, if an objector to the proposed arrangement has been given leave by the Court to be heard on the application, or has been joined as a defendant to the application, the proceeding can be conducted as an adversarial hearing in the ordinary way. (See: Statewest Credit Society Limited v Home Building Society Limited [2005] FCAFC 273). 5 Before making an order under s 411(1) the Court must be satisfied that the proposed explanatory statement provides sufficient disclosure of matters relevant to the proposed arrangement and be able to form the opinion that acceptance of such an arrangement by members could be regarded by reasonable business people to be a decision made for the benefit of members. (See: Re Sonodyne International Ltd (1995) 13 ACLC 221). 6 In the instant case the proposed arrangement to be put to the members for acceptance was that the whole of the shareholding in the plaintiff be acquired by IAMGOLD Corporation ("IAMGOLD") and that the plaintiff become a wholly owned subsidiary of IAMGOLD.
 In its terms the proposed arrangement, if approved by the Court, would effect a compulsory acquisition of all of the shares in the Plaintiff without compliance with the takeover provisions of Ch 6 of the Act . 7 Given that the proposed arrangement would bind all members (notwithstanding the terms of s 414 of the Act ) the Court had to have regard to whether the explanatory statement provided sufficient detail of the benefits and detriments of the proposed arrangement for members to be sufficiently informed to be able to make a commercial judgment on whether the proposed arrangement was in their interests.
 As required by s 411(17)(b) of the Act , there has been produced to the Court a statement in writing by ASIC that it has no objection to the proposed arrangement. 12 The requirement of s 411(17)(a) of the Act that the Court be satisfied that the arrangement has not been proposed for the purpose of enabling the takeover provisions of Ch 6 of the Act to be avoided, obliged the Court to consider whether a "break fee" of $2,600,000.00 that the directors of the plaintiff had bound the plaintiff to pay to IAMGOLD if another offer to buy the shares of the plaintiff caused the members to reject the proposed arrangement, could have affected the market in the plaintiff's shares and have infringed the spirit of the provisions of Ch 6 of the Act .
