 The second was an application for review of a further decision of the respondent in the matter of an application for a Disability Support Pension made on 22 July 2004. 8 Both applications, and the decision by the AAT on them, have to be considered in the context of many acrimonious disputes between the applicant and Centrelink, and the respondent Department and some of its officers.
 In relation to a document ' MODPT --- Private Trust ' a diagonal line with the words ' N/A ' was submitted, and similarly in a document ' MODR --- Real estate details' . 12 By letter dated 16 August 2004 the applicant was advised that his claim had been rejected due to his failure to provide enough information in order for a proper assessment of the claim to be carried out.
 In particular, with regard to your involvement in the Solon Theo Family Trust . ' 13 The applicant sought an internal review of the decision and on review the Authorised Review Officer affirmed the original decision. 15 In respect of the application for a Disability Support Pension made on 22 July 2004, Centrelink advised the applicant by letter dated 23 July 2004 that his claim was rejected as such a pension ' can not be assessed for a person whom [sic] is of age pension age '.
 As noted by the Federal Court in Theo v Secretary, Department of Family and Community Services [2005] FCA 880 at [16] and [18], the Applicant's written responses to the requests of the Respondent for further information relating to the family trust structure in which the Applicant apparently has a present interest or entitlement (a claim disputed by the Applicant) were " combative " as was also at least one of his oral communications with the Respondent concerning the same matter.
 In short, the Applicant has not adduced any fresh evidence in this set of proceedings that advances his case for proper merits-based consideration of his age pension claim that goes beyond evidence adduced before the Tribunal in Theo v Secretary, Department of Family and Community Services [2004] AATA 1273 and the subsequent Federal Court appeal in Theo v Secretary, Department of Family and Community Services [2005] FCA 880... ' (emphasis added) 19 It expressed its conclusion regarding the application for a Disability Support Pension in par [46]-[47]: ' 46. ...
 It follows that the application for review of this decision of the Tribunal must be dismissed 23 In respect of the Application to review the decision to refuse Mr Theo an Age Pension, the Tribunal properly set out its role, and then in its Reasons for Decision failed utterly in the discharge of that role. 24 The Tribunal said at par [3]: 'The role of the Tribunal is to review the merits of the decision before it: section 43 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 and Secretary, Department of Social Security v Murphy [1998] 809 FCA Drummond J).
 The Tribunal took into consideration that the Applicant initiated the previous application for merits-based review from the Social Security Appeals Tribunal to this Tribunal that culminated in the decision of McCabe SM in Theo and Secretary, Department of Family and Community Services [2004] AATA 1273 , as well as the subsequent appeal to the Federal Court which culminated in the decision in Theo v Secretary, Department of Family and Community Services [2005] FCA 880. ' (emphasis added) and later gave the reasons in par [49] set out above at par [17].
 The Tribunal stresses that reliance upon res judicata in this case is simply by way of analogy in connection with the section 42B application, not by way of direct application. ' 33 As the Tribunal noted in par [3] of its Reasons, the role of the Tribunal is to reach the correct and preferable decision on the basis of the material before it .
 Each hearing has involved a number of decisions and have, in the main, concerned the same issue: the failure of the applicant to provide full and satisfactory details of his involvement in the Solon Theo Family Trust. ' 40 However, in the course of the hearing, Mr Theo indicated, and the Tribunal said that it would have regard to, previous Tribunal documents from earlier hearings.
 The application for review by Mr Theo by the AAT of that decision required the Tribunal to reach the correct and preferable decision on the material that was before it: that material, it seems to me, amply satisfied the request for information about the position of the applicant in relation to the Solon Theo Trust, namely that he had no interest, either legally or beneficially in any of the trust assets, or any income of the trust.
 On the contrary, notwithstanding the applicant's dealings with the Department and the various Tribunals have been acrimonious and frequently conducted by the applicant in a belligerent way, and in a way which is contrary to his own best interests, the material that was before the Tribunal on this occasion, dealing with the requirements of the Act for an Age Pension seem, on that material, to have been satisfied.
