 The Administrators seek a direction from the Court approving the AAE Pooling Compromise Deed and a direction that the Deed Administrators may properly perform and give effect to the AAE Pooling Compromise Deed. 22 The financial position of AAE as at 15 August 2005 was that without pooling approximately $38 million was estimated to be available for distribution to its creditors.
 The Administrators contend that if the assets and liabilities of the Ansett Group are not pooled, they will need to undertake a detailed, costly and time-consuming investigation into the nature and extent of the aircraft leasing and financing arrangements and the effect of a number of associated guarantees. 38 The Administrators have established that the wider Ansett Group was treated as a tax group and that group tax returns were prepared for each income tax year.
 The pooling of the MOU monies into a single Ansett Group company will avoid potential dispute and litigation about the allocation of those funds which the Administrators believe is impracticable, if not impossible, for them to apportion amongst the various companies in the Ansett Group. 50 I turn to the effect of pooling on creditors.
 Thus, if there is no pooling of the assets and liabilities of all the companies in the Ansett Group, there is no fund out of which the payments to the AAE Bank Creditors can be made. 57 According to the Administrators, pooling has different effects for priority creditors and non-priority creditors depending upon the particular company in the Ansett Group involved.
 Subject to any order of the Court to the contrary, that meeting of creditors of the Company will determine: (a) Admissible Claims; (b) the method of calculation of and/or value of and the method of payment of Admissible Claims; and (c) the distribution of the Fund (other than amounts paid, payable or set aside under clause 5.3(a) or (b)) to Admitted Creditors or as otherwise resolved at the meeting. " The Administrators seek a direction that at the meetings called pursuant to these clauses they may put a resolution pursuant to cl 6.1(c) of each trust deed that the assets of each trust be distributed entirely to AAL.
 Notwithstanding the breadth of the definition of "expedient", I do not consider that it is expedient, in the interests of the trust properties or the beneficiaries under the trusts that the Administrators be given the power to put a resolution and vote in favour of it adversely to the interests of the beneficiaries. 87 I turn to deal with the issue of the pooling of assets and liabilities of companies.
 Particularly is this so in relation to the eighty-four employees who are likely to be disadvantaged by the pooling proposal for which the Administrators want to cast an affirmative vote. 114 I have not lost sight of the fact that the pooling proposal by the Administrators is sensible and advantageous to most of the creditors from a practical point of view.
 Although the casting of such a vote is intended and calculated to bring about a pooling of all the assets and liabilities of the companies and trusts in the Ansett Group, it is not appropriate in all the circumstances to which I have referred to give the Administrators the power to achieve that exceptional situation. 122 Although the Ansett Group historically operated as a single entity in many respects it does not appear that the various creditors of the companies, both priority and non-priority, dealt with the various companies as a single economic unit when their debts were incurred.
 It may be complex, it may be costly, but that is part and parcel of the administration of a substantial commercial enterprise. 124 It is not put that it is impossible or impracticable to determine the ownership of various assets of companies in the Ansett Group such as the head office building at 501 Swanston Street, Melbourne and certain aircraft, engines and information technology systems and software.
 I do not consider that it is sufficient, in all the circumstances, for those creditors only to be given notice through the publication of newspaper advertisements or the placing of relevant documents on the Administrators' website. 137 Having regard to the conclusions I have reached, I am not disposed at this stage to make any specific orders but will hear from the parties as to what orders and further directions, if any, should be made.
