 All references in this judgment to 'Request' followed by a number, are references to requests for further and better particulars contained in that letter, attached as Exhibit RMH 1 to Mr Hamwood's affidavit. 3 At the time of the hearing on 13 February 2006 the Applicant had not yet provided a response to the Respondent's request for further and better particulars.
 Paragraph 6 of the Statement of Claim states 'At approximately 9.30 am on Monday the 25 th October 2004, McKechnie, Mercer, Potter, Parry and Tame ("the Audit Team") entered the Budget Ipswich premises'. 17 The Respondent seeks particulars clarifying the difference (if any) in the acts asserted in para 6 (that at approximately 9:30 am on Monday 25 October 2004, the Audit Team 'entered' the Budget Ipswich premises) and para 7 in which the 'arrival' of the Audit Team is referred to.
 The Applicant should provide the Respondent with sufficient particulars of the time of the event referred to in para 7. 20 In relation to Requests 3(b) and 3(c), although compelling arguments have been submitted from both parties, I am of the view that the Respondent is entitled to further and better particulars as sought.
 The Respondent also seeks a time frame as to the events alleged in para 11 where the term 'subsequent' is used. 24 The Applicant objects to this request for particulars on the grounds that it is not a proper request for particulars and that it seeks enquiries into matters wholly within the knowledge of the Respondent. 25 With regard to Request 10, the Respondent is again entitled to particulars in relation to the timing of the alleged event.
 The Respondent cannot adequately answer the allegation if it is unclear as to when the event occurred. 26 The Respondent is entitled to the particulars it requests in Request 11 as such material is referred to in the Applicant's prayer for relief at para 33(b) of the Statement of Claim.
 Paragraph 14 of the Statement of Claim 31 Paragraph 14 of the Statement of Claim alleges that the Audit Team took a copy of the Applicant's computer hard drive, despite not having the Applicant's permission freely given. 32 The Respondent seeks particulars of the Applicant's claim that permission was not 'freely given'.
 The Respondent submits that if it is said that permission was given but not 'freely', that is entitled to know the facts giving rise to that allegation. 33 The Applicant objects to the requests relating to para 14 on the grounds that they are not proper requests for particulars but are more in the nature of interrogatories. 34 I am prepared to allow limited particularisation of para 14.
 Paragraph 16 of the Statement of Claim 36 Paragraph 16 of the Statement of Claim alleges that after the Audit Team collected records at the request of the Respondent on 25 and 26 October 2004, a report (dated 21 April 2005) was prepared by Ferrier Hodgson at the Respondent's request in relation to the Applicant's business activities. 37 The Respondent argues that it is entitled to know what records the Applicant alleges it collected along with any information relating to the substance of the request by the Respondent for the collection of records from the Applicant.
 The Respondent also seeks clarification of para 16(b) of the Statement of Claim which it submits is ambiguous (Request 20). 38 The Applicant has provided some particulars to the requests relating to para 16 of the Statement of Claim but objects to providing further particulars on the basis that the Respondent's requests are not proper requests for particulars but are more in the nature of interrogatories. 39 Earlier in this judgment I ordered limited particularisation of para 11 of the Statement of Claim.
 The remainder of the Respondent's request is a request for evidence and not a proper request for particulars. 41 In relation to Request 20, in my view para 16(b) of the Statement of Claim is ambiguous, for the reason that, on the face of the document, paras 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12 and 13 do not contain references to information obtained by the Respondent.
 Paragraph 27 of the Statement of Claim 51 Paragraph 27 of the Statement of Claim alleges that the author of the Ferrier Hodgson report was not independent, did not conduct an audit, acted on the instructions and the bidding of the Respondent and knowingly and deliberately made assumptions and conclusions contrary to the interests of the Applicant. 52 The Respondent submits that this is akin to an allegation of fraud by both the Respondent and the author of the report.
