 1 The appellant, a citizen of Malaysia, applied for a protection visa claiming that she is a refugee as defined by Art 1A(2) of the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees as amended by the Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees ('the Convention').
 She has now appealed to the Court against the dismissal by the FMC of her application for review. 2 Before the RRT, the appellant claimed to have a well-founded fear of persecution because she is a Hindu Tamil, a single woman and holds different political views to those of her employer.
 Further, the RRT did not accept that any harm suffered by the appellant occurred for a Convention reason. 3 In relation to these issues, the RRT made the following findings: 'I accept that the applicant was accused of a theft of money from her workplace on 28 February 2004, and that she was questioned by the police in regard to the theft.
 I find that she was and will be treated no differently by the law enforcement authorities than any person suspected of a theft from their employer would be, and that any punishment imposed would not be unduly harsh for any Convention reason.
 I therefore am not satisfied that the applicant has a well founded fear of persecution for a Convention reason. ' 4 The FMC rejected the appellant's application for review of the decision of the RRT.
 It may be that it is unlikely that the police, arresting a person of the applicant's background...would refer to her race, religion or support of a political party but, nevertheless, a reference to those issues by the Tribunal does not itself constitute, in my view, an error of law.
 Whether it made a wrong finding of fact or otherwise would not, as the authorities clearly indicate, justify this Court in holding that there has been a jurisdictional error of a kind that would permit judicial review. ' The FMC also noted that there were: 'serious reservations expressed by the Tribunal in relation to the reliability of the applicant's evidence concerning those matters and, indeed, other matters. ' 5 The appellant's notice of appeal sets out the following grounds of review: '(a) The learned Magistrate has essentially erred in saying that the finding of the Tribunal to the effect that "I do not accept, however that this was related in any way to her race, religion or political opinion or that the treatment by Police amounted to persecution" was a significant finding, which in fact it was not.
 For not only did it betray an incorrect interpretation of the decision relied upon but it also failed to consider the applicant's claims in the context of the convention. (b) The learned Magistrate erred in saying that the finding of the Tribunal as seen in paragraph 14 of the judgment was significant for the Tribunal to conclude that it was not satisfied that the applicant had a well founded fear [of] persecution for a convention reason. (c) The learned Magistrate erred in saying that the applicant's claims as put by the applicant were properly considered (Paragraph 27 of the judgement) yet saying that the social group of the applicant which it was noted, and indeed conceded, appears at the very least to have been accurately recited by the Tribunal when considering the claims (Paragraph 19 of the judgment). (d) The learned Magistrate erred in finding that the applicant's claims of a Single Hindu Tamil Woman with a political view as a supported of the Kedilan Party was properly considered. ' 6 Written and oral submissions were made on behalf of the appellant.
 In those submissions the appellant essentially sought to re-agitate matters of fact that were determined by the RRT, such as its finding that the implication of the appellant in the theft from her employer did not occur for a Convention reason.
 In the circumstances of the present case, those findings were dispositive of the appellant's claim to be a refugee for the purposes of the Convention. 7 It follows that the appeal should be dismissed and the appellant should pay the respondents' costs of and incidental to the appeal.
