 If the appellant had really been threatened or harmed she would not have resorted to these unconvincing, and artificial claims. " Hartnett FM concluded that, on a fair reading of the Tribunal's decision as a whole, this passage amounted to an assessment of the plausibility of the appellant's claims.
 Her Honour noted that the Tribunal remains the finder of fact and is not required to accept the appellant's claims uncritically. 20 More generally, Hartnett FM considered that the observations of the Tribunal and the Tribunal's findings as a whole indicated that it had properly exercised its jurisdiction.
 In respect of each piece of information, the appellant contends that it was relied on by the Tribunal as the reason, or part of the reason, for affirming the delegate's decision; particulars of the information were not provided to the appellant as required by ss 424A(1) and (2); the information was specifically about the appellant or another person rather than being information that concerned a class of persons (s 424A(3)(a)) ; and the information was not provided to the Tribunal by the appellant for the purposes of the Tribunal's review (s 424A(3)(b)). 23 This Court has power to allow grounds to be argued on appeal that were not argued before the trial judge.
 I am prepared to assume that the Keskin information was information that the Tribunal considered in the course of its reasoning, but it is a different question whether it was the reason, or a part of the reason for the Tribunal's decision. 62 In applying s 424A , it is necessary to focus on matters that, viewed prospectively, would be the reason or a part of the reason for the Tribunal's decision, or viewed retrospectively in the light of the Tribunal's actual decision, can be seen to be the reason, or a part of the reason, for the Tribunal's decision.
 At the outset of the Tribunal hearing and prior to the appellant's evidence to the Tribunal, I doubt that the Keskin information could be characterised as information that the Tribunal then considered, or might consider, would be the reason or a part of the reason for affirming the delegate's decision.
 In my opinion, the Keskin information cannot be characterised as the reason, or as a part of the reason, for the Tribunal's affirmation of the decision under review. 63 The relevant fact that the Tribunal relied upon in its reasons for decision was the appellant's lack of knowledge about the Keskin information, rather than that information itself.
 As a matter of substance, the appellant's real criticism is directed at the Tribunal's subjective appraisal of the credibility of the appellant's evidence, including in particular, conclusions arrived at by the Tribunal in weighing up that evidence by reference to gaps, lack of knowledge, or lack of detail in the evidence.
 The appellant submitted that any perceived weaknesses in the HRA letter, and indeed any reasons why the Tribunal was not prepared to accept the facts deposed to by the letter, should have been put to the appellant pursuant to s 424A. 68 The first respondent submitted that the Tribunal's decision treated the HRA letter as a potentially positive part of the appellant's claim.
 In NACB , the Full Court (Tamberlin, Emmett and Weinberg JJ) affirmed a line of authorities to the effect that illogical reasoning does not of itself constitute an error of law or jurisdictional error, or necessarily indicate that there had only been a purported exercise of power.
 In W404/01A of 2002 v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCAFC 255 at [35] , Lee and Carr JJ, with whom French J agreed, said that even though the Tribunal's reasoning could be regarded as illogical, this did not in itself show a ground of review although it may on occasion manifest other reviewable error.
 In VWST v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 286 at [18] , the Full Court (Kiefel, Marshall and Dowsett JJ) reviewed the authorities and concluded that want of logic in the reasons of the Tribunal is not an available ground of review. 78 The appellant submitted that the decision in Appellant S106/2002 shows that McHugh and Gummow JJ (at 67 and 71) were prepared to consider a challenge to a Tribunal decision based on the grounds that it was illogical, irrational or lacking a basis in findings or inferences of fact.
 In the second passage, their Honours were directing themselves to a case where the decision itself was illogical or irrational; not a case where particular findings of fact or findings about credibility are impugned as illogical or lacking in probative support. 79 Far from assisting the appellant, the decision in Appellant S106/2002 illustrates the difficulties of contending that the Tribunal's evaluation of the credibility of a witness, or the plausibility of particular pieces of evidence, involved jurisdictional error.
