 It is simply enough to observe, and to put it in neutral terms, that Mr Bunn has carried out a spirited campaign directed to and against the applicants. 8 The applicants claim that Mr Bunn has infringed the applicants' trademarks and continues to do so, that he has committed the tort of inducing parties with whom the applicants have contracted to breach their contracts, and that he has contravened ss 52 and 53 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) (' Trade Practices Act ').
 They claim, in respect of each of those causes of action on the facts contained in the affidavit to which I have referred, that there is a real likelihood that unless restrained Mr Bunn will continue to infringe the trademark, commit the tort, and contravene the Trade Practices Act .
 In respect of the third matter, they claim to be entitled to an injunction pursuant to the provisions of s 80 of the Trade Practices Act . 9 The first applicant is the registered proprietor of a trademark for the word 'Metcash'.
 Therefore, he says, there is no infringement. 11 The applicants complain that the respondent has committed the tort of inducing a breach of contract by advertising generally for parties who have contractual arrangements with the applicants to provide information relating to their contracts and commercial dealings with the applicants which, because of the standard form of contract between the applicants and their suppliers and retailers, would amount to a breach of those contracts.
 It is contended by the applicants that Mr Bunn's activities in relation to the two websites which I have identified amount to engaging in conduct which involves the use of postal and telephonic services so as to bring him within s 6(3) of the Trade Practices Act . 13 The applicants also say that the impugned conduct amounts to conduct in trade or commerce.
 It was put that his conduct amounted to representations of a disgruntled trader in trade or commerce and, therefore, came within the terms of the Trade Practices Act . 14 The applicants' claim, in relation to the respondent's conduct which they say amounts to a contravention of the Trade Practices Act , is that the respondent has made a series of allegations which are misleading and deceptive.
 Mr Hunter, in that affidavit, identifies the source of those allegations and in that same affidavit addresses the falsity of each of those allegations. 15 As I explained to Mr Bunn (who was unrepresented) during the hearing, the purpose of this hearing is not to determine any facts or to make any findings of facts.
 What I am called upon to determine is whether the applicants have identified a serious question to be tried; whether the balance of convenience favours the applicants; whether damages are an adequate remedy; and whether the orders sought should be made. 16 I am satisfied on the evidence which has been produced that the serious questions to which the applicants advert have been made out.
 However, if the orders were not made there is a real risk that the applicants could suffer damage for which damages are not an adequate remedy. 17 I am satisfied, therefore, that the applicants are entitled to the relief which they have sought except in respect of one aspect of the claim.
 I think if an order were made in the terms of paragraph 1 a., which I am prepared to make, there is no need for the further order in paragraph 5. 18 I am not persuaded that there is any real likelihood that Mr Bunn would make any representation that he has a sponsorship or approval or affiliation of or with the applicants or any of them.
 For those reasons, I make the orders contained in paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 6 in the minutes of order, except in respect of paragraph 6, I delete in the third line of that paragraph the words 'by any person' and include the words 'to the effect that'.
