 The purpose of this function was to welcome new members of the diving team to which the respondent belonged and to farewell some members who were being deployed to Townsville and then on to the United States for military exercises. 4 The Tribunal made a careful review of the evidence and set out its findings of fact.
 There is no evidence to indicate that an announcement was made that the function had concluded. " 8 All or almost all of the diving team who were at work at the base that day attended the function.
 The number who attended was in excess of thirty and could have been as many as forty. 9 The Tribunal found at [28] that there was the "clear understanding of most members of the diving team that it was necessary for them to attend the function".
 The Tribunal found at [30]: "that it was a common understanding among the members of the diving team that they were in fact required to attend the function at Camp Markham, and that is why almost all, if not all, members actually attended the function at Camp Markham, including senior personnel. " 10 After reviewing the evidence about leave the Tribunal found at [32]: "... leave was not piped or formally announced and it was quite unclear as to exactly when members of the team were free to take their leave.
 The team members generally believed that they were required to attend the function and could not simply proceed directly home. " 11 At about 3.30 pm ABCD Shields started to pack up the barbeque and moved it to a secure place.
 In due course there were only eight or so remaining and they continued there until about 5.30 pm when a number of those remaining helped clean up the site. 12 The respondent arrived at the function soon after 12.00 and remained until about 6.00 pm.
 The Tribunal fund that he had consumed "a considerable amount of beer" and was under the influence of alcohol and therefore unable to ride his motorcycle safely when he commenced his journey home. 13 Shortly after 6.00 pm the respondent left Camp Markham on his motor cycle to ride directly to his residence.
 There was a general understanding within the diving team that members were required to attend, attendance was required and the purpose was plainly work related. 15 The Tribunal found at [58] that the function commenced as a work function and "it remained a work function until the clean-up at about 5.30 pm".
 After discussing some authorities referred to by counsel the Tribunal referred to the definition of "place of work" in s 4(1) of the Act and found that "in the special circumstances of this application", Camp Markham satisfied that definition.
 On the other hand, if he was so required to be in attendance then the travel started at that point in time, unarguably he was travelling towards his place of residence, and no interruption of any kind occurred before the accident. 19 Counsel for the applicant attacked the Tribunal's findings that the essential character of the function remained and that it continued to be an officially-approved function at a place of work attended by the respondent and his work colleagues.
 Rather, counsel submitted that, at some time before the respondent left, the function ceased to have the character of an officially-approved work function. 21 Understandably, counsel for the applicant did not submit that the Tribunal was obliged to find that the work-related character of the function ceased on the dot of 3.50 or 4.00 pm.
