 The grounds of appeal are unparticularised and assert that: (a) in making the decision the Tribunal had denied the appellant natural justice and procedural fairness; (b) the decision involved ' an error of law '; (c) the Tribunal ' may appear to be bias [sic] towards the [appellant] '; (d) the decision did not take into account the appellant's claim that he was in danger if returned to China; (e) the procedures required by law were not observed in making the decision; and (f) there had been a failure by the Tribunal to exercise jurisdiction. 3 In Coal and Allied Operations Pty Limited v Australian Industrial Relations Commission [2000] HCA 47 ; (2000) 203 CLR 194 at 203-204 [14] Gleeson, CJ, Gaudron and Hayne JJ said: '... a court or tribunal entertaining an appeal by way of rehearing can exercise its appellate powers only if satisfied that there was error on the part of the primary decision maker.
 That is because statutory provisions conferring appellate powers, even in the case of an appeal by way of rehearing, are construed on the basis that unless there is something to indicate otherwise the power is to be exercised for correction of error. ' 4 The appellant has not given any indication as to a reason for his non appearance or his failure to file any amended notice of appeal although no direction was made that he in fact do so.
 Section 25 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) ('the Act') provides that a single judge in my position may make an order that an appeal be dismissed for, inter alia, a failure to comply with a direction of a court or a failure of the appellant to attend a hearing relating to the appeal. 5 I am not satisfied that the appellant has failed to comply with any direction in relation to the filing of amended grounds of appeal.
 The grounds of appeal reveal no basis upon which I am able to discern how the court might find error in the learned trial judge's decision were an appeal to proceed. 6 In all the circumstances I am of the opinion that it is an appropriate exercise of power under s 25(2B)(bb)(ii) of the Act to order that the appeal be dismissed for the failure of the appellant to attend the callover today. 7 The Minister seeks fixed costs order in the sum of $450 in respect of the appeal.
