 Briefly, he claimed that: (a) he had served in the Lebanese Armed Forces (LAF) from 1984 to 1987; (b) in 1987 he had been arrested by Syrian forces while in Tripoli, detained for 10 months and tortured; (c) he escaped from the Syrians in September 1988, and deserted the LAF to serve with General Aoun; (d) he had served in General Aoun's forces in East Beirut until General Aoun was defeated in 1989; (e) he had then joined the Christian Lebanese Forces (LF) even though the LF had previously fought against General Aoun.
 Scarlett FM dealt with those which simply raised factual matters and sought merits review and said, correctly, that they did not found jurisdictional error. 7 The claim that the appellant was not given sufficient time to respond to questions was dealt with by his Honour on the basis that there had been no application for an adjournment and no evidence that the Tribunal had failed to give the appellant a reasonable opportunity to respond.
 It was for that reason and because the appropriate time to consider the effect of the appellant's delay in the prosecution of his application to review the Tribunal's decision was on the hearing of the appeal, that his Honour granted the extension of time.
 The Notice of Appeal 10 The notice of appeal appears to raise two complaints: (a) The Tribunal advised the appellant that it had looked at all the papers relating to his application, when it had not. (b) The Tribunal ' failed to provide the applicant a reasonable chance to respond to material taken into consideration in reaching its conclusion '.
 The Tribunal cited the appellant's evidence and country information and explained its reasoning in coming to that conclusion. 19 There were a number of references in the written submissions to the Tribunal's asserted knowledge of the appellant's state of health or medical condition at the time of the hearing.
 Clearly, the Tribunal acknowledged that such a claim had been made. 23 The appellant submits that ' the Tribunal, in its findings and reasons p188, failed to understand the confusing account of the circumstances in which [the appellant] left Lebanon and concluded that the [appellant's] evidence was that the only reason he fears persecution in Lebanon is because he was a soldier in Aoun army '.
 The appellant was told of the proposition and that it was supported by independent information and had the opportunity to respond. 25 In coming to its conclusion, the Tribunal accepted that there had been reprisals against some of Aoun's soldiers in the immediate aftermath of Aoun's defeat but no subsequent or continuing reprisals.
 This dealt with the aspect of the claim that the appellant feared persecution as a former member of General Aoun's army. 26 However, the appellant also claimed that he was not only a former member of that army, he was also a person who had deserted, or would have been considered to have deserted, from the LAF army.
 This represented a distinct claim and basis of fear of persecution by the appellant. 27 Mr Kennett submits that the consequence of army desertion was encompassed in the appellant's claim that he feared persecution because of his service with General Aoun.
 Rather, he submits, the appellant said he would not be trusted because of his desertion. 28 I do not accept Mr Kennett's first submission, that there was no jurisdictional error by the Tribunal because the Tribunal had determined the risk of harm to a more general social group (former members of General Aoun's army), a subset of which was those members who had deserted the LAF.
 As a Christian we have to go to the Lebanese Forces, because that is where we would feel more secure. [TRIBUNAL] : The reason why I've raised this piece of information is because it suggests --- it is another piece of evidence which suggests that former soldiers are not at risk, simply because of the fact that they fought with Aoun. [APPELLANT] : Yes, okay.
