 These representations were coupled with an alleged system whereby the company would pay the first six months lease instalments. 4 One can see that there might well be very lively issues of fact particularly about whether any supplier of any equipment would arrange a mere six months lease, pay the lease payments and undertake to receive the equipment back at the end of that six months if the party acquiring the equipment was not happy with it.
 It is also clear that, at least in part, the facts sought to be agitated here as to two transactions have not been the subject of any other litigation. 8 Important questions of ascertaining aspects of the public interest that may be engaged by what has occurred, and vindicating it if the ACCC's contentions are made out in whole or in part, would arise here and would not arise in what I will call the private litigation. 9 It is not disputed that the Court has power to grant a stay, either by way of preventing an abuse of the Court's process (which I think is not actually asserted), and also by way of ensuring that there is no procedural unfairness to the parties by way of the Court controlling its own processes so as to ensure a fair and orderly presentation of the litigation. 10 Mr Ramrakha, solicitor for the respondents, stresses that there are live factual issues and that no assumptions should be made about the truth or otherwise of the ACCC's assertions.
 Finally, Mr Ramrakha submitted that, although the ACCC exercised its powers to interview Mr Hilder, and also had the opportunity to speak to Mr Soo, and some generalised allegations were put to them, they were not asked about the allegations in the particular cases now brought to the Court. 11 There was no requirement that the allegations should have been put to them before the proceedings were commenced.
 The process of investigation has apparently been lengthy, even if not pursued as a matter of electric urgency, but no doubt the resources of the ACCC are not unlimited. 12 The undertakings that have been given, and the events in relation to the company, which has gone into liquidation, fall a long way short of meeting all the requests for relief made by the ACCC in these proceedings, so that there is no element of oppression in the ACCC seeking broader relief than that degree of amelioration which, without admissions, may have voluntarily been engaged in by any of the respondents. 13 Further, the degree of duplication is not, in my view, such as to warrant a stay. 14 The relevant power of the Court to control its own proceedings has been considered in Hughes Motor Service Pty Ltd v Wang Computer Pty Ltd (1978) 35 FLR 346 (' Wang ') at 351 to 354, and Sterling Pharmaceuticals Pty Ltd v The Boots Company (Australia) Pty Ltd (1992) 34 FCR 287 (' Sterling Pharmaceuticals ').
