 The application to the Tribunal 2 It is not suggested that there was any failure on the part of the Tribunal to comply with the procedural requirements in the Act to notify the appellant of the hearing of the application for review. 3 The appellant relied upon evidence before the Federal Magistrate.
 Driver FM declared the application to the Tribunal invalid and ordered that a writ of certiorari issue quashing the decision of the Tribunal. 5 Ultimately, Mr Hirsch who appears for the appellant, properly conceded that there was no error in the Federal Magistrate's approach.
 Mr Hirsch conceded that in view of the Federal Magistrate's conclusion on this aspect, the ground of appeal asserting jurisdictional error on the part of the Tribunal in failure to comply with s 424A of the Act and failure on the part of the Federal Magistrate to consider such compliance does not arise.
 The residential address details given for the appellant were false and were not authorised by him and much of the detail of the protection visa claims made in the purported visa application were inventions of the agent and were not authorised by the appellant.
 In the circumstances, Mr Hirsch submitted that the protection visa application was incorrect and invalid. 7 The Federal Magistrate referred to NAWZ v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 199 and s 98 of the Act.
 That authority extended to signing the application on behalf of the appellant. 8 His Honour did not make a finding of a common purpose to mislead the Minister with a false protection visa application, as had been found in NAWZ, or of bad faith.
 The fact that the appellant did not sign it himself and it did not contain his correct address or correct details of his history does not render the application invalid ( Bal v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs (2002) 189 ALR 566 at [34]---[45]). 10 The Full Court in Bal upheld the principle that a "substantial compliance" requirement is applicable to the visa application form.
 In my opinion, the fact that the application was not signed by the appellant, his residential address was incorrect and that the details provided of his claims were not authorised do not prevent "substantial compliance" from being achieved.
 It was a false application but it was, in formal terms, a valid application ( NAWZ at [16]-[18]). 13 In different ways, the appellant asserts that there was no authorisation of the specific visa application and that, consequently, it was not valid.
 The grounds of appeal and written submissions do not properly reflect the Federal Magistrate's reasons and the distinction there drawn between the authority given to the agent to file the visa application and the lack of any authorisation to file the application for review. 15 Section 98 of the Act provides: " Completion of visa application A non-citizen who does not fill in his or her application form or passenger card is taken to do so if he or she causes it to be filled in or if it is otherwise filled in on his or her behalf. " 16 The appellant authorised and caused his migration agent to fill in the visa application form on his behalf.
 The Federal Magistrate was not in error in finding that, in the circumstances, the visa application was valid. 17 The appellant relies upon the conduct of the migration agent who ' deprived the appellant of the opportunity of a proper merits review '.
