 However, this document is subject to a claim for privilege. 8 At the time the Alchemy Paper was provided to the applicants, the Statement of Claim filed in the proceedings did not include any claim based on cl 8A of the OCSA or on any related misleading or deceptive conduct.
 The applicants added these causes of action to the pleadings by amendments made in the second half of 2004. 9 The applicants contend that Optus has waived privilege in relation to the legal advice referred to in the Alchemy Paper, including any advice as to: (a) whether cl 8A was binding on Optus or otherwise enforceable; (b) whether any conduct would constitute a breach of cl 8A; (c) the prospects of success of any proceedings brought by the applicants for breach of cl 8A; and (d) the quantum of any damages which the applicants might recover from Optus in respect of a breach of cl 8A. 10 Optus accepts that its disclosure of the Alchemy Paper in unmasked form to the applicants waived any client legal privilege that otherwise would have existed in respect of the communication contained in the Alchemy Paper itself. 11 Mr Bannon argued energetically that the common law test of waiver applies in the circumstances of this case, notwithstanding the provisions of s 122 of the Evidence Act 1995 (Cth).
 I am content to deal with the application to set aside the notice to produce on the basis that, as Optus contends, common law principles apply. 12 On that basis, however, it seems to me that Optus has waived privilege in the legal advice referred to in the Alchemy Paper.
 The authorities to which I have referred show that it is well established that for a client to deploy the substance or effect of legal advice for forensic or commercial purposes is inconsistent with the maintenance of the confidentiality that attracts legal professional privilege. ' 16 In agreeing with the analysis of Gyles J, Tamberlin J observed (at [6]) that the position in the case before the Full Court may have been different if the legal advisors to Customs had simply asserted that the client had taken legal advice and had adopted a particular position having considered that advice.
