 The Federal Magistrate's judgment 4 Before the Federal Magistrate, the appellant submitted that the Tribunal failed to inform him in writing of the information that there was no record of an earlier protection visa application.
 The appeal and its disposition 5 The three grounds pursued in the appeal were that: (i) The Tribunal failed to comply with s 424A in that it did not provide the appellant with particulars in writing of certain information which forms part of the Tribunal's reasons for affirming the delegate's decision.
 The information was said to be "... the apparent absence of any confirmation in the Departmental records before it of the appellant's claim to have previously lodged an application for recognition as a refugee many years earlier". (ii) The Tribunal erred in law in ascertaining whether any persecution the appellant may have suffered and might suffer was for a Convention reason. (iii) The Tribunal erred in law in its application of s 36(3) in relation to the appellant's right to enter and reside in India.
 All of the above matters were said to manifest jurisdictional error and it was argued that the Federal Magistrate erred in failing to make findings to this effect. 6 The first ground was based on the premise that the Tribunal had information it was obliged to give in accordance with s 424A of the Act The Tribunal was said to have gained this "information" from examining the Departmental file.
 It did not, at that point in its reasons, say it had read the file, although it did say it "had regard to the material referred to in the delegate's decision, and other material available to it from a range of sources".
 Later in its reasons, the Tribunal said that it had "before it no evidence of that application [for what appears to be a residence under skills visa] or any protection visa application that could have preceded it".
 Indeed the solicitor representing the appellant conceded before the Tribunal that material concerning the earlier protection visa was on the Departmental file, which suggests that the Tribunal's reference to there being "no evidence" was not based on an examination of the file.
 It is more likely that the Tribunal was referring to an absence of material furnished by the appellant to support his claim that he had made an earlier application which had not been pursued to decision.
 The conclusion of the Tribunal that any persecution the appellant might suffer was not "Convention related" does not involve, in my opinion, any misunderstanding or misapplication of the applicable law. 9 As to the third matter, it was submitted that the Tribunal misconstrued the Treaty between India and Nepal which, it was argued, did not entitle the appellant, a Nepalese citizen, to reside in India.
 Reliance was placed on the observations of Lee J in WAGH v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCAFC 194 ; (2003) 131 FCR 269 at 278, which might be viewed as indicating that it is necessary for there to be a prior acceptance or acknowledgement by a third country to enliven s 36(3) of the Act.
