 1 I have before me two Notices of Motion in two actions QUD522/2005 and QUD324/2005 in which the Applicant in each proceeding, Mr Forest, seeks orders in relation to the report of Dr.
 Unwin goes beyond an examination of the question of whether the particular condition might be alleviated through the use of the Applicant's assistance dogs, either "Buddy" or "Knuckles" and examines the question of the use of the assistance dogs and comments upon the utility, features and characteristics of the assistance dogs. 3 It seems to me that upon a proper reading of the report of Dr.
 Unwin seeks to deal with the extent to which the identified condition might be ameliorated or alleviated by reference to or through the use by the Applicant of the assistance dogs.
 Unwin is responsive to a series of questions but the proper construction of the opinion expressed in the report in response to those questions is focused upon the medical question of whether or not the condition might be alleviated rather than a forensic assessment of the qualities or characteristics of the two assistance dogs in particular or assistance dogs in general. 4 It may be that in the proceedings, Mr Forest might wish to put propositions to Dr.
 The expression of the view reflected in the report is the expression of the medical opinion about the condition and factors which might influence its alleviation or otherwise. 5 The report deals with an assessment of the mental state of the Applicant based upon Dr.
 Unwin's examination, reaches diagnostic conclusions about that matter and then seeks to comment upon, as a matter of therapeutic consequence, whether the use of an assistance dog would alleviate the condition thus diagnosed. 6 Mr Forest is a self-represented litigant and I have elected to record these observations in addressing for Mr Forest the concerns he has raised by his Notice of Motion concerning the report. 7 I propose to dismiss the Notice of Motion in each proceeding and the costs of each Notice of Motion are reserved.
