 The decision that the applicant seeks to review, and all other events allegedly relevant to the application, occurred in Queensland. 2 This matter was listed for a directions hearing at 9:30 am on 28 February 2006.
 She was informed by the Court that, as the matter was listed for first directions only, an adjournment would not be granted. 3 Although the Court organised for video conference facilities to be available for the applicant in Brisbane, the applicant did not appear for the directions hearing of 28 February 2006.
 The Court adjourned the hearing of further directions in this proceeding. 4 After the directions hearing, the Court contacted the applicant and informed her that, since the application concerned events that occurred in Queensland and persons there, it was proposed by the Court to transfer this (and another) matter to the Queensland District Registry.
 In National Mutual Holdings Pty Ltd v The Sentry Corporation (1988) 19 FCR 155, at 162, a Full Court (Bowen CJ, Woodward and Lockhart JJ) said that: " The power conferred on the Court or a judge by s 48 is in terms wholly unfettered.
 It should be exercised flexibly having regard to the circumstances of the particular case. " The Court observed that the power conferred by s 48 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) recognises the national character of the Court.
 The Court added, at 162: " The factors which the Court is entitled to take into account in considering whether one city is more appropriate than another for interlocutory hearings or for the trial itself are numerous.
 Residence of parties and of witnesses, expense to parties, the place where the cause of action arose and the convenience of the Court itself are some of the factors that may be relevant in particular circumstances. ...
 Ultimately the test is: where can the case be conducted or continued most suitably bearing in mind the interests of all the parties, the ends of justice in the determination of the issues between them, and the most efficient administration of the Court.
 It cannot and should not, in our opinion, be defined more closely or precisely. " 7 Although this proceeding has been commenced in the Victorian District Registry of the Court, the case has no ties whatsoever to Victoria.
 It does not follow from this, however, that the applicant's case cannot properly be dealt with in the Queensland District Registry, which has the benefit of more than one registrar and judge. 8 For these reasons, I would order, pursuant to O 10 r 1(2)(f) of the Federal Court Rules 1979 , that proceeding VID 1592 of 2005 be transferred to the Queensland District Registry of this Court .
