 As we interpret the effect of your Honour's order Dr Webber would be bound, even though no error has been found in what Dr Holmes did, to re-investigate the investigative referral, deal with any submissions which Dr Mathews might be inclined to make for the purpose of that re-investigation, prepare a fresh report and prepare another adjudicative referral. ' 9 I expressed certain concerns to counsel for the respondents on the form of the replacement order and its implications, to which she responded: 'Your Honour's concern I think might be satisfied if your Honour were to set aside this referral but grant leave to the Director, the current Director, to make a referral in identical terms, save for the references to Committee No. 223, without the necessity to conduct a fresh investigation and create a further investigation report.
 There is much in the contention of Dr Mathews' counsel that O 35 r 7(2) of the Federal Court Rules does not accommodate its agitation. 14 I do not propose to say anything more about the variation sought to order 3 (the costs order). 15 Returning to the first order I made, the intention of that order was to set aside the Director's referral to Professional Services Review Committee No. 223 of the following reference, namely: ' [The consideration of whether conduct by Dr Mathews in connection with rendering and initiating]: ALL Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS) items 23, 24 and 193 services from the practice location at 11 Patrick Street, Campbelltown NSW 2560 during the period on and from 1 January 1999 to and including 31 December 1999 [constituted engaging in inappropriate practice as defined in the Act. ] ' (Adjudicative Referral No. 223. ) 16 It might, therefore, have been more precisely worded as follows: 1.
 The Director's referral to PSRC No. 223 of the reference known as Adjudicative Referral No. 223 be set aside. 17 The intention of the second order I made was to oblige the Director to establish a differently constituted committee to consider the reference known as Adjudicative Referral No. 223 according to law. 18 It might, therefore, have been more precisely worded as follows: 2.
 Order 2 made on 10 March 2006 is hereby varied so as to read as follows: The Director establish a differently constituted committee to consider the reference known as Adjudicative Referral No. 223 according to law. 22 As the respondents' motion has essentially failed, the respondents must pay the applicant's costs of and incidental to the motion.
