 1 This is an appeal from a judgment of a Federal Magistrate given ex tempore on 6 December 2005, although his Honour's reasons were not published until 13 December 2005: see SZCKV v Minister for Immigration Anor [2005] FMCA 1808.
 On 1 October 2003, the Tribunal received from the appellant a completed "Response to Hearing Invitation" form indicating the appellant did not want to attend the hearing and consenting to the Tribunal making its decision based on the material before it.
 These were firstly, that the Tribunal erred in relying on media information, secondly, the Tribunal's decision was unjust and against the principles of natural justice, and thirdly, the Tribunal failed to properly interpret and apply the correct definition of a refugee. 6 The Federal Magistrate found that there was no substance to any of these grounds.
 As to the first ground, his Honour found the Tribunal had not relied on media information but rather had relied on material provided by the appellant and was not satisfied on the basis of that material that the protection visa should be granted.
 As to the second ground, the Federal Magistrate noted the appellant was invited to attend a hearing before the Tribunal, and that both the appellant and his authorised recipient had been informed by letter of that hearing invitation.
 His Honour noted that while the Tribunal referred to the claims made in the original application for a protection visa, the appellant had adopted those claims in writing for the purposes of the application for review before the Tribunal.
 This adoption had arisen through the appellant's statement asking the Tribunal to refer to the departmental file, under the section "Your reasons for making this application" in the application form seeking review by the Tribunal. 8 His Honour concluded on that basis that the Tribunal had not been obliged to give notice under s 424A of any adverse material derived from the original application, and s 424A had not been breached.
 The Federal Magistrate erred in failing to find that the Tribunal was biased and not interested in making its decision. 10 The appellant's written submissions centred on the argument that the Tribunal had breached s 424A of the Act .
 The appellant claimed that he had not been informed that the Tribunal would rely upon the information which he had provided in his original application for the purpose of rejecting his claim, and was not given an opportunity to provide any submissions on this information. 11 The first respondent submitted that the Federal Magistrate should have held that the information it relied on from the appellant's original application did not form the reason or part of the reason for the Tribunal's decision, and therefore that s 424A of the Act did not apply.
 In that case, the applicant failed to attend the hearing, and the only information which the Tribunal had before it came from the original application, Allsop J held that the reason for the decision was simply the evaluative conclusion founded on the perceived inadequacy of information, in the sense of the absence of detail and extrinsic explanation.
