 The MRT found that, at the time of application, the appellant was not a special need relative of her father, the nominator. 6 The MRT accepted that the nominator suffered from various medical conditions that gave rise to a long term need for assistance.
 In particular, the MRT was "not satisfied that the assistance needed could not at the time of the application have reasonably have been obtained from one or more or from a combination of the four other children of the nominator in Australia or from welfare, hospital, nursing or community services in Australia". 7 The MRT made a variety of factual findings that, in its view, supported this conclusion.
 First, she claimed that the learned Federal Magistrate erred in failing to hold that the decision of the MRT involved a jurisdictional error in that the MRT determined whether the appellant was a special need relative at the time of application by reference to events that occurred after that date.
 Secondly, the appellant claimed that the learned Federal Magistrate erred in failing to hold that the MRT made a jurisdictional error when it failed to consider subjective factors when it concluded that the assistance required by the nominator could reasonably be obtained from other sources. 12 With respect to the first ground of appeal, the appellant submitted that the MRT erred in law when it concluded that it was not satisfied that the appellant was able to provide a level of assistance that was both substantial and continuing.
 The appellant suggested that, when it relied on her subsequent employment history, the MRT improperly conflated the criteria for cl 806.213 (required to be satisfied at the time of application) and cl 806.221 (required to be satisfied at the time of decision).
 Referring to Xiang v Minister for Immigration Multicultural Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 64 (" Xiang "), the appellant submitted that his Honour was in error in this regard. 14 In support of her second ground of appeal, the appellant argued that the MRT wrongly failed to have regard to the subjective aspect of the relevant regulation.
 Further, the first respondent contended that, when regard was had to the context of the contested findings, it was clear that the MRT was referring to the correct date, which was the date of application. 16 With respect to the second ground of appeal, the first respondent submitted that there is no indication that the MRT did not consider the "reasonable obtainability" of assistance by the nominator as opposed to the "reasonable availability" of such assistance.
 Accordingly, Gray J held that the MRT should consider not simply whether other sources of assistance were available, but whether it was reasonable for the nominator to obtain such assistance. 21 The facts of this case can be distinguished from those in Biyiksiz and there is nothing in Xiang that would suggest error here.
 In these circumstances, it was plainly open to the MRT not to be satisfied that the requisite assistance could not reasonably be obtained from one or more of his other children in Australia or public services. 22 It would be wrong to find error simply because the MRT failed to note explicitly that it was not just considering whether other sources of assistance were available but was directing its attention to whether the nominator could reasonably obtain such assistance.
 A reviewing court should not read the MRT's decision overly finely with an eye attuned to the perception of error: see Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs v Wu Shan Liang [1996] HCA 6 ; (1996) 185 CLR 259 at 271-272 and 291 per Kirby J.
