 Later at [63] it further stated: 'So the issue to be decided by the Tribunal is whether the respondent correctly determined, pursuant to s.177F(1)(c), that the applicant, as trustee of the [T]rust, did not incur the capital loss for income tax purposes because it was a tax benefit connected with the scheme identified by the respondent and the scheme is one to which Part IVA applies. ' 24 The applicant contends in this ground that these references establish that the Tribunal erred in law in the manner in which it approached the matter.
 In making its decision the Tribunal exercised its discretion in the same way as the respondent had, by making the finding that Pt IVA applies and by affirming the objection decision that upheld the amended assessment that gave effect to the determination under s 177F. 30 Reading the whole of the reasons, there is no apparent error of law of the type alleged in this ground in the issue the Tribunal identified for decision.
 On the findings made by it (in particular at [67] and at [69]), having reviewed and considered for itself the evidence and submissions before it, the Tribunal was authorised by the combined effect of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act and s 177F of the 36 Act to affirm the determination made by the respondent.
 In doing so it made no error in carrying out its statutory function of reviewing the decision of the respondent. 31 In particular, the Tribunal did not make the error made by the Tribunal in Bazaniak , namely considering the questions before it on the basis of material before the respondent rather than before it. 32 Likewise, the reliance on Eastern Nitrogen does not assist the applicant as it addresses a distinguishable issue.
 The applicant, at para. 25 of his outline of submissions, contended that the capital loss was not a tax benefit connected with the scheme identified by the respondent because there was at all material times a reasonable expectation that a sale of the beneficial ownership in the shares would have occurred in an alternative form or forms.
 The scheme identified by the respondent includes the sale of 8 million of the shares at the capital loss. ' 46 In respect of the conclusion in [67] this next ground generally contends the Tribunal erred in law in finding that the capital loss incurred by the Trust on the sale of shares to Trust 2 constituted a tax benefit for the purposes of Pt IVA.
 That is, the Bank would have been the legal owner of the shares held as security for the debt owed to it and either Trust 2 or any other transferee would have held the equitable interest in those shares. 53 I agree with the submission for the respondent that there is no inconsistency between [66] of the Tribunal's reasons and its later finding that no part of the purpose of the scheme was referrable to commercial purposes.
 These findings were supported by the facts it found, including the $4.3 million loan, the lodging of the CCIL shares as security with NAT and the manner in which the transaction was effected. 55 In my view there was no error involved in the Tribunal's findings. (In view of this conclusion it is not necessary for me to consider the further submission of the respondent that, in any event, the alleged error was one of fact rather than law).
 GROUNDS 4.9 AND 4.10: FAILURE TO CONSIDER RELEVANT ISSUES ON ADDITIONAL TAX AND REMITTANCE 76 In [79] the Tribunal stated: 'The facts of the scheme in this matter, as found by the Tribunal, and the relevant provisions of Part IVA , do not, in any material sense, support the position taken by the applicant in relation to Part IVA and so it would not be concluded, for the purpose of s.222C, that what the applicant argued for is about as likely as not correct.
 That is consistent with the above resolution, adversely to the applicant, of each of the grounds of appeal. 79 The Tribunal set out the applicant's arguments at [78], including the argument that the scheme in this matter was a normal sale of the beneficial interest in shares. 80 The Tribunal held against the applicant on the question of penalty because it held the facts of the scheme, as found by it, and the relevant provisions of Pt IVA, 'do not, in any material sense, support the position taken by the applicant in relation to Part IVA'.
