 The applicant seeks the orders that, until the hearing of this application or further order, the Misconduct Investigation Committee, established by the respondent ('the University') in relation to the applicant, be prohibited from further proceeding; and that the Vice Chancellor and/or Professor Belinda Probert, the Academic Member of Executive of the respondent, be prohibited from acting on any report of the Misconduct Investigation Committee.
 The application also seeks pursuant to s 178 of the Act an order for the imposition of a penalty against the University for breach of the certified agreement. 3 Schedule D of the certified agreement sets out the investigative and disciplinary process to be followed when there are allegations of serious misconduct made against members of the academic staff of the University.
 It provides, inter alia, for the establishment of a Misconduct Investigation Committee. 4 The applicant, who is a member of the academic staff of the University, alleges that by reason of the manner in which the University proceeded in establishing the Misconduct Investigation Committee, the University has acted in breach of cl 6 of Sched D to the certified agreement.
 It follows, so the applicant says, that as the Misconduct Investigation Committee was established in breach of the agreement, its subsequent proceedings are, therefore, unlawful. 5 The applicant also says, alternatively, that on a proper construction of cll 6, 11 and 13 of Sched D of the certified agreement, that even if the Misconduct Investigation Committee was lawfully established, the manner in which it has subsequently conducted its proceedings was unlawful because the Misconduct Investigation Committee has acted in breach of those terms of the certified agreement. 6 In essence, the applicant has the following complaints.
 The Deputy Vice Chancellor then allocates the matter to the Academic Member. 10 Clause 6 of Sched D is crucial and provides as follows: '6.1 If the Academic Member of Executive believes the report referred in subclause 2.2 warrants further investigation, he/she shall: 6.1.1. notify the employee in writing and in sufficient detail to enable the employee to understand the precise nature of the allegation(s), and to properly consider and respond to them.
 Para 9 Para 27 Para 29 Para 33 Para 36 Para 37 Para 57 Para 59 ...' The same methodology was used in relation to each of the other allegations referred to in the letter of 6 January 2006. 30 The applicant continued to complain that the provision of particulars in the form which was provided both in the letter of 6 January 2006 and the letter of 2 March 2006 failed to comply with cl 6.1.1 of Sched D of the certified agreement.
 It was submitted that cl 6.1.1 required, as a contractual pre-condition to the valid establishment of the Misconduct Investigation Committee, that the applicant be provided with particulars which satisfied that clause, namely, particulars 'in sufficient detail to enable the employee to understand the precise nature of the allegation(s), and to properly consider and respond to them'. 32 The applicant submitted that the letter of 6 January 2006 was an attempt to comply with cl 6.1.1 but that, on the proper construction of that clause, the University had failed to comply with its terms.
 This was because the manner in which the particulars had been provided in the letter of 2 March 2006 also did not comply with cl 6.1.1 of Sched D, in that they did not set out in sufficient detail the allegations which were made against the applicant, such that he would be in a position to answer them. 34 The applicant submitted that the technique adopted in the University's letter of 2 March 2006, of linking each of the allegations to references to certain paragraphs of the affidavits, was not sufficient to comply with cl 6.1.1 of Sched D.
 It was submitted that, in that context, it was not necessary for the University to do more than had already been done, and it was not necessary 'to quote chapter and verse'. 42 It was also argued that there was no serious question to be tried as to whether the University is required to attempt to procure the attendance of the two complainants at the hearing because cl 13 of Sched D is a code and under the code the Misconduct Investigation Committee has no power to subpoena witnesses.
 In my view, it is arguable that it is not sufficient for the applicant simply to be given evidence without being advised of which of the events described in the evidence are relied upon in support of each of the alleged grounds of sexual harassment comprising the serious misconduct. 52 In relation to the letter of 2 March 2006, in my view, there is also a serious question to be tried as to whether the particulars which were provided are sufficient to comply with cl 6.1.1 of Sched D.
 Further it is arguable that insofar as it is alleged that the conduct was in breach of policies, those policies should be named and the provisions relied upon should be identified. 54 Accordingly there is in my view, a serious question to be tried as to whether the Misconduct Investigation Committee was set up in breach of the certified agreement, or alternatively, whether it has operated, and intends to continue to operate, in breach of the certified agreement.
