 The parties have filed written submissions and have agreed that the motion be decided on those submissions. 2 Order 20 rule 2 provides that where it appears to the Court in any proceeding that (a) no reasonable cause of action is disclosed; (b) the proceeding is frivolous or vexatious; or (c) the proceeding is an abuse of the process of the Court, the Court may dismiss the proceeding. 3 On 3 January 2006 the plaintiff purported to commence a proceeding under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) ("the Act ") against Weaver as "Joint and Several Administrator of Sons of Gwalia and certain subsidiaries".
 In the title to the application it was recited the plaintiff acted in a representative capacity "for and on behalf of the constituents of The Murphy Interest ABN 39 734 598 213". 4 An appearance as defendants to the application was filed by Weaver and the two other joint and several Administrators appointed under a Deed of Company Arrangement for Sons of Gwalia Ltd and 24 associated companies. 5 Although the application stated that a statement of claim accompanied it, no statement of claim was filed and the plaintiff relied instead upon an affidavit in which the plaintiff purported to outline the basis on which the matter was said to engage the jurisdiction of the Court.
 In June and August 2005 Sons of Gwalia transferred the lease and associated property to another purchaser. 12 The defendants have filed an affidavit in which it is deposed that having considered all of the foregoing information put before them by the plaintiff it was obvious that neither Sons of Gwalia Ltd nor its subsidiary had any indebtedness to the plaintiff and that the defendants had a duty to disallow the proof of debt lodged. 13 The plaintiff has adduced no material to dispute that contention and has made no submission to the effect that the defendants failed to duly exercise their powers as Administrators in disallowing the plaintiff's proof of debt. 14 The plaintiff's claim in this proceeding appears to concede that the Deed of Settlement executed in September 1994 bars any action on behalf of Diespa.
