 1 On 6 December 2005, the applicant filed in this Court an application invoking the jurisdiction conferred on the Court by s 170CP(1) and (2) of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) ('the Workplace Relations Act ').
 In the application, the applicant seeks reinstatement in his previous employment as an outdoor education teacher at Lilydale High School, compensation from the date of his dismissal for lost wages and earnings, and costs. 2 The applicant began employment at the Lilydale High School on 10 February 2003.
 In fact, as the applicant conceded to the Court, he had been convicted of several offences in the County Court at Melbourne, in November 2002. 3 The applicant took proceedings in the Australian Industrial Relations Commission ('the Commission'), pursuant to s 170CE of the Workplace Relations Act .
 His capacity to do so was challenged on the basis that, because in any event his employment was due to cease in June 2003, he was completing a qualifying period of employment and his application was barred by subss (5A) and (5B) of s 170CE.
 The Full Bench decided that, so far as the applicant's application relied on alleged contraventions of ss 170CK and 170CM, it was necessary to refer the application for appropriate further action. 4 That further action was conciliation by the Commission.
 On 6 February 2004 Senior Deputy President Williams of the Commission issued a certificate in accordance with s 170CF(2) of the Workplace Relations Act , certifying that all reasonable attempts to settle the matter by conciliation had been, or were likely to be, unsuccessful in respect of the grounds of alleged contravention of ss 170CK and 170CM.
 At that directions hearing, I directed the filing of material in support of, and in opposition to, any application to exercise the undoubted power given by s 170CP(6) to enlarge the time within which the application can be made. 7 The principles upon which an application for enlargement of time in a case such as this should be determined have been the subject of comment in a number of cases.
 Perhaps regrettably, the notice did not advise that there was a time limit attached to the commencement of proceedings in the Court, much less what that time limit in fact entailed. 10 The applicant, in his material, was inclined to blame the respondent for failing to give him advice as to the presence of a time limit, or its duration.
 Even the busiest person will find time to do something that has to be done before a time limit expires. 14 I should also mention that the applicant revealed to me that, since 2001, he has been enrolled as a law student at Griffith University in Queensland.
 The affidavit material also says that the respondent discontinued the earlier proceeding in this Court, remitted from the High Court, on the basis that the applicant had not taken any steps to pursue his claim since filing his notice of election on 6 February 2004.
 I therefore proceed on the basis that the respondent has suffered no prejudice, but taking into account the fourth principle from Jennings , which is that the mere absence of prejudice is an insufficient basis to grant an extension of time. 17 The fifth principle relates to the merits of the proceeding.
 The matter was, as the applicant put it, leaked to the Herald Sun newspaper by a fellow teacher, after one of the students at the school had discovered evidence of it whilst researching for a school project on the internet.
 That is to say, it would be necessary for the respondent to prove on the balance of probabilities that whoever made the decision to dismiss the applicant from his employment did not have as a reason for that decision the applicant's political opinion, or his national extraction or social origin.
