 A number of factors led to the conclusion that it was in the best interests of members of the Applicant's fund that the business of that fund should be transferred to AHM. 7 These included: (a) the Applicant's fund had an ongoing difficulty in meeting capital adequacy ratios required of it by the Private Health Insurance Administration Council ('PHIAC') and had been obliged to obtain financial support from the Applicant's management fund; (b) the Applicant's fund had an ageing membership and had not attracted any new younger members for some time; (c) the Applicant's fund's fixed costs contributed to higher management charges than currently existed with many other health funds; (d) the Applicant's fund only offered a limited range of tables to its members; and (e) the Applicant's fund did not have facilities which have become commonplace among other health funds which if introduced into the Applicant's fund would require substantial capital investment. 8 On 18 August 2005 the Applicant resolved to transfer the business of its Health Benefits Fund to AHM and on 9 September 2005 an agreement was entered into between the Applicant and AHM for the sale of that fund.
 Under clause 4.1 of the agreement, the price payable was to be the value of the net assets of the relevant fund as at the date of completion and a mechanism was put in place for the determination of that amount. 9 Under clause 5 of the agreement, provision was made for the price for the fund to be applied in two ways.
 By virtue of these amendments no part of the Applicant's health insurance business was capable of being transferred to another organisation except under a scheme confirmed by the Court (see s 190(1A)). 12 Part 9 of the Act entitled 'Transfers and amalgamations of life insurance business' applies to the transfer of the Applicant's Health Benefits Fund to AHM.
 Apart from the modification to s 190 to which I have referred, further modifications were made to ss 191(2)(a) and 193 of the Act by schedule 6 to the Regulations. 13 The sections in question require an Applicant for confirmation of a scheme to give a copy of the scheme and any actuarial report on which the scheme is based to the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority ('APRA'), PHIAC and the Minister for Health and Aging.
 Section 190(3) of the Act provides: '190(3) A scheme must set out: (a) the terms of the agreement ... under which the proposed transfer ... is to be carried out; and (b) particulars of any other arrangements necessary to give effect to the scheme. ' 14 By letters dated 30 September 2005 to APRA, PHIAC and the Minister, the Applicant gave each of the persons mentioned a copy of the agreement made 9 September 2005, a draft Scheme of arrangement, a summary of the draft Scheme of arrangement, an actuarial report of a Mr Stevenson of 12 September 2005, an auditor's report of Mr Lewis of 8 September 2005, a draft form of public notice, draft benefit fund rules and a covering letter to members advising of the Scheme.
 By letter dated 22 March 2006, which bears the stamped date 23 March 2006, APRA approved a summary of the Scheme, advised its requirements in respect of publication of Notice of intention to apply for confirmation of the Scheme and approved the form of the Notice of intention to apply for confirmation of the Scheme for advertisement purposes.
 The General Manager --- Specialised Institutions, Central Region of APRA also said: 'I have had regard to the Scheme, pursuant to Part 9 of the Life Insurance Act , for the transfer and amalgamation of the health insurance business of Acorn Prudential Limited with Australian Health Management Group Limited and have no objection to the companies proceeding with their application to the Court to confirm the Scheme. ' 15 By letter dated 13 April 2006, which bears the stamped date 18 April 2006, APRA forwarded to the Applicant an approval of benefit fund rules under s 16L(3) of the Act.
 Those rules related to the investment of one-half of the purchase price which was to be paid to the Applicant's Management Fund under clause 5.1(a) of the agreement. 16 By an application filed in Court on 2 March 2006, the Applicant sought confirmation of the Scheme, a copy of which was annexed and marked "A" to the application.
 The Applicant, as a company affected by the scheme, was entitled to bring the application in accordance with ss 193(1) , (2) and (4) of the Act, and APRA, PHIAC and the Minister for Health and Ageing are entitled to be heard on the application. 17 When the matter was called for hearing earlier today, the Minister did not appear.
 PHIAC is of the view that the transfer of the Applicant's health insurance business is in the best interests of the contributors to the Applicant's Health Benefits Fund and will not disadvantage the contributors to the health benefits fund of AHM. 18 The Act provides for the publication in the Gazette and in newspapers of Notice of intention on the part of the Applicant to make the application.
 The members are I believe advantaged by the transfer. ' 24 Mr Stevenson proceeded to consider the position of the members of the Applicant's other funds, namely its Funeral Benefit Fund and its Blue Chip Endowment Assurance Fund and concluded: 'In my opinion the interests (both financial and voting) of the members of the benefit funds (other than the health fund) will not be diminished.
 When one has regard to the fact that the agreement, amongst other things, deals with the administration in the future of the Applicant's Funeral Fund, I am inclined to accept the submission of senior counsel for the Applicant that the construction for which he contends is correct. 29 Notwithstanding my satisfaction that the Scheme contained in exhibit A33 satisfies the requirements of s 190(3) of the Act, I think that confirmation of that scheme should be subject to two modifications, namely the attachment of a copy of the agreement made 9 September 2005, which is exhibit A6, and also a copy of the approval of benefit fund rules of APRA dated 13 April 2006 and the schedule thereto, which is part of exhibit A40.
