 The Tribunal was not persuaded that it ought to prefer the second letter as being the correct account of events, and said at [54] that it: 'gives it no more weight that [ sic ] the earlier letter. ' 36 The Tribunal found that Ms Downie's letters were not conclusive evidence that Ms Antipova and Mr Petrou lived as de facto spouses from 18 May 2001.
 It noted that Mr Petrou's family did not indicate that he and Ms Antipova were living together in America. 38 Under the heading 'Nature of the persons' commitment to each other', at [60] --- [64], the Tribunal expressed a finding that Ms Antipova and Mr Petrou met in April 2001 and married on 2 March 2003.
 The Tribunal is also not satisfied that the parties were living together as husband and wife throughout the relevant period. ' 45 The Tribunal then turned its attention to the question of compassionate and compelling circumstances, for the purpose of determining whether reg 1.15A(2A) of the Migration Regulations was applicable.
 It was said that, because Ms Antipova was not given a proper opportunity to give evidence and present arguments, the Tribunal had failed to comply with its statutory obligation to invite Ms Antipova to appear before it for a hearing of the kind contemplated by that subsection.
 Third, Ms Antipova said that the Tribunal failed to inform her that it did not propose to give any weight to the letter from Ms Shpits, because it was unsigned, and to give Ms Antipova an opportunity to make submissions on that issue. 54 There were other issues raised on behalf of Ms Antipova.
 It did not reject the statements as evidence that family and friends considered Ms Antipova and Mr Petrou to be a couple, and thereby used the statements for the purpose for which they were required under the regulation, and for the purpose for which they had been supplied to it.
 The distinction between 'the genuineness of the relationship' and 'the 12 months co-habitation period' was plainly a false distinction, because reg 1.15A(2)(d)(ii) of the Migration Regulations required that Ms Antipova establish that, during the 12-month period, the relationship was 'genuine and continuing'.
 At [41], the Full Court found that the Refugee Review Tribunal in that case had not extended 'a meaningful invitation'. 85 In the present case, because it interrupted her and imposed an arbitrary time limit on her, the Tribunal did not permit Ms Antipova to give evidence and present arguments as she wished to do.
 Although there was a semblance of a hearing, and the Tribunal invited Ms Antipova to it in terms mandated by s 360(1) of the Migration Act , the invitation was not a real and meaningful one, because what she was invited to do was denied to her.
 The Tribunal's decision is therefore tainted by jurisdictional error, either because of its failure to comply with s 360 of the Migration Act , or because of a denial of procedural fairness, which s 357A of the Migration Act does not exclude from consideration.
 Compelling and compassionate circumstances 102 Once the Tribunal had found that Ms Antipova and Mr Petrou had not been in a marriage-like relationship for 12 months before Ms Antipova applied for her visa, it was necessary for the Tribunal to determine whether reg 1.15A(2A)(b) of the Migration Regulations applied.
