 That was supported by an affidavit verifying the petition sworn by Brian Stewart Olliver on 20 October 2005 in which he asserted that those allegations were 'within my own knowledge true'. 2 Mr Johnson of counsel who appears for the petitioning creditors today withdrew the allegation that the debtor was personally present in Australia on the date of the act of bankruptcy. 3 During February and March this year, the debtor has been seeking and ultimately, the petitioning creditor has provided, particulars of the allegations to found jurisdiction under section 43 of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth).
 The particulars to support the allegation that the debtor was carrying on business in Australia were as follows: '1. a) Investor. b) In Australia and in particular in Melbourne and in Sydney. c) The debtor travels to and from Australia to consider and oversee investments. d) The evidence is included in documents produced on subpoena by the Department of Immigration, Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs. ' 4 The material upon which paragraph 1(d) was based is said to be contained in exhibit 2, which consists of the Department of Immigration's incoming and outgoing passenger card records.
 The petitioning creditors were not able to advance any other basis upon which it was alleged that there was any business being carried on in Australia by the debtor at the time of the act of bankruptcy. 5 In my opinion, having regard to the fact that her Honour, Stone J, ordered that these particulars be answered on 9 March 2006 and that the allegations were made and verified in the creditors petition, I am able to infer and I do infer that at the time this allegation was made there was no basis for the allegation.
 Accordingly, I strike out the allegation that the debtor was carrying on business in Australia in paragraph 3 of the creditors petition. 6 I also strike out, because of its abandonment in court today, the allegation that the debtor was personally present in Australia on that date. 7 The claims as to the debtor's ordinary residence in having a dwelling house in Australia as at the date of the act of bankruptcy are, in my opinion, sufficiently particularised so as to permit them to remain in the creditors petition.
 This was despite the fact that his London and Australian contact details had been supplied to the Tribunal and had been quoted in correspondence from the Tribunal' (emphasis in original) 10 The letter of 3 March 2005 from the appellant's solicitor which appears to have been used in the decision, the subject of the Employment Appeal Tribunal proceedings, was not tendered or produced.
 In my opinion, there is no legitimate basis for requiring that paragraph to be answered. 14 The second and third paragraphs of the respective subpoenas seek copies of personal details provided in writing or orally by the debtor to the respective club: 'at times he has stayed at the club during the period 1 March 2005 to 1 March 2006'.
 Therefore the subpoenas should be set aside and to the extent that any documents may have been produced in answer to the subpoenas by the clubs, the documents should be returned without being inspected by any party. 17 Lastly, the application seeks that the subpoena issued to the debtor on 13 December 2005 be set aside.
