 Edited from Transcript 1 The plaintiff, liquidator for Parle Foods Pty Limited ACN 050 213 468 (in Liquidation) (Receivers and Managers Appointed) ("the company"), has commenced proceedings in the present matter and in 38 other proceedings, claiming that the various defendants received amounts as "unfair preferences" as defined by section 588FA of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) 2 The plaintiff seeks leave under Order 6 Rule 2(b) of the Federal Court Rules to join the various defendants as defendants in matter NSD 439 of 2006.
 The principle matters to which they point are fourfold. 15 Firstly, they say that separate proceedings have already been commenced in this court and that those proceedings can be case managed, so it is submitted, just as efficiently as one consolidated action. 16 Secondly, they submit that the question of insolvency can be determined in the separate proceedings in a way which will bind all of the defendants. 17 Third, they point out that there is no evidence of the plaintiff's prospects of success. 18 Fourth, counsel submit that the evidence suggests that there will be no dividend for the unsecured creditors.
 In my view none of the objections lead to a different result in weighing the advantages and disadvantages of proceeding in the manner which I propose. 24 To the extent that any difficulties may arise in relation to the interlocutory stages of the proceedings such as discovery, if the parties cannot agree on the course I can deal with them by appropriate directions. 25 In Dean-Willcocks, Austin J pointed out that one of the factors which justify the joinder of a number of defendants is the fact that the case management of the proceedings is allocated in the Supreme Court of New South Wales to the Corporations List.
 Details of the Court's administrative arrangements for dealing with Corporations matters are contained in a notice to practitioners issued by the NSW District Registrar on 6 February 2006. 27 I will myself case manage the present proceedings but in the event that something may arise at a time when I am not available, the matter could be dealt with by the Corporations Duty Judge who is sitting at that time to deal with urgent applications.
