 Introduction 1 The appellant, who is of Indian nationality, appeals against a decision of the Federal Magistrates Court dismissing his application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal (the Tribunal).
 The decision of the Tribunal affirmed a decision of a delegate of the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs (the Minister) to refuse the appellant the grant of a protection visa.
 The police in Tamil Nadu, as well as in India, are pro-Hindu and anti-Muslim. 7 The appellant claimed that in September 2002 the Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu had proposed a law under which people could not change their religion.
 He claimed that he could not return to India because his life was in danger from the three Hindu organisations he had named as well as from the police. 8 The appellant's application for a protection visa was refused by a delegate of the Minister on 6 March 2003.
 He applied on 27 March 2003 for review of that decision by the Tribunal. 9 On 15 September 2003 he was invited to a hearing by the Tribunal which was scheduled for 23 October 2003.
 His application for judicial review was refused by Driver FM on 31 January 2006. 11 On 15 February 2006 the appellant filed a notice of appeal against the decision of Driver FM.
 He had provided no corroboration of those claims and in his protection visa application form had failed to mention those episodes of investigation and arrest when specifically asked to give details of such matters.
 The Tribunal found that his explanation for his arrest had varied significantly in the hearing from that claimed in his written submissions, including his response to the letter of 17 September 2003.
 His explanation of how he effected a release after 11 days detention was 'particularly unconvincing' especially as he claimed that police continued to search for him after his release and right up to his departure from India.
 The Tribunal did not put any weight on the responses which he gave on 10 October 2003 to the letter of 17 September 2003 requesting the provision of information pursuant to s 424 of the Act. 2.
 He referred to the Tribunal finding that he had fabricated claims in order to extend his stay in Australia and that the Tribunal had based its finding on his failure to provide supporting documentary evidence.
