 He contends that his Christian journey commenced before that and that his interest in Christianity which preceded his conversion from the Islamic faith provided a basis for his claim, since his arrival here, of refugee status. 2 His application for a Protection (Class XA) Visa was rejected by the Minister's Delegate.
 The Respondent Minister submits that the Appellant is in truth seeking no more than a merits review and that no ground has been made out warranting the issue of constitutional writs. 4 The Appellant does not seek to rely on his conversion and baptism to justify his claimed refugee status, nor does he rely upon the reasons for his departure from Iran to justify that status.
 That information, derived from the UK Home Office, Country Assessment --- Iran , Country Information and Policy Unit, October 2002 ("UK Home Office Country Assessment for Iran"), included the following:- " Christians 5.49 According to the Iranian government, in 1997 there were between 117,000 and 200,000 Christians in Iran, although the UN Special Representative (UNSR) used the figure of 300,000 in a 2001 report ...
 The evidence is that those converts who go about their devotions quietly are generally not disturbed ..." 8 The Tribunal also had before it the DFAT Country Profile, to which it referred in its reasons for decision, which suggested that seamen serving on Iranian ships with an adverse political profile, who may have slipped through the vetting process undertaken by the Iranian security authorities, would be placed in custody on board if considered to be a political or security threat because of their "... persistent statements, declarations and subversive activities, ..." .
 On 24 February 2003, the day before the Tribunal hearing, the Appellant's representatives, Farnam Immigration and Language Services, caused to be faxed to the Tribunal various documents to support the Appellant's case, including a further (unsworn) statutory declaration of the Appellant and a certificate of Baptism dated 21 October 2001.
 Therefore the Applicant does not satisfy the criterion set out in s 36(2) of the Act for a protection visa. " 25 In the section headed " FINDINGS AND REASONS ", the Tribunal accepted that the Appellant had deserted his ship when it docked at Port Kembla.
 However, the Tribunal did not accept that:- "the Applicant jumped ship because he faced harm from the authorities of Iran because of his claimed interest and involvement in Christianity. " It did not consider the claim to be "credible" . 26 The Tribunal considered that key aspects of the Appellant's claim lacked credibility in the following ways:- "The Tribunal considers the Applicant's account of the basis upon which the Captain came to believe that the Applicant was involved in Christianity to be so tenuous as to be implausible.
 Further the Tribunal considers it implausible that the Captain of the ship would accuse the Applicant of apostasy or even involvement in Christianity on the strength of comments from a crew member based on the Applicant's personal conversations when in port, particularly given that the Applicant on his own evidence had not spoken of or engaged in Christian activities on board the ship.
 The Tribunal considers that the Applicant's freedom of movement when the ship was in dock belies the Applicant's claim that the crew 'considered me a criminal' ... and the claim as stated in the hearing that the Captain was intending to hand him to the authorities when the ship returned to Iran.
 The Tribunal considers that if the Captain was intending to hand the Applicant over to the authorities in Iran and had informed the Applicant of his intention then more stringent measures would have been set in place in respect to the Applicant's movement when the ship was in dock.
 Counsel for the Appellant submitted that he was entitled to respond to any adverse conclusion drawn by the decision-maker which was not a natural and obvious evaluation of the evidence and that failure to do so would result in a lack of procedural fairness. 45 The proceeding before the Tribunal was inquisitorial, not adversarial.
