 Senior counsel for AWB maintained that AWB did not rely upon the statement as admissible evidence of the purpose for which the document was created; it is simply relied upon as evidence as to the way in which the claim of privilege was raised in the Commission.
 Penalty: $1,000 or imprisonment for 6 months. (5) Subsection (4) does not apply if the person has a reasonable excuse. (6) It is a defence to a prosecution for an offence against subsection (4) constituted by a refusal or failure to produce a document or other thing if the document or other thing was not relevant to the matters into which the Commission was inquiring.
 But to my mind it offends the general principles enunciated in Baker and Daniels to argue that a notice under s 2(3A) imposes an unqualified obligation to produce documents that are the subject of legal professional privilege, unless and until a reasonable excuse is established within the meaning of s 3(5).
 DETERMINING WHETHER EXHIBIT 665 ATTRACTS LEGAL PROFESSIONAL PRIVILEGE 60 In the passages that I have extracted from Daniels , Gleeson CJ, Gaudron, Gummow and Hayne JJ said that legal professional privilege applies to communications between a client and his or her lawyer made for the dominant purpose of giving or obtaining legal advice or the provision of legal services, including representation in legal proceedings.
 It is precisely the sort of professional service for which lawyers are ordinarily employed by virtue of their expertise and experience. ' 97 In Australia, in Dalleagles Pty Ltd v Australian Securities Commission (1991) 4 WAR 325 (' Dalleagles' ), Anderson J rejected the argument that legal advice privilege only extended to what is literally either legal advice or a request for legal advice, and arrived at much the same position as Taylor LJ enunciated in Balabel .
 Secondly, communications for the purpose of obtaining and giving legal advice in the sense discussed in Balabel and the other cases mentioned above must satisfy the dominant purpose test if they are to attract legal professional privilege. 102 The question whether the draft statement of contrition that now constitutes Exhibit 665 was brought into existence for the dominant purpose of obtaining legal advice is a question of fact.
 USE IN CONNECTION WITH LITIGATION 144 A traditional formulation of the second limb of legal professional privilege is that it applies to confidential communications passing between a client, the client's legal adviser and third parties for the dominant purpose of use in or in relation to litigation which is either pending or in contemplation: see FCT v Pratt Holdings at 284 [39] per Kenny J.
 The location and retention of witnesses, expert or otherwise, is really an adjunct of adversarial litigation and, in my view, does not warrant such an extension. 163 Given the applicability of legal advice privilege in the context of a commission of inquiry, I am not persuaded that the broad rationale for legal professional privilege justifies the extension of the litigation limb so as to include a commission of inquiry. 164 The extension of litigation privilege to a commission of inquiry is a very large step.
 AWB argued that, while the Commissioner may quite properly accept or reject a claim of privilege in the exercise of administrative or executive power, he does not have the function of deciding a claim; that step is reserved for the Courts, and any decision by the Commissioner on the subsistence of legal professional privilege has no legal force or effect.
 DECLARATORY RELIEF 184 From what appears above, it will be apparent that I reject AWB's claims for a declaration that Exhibit 665 is protected by legal professional privilege and for injunctions restraining the Commissioner from using or publishing Exhibit 665 and requiring that he return it to AWB.
 It remains for me to consider AWB's claim for declarations that the Commissioner does not have power to order the production of a privileged document or to determine whether a document is protected by legal professional privilege and should not determine such a claim. 185 Despite the widely formulated declarations sought by AWB, there was very little in dispute in this Court between AWB and the Commonwealth concerning the nature and extent of the Commissioner's powers under the RCA.
