 That agreement, between Franklins and the applicant, involved them in jointly bringing proceedings, in the Supreme Court of Victoria, against the Lessor for unreasonably withholding consent to the assignment of the lease of the Mentone store to the applicant.
 This was well before Franklins gave notice terminating the Mentone BSA, on 28 November 2001, and well before it obtained ACCC consent for the sale to Coles, on 21 December 2001. 21 In the alternative, the applicant submits that Franklins and Coles entered into an agreement for the sale of the Mentone store on or about 23 November 2001.
 The applicant also submits that Franklins did not disclose to the applicant the fact that it had made a confidential submission to the ACCC on 23 November 2001, seeking the ACCC's consent for the sale of the Mentone store to Coles.
 On 16 November 2001, at a directions hearing in the proceedings Franklins and the applicant brought against the Lessor, Habersberger J indicated that the matter would not be able to be given a trial date in 2001, and set the matter down for further directions on 15 February 2002.
 It contends that the price for the Mentone store was only agreed between 21 December 2001 (the date upon which ACCC approval was given for the sale of the Mentone store to Coles) and 24 December 2001 (the date the agreement to sell the Mentone store to Coles was signed).
 In relation to the line of causation through the ACCC, namely that the ACCC would have blocked the sale of the Mentone store had it known of the Lessor/Coles deal, Franklins submits that there is no evidence to support this contention.
 An injunction restraining Franklins from disposing of the Mentone store was granted on 10 December 2001, but was dissolved on 20 December 2001. 52 Mr Blake says that he was informed by some contractors, on 13 December 2001, that Coles was seeking tenders to fit out the Mentone store.
 Mr Cornell said that the Mentone store was not on that list, and that when he later spoke with Mr Masters about these stores, Mentone was not discussed. 132 Mr Cornell said that he did remember at least one occasion, which must have been after August 2001 but well before November 2001, when Mr Masters mentioned the possibility of Coles acquiring the Mentone store.
 Coles was not prepared to give such a promise. 159 Ms Weir attested to the difficulties Franklins specifically faced in obtaining an assignment from the Mentone Lessor, namely that the Lessor had refused three written requests to consent to an assignment to the applicant.
 He said that Mr Fischbacher asked Ms Weir to "battle on". 179 Mr Stansfield stated that during this period he was not aware of the Lessor/Coles deal, and the information in Ms Turner's email was not communicated to him.
