 The RRT concluded that the appellant's fear of persecution was not well-founded within the meaning of the Refugees Convention and affirmed the decision of the delegate. 4 The principal issue for consideration before the learned Federal Magistrate was whether the RRT erred in law by not taking into consideration the appellant's subjective state of mind when determining whether the appellant had a well-founded fear of persecution on his return to Kenya.
 His Honour found that once the RRT was satisfied that there was no objective basis for a well-founded fear of persecution, it was not required to further consider the subjective fear of the appellant (following the approach in SCAM v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2002] FCA 964 (" SCAM ") and WAHK v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs (2004) 81 ALD 22 (" WAHK ")).
 Accordingly, he dismissed the application. 5 In a notice of appeal dated 20 February 2006 the appellant made various claims in relation to the Federal Magistrate's decision, including that the Federal Magistrate erred in law by holding that the Tribunal was not bound to make "subjective consideration of the appellant's state of mind" when determining whether the appellant's fear of persecution was well founded.
 Submissions 6 In his written submissions, the appellant relied on a passage from the judgment of Gaudron J in Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs; Ex Parte Miah [2001] HCA 22 ; (2001) 206 CLR 57 (" Miah ") at [62], where her Honour said as follows: "For the purposes of this case, it is necessary to note three important matters with respect to the Convention definition of "refugee".
 Referring to the facts and holding of Appellant S395/2002 v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs [2003] HCA 71 ; (2003) 216 CLR 473 (" S395 ") the appellant argued that this would itself be considered a form of persecution. 9 Counsel for the appellant noted that, after the hearing before the RRT, the appellant's advisor filed further submissions with the RRT.
 Counsel argued that, faced with this information, the RRT should have considered whether the appellant would be at risk of persecution as a former political activist and as someone who would be likely to engage in political activity if he were to return to Kenya.
 Counsel also contended that the RRT had failed to have regard to this country information or any other such information relating to the situation in Kenya after the fall from power of Daniel Arap Moi. 10 The appellant acknowledged that these claims had not been expressly raised before the RRT.
 However, he argued that, under NABE v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs (No 2) [2004] FCAFC 263 ; 144 FCR 1 (" NABE ") per Black CJ, French and Selway JJ, the RRT might be required to consider a claim even though an applicant has not raised the claim explicitly.
 Thus, in the appellant's view, it committed jurisdictional error by failing to consider that possibility. 11 The first respondent submitted that the RRT was not required to consider subjective factors once it had found that the appellant did not have an objective basis to fear persecution.
 In WAHK , Lee and Tamberlin JJ said (at [12]-[14]) as follows (emphasis mine): " Where the RRT has accepted that an applicant had a well-founded risk of persecution at the time of their departure, a question arises concerning the approach that the RRT should take, in view of that finding, at the time it makes its decision concerning whether that applicant would have a well-founded risk of persecution, if they were returned.
 In [Chan] , Gaudron J, (at 415), accepted that the correct approach to a submission as to changed circumstances is as follows: " If an applicant relied on his past experiences it is, in my view, incumbent on a decision-maker to evaluate whether those experiences produced a well-founded fear of being persecuted.
