 In summary, they are: (a) whether the purported termination was lawful and valid or whether it was in breach of s 33 of the Public Administration Act 2004 (Vic) ('the Act'); (b) whether the termination was unlawful and invalid by reason that it was in breach of the Public Administration (Review of Actions) Regulations 2005 (Vic) ('the Regulations'), including in particular reg 6; (c) whether the Act and the Regulations enable the applicant to bring an action for breach of statutory duty; and (d) whether the conduct of the applicant was, or was capable of constituting, 'serious misconduct' justifying her summary dismissal from employment. 5 The respondents submitted before me that the statement of claim does not make it clear that the last of these matters is in serious contention.
 I will proceed on that basis. 6 Dr Jessup QC, senior counsel for the respondents, accepted that it is seriously arguable that the combined effect of ss 33, 20 and 8 of the Act is to require the head of the relevant public service body (ie the Secretary of the Department) to afford fair and reasonable treatment to an employee who is to be, or is being, dismissed. 7 Dr Jessup went on to submit that those sections operated to impose positive obligations on the public service head merely as a matter of good administration and not so as to affect the legal incidents of the employment relationship.
 That provision defines serious misconduct for the purposes of the WRA in a manner which is, broadly speaking, consistent with its definition at common law. 11 Clause 13.1.2 of the 2006 Agreement provides that: 'Subject to the Agreement the Employer may only terminate the employment of an Employee for the reasons outlined in s 33 of the Public Administration Act 2004 (Vic). ' Thus, s 33 of the Act applies to the applicant and the respondents directly, as a statute that regulates their employment relationship, and indirectly via the provisions of the 2006 Agreement. 12 The claim for interlocutory relief is not based, and could not be based, on the 2006 Agreement: see CFMEU v Gordonstone Coal Management Pty Ltd (1997) 78 FCR 437.
 THE PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION ACT AND REGULATIONS 13 Section 33(1) of the Act relevantly provides that: '(1) The appropriate public service body Head may terminate the employment of a non-executive employee --- ... (d) if the employee is guilty of serious misconduct'. 14 Section 33(2)(a) provides that the power referred to in subs (1) must be exercised by the relevant public service head in accordance with s 20(3) of the Act.
 Those principles include the establishment of employment processes to ensure that public sector employees are treated fairly and reasonably and that public sector employees have a reasonable avenue of redress against unfair or unreasonable treatment: see s 8(b) and (d). 15 Section 22 of the Act provides that the Regulations may establish procedures for dealing with any allegation of misconduct on the part of the employee and empower the imposition of penalties for misconduct.
 The respondents' failure to establish a review process cannot defeat the applicant's legal rights under s 64 and reg 6 to have the action taken against her reviewed in accordance with reg 6 and the requirements of ss 8 , 20 (3) and 33 (2)(a) of the Act. 23 It is possible that, even in these circumstances, reg 8 may operate as something of a default process.
 Regulation 8 provides that: 'If --- (a) an employee applies for an initial review; and (b) the public sector body fails to commence the initial review within 30 days after receiving the application --- the employee may apply to the Public Sector Standards Commissioner for review of the failure to commence the initial review. ' 24 Regulation 10 deals with the conduct of a review by the Public Sector Standards Commissioner.
 These provisions may be of little comfort to the applicant because the review by the Public Sector Standards Commissioner is limited to a review of the failure to commence the initial review and, by virtue of s 65(1) of the Act, the Public Standards Commissioner does not have power to make a binding decision as a result of the review.
 Thus, the serious question must relate to the grant of relief that is sought in the action: see Australian Broadcasting Corporation v Lenah Game Meats Pty Ltd [2001] HCA 63 ; (2001) 208 CLR 199 (' Lenah Game Meats' ). 27 In addition to being satisfied that there is a serious question to be tried, the Court must also be satisfied that the balance of justice and convenience favours the grant of interim relief.
 None of the other affidavit material filed on behalf of the respondents establishes that it would be impracticable or unworkable for Ms Paras to continue her employment. 44 Until the termination notice was served, and despite the long-standing investigation and canvassing of various employment-related issues concerning the applicant and others in the Public Transport Division, Ms Paras had continued to work with the other legal officers without any breakdown in their working relationship.
 In Hill, Denning MR said at 314 [H]: 'If the company did not want [an employee] to come to work, the court would not order the company to give [the employee] work, but so long as [the employee] was ready and willing to serve the company, whenever they required his services, the court would order the company to do their part of the agreement...'.
