 Relevantly, these are s 613(2)(a) (that the person is enrolled in a course that the Secretary has required the person to undertake under s 601(2)) , or s 613(2)(b) (that the person is engaged in a course undertaken under a "Newstart Activity Agreement").
 As neither condition was met, and s 613(2)(c) had no application, s 613(1) rendered the respondent ineligible for newstart allowance. 15 The applicant further submitted that the fact that both the SSAT and the AAT apparently considered the honours year to be a useful exercise, and one which was likely to improve the respondent's prospects of gainful employment, was simply irrelevant as a matter of law, so far as his eligibility for newstart allowance was concerned. 16 To be fair to the applicant, the argument was put with considerably greater sophistication than this at the hearing.
 Rather, the SSAT had reasoned simply that the honours year would improve the respondent's prospects of obtaining suitable paid work, and that this justified treating the conditions under s 601(2) as though they were satisfied. 17 However, s 601(2) is actually more complex than this.
 Alternatively, the course should have been regarded as one in which he was engaged, and which he would have undertaken under a Newstart Activity Agreement (had one been entered into), pursuant to s 613(2)(b). 20 As a further alternative, the AAT said that the honours course could have been regarded as "another activity that the Secretary regards as suitable for the person and that is agreed to between the person and the Secretary".
 Plainly, the AAT had in mind s 606(1)(g) in invoking this formula. 21 Paraphrasing the AAT's reasons for decision, the honours year of study in which the respondent had enrolled was regarded as a valuable activity, and one which should have been included in a Newstart Activity Agreement.
 Centrelink cannot in the circumstances be permitted to succeed in this review by pointing to the absence of such an agreement or the absence of the Secretary having decided, by way of requirement, that Mr Kelly undertake such a course. " 22 This passage suggests that the AAT was influenced by some notion of estoppel on the part of the applicant, based upon its disapproval of Centrelink's failure to form the requisite opinion, and act upon it.
 Nor was there any compliance with any such notification. 26 In addition, the Secretary did not enter into a Newstart Activity Agreement with the respondent regarding the honours course, and did not vary an existing agreement to include a term whereby the respondent agreed to undertake such a course. 27 None of the conditions required in order to avoid the operation of s 613(1) were met.
 It is simply that, in their different ways, the SSAT and the AAT both considered that the Secretary ought to have formed the opinion referred to in s 601(2) , or ought to have entered into a Newstart Activity Agreement with the respondent, allowing for the honours course. 28 In my view, neither the SSAT, nor the AAT, was entitled to conclude that the conditions under s 613(2) had been met in circumstances where manifestly they had not.
 The fact that these bodies considered the honours course to be worthwhile, and one that ought to have been the subject of approval under s 601(2) , or the subject of a Newstart Activity Agreement under s 606 , cannot overcome this fundamental hurdle. 29 I would add that it is also difficult to see how something that manifestly did not occur can be deemed by a tribunal, with retrospective effect, to have occurred, at least in the context of statutory criteria that are strict, and clearly stated.
 The fact that there were several options available to the Secretary when dealing with the respondent's continuing right to claim a newstart allowance, does not mean that either the SSAT, or the AAT, was itself entitled to choose one or more of those options, and proceed upon the basis that it had been exercised.
 A statute that sets out strict conditions for eligibility for a particular benefit is not amenable to a construction that treats that which ought to have been done as though it had been done. 30 The second question of law raised in this proceeding does no more than restate the first question, albeit in a slightly different form.
