 He subsequently became a freelance driver after purchasing a second-hand truck. 6 The appellant claims that in January 2003 he became involved in a farmers' union at the behest of Mr Guo and another person by the name of Mr Cong.
 Thus in his letter the appellant repeatedly referred to his 'claims' which, in context, must be read as a reference to the detailed claims set out in his statutory declaration of 22 December 2004 which supported his application for a protection visa. 9 At the Tribunal hearing on 23 August 2005, the appellant elaborated his claims and answered various questions posed by the Tribunal.
 The appellant was given an opportunity to clarify the contradictions regarding the various claims he had made, and his response was to the effect that he was telling the truth. 10 The Tribunal affirmed the delegate's decision to refuse the grant of a protection visa.
 He also submitted that s 424A obliged the Tribunal to give the appellant an opportunity to make an explanation before his application was rejected, including an opportunity to rebut any information or grounds that the Tribunal proposed to rely upon in rejecting the application. 17 It is significant in this case that the Tribunal's reasons record the following: 'The Tribunal is not satisfied with the applicant's credibility.
 The Tribunal alerted the appellant to the fact that it had concerns about the appellant's truthfulness, and gave the appellant an opportunity to clarify the contradictions regarding his various claims. 19 In his reasons for judgment, Scarlett FM relied upon these matters.
 His Honour concluded at [12]: 'It is not, in my view, incumbent upon the Tribunal under s 425 or s 424A for a Tribunal member at the conclusion of the applicant's evidence to set out the inconsistencies of the applicant's evidence to the Tribunal. ' In this case, it appears to me that the Tribunal went beyond what it was required to do under s 425 in pointing out the existence of contradictions and inconsistencies and giving the appellant a general opportunity to deal with those issues. 20 The information relied upon by the Tribunal for its adverse findings of credibility concerning the appellant consisted of contradictions and inconsistencies which arose from the evidence given by the appellant at the Tribunal hearing.
 Scarlett FM found that the exception in s 424A(3)(b) was attracted, and stated at [14] that: 'it is quite clear that the Tribunal based its decision to a very large extent on the fact that within the applicant's evidence to the Tribunal on that day, there were internal inconsistencies. ' 21 Counsel for the first respondent, Ms McNaughton, submitted that the Tribunal's reasons for decision make it clear that the inconsistencies relied upon by the Tribunal arose from the appellant's evidence to the Tribunal, notwithstanding Scarlett FM's use of the words 'to a very large extent'.
 Ms McNaughton submitted that a reading of the Tribunal's reasons indicates that the Tribunal relied entirely on the oral evidence given at the hearing, not on information or facts derived from some other source. 22 I agree with this submission.
 Further, Scarlett FM's decision was an ex tempore decision, and in my opinion no criticism of his Honour's decision or of the decision of the Tribunal can be built upon his reference to the Tribunal having based its decision 'to a very large extent' on the evidence at the hearing. 23 There is, moreover, a second reason for rejecting the appellant's arguments based on s 424A.
 In my opinion, if any material in the protection visa application was relied upon by the Tribunal as a basis for its findings concerning inconsistencies in the appellant's evidence and its adverse finding on his credibility, that material was republished by the letter accompanying the application to the Tribunal.
 This view is supported by the authorities: see M55 v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2005] FCA 131 ; VUAV v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2005] FCA 1271 ; and SZDMJ v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2005] FCA 1034. 24 Scarlett FM relied upon a third basis for rejecting the appellant's argument based on s 424A.
