 On 20 December 2004 the appellant made a complaint to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission ('HREOC') in respect of the conduct of several of his former work colleagues, which he alleged amounted to sexual harassment within the meaning of s 28A of the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth) ('SDA').
 The appellant simultaneously made a complaint against the respondent on the basis of s 106 of the SDA, pursuant to which an employer is vicariously liable for the conduct of its employees. 2 The complaint against the respondent was terminated by the President of HREOC on 1 June 2005.
 Driver FM heard the appellant's leave application on 19 September 2005 and delivered an ex tempore judgment in which his Honour determined not to grant leave to the appellant to bring the proceedings. 4 The appellant appealed the judgment of Driver FM to this Court.
 I have not been referred to any authority in which a court has taken into account prejudice caused by delay occurring prior to the commencement of the prescribed period. 18 Significantly, the HREOC Act places no time limit on the making of a complaint of unlawful discrimination.
 The appellant submitted that Driver FM misconstrued the requirements for vicarious liability under the SDA, and accordingly misconceived the merits of the appellant's application. 21 The complaint made by the appellant to HREOC concerned alleged conduct by employees of the respondent which constituted sexual harassment.
 Under s 3 of the HREOC Act, ' unlawful discrimination ' is relevantly defined as: '... any acts, omissions or practices that are unlawful under: ... (c) Part II of the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 ; ...' 25 Sections 28A and 28B fall within Pt II of the SDA.
 The respondent submits that that unlawful conduct arising under s 106 would not constitute unlawful discrimination for the purpose of making a complaint under s 46P of the HREOC Act, or for subsequent Court proceedings under s 46PO, because s 106 is not contained in Pt II of the SDA. 26 I reject this submission.
 Accordingly a complaint relying upon s 106 is a complaint alleging ' unlawful discrimination ' as defined in s 3 of the HREOC Act. 27 The appellant submits that Driver FM erred in suggesting that the appellant had to prove the liability of the respondent separately from the employees.
 Once established, the provisions of s 106 deem an employer liable without the need for an appellant to prove the elements of vicarious liability against the employer. 30 I also consider that an individual employee alleged to have engaged in unlawful discrimination need not be a party to a proceeding in order that the Court make a finding in respect of the lawfulness of their conduct.
 The words of s 106(1) that ' this Act applies in relation to that person as if that person had also done the act ' indicate that an employer is to be severally liable for the discriminatory conduct of its employee.
 The same effect is achieved by s 106 of HREOC Act in relation to an employer whose employee has engaged in unlawful discrimination. 34 It follows from the above that Driver FM erred in his consideration of the merits of the appellant's claim.
 However, I do not consider that the appellant could be said to have ' rested on his rights ' due to the delay between the date of termination of his complaint (1 June 2005) and 27 June 2005, being the date on which he made application to Legal Aid.
