 They seek a declaration that they were at all material times registered Native Title claimants within the meaning of the Act with respect to any notices issued prior to 30 September 1998 pursuant to s 29 of the Act and affecting any land within the boundaries of the land the subject of native title determination claims WC95/1, WC95/12, WC95/21, WC95/22, WC95/41 and WC95/42.
 The application numbered WC95/42 was registered on 12 August 1995. 6 Following the Amending Act the first respondent issued notices on 20 November 1998 pursuant to s 29 of the Act that mining tenements under the Mining Act 1978 (WA) may be granted over the land and/or waters set out in the notices.
 That land and/or waters included land/or waters within the area subject to one or more of the pre-combination claims. 7 The issuing of the notices obliged the Native Title Registrar ('the Registrar') to consider the applicants' native title determination applications under s 190A of the Act.
 Also on that date the District Registrar made orders in respect of it including an order designating the consolidated claim as the lead application. 11 On 23 March 1999 the Registrar considered the consolidated claim and found it to comply with the requirements for registration pursuant to s 190A of the Act.
 The Native Title Registrar, upon receiving an application, was required to include in the Register of Native Title Claims details of any claims contained in the application (s 190(1)(a)) --- Northern Territory of Australia v Lane (1995) 59 FCR 332 and Kanak v National Native Title Tribunal (1995) 61 FCR 103.
 Notice was also to be given to the relevant representative Aboriginal/Torres Strait Islander body in relation to the land or waters concerned and also to the person on whose request or application the issue of the licence or grant of a lease was to be made.
 The relevant government was required to give all native title parties an opportunity to make submissions to it and to negotiate in good faith with a view to obtaining the agreement of the native title parties to the doing of the proposed act or the doing of the act subject to conditions (s 31).
 The application of the expedited procedure could be objected to by a registered native title claimant and it was a matter for the arbitral body to hear and determine such objections (s 32(4)). ' THE 'NEW' NATIVE TITLE ACT 19 His Honour relevantly described the effect of the 1998 amendments as follows: '13.
 It is also required that there be set out in the application a general description of the factual basis on which it is asserted that the native title rights and claims exist (s 62(2)(e)), details of activity currently carried on by any of the native title claim group (s 62(2)(f)), details of other applications in relation to a whole or a part of the area covered (s 62(2)(g)) and details of any notices under s 29 or corresponding provisions of a law of a State or Territory of which the applicant is aware that have been given and that relate to the whole or a part of the area (s 62(2)(h)). 16.
 Upon an application being filed in the Federal Court under s 61, the Registrar of the Federal Court must, as soon as practicable, give a copy of the application to the Native Title Registrar together with any affidavits and prescribed documents accompanying it (s 63).
 Conditions relating to the merits of the claim to be satisfied under s 190B require identification of the area subject to native title, identification of the relevant native title claim group and of the claimed native title, satisfaction of the Registrar that there is a factual basis for the claimed native title and satisfaction of the Registrar that prima facie at least some of the native title rights and interests claimed can be established.
 It is also said that claimants whose claims cover areas of extinguishment would thus be left with a choice of either leaving the geographical area of the claim unchanged before facing the registration test, and so receiving the protection of subitem 11(11), or amending their claims so as to exclude any areas of extinguishment.
