 The proceedings arose out of a dispute between Traxon and Emerson connected with the performance of a Confidentiality Agreement and a Distributorship Agreement relating to the marketing and sale, in the USA, of oil level control devices manufactured by Traxon.
 The principal reason for the decision not to accede to Traxon's motion was its inclusion in the application and statement of claim of the causes of action arising out of breach of confidence and breach of fiduciary duty.
 The written part of the agreement comprised a document titled 'Confidentiality Agreement' executed by Traxon and Emerson and dated 7 May 1998 and a document titled 'Distribution Agreement' executed by Traxon International and Emerson in or about May 1998. 16 The applicants allege that the 1998 Agreement contained a number of express terms including the following: 1.
 Traxon says it was not able to transfer the UL File into its name alone until 29 June 2005. 23 The applicants say that the representation pleaded was made by Emerson in trade and commerce and was misleading or deceptive or likely to mislead or deceive as Emerson did not, at the time the representation was made, intend to comply with the terms of the 1998 Agreement.
 They say that the terms of the 1998 Agreement as varied by the 2000 Agreement and, alternatively, the terms of the 2000 Agreement were such as to give rise to a fiduciary relationship between Traxon and Emerson.
 It is said that Emerson owed duties to Traxon to not seek to obtain a benefit in circumstances where there was a conflict between Emerson's interests and the interests of Traxon and to not obtain or receive a benefit or gain by using Emerson's fiduciary position or any knowledge or opportunity arising from it.
 The Affidavit Evidence in Support of the Application for Service out of the Jurisdiction 29 The motion for leave to serve the application out of the jurisdiction was supported by affidavits sworn on 17 February 2006 and 18 April 2006 by Barry Granville Waller, a director of Traxon and of Traxon International.
 Mr Waller exhibited to his February affidavit some pages from Emerson's internet site which was downloaded on 12 February 2006. 33 In or about April 1998 Mr Waller had a telephone conversation with Robert Kensinger, Senior Vice President of Emerson.
 He said that they agreed that their two companies would enter into a Distribution Agreement under which Traxon would supply the TraxOil Device exclusively to Emerson and Emerson would market and sell the TraxOil Device in the USA.
 Emerson was manufacturing the tubes on behalf of Traxon. 45 Further exchanges concerned with the development of the TraxOil Device were referred to in Mr Waller's affidavit. 46 Through 2002 and 2003 Traxon continued its distributorship arrangements with Emerson and Alco Europe and undertook further development of the TraxOil Device together with Emerson and Alco Europe.
 Various emails were exhibited concerning day-to-day matters relating to the performance of the Distribution Agreements, sales of the TraxOil Device and its further development. 47 Traxon purchased plant and equipment for the purpose of manufacturing the TraxOil Device in 2002 and 2003.
 I am therefore prepared to make an order for service on Emerson in the United States of America of an application and statement of claim in terms of the further amended application and further amended statement of claim filed on 24 May 2006.
