 The applicant further wrote that after the student visa was cancelled he received a letter from the University explaining that he was eligible to continue study and eligible to complete his degree. 21 The applicant attended the Tribunal to give oral evidence on 27 June 2005. 22 On 13 July 2005 the Tribunal affirmed the decision under review to cancel the applicant's visa for breach of Condition 8202.
 The visa must be cancelled if it is established that a breach of the condition has occurred, even if the breach was due to exceptional circumstances. 24 The Tribunal stated at [29]: '... that the [University] , the review applicant's education provider, had not certified his results to be at least satisfactory for Semester 2 of 2004.
 The grounds for review in the amended application may be summarised as follows: (a) The Tribunal erred in cancelling the visa on the basis of an assessment by the University of the applicant's academic performance by reference to the full period of semester 2 of 2004, which ran from 2 August 2004 until 26 November 2004, when the applicant's visa period was for a lesser period.
 This was because, the Tribunal had concentrated only on that part of the University's response that referred to the 'semester weighted average' and had ignored that part of the University's response that had said that the applicant had appealed and had been given a 'Conditional status' and therefore was eligible to re-enrol and study from semester 2 of 2005.
 Counsel submitted that the Regulations did not permit the cancellation of the visa in respect of an academic result which was assessed by reference to a term or semester that commenced prior to the issue of the visa which was cancelled. 28 Counsel for the first respondent submitted that the Regulations do not require the visa holder to hold the visa throughout the semester.
 Grounds 2 and 3 --- Lack of procedural fairness before the delegate and failure by Tribunal to address that issue 31 Counsel for the applicant said that the applicant received the s 20 Notice on 14 March 2005, which stated that the applicant had 28 days from the date of the notice (8 March 2005) in which to respond.
 Ground 4 --- Misconception of the import of the University's response of 17 May 2005 35 Counsel for the applicant said that the Tribunal had received the response dated 17 May 2005 from the University referring to the applicant's 'semester weighted average' as being unsatisfactory for semester 2 of 2004, but that response had also stated that the applicant was no longer terminated and was granted a 'reprieve' of conditional status.
 It was incumbent on the Tribunal to resolve whether the letter could have been considered to be an implied certification or might give rise to a certification, of satisfactory academic results. 38 Counsel for the applicant also argued that the Tribunal ought to have engaged in a 'qualitative enquiry' when considering whether the applicant had breached Condition 8202.
 Counsel argued that there was no jurisdictional error in the Tribunal finding, on the basis of the response from the University, that the University had not certified his academic result as 'at least satisfactory'. 40 Counsel for the first respondent submitted that the letter from the University dated 13 April 2005 deals with the applicant's status.
 Counsel for the first respondent submitted further that the Tribunal properly regarded the material as not going to the certification of the applicant's academic result. 41 In Humayun at [21] Wilcox J (with whom Conti and Stone JJ agreed) confirmed that the education provider has a 'measure of discretion' as to what level of academic performance is satisfactory for the purposes of providing a certificate in respect of Condition 8202.
 It is apparent that the Tribunal was conscious of the requirement to consider only the question of whether the education provider had certified that the applicant had achieved an academic result that was at least satisfactory, as opposed to any decision of the University in relation to the academic status of the applicant.
 The Tribunal had considerable sympathy for the plight of the applicant but came to the view that the letter from the University of 13 April 2005 and the email response of 17 May 2005 from the University did not comprise a certificate to the effect that the academic result was 'at least satisfactory'.
 Once it is recognised that a distinction is to be drawn between a student achieving an academic result that is certified to be 'at least satisfactory', and the academic status accorded to a student, there was no ambiguity in relation to the material from the University and, therefore, no reason for the Tribunal to embark upon any inquiry of the University. 45 I find, therefore, that the Tribunal did not fall into jurisdictional error.
