 The taxing officer disallowed a number of items of costs claimed by the respondents' instructing solicitor including items relating to the preparation for the first directions hearing, conferring with the respondents and attending Court for the hearing of the strike out application as instructing solicitor.
 The major component of the amount allowed was the sum of $2600 for counsel's fees. 6 On 10 August 2005, the applicant filed a motion for the taxing officer to reconsider four items of the bill of costs which had been accepted by the taxing officer.
 These are: (i) telephone call on counsel --- sum allowed - $33.00; (ii) preparing Brief to Counsel --- sum allowed - $459.00; (iii) counsel fee --- sum allowed - $2600.00; (iv) care and attention --- sum allowed --- $233.30. 13 I will deal with each of the items.
 The item was claimed pursuant to Item 31 of the Scale of Costs ('the Scale') --- an attendance that requires an attendance of a solicitor or managing clerk and involves skill and legal knowledge and is charged in quarter hour increments. 15 The applicant submitted that the item was not properly recoverable as a party and party cost.
 The applicant submitted that: '...at a stretch the item should only be recoverable as a telephone attendance that should have been made by a practitioner's secretary --- and is hardly requiring the attendance of a solicitor. ' 16 The applicant also submitted that the item should not be allowed because senior counsel had not charged for the item. 17 In my view, the applicant's submission is not to be accepted.
 The respondents cannot be criticised for taking the claim seriously and taking proper steps to seek to bring the claim to an early end. 23 The applicant also submitted that the brief included work on the question of whether the application was statute barred.
 Senior counsel's fee included considering the brief, reviewing the statement of claim and submissions, preparing for the hearing and attending the hearing of the application to strike out the statement of claim and telephone attendances upon the respondents' instructing solicitors.
 It is generally accepted that unless a matter is so routine and straightforward as to not merit a loading, an amount for care and attention is appropriate. ' 35 I agree with the observations made by the taxing officer.
 I also take into account that the strike out application resulted in the application itself being dismissed and that the taxing officer disallowed a number of specific items of the instructing solicitor's bill of costs which went to the care and attention which a solicitor should be expected to give to a matter, including attending Court for the hearing of the application.
