 The AAT accepted that it would have been difficult for the appellant to withdraw at that point. 6 On 18 April 2001 the appellant arrived in Australia by the fishing boat with 32 other people.
 The Minister's delegate decided the appellant did not qualify for a protection visa because he had not passed through immigration clearance and therefore failed to comply with s 172 of the Act.
 She refused to grant a temporary protection visa to the appellant because she was of the opinion that the appellant did not meet the criteria for a visa provided for in s 36(2) of the Act.
 The AAT was of the opinion that, in all of the circumstances, the crime could not be considered a serious non-political crime for the purposes of Article 1F(b) of the Convention where the result would be exclusion of Australia's protection obligations.
 When he questioned the officer about whether his statement would be sent to the Sri Lankan Police, he was advised it would only be for the information of the Australian Federal Police and would not be released to the Sri Lankan authorities.
 In her reasons, she said: 'On the basis that the applicant will be targeted by a non-state agent should he return to Sri Lanka, I find that harm feared by the applicant is personal in nature and not for Convention reason (sic).
 I am also satisfied that should the applicant be targeted by David Rajah, a non-state agent in the event he returns to Sri Lanka any lack of intervention by the Sri Lankan authorities would not be for a Convention based reason.
 The Applicant claims to fear being harmed by MNF, DR and/or by people or the LTTE acting on their behalf because he gave evidence against them to the Australian and Sri Lankan authorities.
 He said the documents include Sri Lankan newspaper articles which report that the applicant was imprisoned in Australia for 20 years and the statement of a fellow immigration detainee who was deported to Sri Lanka but now resides in Italy.
 However, at the same time, the RRT concluded that that fear was not a fear for a Convention reason in that the fear was not 'for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion'.
 It found, however, that even if there were such a social group (upon which it made no finding) the appellant was likely to be persecuted not for reason of membership of that social group but because the two persons upon whom he had informed would wish to exact revenge. 38 Those findings were fatal to the appellant's case.
