 1 I do not think the plaintiffs require permission before they give discovered documents to IMF (Australia) Ltd, the company that is providing them with the funds to prosecute this action. 2 Early cases, such as Richardson v Hastings (1884) 7 Beav 354 and Reynolds v Godlee (1858) 4 K J 88, state that discovery may be refused unless the party gives an undertaking that the documents would not be used for any purpose other than the action then proceeding.
 The principle was stated in Bray on Discovery (1 st ed, 1885) at 238: "A party who has obtained access to his adversary's documents under an order for production has no right to make their contents public or communicate them to any stranger to the suit ... nor to use them or copies of them for any collateral object ...
 The modern statement of the rule is to be found in Harman v Secretary of State, Home Department [1983] 1 AC 280. 3 What is the reason for the rule?
 Privacy still requires protection against the use of documents otherwise than for the action in which the documents are disclosed. 4 At first sight, the application of the rule seems to be clear.
 In this case, for example, the plaintiffs were not sure whether they could produce discovered documents to IMF and approached the court for the necessary permission. 5 The purpose for providing the documents to IMF is as follows.
 Under its agreement with the plaintiffs, IMF is required to pay the plaintiffs' costs and disbursements reasonably incurred in commencing and prosecuting the action and to pay any costs orders made against the plaintiffs.
 It is not, however, possible for IMF to properly review any case (or at least many cases, of which this is one) unless it has access to discovered documents.
 Or take the case of an insured person whose insurer has not assumed the conduct of an action and the insured wishes to keep his insurer informed of what is going on in a case where he claims to be indemnified.
 Another way of putting it is that the non-party is not a true stranger to the action. 7 The private interests of the opposite parties are not affected if the documents are handed over.
 This is because the implied undertaking will bind any person to whom the documents are given ( Distillers Co (Bio-Chemicals) Ltd v Times Newspapers Ltd [1975] 1 QB 613; Sofilas v Cable Sands (WA) Pty Ltd (1993) 9 WAR 196, Hamersley Iron Pty Ltd v Lovell (1998) 19 WAR 316) at least once he is aware that the documents have been obtained by way of discovery (P Matthews H Malek, Disclosure (2 nd ed, 2000) at [13.09]). 8 IMF is not a stranger to the action; it has a sufficient interest to be provided with discovered documents, at least those documents it needs to assess the merits of the action.
