 Clause 5 of the agreement provided that, if any of these instalments were not paid, the applicants might re-list these proceedings and apply for summary judgment on "the claim for pecuniary relief for so much of the settlement amount ... that is outstanding at the date the proceedings are re-listed " .
 Clause 5 also provides that the applicants might provide a copy of the settlement agreement as "conclusive proof" of the consent of the respondents to such summary judgment against the respondents "on the claim and in respect of so much of the settlement amount as is outstanding".
 They also sought delivery up pursuant to the undertakings given to the Court on 27 January 2006. 3 In an affidavit of 1 June 2006, Emma Cashen, also the applicants' solicitor, affirmed that, at the time of making her affidavit, the applicants had still not received the third instalment of settlement monies or any other settlement payment.
 Ms Cashen also stated that her firm had served a copy of the notice of motion and Mr Jordan's affidavit of 18 April 2006 on the respondents by sending them to the respondents' solicitors and had informed the respondents' solicitors that the motion was to be heard on 2 June 2006. 4 The respondents did not appear at the hearing on 2 June 2006.
 This notice said that Mr Magistrado and his firm have ceased to act as practitioner for the respondents as from 1 June 2006. 5 Also on 1 June 2006, the applicants' solicitors sent a facsimile to Mr Magistrado that stated in part: "We ... refer to your conversation with Emma Cashen of our office late this afternoon in relation to tomorrow's hearing.
 Please also provide us with details of your clients' last known addresses. " 6 Although Mr Magistrado has informed the applicants that he no longer acts for the respondents, there has been no attempt on his part to comply with O 45 r 7 of the Federal Court Rules 1979 (Cth) ("the Rules").
 It is clear from pleadings and affidavits previously filed in the proceeding that the respondents' use of the allegedly infringing marks has been for the purposes of trade. 11 Under O 20 r 1 the applicants are required to adduce evidence of such facts as are necessary for their cause of action: see Rourke v Victorian Finance Guarantee and Share Co Ltd (1894) 20 VLR 8 at 11 and Evans Deakin Co Pty Ltd v Kaiser Engineers and Constructors Inc [1968] Qd R 379 at 382.
 In support of their argument that the deed of settlement alone was sufficient to entitle them to summary judgment, the applicants relied on the decision of Hely J in Reid v Interarch Australia Pty Ltd [2000] FCA 1328 (" Interarch "), a case in which the applicants initially claimed damages for the respondents' allegedly misleading or deceptive advice in connection with the establishment of a business.
 This is because after considering "the authorities which deal with the power of the court to enforce on motion in existing proceedings an agreement compromising those proceedings", McLelland J concluded, in Phillips at 210, that "[t]hese authorities present a confusing picture" and that he did not propose to analyse them since they were not dealt with in argument.
 The applicants have succeeded because of the particular terms of the respondents' Defence and because they have in fact placed sufficient evidence of the facts necessary to make out their cause of action before the Court, as well as because there is, manifestly, no arguable defence.
 This is so notwithstanding that I would reject the respondents' primary argument that the deed of settlement alone was sufficient to justify an order for summary judgment pursuant to O 20 r 1 of the Rules. 18 The applicants' evidence that the respondents have failed to comply with their undertakings is uncontradicted.
 The applicants are entitled to the orders they seek with regard to the undertakings. 19 Further, in all the circumstances, including the terms of the deed of settlement, I would make the orders for costs in the terms sought by the applicants. 20 As the applicants requested, I would also make orders dealing with the position of the respondents' solicitor.
