 By paragraph 3 of the Notice of Motion the Applicant seeks an order that the Respondent make further and better discovery of all email correspondence containing: (a) any comparison between the Applicant's 4-in-1 bucket and any other 4-in-1 bucket; (b) any comment on the Applicant's 4-in-1 bucket, by 4.00pm, 16 June 2006. 2 In support of the application for that order, the Applicant relies upon the affidavit of Justin James Twigg sworn 7 June which annexes an email dated 1 December 2003 from Mr Alan Wade who was at that date an employee of the Respondent to Mr Alan Wade at an email address alan@digga.com .
 The trial of the action is to commence on Monday, 19 June and is set down for five days with an additional day should that be required. 4 In these proceedings, put simply, the Applicant contends that the Respondent has infringed the copyright subsisting in a number of drawings of the Applicant.
 Since it is not disputed by the Respondent that in formulating the expression of the Respondent's idea for a 4-in-1 bucket by the development of plans for the manufacture of such a bucket, the Respondent had "access" to the Applicant's bucket and had "regard" to the features evident in the Applicant's bucket, emails which go to establishing that access and that regard are not relevant because, to that extent, that matter is not in controversy between the parties. 5 However, the question is not simply one of objective similarity.
 In Clarendon v Henley Arch (2000) 46 IPR 309 at page 316 at paragraph 28, their Honours Heerey, Sundberg and Finkelstein JJ observed. '[28] Further, in a case where there has been deliberate copying, the Court will not look kindly on a defendant when the plaintiff seeks to establish that what has been copied is sufficiently objectively similar to the plaintiff's work.
 It is a sound principle of copyright law that the court should not allow one man to take away the result 'of another man's labour, or, in other words, his property', unless it is satisfied that the part taken is 'so slight, and the affect upon the total composition was so small', 'as to render the taking perfectly immaterial', or what is much the same thing, that the part taken is an unsubstantial part [citations omitted]. " See also S W Hart Co.
 Pty Ltd v Edwards Hot Water Systems [1985] HCA 59 ; (1985) 159 CLR 466 at 484; 5 IPR 13 at 25 where Wilson J referred with approval to the judgment of Street J in Ancher, Mortlock, Murray Woolley Pty Ltd v Hooker Homes Pty Ltd [1971] 2 NSWLR 278 where his Honour acknowledged that his finding of infringement had been coloured by the unmeritorious use made by the defendant of the plaintiff's work. ' 7 Such evidence is relevant if it could rationally affect (directly or indirectly) the assessment of the probability of the existence of a fact in issue in the proceedings (s 55(1) Evidence Act 1995 ). 8 Accordingly, emails going to that question ought to have been discovered by the Respondent. 9 The Respondent says by an affidavit of Mr Kenneth Philp sworn 7 June 2006 that an order in terms of paragraph 3 of the Notice of Motion would essentially be impossible to comply with because the Respondent's IT system has historically been functionally inadequate for a number of reasons with the result that it would be very difficult to identify emails in the period March 2003 to February 2005 and the order would have the effect of causing the Respondent to conduct searches under certain fields which would inevitably reveal a vast number of emails to be physically examined.
 It has been clear for a long time that the question of conscious copying is a central allegation in the case and documents going to the extent to which the Respondent may have set about a course of seeking to consciously appropriate material elements of the Applicant's plans and therefore substantially reproduce those plans notwithstanding other features of objective dissimilarity, have been relevant to that issue from the outset. 11 Although it may prove difficult and in the end result the Respondent may not be able to identify, after reasonable inquiry, particular documents, the Respondent ought to make comprehensive inquiries to determine whether any such communications exist and give discovery of them.
