 Mr Hill, the second respondent, was being cross-examined about one view of a method in which he was doing business in the past involving the question of whether he or one of the companies with which he was associated was a licensee for the purposes of s 154A of the Liquor Act 1982 (NSW). 2 Mr Aldridge SC, who appears with Mr Glasson for the respondents, objected that the matter raised in cross-examination was developing a new case that had not been foreshadowed.
 Mr Allen, who appears for the applicants, conceded that it was a new case, but said that it arose in circumstances where he had revisited, the night before, s 154A and had seen, in the morning of the hearing yesterday, the respondents' written submissions, which explained their perception of the operation of s 154A. 3 This necessitated a situation in which Mr Allen has now sought leave to amend the application by, inter alia, adding three new applicants, and to reassess the applicants' claim that Mr Hill had become a debtor to them by force of s 154A. 4 The parties have agreed a timetable for the preparation of further evidence, and I have asked them informally to exchange points of claim and points of defence so that the issues will clarify for the further hearing to be held in June. 5 The solicitor for the respondents, Mr Doble, has prepared an affidavit today setting out the basis upon which it is sought to have me make an assessment of costs thrown away by the adjournment of the hearing which has been necessitated by the circumstances I have just described. 6 There is no doubt that there is some injustice to the respondents by their having to pay costs such as the costs of today and costs associated with preparing once again for the hearing by covering some of the older ground that had been covered in preparing for the hearing yesterday and today.
 Then there will be issues as to costs for both sides. 7 I have expressed, in the course of argument, a diffidence about granting an order for costs in an amount I assess in circumstances where the further evidence that is to be filed is not at this stage known and the precise way or ways in which the respondents have been adversely affected in a pecuniary way cannot be quantified with, in my opinion, a sufficient amount of certainty that it would be just for me to order the immediate payment of the money to them. 8 The proceedings between the parties apart from the first respondent have been, the evidence reveals, hard fought, complex and lengthy.
