 1 On 5 November 2004, in an action for breach of trust, and misleading or deceptive conduct, McInnis FM found for Internet Centre of Excellence 2000 Pty Ltd ("ICE 2000") [2004] FMCA 765.
 ICE 2000 would account to Computer World in relation to sales of stock, and receive commissions from it. 3 As part of the arrangement between the parties, ICE 2000 deposited an amount of $50,000 with Computer World pursuant to what was described as "a credit facility", dated 6 December 2001.
 However, the relevant parts are as follows: "Re credit facility, We, the undersigned, Computer World (Vic) Pty Ltd, agree to grant you credit facility for the purchase of computers and associated goods ("goods") on the following terms and conditions: 1.
 That you deposit an amount of $50,000 ("security amount") (the receipt of which is acknowledged) into a separate interest bearing account to be opened in the name of Computer World (Vic) Pty Ltd and titled Internet Centre of Excellence 2000 Pty Ltd Trust Account. 2.
 Insofar as it represented a written agreement between them, the security amount was impressed with the character of a trust. 7 Before his Honour Mr Yuvarajah gave evidence that, although he had signed the credit facility, it had been "a mistake".
 He rejected the evidence of Mr Yuvarajah that a separate oral agreement had been reached with Mr Hasturk which relieved Computer World of its obligations under the credit facility to establish a separate interest bearing account as a trust account in favour of ICE 2000.
 There was some hearsay evidence from Ms Anne Gardner, on behalf of ICE 2000, to the effect that Mr Hasturk had "since returned to his homeland of Turkey", and that his whereabouts at the time of the trial were unknown.
 That in turn might have led his Honour to find that there was a collateral agreement of the type alleged by Computer World, rather than a trust, as his Honour ultimately found.
 Regardless of whether stock was transferred from Computer World to ICE 2000 for on-sale to customers, or for display purposes, the transaction and transfer of stock was evidenced by Computer World's "stock transfer" documents.
 Subsequently, during cross-examination of Ms Gardner, counsel for Computer World purported to object to her affidavit evidence except for her analysis of business records which was conceded to be appropriate and unobjectionable.
