 It claims by reason of the respondent's conduct to have suffered loss and damage being not less than $1 million. 10 The respondent's notice of motion is supported by affidavits of Mr P Ware, Corporate Counsel for the respondent; Mr G Clifton, Special Counsel of the respondent's solicitors; and Mr SW Sharry, solicitor in the employ of the respondent's solicitors. 11 It is common ground that the application for transfer falls to be considered in the context of s 48 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) and the Federal Court Rules , particularly O 10 r 1(2)(f).
 It is also common ground that the approach of the Court should be that sanctioned by the reasoning of the Full Court (Bowen CJ, Woodward and Lockhart JJ) in National Mutual Holdings Pty Ltd v Sentry Corporation (1988) 83 ALR 434 at 442 where the Court said: 'The balance of convenience is important, but its weight must vary from case to case.
 A meeting pleaded relevantly to the issue of the respondent's intention took place at offices in Queensland. 18 On a review of the statement of claim as a whole, the allegations made therein and the proceeding itself, has no connection with Western Australia. 19 So far as the prospectus is concerned it is said that the 'corporate directory' in it lists the Brisbane office of the applicant; names an accounting firm of Brisbane as the auditors for the prospectus; names another firm of accountants of Brisbane as the independent accountants; and names a company of Brisbane as the independent geologists.
 He further deposes that if the proceeding was transferred to the Queensland District Registry, the applicant would be obliged to locate and instruct fresh solicitors at considerable costs and expense. 24 In response to this evidence, the respondent relies on the affidavit of Mr Sharry to the effect that the only law firms carrying on business in Brisbane which are likely to have a conflict 'in acting against the interests of the respondent' are the respondent's present solicitors and two other named firms. 25 In reply the applicant states this misses the point in that the conflict addressed by Mr Phillips relates to acting 'against the interests of the State of Queensland' and not just 'against the interests of the respondent'. 26 I am unable to accept Mr Phillips' evidence that, in any event, the majority of firms in Brisbane would be 'conflicted' from acting for the applicant because that would place them in conflict with the respondent and hence the interests of the State of Queensland.
 The submissions for the applicant state (with no objection being taken to the statement) that for the financial year ended 30 June 2004, the applicant made an after-tax loss of $374 000 and had net assets of $286 000. 31 I do not agree with the submission for the respondent that the different financial position of the parties is not a relevant issue.
 There is no evidence of the applicant's current financial position and counsel for the respondent has indicated that questions may arise as to the applicant's capacity to meet its costs if the applicant was unsuccessful. 32 In my view the financial difference between the two companies is a significant matter to be taken into account.
 If, for example, the applicant continued with its present solicitors and selected counsel acting for it, the additional costs may not necessarily be much greater than those which the applicant would face if the litigation continued in the Queensland District Registry. 33 Counsel for the respondent also submits that any additional cost is a consequence of the applicant having unrealistically chosen representation from a location remote from the matters raised by the application and statement of claim.
 Further, if the proceeding was not transferred, the respondent would not be precluded from making an application at an appropriate time under O 30 r 6(2) of the Federal Court Rules for an order that the trial be held at a place other than the proper place.
 Further, I do not consider that it in any way inhibits the taking into account of the present day manner in which the Court operates with the assistance of technology. 38 Additionally, I cannot see, as I have previously said, that if the proceeding was transferred that necessarily entails the applicant not being represented by its chosen solicitors and counsel from Western Australia.
 CONCLUSION 39 In applying the test in National Mutual Holdings the Court must form an opinion on 'where can the case be conducted or continued most suitably, bearing in mind the interests of all the parties, the ends of justice in the determination of the issues between them, and the most efficient administration of the court'. 40 The financial difference between the applicant and the respondent is significant.
 Further, there is no evidence that the solicitors and counsel presently chosen by the applicant could not continue to fulfil that role on behalf of the applicant if the proceeding was transferred. 41 Apart from that financial aspect, I consider that all of the other factors favour the conclusion that the ends of justice would be best served and the most efficient administration of the Court encouraged if the proceeding was transferred to the Queensland District Registry.
 Both of the parties have offices in Queensland; the markets the subject of litigation are in Queensland; the witnesses are more probably than not going to be in Queensland (with the whereabouts of expert witnesses not being presently known); the events are alleged to have taken place in Queensland; and the documents in issue are more probably than not located in Queensland. 42 Applying the test, I am therefore of the view that the respondent's motion should be granted.
