 One supply that is not GST-free is a supply of "(d) a beverage (or an ingredient for a beverage), other than a beverage (or an ingredient) of a kind specified in the third column of the table in clause 1 of Schedule 2. " Clause 1 of Sch 2 specifies the beverages that are GST-free.
 One, in item 13, is "beverages, and ingredients for beverages, of a kind marketed principally as food for infants or invalids. " Cascade's witnesses 9 Cascade relied on the evidence of William Luders, Queensland Sales Operations Manager of the second applicant, Richard Gerathy, a marketing consultant, and Maurice McGrath, Sales and Marketing Manager --- Non-Alcohol Beverages of Foster's Australia, a division of the second applicant.
 Accordingly, it said the question to be answered is whether the goods in question, Ultra-C, are of a kind principally marketed as food for infants. 15 The Commissioner's submission was that the question at issue did not turn on whether Ultra-C itself was marketed principally as food for infants, but on whether ingredients for beverages of the kind or genus to which Ultra-C belonged were so marketed.
 Whether the genus was one or the other, the kind of goods to which Ultra-C belongs is a range of goods marketed as drinks for consumption by everyone, with the reservation in relation to babies under six months for which such kinds of product are not necessarily suitable.
 However it was said there was no reason why that should make the above passage inapplicable to item 13. 17 Cascade also sought to derive support from Clean Investments , which concerned a concession for goods "of a kind ordinarily used for household purposes".
 Lindgren J, with whom Lee and Cooper JJ agreed, said at [91]-[93]: "I respectfully agree with Hill J in Diethelm (at 472) ... that it is preferable to pose the statutory question as a single composite question.
 In some cases it may be misleading to address separately the question of identification of the 'genus' to which the particular goods in question belong, and the question whether that genus meets the description 'ordinarily used for household purposes'.
 The question in the English case was whether couplings and winches were to be classified for value added tax purposes as "Goods of a kind suitable for use as parts of goods within item 1 or item 5".
 The Commissioner's contention may have better reflected the case law had it accepted that the actual marketing of the goods is relevant to whether they are of a kind marketed principally as food for infants.
 In my view, there is no general principle of construction that requires items in the Exemptions and Classifications Act to be given a benevolent interpretation in favour of persons or bodies referred to in the Schedule.
 Nor is there any evidence that it contains any ingredient that makes it less suitable for consumption by older children or adults. 48 Cascade's case is that its target market is mothers with children up to the age of seven years (cf finding (k) --- up to six years, and finding (u) --- up to five years).
