 The papers were supplied in response to an academic interest not for the purpose of a formal structural review of product efficacy. (d) Criticisms were made of the views expressed by Dr Harvey in the draft report of the quality and authority of the reports/papers sent to Dr Harvey.
 Mr Waitzer drew attention to the proximity of the timing between the events in late April, the preparation and issuing of a draft report on 10 May 2006 and a letter received by the first applicant from the TGA on 8 May 2006 calling into question aspects of the claims made for the product in relation to Tinnitus.
 Mr Waitzer again pressed what he perceived to be the anomaly that Dr Harvey had not received the three papers sent on 2 May 2006 and pressed the position that the three papers, in any event, had been sent in the context of an expressed interest but not for the purpose of a systemic independent review.
 What emerges from Dr Harvey's letter on behalf of the working group in response to the apparent anomaly that on 8 May 2006 the sponsor received a notice from the TGA, at a time contemporaneous with the enquiries made by Dr Harvey and the production of the draft report, is this: '4.
 The purpose of sending a copy of the TGA was to afford them the same courtesy we had afforded you; to comment on relevant sections of the draft report in order to ensure our final report is accurate. ..." 41 The immediate problem emerging from that response is that the working group sent the draft report to the TGA at the same time the report was sent to the applicants.
 The immediate distribution of the draft to the regulator failed to provide the sponsor or DWSG with any opportunity to put its position and influence the measured, balanced and proportional evaluation of the evidence and the literature leading to a final report.
 The nature, scope and extent of material going to the evidence in support of claims for a product and the field of literature which might be provided to a group of experts or a working group of consumer health professionals for the purpose of a systemic review of both the evidence and the literature is very likely to be entirely different to the body of material immediately available to a sponsor in support of an enquiry concerning the therapeutic claims for a product.
 Further, the conduct in relation to the notion that 'pre-clearance' approval numbers endorsed on print advertisements may not have been genuine, is misleading and deceptive. 66 A further aspect of the applicants' case is that the conduct of the first respondent and conduct in which the second, third and fourth respondents are knowingly engaged is not conduct which occurred 'in' trade or commerce.
 Therefore, the conduct of the working group and the formulation and publication of the draft report and final report is simply a process of intellectual discourse by engaged citizens relevantly skilled in the art with a view to forming a professional opinion.
 In this case, the third and fourth respondents are directly involved both as directors and equity holders in the sponsoring vehicle and Dr Harvey together with the third and fourth respondents are members, and core members, of the AusPharm Consumer Health Watch Group.
 I am satisfied that there is at least a serious question to be tried as to the factual matrix surrounding the question of the circumstances in which Dr Harvey elected to agitate the possibility with a number of parties that the sponsor applicant may have engaged in the suggested conduct.
