 NADH of 2001 v Minister for Immigration Multicultural Indigenous Affairs (2004) 214 ALR 264 at [111] --- [115]. (ii) That, taken together with the selective way in which the ICI was used, the Tribunal's assessment of the appellant's evidence about the objectives etc., of the Chatra and Awami Leagues was unfair, selective and demonstrates a non- bona fide exercise of review powers in circumstances where the Tribunal member was not an expert on the Chatra League or the Awami League (cf.
 Yet, strangely, the Tribunal did not accept 'that outside of student politics the [appellant] had a high political profile' based on 'the generality of his answers'. (v) Concomitantly, it is asserted that the Tribunal's Q182, which was a generic, composite question covering the 'philosophy, the goals, the manifesto, the objectives of the Chatra League and the Awami League', was an unfairly long, convoluted, complex and confusing question. (vi) The appellant's confusion with regards to Q182 is most aptly demonstrated in the appellant's following request of the Tribunal: 'Could you please explain this question. 'Stands for, that mean, which area you mean?'. (vii) Equally, the Tribunal's request to 'answer in short sentences' (Q182) followed by a further request 'I don't want a political discourse' (Q183), unfairly restricted the evidence the appellant was allowed to give. (viii) Similarly, the Tribunal's representation at Q189 'Now, I think I've got that' unfairly lulled the appellant into the belief that he had covered the particular topic on which he was being questioned. (ix) Thus, it is submitted the Tribunal constructively failed to exercise jurisdiction by conducting its fact-finding task substantially in a manner that a fair-minded observer might reasonably apprehend that the conclusions had been reached with a mind not open to persuasion and unable or unwilling to evaluate all the material fairly and non-selectively (cf., NADH at [115]). 33 I would readily accept that some of the question and answer process at and around Q182 appears to be somewhat aggressive.
