 The context in which the motion is brought, is not without significance. 2 The native title claim group represented by the applicants has already had an application under the Native Title Act 1953 (Cth) struck out: see McKenzie v State Government of South Australia [2005] FCA 22.
 It was then made plain to the applicants that leave was required. 4 The ALRM opposed the grant of leave on the ground that there was a reasonable basis for concluding that the Form 1 would still be defective for reasons similar to those given in the earlier McKenzie litigation.
 After the hearing before His Honour Justice Finn on 12 May 2006, which considered the ALRM's objections to the Form 1 in this matter, I took further instructions from the Applicants in Pt Augusta on the following weekend. 4.
 Although I advised the applicants and they have considered the possibility of amending the present proceedings, I have been instructed to discontinue and lodge fresh proceedings to avoid any argument in relation to a perceived lack of authorization in relation to these proceedings.
 The reference to my advice should not be taken as any waiver of legal professional privilege. " The discontinuance is made under O 22 of the Federal Court Rules by reason of the named applicants' representative position with respect to the claimant group.
 Where leave to discontinue is sought in a proceeding, the Court normally will allow an applicant to discontinue if he or she wants to, provided no injustice will be caused to the defendant: Covell Matthews Partners v French Wools Ltd [1977] 1 WLR 876 at 879 which has been adopted in a number of cases in this Court.
 I have determined that discontinuance in this matter will occasion no injustice, subject to the question of costs. 6 The Court has a general discretion under s 43 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) to make cost orders.
 The Courts have indicated that, on a motion for discontinuance, the conduct of the parties in the matter and the reasons for the discontinuance can bear heavily on the exercise of the discretion as to costs: see O'Neill v Mann [2000] FCA 1680 at par [13] . 7 The consideration of an award of costs in this particular proceeding must, of course, be seen under the shadow of s 85A(1) and (2) of the Native Title Act.
 His Honour noted first, that s 85A(1) is intended to remove the expectation that costs will follow the event but that despite this, the Court retains its discretion as to costs unlimited by subrule (1); secondly the "unreasonable conduct" of the parties is not a jurisdictional fact which preconditions the exercise of the discretion and, conversely, s 85A(2) will not control or limit the discretion in subrule (1); thirdly, whilst the exercise of the discretion when making a costs order should be judicial, the starting point is that each party will bear their own costs. 9 In relation to the current application, it is, in my view, perfectly clear that a costs order should be made in favour of the two respondents.
 That function has been discharged, primarily by the ALRM but concurred in by the State, in the interests of the orderly conduct of these proceedings and has assisted to that end. 10 There is a reasonable basis for concluding that the original application and the amendment that was proposed were seriously defective.
 It equally is clear, from Mr McDonald's affidavit, that the applicants considered it necessary to respond to the ALRM's objections: a need which was made quite apparent to them when the matter was first heard and then adjourned on 12 May 2006.
 In these circumstances, it seems to me entirely proper and appropriate that a costs order should be made and I will order accordingly. 11 I order that leave be given to discontinue matter number SAD 27 of 2006 and the applicants pay the respondents' costs of the discontinuance.
