 1 Cadbury claimed that Darrell Lea contravened ss 52 , 53 (c) and (d) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth), and committed the tort of passing off, by its use of the colour purple in connection with the marketing of its chocolate products.
 There was also a term that in any such fresh proceeding the parties could have the benefit of discovery already completed and documents already obtained on subpoena: Cadbury Schweppes Pty Ltd v Darrell Lea Chocolate Shops Pty Ltd [2005] FCA 112.
 A more limited case at trial than pleaded? 14 Darrell Lea submitted that the case run by Cadbury at trial was confined ultimately to the use of purple in the Christmas campaigns 2000-2004 and thus had ceased before the commencement of the proceeding in June 2005.
 This allegation is denied in par 11 of the defence. 16 Paragraph 21 of the statement of claim alleges that since approximately mid to late 2001 Darrell Lea has used in its business "a colour purple bearing a striking and obvious likeness to the colour Cadbury purple".
 But at an earlier stage of its defence Darrell Lea pleads (par 14 (a)) that since at least 1954 it has sold a variety of chocolate and confectionary products "packaged in purple coloured wrapping" and (par 14(b)) that since about early 1962 it has "adopted the use of a shade of purple known as 'boysenberry'" on signage and colour schemes in retail outlets, point of sale material, wrapping paper etc. 17 On the face of the pleadings, and notwithstanding par 29 of the defence, it might appear Darrell Lea is admitting that it has been using a purple that is not different from "Cadbury purple", or is substantially similar to "Cadbury purple".
 In the light of Darrell Lea's letter and par 29 of its defence it was reasonable for Cadbury to prepare for trial on the basis that it would have to prove Darrell Lea used "Cadbury purple", both at Christmas 2000-2004 and otherwise. 19 In opening Cadbury's case senior counsel said that Pantone 2658C was "the central core purple that Cadbury is concerned with" (T10).
 On the contrary, such usage was alleged, denied, or at least not admitted, by Darrell Lea, and proved by Cadbury. 21 Although there was some discovery, and evidence filed, about Darrell Lea's use of boysenberry, that is not surprising since such use had been positively pleaded by Darrell Lea and was thus a relevant fact.
 My ruling on its admissibility is Cadbury Schweppes Pty Ltd v Darrell Lea Chocolate Shops Pty Ltd (No 2) [2006] FCA 364. 26 The unexplained failure of Cadbury to comply with a practice note issued by the Chief Justice of this Court is not a matter to be brushed aside.
 Between 1 and 15 March Cadbury filed a further 12 affidavits, which with one exception were evidence in chief. 35 On Friday 17 March, with the trial due to commence on the following Monday, Cadbury served additional volumes of the court book which included a further two affidavits (see affidavit of Anthony Watson at par 40). 36 In relation to late filed affidavits Darrell Lea incurred solicitors' costs and counsel's fees in reviewing the affidavits, preparing cross-examination and notices of objection and corresponding with Cadbury's solicitors.
 Because Cadbury's expert evidence was largely excluded, Darrell Lea did not call Mr Hall at the trial. 37 Cadbury submits that all this effort and expenditure required of Darrell Lea "is but the normal course of litigation".
