 Introduction 1 In these proceedings, ASIC claims that the defendant, Citigroup Global Markets Australia Pty Limited, breached fiduciary duties to its client, Toll Holdings Limited, and engaged in insider trading by dealing in shares in Patrick Corporation on 19 August 2005. 2 Prior to that date Toll had retained Citigroup to provide corporate advisory services to Toll including advice in relation to a proposed takeover by Toll of Patrick. 3 An essential issue in relation to the three breach of fiduciary duty counts brought under section 912A(1) of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) by ASIC is whether Citigroup revealed to Toll that despite the retainer, Citigroup reserved to itself the right to engage in trading on its own account in Patrick shares. 4 Another essential issue is whether Citigroup had in place adequate arrangements for the management of conflicts of interest that may arise once Citigroup had been retained by Toll to act as its adviser on the proposed takeover of Patrick. 5 Similarly, an issue will arise as to whether Citigroup had in operation arrangements that could reasonably be expected to ensure that inside information about the Patrick's takeover was not communicated to the person or persons at Citigroup who decided to deal in Patrick shares on 19 August 2005.
 Citigroup's Application for Documents pursuant to 12HB(2) of the ASIC Act 6 Prior to the commencement of these proceedings, ASIC obtained under section 19 of the ASIC Act transcripts of examinations of individuals connected with Citigroup as well as a transcript of examination of an officer of Toll, Mr Chatfield. 7 By notice of motion filed on 26 June 2006, Citigroup seeks an order under section 12HB(2) of the ASIC Act directing ASIC to comply with requests made by Citigroup for the production of certain documents referred to in section 12HB(1) of that Act. 8 It appears that the only document which falls within the request is the transcript of Mr Chatfield's examination. 9 Two issues arise on the motion.
 If a document tends to impeach the plaintiff's case it tends to establish the defendant's case within the meaning of the section. " 19 In McMahon an issue arose as to whether a witness statement, which was drafted by an officer of the ACCC, typed at the ACCC, and signed by the witness, was "prepared" by an officer of the Commission within the meaning of section 157 of the Trade Practices Act . 20 Selway J followed the decision of Mansfield J in Australian Competition Consumer Commission v Rural Press Ltd [1999] FCA 1847 ; (1999) 96 FCR 141, where the question of whether a document has been prepared was determined by inquiring whether it had been physically prepared by an officer of the Commission.
 Second, it cannot be said to have been drawn up by the officer in accordance with the approach to construction taken by Bowen CJ in TNT . 23 In my view it is unnecessary to decide where the line ought to be drawn if something more than physical authorship is required, because whatever approach is taken within the authorities to which I have referred the transcript was not prepared by an officer of ASIC.
