 They say that they carried out many interviews in order to check genealogical data and collect materials relevant to the culture, laws and customs of the Ngaliwurru and Nungali Peoples.
 Those claims focus heavily on concepts such as "caring for country", whereas the emphasis in native title claims is on rights and interests, in relation to land or waters, possessed under traditional laws and customs.
 The colonisation of Australia by Great Britain did not extinguish rights and interests in land held by Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people according to their own law and custom. 2.
 The native title of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people under their law and custom will be recognised by the common law of Australia and can be protected under that law. 3.
 It must be shown that the society under whose laws and customs the native title rights and interests are said to be possessed has continued to exist from sovereignty to the present day "as a body united by its acknowledgment and observance of the laws and customs" (at [89]).
 From the preceding it can be seen that "connection" is descriptive of the relationship to the land and waters which is, in effect, declared or asserted by the acknowledgment of laws and observance of customs which concern the land and waters in various ways.
 The word "connection" should not be taken as qualifying or limiting the range of rights and interests arising under traditional law and custom which are native title rights and interests for the purposes of the NT Act .
 They use the land for hunting, fishing, and gathering food, and for ceremonial activities and they acknowledge and observe a body of traditional laws and customs which connect them to the land.
 As previously mentioned, s 223(1)(c) provides that native title rights and interests, in order to be established under the NT Act , must be "recognised by the common law of Australia".
 In Mabo (No 2) , it was recognised that, at common law, modification of laws and customs over the years did not necessarily mean the loss of native title.
 Unlike the position in Alyawarr , there was unchallenged evidence before me that a significant number of members of the native title claim group resided in Timber Creek, or at least within its immediate vicinity.
 In other words, it should be seen as a bundle of separate and separable, distinct rights and interests that can be exercised in relation to a particular area (and also extinguished separately and distinctly).
