 However, the Court would have a broad discretion, arising from s 43(2) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth), to make some other order as to costs. 5 On 6 July 2006, the day before the adjourned return of the first motion, Mr Christodoulou filed another notice of motion (the second motion) seeking orders that he "be permitted to withdraw the 'Notice of Discontinuance' and notice for return of Security of Costs" and that he be "permitted to continue" the appeal. 6 I raised with Mr Christodoulou, who appeared in person, as he did at the trial, and Mr Bova of counsel for Disney, whether a single judge had jurisdiction to deal with either motion.
 Having further considered the matter, I am satisfied that I do not have such jurisdiction. 7 Section 24(1) of the Act confers jurisdiction on the Federal Court to hear and determine certain appeals including, by par (a), appeals from judgments of the Court constituted by a single judge. 8 Section 25(1) provides that the appellate jurisdiction of the Court shall, subject to that section and to the provisions of any other Act, be exercised by a Full Court, that is to say three or more (or, in certain limited circumstances, two) judges, sitting together: s 14. 9 Subsections (1A), (1AA) and (1B) of s 25 make certain provisions, not relevant here, for appeals from the Federal Magistrates Court.
 Any question of extension of time would not arise unless and until Mr Christodoulou obtained the orders sought in the second motion. 11 Mr Bova also submitted that I should conclude that the Court had no power to set aside the notice of discontinuance because Mr Christodoulou had not satisfied either of the two possibly applicable criteria.
 The first requires it to be shown that the withdrawal is a nullity; the Court needs to be satisfied the discontinuance was not the result of a deliberate and informed decision such as where (to take some non-exhaustive examples) it is the result of fraud or mistake: R v Medway [1976] 1 All ER 527 at 543.
