 1 Section 7(2) of the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) ('the Act') provides that, by reason of the inclusion of the Australian Broadcasting Corporation ('the ABC') in Part II of Schedule 2 of the Act ('the Schedule'), the ABC is exempt from the operation of the Act ' in relation to the documents referred to in that Schedule in relation to [it]'.
 The ABC draws a distinction between documents related to its program material, which it says are exempt and documents related to its administrative function, which are outside the scope of the expression. 7 UTS submits that "in relation to" in the context of the Schedule equates to "for" and that the exemption is only for documents which are ABC program material.
 Where the exemption is for documents in respect of an activity, as for other agencies in the Schedule, it extends to documents received or brought into existence in the course of, or for the purposes of, the carrying on of that activity (s 7(4)).
 If there were simply categories of documents listed, such as "scripts for programs", the exemption would be in relation to scripts for programs. 10 There is no need to repeat "in relation to" in the Schedule unless it adds a further qualification.
 That is, "in respect of" is used in the sense of "with reference to" (the Macquarie Dictionary , 4 th ed, 2005 defines "with (or in) respect to" to mean ' in relation to or reference to ', while the Shorter Oxford Dictionary , 5 th ed, 2002 definition includes '[ r ] elation, connection, reference, regard ').
 This may also explain the absence of the further reference to "documents" in the entries in the Schedule for the ABC and SBS which do not contain the further reference to an activity. 15 UTS points out that the entry in the Schedule for the ABC does not say "documents in respect of its program material".
 For the ABC and the SBS, the exemption is: 'in relation to the documents' (s 7(2)) 'in relation to its program material (the Schedule)' . 17 It may well be that the repetition of ' in relation to documents ' was unnecessary for the other agencies, as it was for the ABC.
 It may be that, reading s 7(2) and the Schedule together, the exemption is "for documents in relation to" the category specified but I do not accept that the intention was to exempt only the specified category itself. 18 That conclusion is reinforced by an appreciation of the consequences of the construction advanced by UTS, namely that the only exemption is for the "sights and sounds", the recordings and tapes.
 The observation of Hill J at [38], that the ABC is exempt under the Act ' in respect of "documents" in relation to its program material ', is consistent with these reasons. "Program material" 20 UTS ultimately adopted a position that the exemption is only for program material where program material means the recordings and tapes, the "sights and sounds" that are broadcast by television or radio.
 The Tribunal stated that it did not ' see an exemption "in relation to program material" as extending as far as a complaint regarding material in a program and the treatment given to that complaint by [the ABC]' (at [33]) and categorised all of the documents sought in that category. 23 The Tribunal in Keane considered dictionary definitions of "program" and "material".
 It drew a distinction between such documents and a letter which related to a change in script writers which was not exempt. 26 UTS submits that, in effect, the exemption is limited by the meaning of "program material" and that this extends only to the sights and sounds.
 It recognised that, in contrast to program material, ' the public has a right to examine the administrative operation of the [ABC] to ensure it is efficiently and properly conducted at public expense ' (at [12.13]), and observed that documents in relation to the latter category should not be exempt. 30 The Report is not particularly helpful as the discussion contained in it was not directed to the wording in the Act as promulgated and the context of the Report (see [12.1] to [12.4], [12.13] and [12.14]) makes it clear that it did not come to any conclusion as to those documents within the scope of the expression relevant to the ABC now in the Schedule.
