 APRA wishes to use these documents to assess whether it may be possible to prosecute any criminal offences under the Insurance Act 1973 , the Criminal Code Act or the Crimes Act. (If so, APRA would propose to provide copies of any of these documents to the DPP. ) APRA may also wish to use these documents to consider whether disqualification or similar action may be taken against any individual under the Insurance Act 1973 (eg s.25A).
 The third stated purpose of the request namely 'to assist APRA in the performance of its functions and/or the discharge of its duties under the Insurance Act and any other relevant legislation' would appear to be repetitive of the second reason for its request and to be unrelated to any investigation of persons for offences against a law of the Commonwealth. 15 It may also be observed that APRA's request for copies of s 19 transcripts was somewhat indiscriminate.
 It sought the provision of such transcripts regardless of the identity of the person examined and regardless of whether such transcripts were obtained by ASIC in relation to ASIC's investigation of the named insurance company or the named financial services company or both. 16 The available evidence does not provide a clear connection between APRA's requests for transcripts and ASIC's ultimate decision of 27 April 2006 to release transcripts of the applicant's examination conducted on 14, 15 and 21 April 2005. 17 A letter from APRA to the applicant's solicitors dated 23 March 2006 revealed that APRA was engaged in what it described as 'an investigation into the improper use of reinsurance arrangements'. 18 Section 13 applies whether or not the person aggrieved has applied to the Court for an order of review in respect of the decision in respect of which reasons may be sought (per Black CJ, Ryan and Olney JJ in Australian Securities Commission v Somerville ('Somerville') (1994) 51 FCR 38 at 48). 19 The purpose of s 13 statements is to ensure that a person who is entitled to apply to the Court under s 5 of the AD(JR) Act for an order of review may be furnished with a statement of the findings and reasons for the decision so that he or she may be in a position to consider his or her challenge or perhaps prospective challenge to the decision.
