 In that decision the Tribunal affirmed the decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal (the "RRT") in which the RRT had concluded that certain documents were exempt from disclosure under ss 41 and 45 of the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) (the "FOI Act").
 Whether (given the undoubted right of applicants to the RRT to be given access to documents relating to their application) a document provided to the RRT by a person, in relation to an application to the RRT by other persons, could have the quality of confidentiality necessary to be exempt under s 45 of the Act.
 Whether, in considering whether disclosure of the documents in question would involve the unreasonable disclosure of personal information, the Tribunal was required to have regard to the public interest in applicants to the RRT being enabled to test whether they had been accorded procedural fairness when not given an opportunity to deal with material presented to the RRT.
 Whether the Tribunal erred in finding that disclosure of the exempt information constituted " unreasonable disclosure " which would cause " distress " to the third party, without considering the effect of such distress on the weighing of the public interests in disclosure.
 Whether the Tribunal erred in finding that disclosure of the exempt information constituted " unreasonable disclosure " which would cause "distress" to the third party, in circumstances in which the evidence upon which such a finding of distress was not even alluded to.
 Grounds The Tribunal erred in finding that the documents in dispute contained personal information about a person for the purposes of s 41(1) of the Act where the only information about that person contained in the document was the person's identity as author of the document.
 The Tribunal erred in finding that documents provided by another person to the RRT in relation to the applicant's application to the RRT could have the quality of confidentiality necessary to be exempt under s 45 of the Act.
 In considering whether disclosure of the documents in question would involve the unreasonable disclosure of personal information, the Tribunal erred in failing to have regard to the public interest in applicants to the RRT being enabled to test whether they had been accorded procedural fairness when not given an opportunity to deal with material presented to the RRT.
 The Tribunal erred in finding that the concern of the applicant to know what matters had been put against her in a document placed before the RRT is capable in law of constituting a threat that the information in the document would be used to the detriment of a third party.
 The Tribunal erred in finding that disclosure of the exempt information constituted " unreasonable disclosure " which would cause " distress " to the third party, in circumstances in which the evidence upon which such a finding of distress was not even alluded to.
 The Tribunal erred in finding there was no "good public purpose" to achieve in releasing the information when: The applicants clearly had an interest in, at the very least, confirming for themselves the ipse dixit of the Tribunal that the information was of no relevance to their proceedings; The applicants' interest was of such a nature that it was clearly more than to " excite or satisfy the curiosity of people about the person whose personal affairs were disclosed".
 The Tribunal rested its decision upon an earlier Tribunal decision in Re Kamminga and Australian National University (1992) 26 ALD 585 and a dissenting judgment of Gummow J in Corrs Pavey Whiting and Byrnes v Collector of Customs (Vic) (1987) 14 FCR 434.
 The Tribunal approached the matter similarly to Gummow J in Corrs Pavey Whiting and Byrne v Collector of Customs (Vic), though in dissent, who stated that under the then form of s 45 of the FOI Act it was necessary for the section to be made out for its disclosure to be actionable at general law.
