 1 The Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) (the Act) now requires that to be protected, industrial action which takes place during a bargaining period must be authorised by a secret ballot of relevant employees.
 Those questions were: 'Question 1: Do you, for the purpose of advancing claims in the negotiation of a union collective agreement between the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union and United Collieries Pty Ltd authorise industrial action in the form of twenty four (24) hour stoppages of work?
 Question 2: Do you, for the purpose of advancing claims in the negotiation of a union collective agreement between the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union and United Collieries Pty Ltd, authorise industrial action in the form of bans on the working of non-rostered overtime?
 Question 3: Do you, for the purpose of advancing claims in the negotiation of a union collective agreement between the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union and United Collieries Pty Ltd, authorise industrial action in the form of a seven (7) day stoppage of work?
 Question 4: Do you, for the purpose of advancing claims in the negotiation of a union collective agreement between the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union and United Collieries Pty Ltd, authorise industrial action in the form of two (2) hour duration stop work meetings?
 Question 5: Do you, for the purpose of advancing claims in the negotiation of a union collective agreement between the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union and United Collieries Pty Ltd, authorise industrial action in the form of stoppages of work of a shift length in duration? ' 3 The authorised ballot agent made a declaration of the ballot results on 15 May 2006 pursuant to s 476 of the Act.
 Although the date for the particular industrial action specified in the 2 June notice has now passed, the question as to what, if any, industrial action will be protected by virtue of the authority granted by the ballot remains live.
 United Collieries contends that as the 30 day period has expired no action of the kind contemplated under the authority granted by the secret ballot would now be protected industrial action.
 On the other hand, the Union contends that, as a 24 hour stoppage had taken place within the 30 day period, all of the available options of industrial action approved in the ballot are open.
 In addition to what might be called industrial protection, s 447 provides wider immunity and s 448 prohibits discrimination against an employee on account of proposing to engage in, or engaging in, protected action. 11 Division 4 of Pt 9 deals with secret ballots on proposed protected action.
 United Collieries also accepts that, if question 1 had words added such as 'each successive Monday commencing on (date)' or a series of dates, action would be authorised beyond the expiry of the 30 day period provided that the first date was within the 30 day period.
