 The Term-Seal (Aust) website identifies Statewide Pest Control as a licensee and installer of Term-Seal (Aust) products, including Term-Seal FRM. 11 Term-Seal (Aust) and Statewide Pest Control admit that they do not have the authority of the applicants or either of them to sell, install or offer to sell and install the Term-Seal FRM system, but they deny any need for them to have such authority and they assert that the Term-Seal FRM system was at all material times the property of Term-Seal (Aust). 12 There are 14 claims in the Patent and the applicants allege the respondents have infringed claims 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 and 9.
 A membranous termite barrier extending between the mortar course of a masonry wall and an adjacent concrete slab, said membranous barrier comprising a matting impregnated with a termite resisting product, said matting being sufficiently absorbent to facilitate its impregnation with the liquid termite resistant product. 3.
 A membranous termite barrier as claimed in claim 2, wherein the membranous termite barrier is in the form of a longitudinally extending strip rolled out over an upper coarse of the masonry wall and adhered to the adjacent concrete slab. ... 5.
 The respondents admit that they intend to continue to manufacture, market and sell their barrier system but they deny any infringement of the claims in the Patent and they deny causing damage to the applicants. 15 The first issue is whether the Term-Seal FRM infringes claims 1, 2 3, 5, 6 and 9 of the Patent. 16 The cross-claim brought by Term-Seal (Aust) and Statewide Pest Control raises three issues.
 To avoid confusion, I will continue to refer to these companies as the first and second respondents although they are, in fact, cross-claimants on the cross-claim. 17 The first and second respondents claim a declaration that claims 1, 2, 3, 5, 6 and 9 of the Patent are, and have been at all material times, invalid and an order that the claims be revoked.
 As far as the additional integer in claim 6 is concerned the samples were polymeric (that is, polyester) and are non-woven materials and, in the opinion of Dr Fredericks, could be described as polyester wadding or as geofabrics as used in the claim.
 However, the question of whether claims 1 and 2 include a termite resisting product which is and remains a liquid is relevant to the question of utility and it is appropriate to address the construction of claims 1 and 2 at this point. 87 The starting point is the proper construction of the relevant integers in claim 1.
 The specification goes on to make the following statements about the barrier material: "The settable or curable barrier material may, after application, be either flexible or rigid and may be applied to a building or component in any suitable manner, for example by being sprayed, painted, trowelled, brushed or by splatter machine.
 A method for preventing or precluding migration of termites or insects, said method including the step of applying to a possible area of migration, a settable or curable barrier material which defines a barrier to termite or insect migration through said area. 2.
 A method according to Claim 1 wherein said area of migration is defined by cracks, fissures, perpends or joins in a building having a concrete slabs [sic] and brick walls and wherein said fissures, cracks perpends or joins are filled or sealed by said settable or curable barrier material. " The respondents sought to rely on what was shown in the figures in the Kennedy and Hitchen patent.
 The Saddington patent which is an aluminium or metal (and therefore impervious) ant or termite barrier. 115 A number of witnesses gave evidence as to whether the claims in the Patent were novel in light of the prior art referred to above.
 The Patent envisages a barrier which is adapted to extend between the mortar course of a masonry wall and an adjacent concrete slab and in the form of a longitudinally-extending strip which can be rolled out over an upper course of the masonry wall and can be adhered to the adjacent concrete slab.
