 1 Upon ordering the winding up of Australvic Property Management Pty Ltd ('APM') on 5 October 2007, I ordered that each party, each supporting creditor, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ('ASIC') and Saxbys Lawyers ('Saxbys') file with the Court and serve on each other written submissions as to costs and that leave be granted to the liquidator (if so advised) to file with the Court and serve on each party, each supporting creditor, the ASIC and Saxbys, any written submissions as to costs. 2 Pursuant to these orders I have received written submissions from the plaintiffs, T G Welding Pty Ltd ('T G Welding') (a supporting creditor), ASIC, and Saxbys. 4 It is appropriate that costs should follow the event, and I will order that the plaintiffs' costs of the proceeding (including the hearing before Registrar Mussett) be taxed and reimbursed in accordance with s 466(2) of the Corporations Act . 5 I will further order that the plaintiffs be entitled in respect of their costs to be paid out of the security provided pursuant to orders of the Court made on 29 May 2007. 6 In view of the history of the application made on 3 July 2007 and the events on 6 July 2007, I propose to make no specific orders as to costs in relation to the hearings on 3 July 2007 and 6 July 2007.
 However, I do not consider that it is appropriate to otherwise order indemnity costs or costs on a solicitor and own client basis, despite the series of events accurately described in the written submissions of T G Welding. 19 In view of the nature of APM, its business activities, its involvement in other litigation and the state of its financial records, I cannot be satisfied without more that APM had involved itself in this part of the proceedings in sufficiently unmeritorious, deliberately high-handed or otherwise improper conduct so to as warrant the order sought by T G Welding.
 ASIC had a special interest in supporting the order sought in view of other proceedings before the Court, heard concurrently, where it also sought as final relief the winding up of APM. 23 I propose to order that ASIC's costs of the proceeding be costs in the winding up and be taxed on a party/party basis. 24 ASIC also seeks costs of its notice of motion dated 28 September 2007 notwithstanding that it was dismissed on 5 October 2007. 25 ASIC, through its notice of motion, was properly seeking to inform the Court of relevant matters which APM had failed to do in a timely and appropriate manner.
