 The respondent's solicitor has deposed that the respondent accepted the correctness of a decision of Scarlett FM in Uddin v Minister for Immigration [2005] FMCA 841 (' Uddin '). 18 On 7 June 2005 Scarlett FM had held in identical factual circumstances that a notice given purportedly pursuant to s 20 of the ESOS Act, did not comply with s 20(4) of that Act: Uddin .
 The Federal Magistrate held that because s 20(4) of the ESOS Act had not been complied with, s 137J of the Migration Act was not invoked and therefore the applicant's visa was not cancelled by operation of that section. 19 The notice given in Uddin was in the same form as the notice given in this matter.
 It did not set out the effect of s 137J and s 137K of the Migration Act in that it did not inform the applicant that the applicant could avoid the consequences of s 137J by making himself available to an officer for the purpose of explaining the breach alleged in the notice.
 The notice did not bring to the applicant's attention the provisions of s 137K(2) and, in particular, advise the applicant that because of the provisions s 82 an applicant cannot apply for revocation when the visa would no longer have been in effect in any event had the visa not been cancelled under s 137J.
 The notice did not comply strictly with the requirements in s 20(4) of the ESOS Act and, as I understand his reasons, s 137J(2) of the Migration Act therefore was not invoked and the Student visa was therefore never cancelled. 21 The Federal Magistrate made two declarations: '(1) That the Applicant's student visa was not cancelled by operation of law under section 137J of the Migration Act 1958. (2) That the Applicant was not an unlawful non-citizen at any stage. ' He ordered that the constitutional writs issue to give effect to those declarations. 22 The declarations made by the Federal Magistrate were those sought by the applicant in that proceeding.
 The applicant's visa was, in terms of those declarations, never cancelled and the applicant was never an unlawful non-citizen. 23 After Scarlett FM's decision, the Department identified visas which were purportedly cancelled pursuant to s 137J of the Migration Act where the purported cancellation was affected by the same error as identified in Uddin .
 The delegate of the Minister of Immigration Multicultural Indigenous Affairs did not have jurisdiction to make the decision made on 30 August 2005, by which he purported to cancel the Applicant's Student (Temporary) (Class TU) visa pursuant to s. 116 of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ("the Act ") .
 In the applicant's outline of argument, and in oral argument, her counsel contended that because a notice had been given under s 20 of the ESOS Act and because the applicant had not complied with either paragraph of s 137J(2) , the applicant's visa was cancelled by operation of s 137J.
 The decision therefore to cancel was not valid. 36 It was further contended that the subsequent decision of the MRT setting aside the decision not to cancel and substituting 'the decision that the visa is not cancelled' did not have retrospective effect and only operated from the date of the decision.
 It was, as I say, merely a recognition that the applicant still held a visa because it had not been cancelled by operation of s 137J of the Migration Act . 48 The applicant also contended that the decision of the MRT given on 13 September 2005 did not have any retrospective effect and was only effective prospectively. 49 If my analysis is correct, the decision of the MRT was otiose.
 If there was never a notice given under s 20 of the ESOS Act , s 137J never operated in its terms and there was never a cancellation of the applicant's visa. 50 In any event, the MRT, in deciding that the visa had not been cancelled, was only declaring (if it had jurisdiction to do so) that s 137J had never operated. 51 Because I am of the opinion that no administrative decision was made which gave rise to the cancellation of the visa, I do not need to address the purport of the decision of the MRT given on 13 September 2005.
