 The applicant has supplied short minutes of the orders for which he contends. 2 The respondents accept that some of those orders are appropriate in the light of the findings in the earlier judgment but oppose others.
 I am satisfied, however, that the findings on those matters are sufficiently clear in the earlier judgment and decline therefore to make the declarations. 5 The applicant having given notice of his intention to terminate the partnership referred to in [3] above, the partnership should be wound up and an accounting made between the parties.
 With respect to the partnership and the partnership business Mr Vouris should have the powers referred to in s 420 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) as if the partnership business was the property of a corporation.
 Orders under s 87 of the Trade Practices Act and s 72 of the Fair Trading Act 8 A major issue in contention is the proposed orders for distribution of the partnership assets and compensation for the applicant.
 Mr Philip Rennie, whose subsequent valuation both parties agreed to accept, and which I also accepted, (see the earlier judgment at [183] et seq) assessed the partnership business as being worth at most $900,000.
 Finally, the applicant submits that the respondents should be ordered to pay to the applicant the amount, if any, by which the amount payable to the applicant by the receiver from the proceeds of the partnership is less than the Applicant's Contribution Amount. 12 Under this proposal the applicant would receive his 15% share of the profits, if any, of the partnership.
 If, however, that share is less than the Applicant's Contribution Amount, he will receive that amount initially from the respondents' share of the profits and, if that is still not sufficient, from the respondents personally.
 The orders sought by the applicant have the advantage of avoiding further expense in what has undoubtedly already been a very expensive proceeding especially in relation to the amount in dispute between the parties.
 Costs 15 Relying on a letter of 31 July 2006, from his solicitor to the respondents' solicitor offering to settle the proceedings, the applicant seeks costs on a party/party basis until 31 July 2006 and thereafter on an indemnity basis.
 The letter, which was without prejudice except as to costs, offered to settle the matter "conditional upon mutual releases and the surrender of our client's interest in the business ... and the withdrawal of the caveat over the Narrabeen property" on payment by the respondents to the applicant of (a) the sum of $180,000 (without interest); and (b) the cost of the proceedings on a party/party basis to the date of the offer.
 The letter, in which the respondents offered to settle for a total of $300,000, was one in an exchange of letters between the parties before the commencement of proceedings attempting to settle their dispute.
 It is not necessary for me to recount that history other than to say it appears that the second respondent had accepted an offer to settle for $350,000 and had failed to make the payment by the agreed date.
