 1 It is common for parties to do little more than pay lip service to timetables fixed to regulate when steps should be taken to get a case on for trial.
 The view that has taken hold in many quarters is that a party is only required to keep an eye on the timetable and, if it cannot be met, it will be extended.
 Nowadays the party that obtains a costs order is lucky to get back 50 per cent of its actual costs. 3 The courts, in no small measure, are responsible for allowing this state of affairs to come about.
 A close reading of J L Holdings shows that the High Court was confining its comments to the case where costs would provide full compensation to the opposite party.
 A useful rule to adopt is to allow an extension only if the failure to meet the existing timetable is the result of excusable non-compliance.
 On the eve of the trial the respondent said it was not ready to begin the hearing and sought leave to introduce further prior art with which to attack both the patent and the design.
 Leave was granted so that the respondent was not shut out from running its best case. 7 The consequence was that the trial date had to be vacated.
 The Respondent shall file and serve any evidence in answer on invalidity by 31 August 2007, but not otherwise. " When these orders were made it was made clear that neither party was to use its right of reply as an opportunity to add to its evidence in chief. 8 Despite the orders (or in defiance of them) the respondent has served two reply affidavits in which it seeks to add to its evidence in chief.
 The application for leave to rely on the additional material was made orally at the recent case management conference. 9 The first of the affidavits was sworn by Mr Bloom.
 That the evidence was not only by way of reply was in effect conceded by counsel who asked for leave to further amend the already amended particulars of invalidity to add to the prior art. 10 The affidavits were filed late because the respondent was unable to get them sworn any earlier.
 The case has been listed to run for 7-10 days and if it is taken out of the list not only the applicants but other litigants will be prejudiced. 11 Leave to rely on the additional material is refused.
