 He was sentenced to several terms of imprisonment, some for periods exceeding twelve months. 4 On 17 May 2006 the prosecutor was notified that by reason of his "substantial criminal record" the Minister was considering whether to cancel his visa.
 He was also told that if he did not respond within that period a decision on his visa would be made based on the information contained in the letter. 6 On 7 June 2006 Mr Fisher, a lawyer with Victoria Legal Aid, wrote to the Department advising that VLA "have only just taken instructions from the [prosecutor]" and requesting that a decision in relation to the prosecutor be deferred "for at least one month" so that "medical reports and other supporting evidence" could be obtained.
 He is dispensed this medication by Footscray Plaza pharmacy and regularly attends for his dose. " [AB133] 11 There was also a report from Dr McDonough, the Medical Director, Drug and Alcohol Services, Western Hospital.
 This patients' problems are quite severe and he is currently dependent on his methadone treatment: if, for any reason, this was abruptly discontinued, the medical and psychological consequences would most likely be serious: for example, severe withdrawal reaction and mood disturbance. " 12 For the purpose of assisting the Minister in arriving at a decision, the Department prepared an Issues Memorandum summarising the position relating to the prosecutor.
 Attached to the Issues Memorandum were several documents, including Mr Fisher's letter, Mr Fisher's submission (including the attachments) and a copy of the IOHCA. 13 The official who had prepared the Issues Memorandum most likely had available to him or her a report provided by the Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade entitled "Vietnam: Criminal Returnee on Methadone".
 The report reads: "According to advice from the Department of Health in Ho Chi Minh City, there is one drug rehabilitation treatment centre in the Hon Dat District Kien Giang Province which is 30 kilometres from Rach Gia.
 UNDCP also advises that lack of regularity, impartiality and support services and the emergence of black markets also limit the likelihood of any successful 'substitution programmes' in Vietnam in the foreseeable future. " Neither a copy of the report nor a summary of its contents found its way into the Issues Memorandum. 14 The Minister gave reasons for her decision to cancel the prosecutor's visa.
 Hence, as events turned out, the prosecutor was not treated unfairly. 18 The second ground of attack is that the Minister failed to take into account a relevant consideration, namely that the prosecutor's removal from Australia would deny to him methadone treatment for his drug addiction.
 The point here is that the Minister was not given a copy or a summary of the report from DFAT. 19 It is true the Minister did not have the DFAT report.
 Country information also indicates that the number of drug addicts in Vietnam has increased over time but over 80 drug rehabilitation centres in many provinces have exerted great efforts to respond to increasing demand on them, although the numbers of places in these centres are limited.
 Thus, when the Minister said that the prosecutor will have access to medical treatment and drug rehabilitation, she understood that the drug treatment would not include methadone. 21 In any event, it should not be presumed the prosecutor could establish reviewable error by showing that the Minister was not aware that methadone treatment was not available in Vietnam.
