 It said this was because, if Mr Kielt were correct, and if the Tribunal accepted his evidence, insoles simply were not designed to correct orthopaedic conditions. 25 Secondly, Customs contended that the Tribunal's decision did not discuss in terms its argument to that effect. 26 Customs pointed to a number of pieces of evidence before the Tribunal in which persons had used indifferently the terms 'insoles', 'inserts', 'devices' and 'orthoses'.
 The reason the Tribunal gave for rejecting that question was simple and correct: Mr Kielt, not being an orthopaedic surgeon, could not speak for one. 34 In his evidence Mr Kielt also sought to explain, perhaps argumentatively, that an orthotic had distinguishing features from an insole centred around its ability to control the position of the person who had the device in his or her shoe.
 DID THE TRIBUNAL ERR IN FAILING TO CONSIDER CUSTOMS' CASE? 36 Here, the issue for decision by the Tribunal was a question of fact: did the goods have the essential character at the time of importation of 'orthopaedic appliances' or of 'special insoles'?
 The Tribunal at [26] quoted from a paper entitled 'The History of Shoes: Shoemaking' by Cameron Kippen, who was an academic, which said that an insole provided 'a platform upon which the foot can operate and separates the upper [of the shoes] from the lower'.
 The Tribunal used this to illustrate the difference between an insole or special insoles and the orthotic inserts here. 37 The patent for the goods to which the Tribunal referred described the goods as orthotic inserts.
 It referred to the terms of the patent for the goods and came to the conclusion that these goods did not have the essential character of goods within the meaning of the terms 'footwear' and 'special insoles' as used in Note 6 to Chapter 90. 43 In my opinion, the reasons given by the Tribunal informed the parties why it came to the conclusion that it did.
 Although that was a dissenting judgment, the principle his Honour stated is of general application (see Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Yusuf [2001] HCA 30 ; (2001) 206 CLR 323 at 349 [75] per McHugh, Gummow and Hayne JJ).
 So, in Re Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs; Ex parte Palme [2003] HCA 56 ; (2003) 216 CLR 212 at 224 [39] , Gleeson CJ, Gummow and Heydon JJ referred to the authorities which enabled a court to infer that, where a decision-maker did not give any reason for his or her decision, he or she had no good reason for it.
 An obligation to give reasons, such as is found in s 43(2B) of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act , did not oblige the Tribunal to give a subset of reasons why it accepted or rejected individual pieces of evidence.
 It is framed in the abstract. 60 I am of opinion that the proposed amendment does not raise a fairly arguable claim to final relief and ought be refused: Queensland v JL Holdings Pty Ltd [1997] HCA 1 ; (1997) 189 CLR 146 at 154-155 per Dawson, Gaudron and McHugh JJ.
