 Her total liability now well exceeds $3,300 and is rising. 5 For the reasons below: (1) in relation to the Costs Decision, I would not grant Ms Winn leave to file and serve the notice of appeal under O 52 r 15(2) of the Federal Court Rules .
 Ms Winn did not appear at the hearing of the proceeding before the VMC on 2 October 2006 and judgment was entered for Brian Ward for the amount of debt ("the VMC judgment"). 8 A series of events followed the VMC judgment.
 None of the affidavits filed by Ms Winn sought to challenge the conversation on 11 April 2007 which I have just described. 9 In any event, on 12 April 2007, the orders to which this proceeding ultimately relate were made when the parties came before Registrar Mussett (see [6] above).
 Ms Winn has also taken issue, at various stages in the proceedings before the FMC and the VMC, with the identification of the respondent as Brian Ward Partners, the trading name used by the firm prior to its incorporation in February 2004.
 Ms Winn, it would seem, sought to use the Supreme Court application for the same objectives and in the same manner as the proceedings before the FMC: that is, to avoid an adverse costs order on the basis that there was no debt in circumstances where Brian Ward had voluntarily agreed not to pursue the debt.
 McInnis FM agreed to hear the application for a stay of the Costs Decision before delivering his reasons for decision on 11 July 2007. 13 On the morning of 11 July 2007, Ms Winn sent by facsimile a further application to the FMC requesting that McInnis FM disqualify himself from determining the substantive application.
 An application for leave to appeal may be heard and determined by a single judge: ss 24(1A) , 25 (1B) and 25 (2) of the Federal Court Act . 17 The Costs Decision must be considered separately from the Stay and Bias Decisions.
 Ms Winn handed to the Court a copy of a facsimile transmission record she held which purports to record that 21 pages were sent by facsimile to a facsimile number attached to the Victorian Registry of the Federal Court at 16.04 pm on 1 August 2007.
 Ms Winn submitted from the bar table that the facsimile (of 21 pages) recorded as having been sent at 16.04 pm comprised the application for leave to appeal and an unsworn affidavit which exhibited a draft of the notice of appeal.
 Brian Ward offered to settle the proceeding with no order as to costs prior to the hearing before McInnis FM and notified Ms Winn of its intention to pursue an order for indemnity costs if she refused that offer.
 The proceedings have been unduly prolonged by the choices Ms Winn has made not only to the detriment and inconvenience of Brian Ward, but also, so far as the material before the Court reveals, to herself. 24 Though unassisted by an independent legal advisor, Ms Winn is not in the usual position of a self represented litigant.
