 1 The Court heard evidence from Mr Brownie Doolan under s 46 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) (the FCA Act) and O 24 r 1(1)(a) of the Federal Court Rules in November 2004, so as to preserve it for the hearing of this application for the determination of native title under the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth).
 The evidence included certain evidence which was "male gender restricted evidence", that is evidence relating to Aboriginal law which under Aboriginal law may not be disseminated by men to women, uninitiated men, non-Aboriginal men, or to children. 2 Before the preservation of evidence hearing, on 9 November 2004, the Court made an Order under O 78 r 4 and O 78 r 31(3)(a) and (f) of the Federal Court Rules dealing with how the proposed male gender restricted evidence should be managed.
 The objection of the other parties to the proposed Order 11 in its current form was that it was unnecessary and was not ostensibly even handed, and that it was potentially misleading by allowing for the uninformed inference to be drawn that no other party might adduce such evidence.
 As to the objection that the proposed Order 11 was not necessary, the applicants submitted that without such an Order the Order made on 9 November 2004 might have the unintended consequence of inhibiting the giving of "preservation evidence". 7 "Preservation evidence" under s 46 of the FCA Act does not automatically become evidence in the hearing of the proceeding: s 46(d).
 That subparagraph provides that the Court may: "(d) empower any party to the proceeding to give in evidence in the proceeding the testimony so taken on such terms (if any) as the Court or Judge directs. " The parties were agreed about that.
 Mr Doolan has given his evidence, knowing that his evidence or parts of it may be, but need not be, adduced at the hearing of the application for determination of native title (if it proceeds to hearing and is not otherwise resolved) at the option of the applicants.
 In deciding whether to rely on his evidence, the applicants and their advisers may take into account a variety of matters, including whether it is desirable to reveal the male gender restricted evidence to the particular judge conducting the hearing. 12 The respondent parties may also apply to rely on Mr Doolan's evidence, or parts of it, at the hearing, in the event that the applicants do not do so.
 Mr Doolan will no doubt be advised that they would seek to do so only if it were perceived that it would help resist the claim, and will no doubt be advised as to whether his evidence might in any circumstances be seen by the respondents as having that character.
 Finally, in the particular circumstances of this matter, Mr Doolan's preservation evidence has already been given and at least in the first place it will be up to the applicants whether it is sought to be adduced at any hearing of the application for native title.
 His decision about what preservation evidence he might have given has already been made, and could not therefore have been influenced by the proposed Order 11. 15 Almost invariably (although not necessarily) preservation evidence in a claim under the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth) will be given by an indigenous person whose evidence is sought to be preserved to be available to the applicants if the claim proceeds to hearing.
 In addition to the powers of the Court to protect gender restricted evidence from inappropriate publication, in the case of preservation evidence there will also generally be the further step in the process of the applicants, at whose behest the evidence is to be preserved, having the opportunity to decide later whether to seek to have the preserved evidence or parts of it (including any gender restricted evidence) adduced at the hearing of the principal claim when and if the claim proceeds to hearing.
