 If that is not correct and the obligation is wider, it is one that must be considered in the context of the EPBC Act and in the context of the facts and circumstances before the Minister (see SZBEL v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] HCA 63 ; (2006) 231 ALR 592 at [26] ). 10 That the EPBC Act has provisions dealing with steps to be taken before a decision on approval is made suggests that the EPBC Act makes careful provision for when, and to what extent, comment from interested persons and/or the public is required. 11 Under s 74(3) of the EPBC Act, as soon as practicable after receiving a referral of a proposal to take an action, the Minister must cause to be published on the internet the referral and "an invitation for anyone to give the Minister comments within 10 business days" on whether the action is a controlled action.
 Under s 75(5), the Minister is obliged to make the controlled action decision within 20 business days after receiving the referral. 12 By contrast, there is no obligation on the Minister to invite comments and consider comments when making an assessment approach decision under s 87 of the EPBC Act. 13 There is no requirement in the EPBC Act to invite comments, or to consider the views of the public, on what assessment approach should be adopted.
 This tells strongly against the suggestion that the Minister has an obligation to accord procedural fairness to interested persons and the public concerning an assessment approach decision under s 87. 14 The Minister must consider the matters set out in s 87(3) in making an assessment approach decision under s 87(1).
 Those matters include, under s 87(3)(c), an obligation to consider any relevant information received in response to an invitation to the appropriate State or Territory Minister to comment on whether the action is a controlled action and to give the Minister "information relevant to deciding which approach would be appropriate to assess the relevant impacts of the action..." (see s 74(2)(b)(ii)). 15 There is no similar obligation for the Minister to invite or consider any other comments on an assessment approach decision.
