 On 4 January 2007 the secretary of Reefton wrote to shareholders referring to the prior letter of 8 December 2006, advising that seven new nominations had been received for election to the board in addition to Mr Thompson and that, because of the Christmas holiday period and having the notice printed to give adequate notice to shareholders, a meeting date in early February 2007 was now proposed.
 Finally the letter advised that the continuing directors had concluded that the proper course was to proceed with the original intention to call a meeting, putting forward all eight candidates for election and to apply to the Court for an order that the meeting called by the five shareholders for 22 January 2007 be cancelled.
 It expressed the view that the directors considered the holding of the meeting proposed for 22 January 2007 would be contrary to the interest of members as a whole because it would exclude a number of properly endorsed candidates from standing for election to the board.
 Alleged contravention of s 249F(2) of the Corporations Act In reliance on s 249F(2) , Reefton submits that it was incumbent upon the shareholders when issuing their notice of general meeting to comply with cl 13.3 of Reefton's Constitution and so to provide notice of all persons who had been nominated to be elected as directors.
 Alleged improper engagement in conduct breaching cl 13 of Reefton Constitution Reefton contends that as cl 13.1 of its Constitution requires a minimum of three directors and permits this number to be increased up to nine directors by ordinary resolution.
 I agree with the submission for the defendants that, in the absence of any evidence of a resolution prescribing the maximum number of allowed directors being three, it does not follow that the number is three directors.
 If there is an obligation on the shareholders general meeting to comply with the requirement for a ballot in an order determined by a lot in accordance with cl 13.3 of Reefton's Constitution as would appear to be the case, that is a matter which is applicable to the conduct of the meeting.
 It does so for the proposition that the persons calling the meeting should be regarded as quasi-officials of the company and subject to the same supervision as directors summonsing a meeting, so that they must act for the benefit of the company as a whole and not for some ulterior purpose.
 It is also relevant that the defendants accept not only that the chair of Reefton may chair their general meeting, but also that, if their meeting proceeds and the new directors take office, they will have no power to cancel the general meeting convened by Reefton for 12 February 2007.
 BALANCE OF CONVENIENCE This is not a case where the shareholders will be excluded from voting in respect of any of the persons who have accepted the invitation to nominate as directors in response to Reefton's letter of 8 December 2006.
