 On 11 May 2006 the first respondent gave discovery on behalf of himself and the second to fifth respondents. 2 On 7 May 2007 the applicant's solicitors wrote to the solicitors for the first to fifth respondents asking that they swear a separate affidavit of discovery.
 Nor did they know whether the fourth respondent's further list of documents were additional documents in the possession of the fourth respondent over and above the documents set out in the earlier affidavit sworn on behalf of all respondents.
 The solicitors for the respondents replied on 1 June 2007 rejecting the request in various of the classes of specified documents and conceding others. 4 On 28 June 2007 the applicant filed a motion seeking discovery by each of the first, second, fourth and fifth respondents separately and particular discovery of specified documents or classes of documents.
 They also sought leave to further amend the statement of claim. 5 On 10 July 2007 I made orders on the motion giving leave to the applicant to amend its statement of claim in terms of the minute filed with the motion and giving the respondents leave to file amended defences by 31 July 2007.
 They are met by generic opposition from the respondents. 7 I make the following rulings in relation to each of the documents or classes of documents sought by the applicant having regard to the provisions of O 15 r 8.
 By that I refer to the test mentioned in Compagnie Financiere et Commerciale du Pacifique v Peruvian Guano Company (1882) 11 QBD 55. 8 The rulings which follow refer to the classes of documents in relation to which discovery has not been given.
 They are as follows: Paragraph in the Motion Ruling 1(a) Discovery allowed. 1(c) Discovery allowed. 1(d) Discovery declined --- chain of inquiry justification insufficient. 1(e) Discovery declined --- class of documents not defined by reference to relevance.
 Chain of inquiry insufficient. 2(a) Discovery allowed, limited to documents evidencing the purchase and/or payment by the second respondent for product labels for the sale of automotive products exported by the second respondent to the sixth respondent and/or Gold Leaf Products Co Ltd for the period 12 February 2004 to 31 January 2005. 2(b) Discovery declined --- relevance not established. 2(d) Discovery allowed. 2(e) Discovery declined --- relevance not established. 2(f) Discovery allowed, limited to labels proof read at the meeting of 1 March 2004. 2(i) Discovery declined --- class not defined by reference to criteria of relevance. 2(j) Discovery declined --- class not defined by reference to criteria of relevance. 2(k)(i), (ii), (viii) to (xi) Discovery declined, relevance not established. 2(l) Discovery allowed. 2(n) Discovery declined --- claim not defined by criteria of relevance. 3(a) Discovery allowed. 3(b) Discovery allowed. 3(c) Discovery declined. 3(d) Discovery declined. 3(e) Discovery allowed. 4(a) Discovery allowed. 9 I will make orders to give effect to these rulings.
