 The appellant attended such a hearing which appears to have lasted for approximately two hours. 4 On 22 December 2006 the Tribunal decided to affirm the Minister's Delegate's decision not to grant the appellant a Protection (Class XA) visa.
 The decision of the Tribunal was handed down on 18 January 2007. 5 On 16 February 2007 the appellant applied to the Federal Magistrates Court of Australia for constitutional writ relief in respect of the Tribunal's decision.
 The grounds of the appellant's application were as follows: '1. the RRT breached the Section 424A of the Migration Act by not inviting the applicant to comment on particulars of any information that the Tribunal considers would be the reason, or a part of the reason, for affirming the decision that is under review.
 Particulars: The Tribunal dismiss the applicant's claims as she was unable to explain what the GPPCC (Guangdong People's Political Consultative Conference, an organization the applicant claims that her mother was the former vice-president of), was or what it did.
 The Tribunal did not invite the applicant to explain why she was not familiar with the nature of GPPCC. ' 6 The application for review was heard by Federal Magistrate Scarlett on 15 May 2007 and decided by him on that day.
 In particular, the applicant claimed that the Tribunal dismissed her claims because she was unable to explain what the Guangdong People's Political Consultative Conference --- an organisation the applicant claims her mother was former vice-president of --- was or what it did.
 The Tribunal recorded its conclusions as follows: 'The above matters have led the Tribunal to conclude that the applicant was not a credible witness and that her claims that her mother had a political opinion in support of Falun Gong are not true.
 The grounds relied upon in the notice of appeal were expressed as follows: 'The applicant argue at the Federal Magistrates Court that the RRT breached the Section 424A of the Migration Act by not inviting the applicant to comment on particulars of any information that the Tribunal considers would be the reason, or a part of the reason, for affirming the decision that is under review.
 The Tribunal dismissed the applicant's claims as she was unable to explain what the GPPCC (Guandong People's Political Consultative Conference, an organization the applicant claims that her mother was the former vice-president of), was or what it did.
 In a case such as that brought by the appellant under her application for review to the Tribunal, it was for her to advance whatever evidence or argument she wished to advance and for the Tribunal to decide whether her claim that she was a refugee, within the meaning of the Refugees Convention, had been made out.
