 The Tribunal found that the evidence rebutted "the presumption in subregulation 1.15A(5)" and that the relationship between Ms Li and Mr Do was not genuine and continuing at the time of the decision.
 Accordingly, the Tribunal finds that the visa applicant and the sponsor do not have a mutual commitment to a shared life as husband and wife to the exclusion of all others and that the relationship between them is not genuine and continuing at the time of decision.
 As a result, the visa applicant does not satisfy subclause 100.221(2)(b) and she also fails to satisfy subclause 100.221(2) at time of decision. " 7 In the Federal Magistrates Court, Ms Li argued that: (1) the Tribunal failed to have regard to a relevant consideration; (2) the Tribunal had regard to an irrelevant consideration; and (3) the Tribunal failed to exercise its powers as required by law.
 Pursuant to reg 1.15A(1), to be a spouse of another, for these purposes, a person must be in "a married relationship, as described in subregulation (1A)" or "a de facto relationship, as described in subregulation (2)".
 Section 5(1) of the Marriage Act defines a number of words and phrases as they are used in that Act, but does not purport to define these words and phrases for the purposes of other Commonwealth legislation such as the Migration Act . 13 Ultimately, counsel for the appellant narrowed his challenge to focus on the form of reg 1.15A.
 I would not entertain this argument on appeal. 21 Further, I would not infer from the Tribunal's reasons and its failure to mention the matter specifically that the Tribunal failed to have regard to the duration of the appellant's and sponsor's relationship.
 The state of the evidence led the Tribunal to state that it was "not satisfied that the visa applicant and the sponsor have demonstrated a genuine commitment to each other as spouses at the time of decision".
 Irrelevant Considerations Argument 23 The appellant submits that, by concluding that "the financial aspects of the parties' relationship at the time of decision have not been established", the Tribunal took into account irrelevant considerations.
 It is apparent from the Tribunal's reasons that it was concerned with the parties' own claims in this regard, considered by reference to reg 1.15A, especially reg 1.15A(3)(a). 25 Further, no error is shown in the Tribunal's "genuine household" finding.
 I add that the Tribunal did not apparently rely in its reasons on any of the inconsistencies or discrepancies in evidence given by the appellant and her sponsor at the Departmental interview. 30 Accordingly, the appellant's fourth ground of appeal is not made out.
