 McGrath Ltd (the first respondent) is one firm that sold its rent roll business to Run Property Pty Ltd (Run Property) (the second applicant) by selling its shares in McGrath Property Management Pty Ltd (McGrath Property Management) now called Run Property (MPM) Pty Ltd (Run Property (MPM)) (the third applicant).
 Clause 13.5 provides that a party is not in breach of cl 13.1 if the franchisee under a franchise agreement covered by cl 13.2.4 enters into an agreement "to sell the rent roll (if any) owned by it at that time to [Run Property]; or if this sale does not occur, it subcontracts to [Run Property] the future management of any Restrained Business it wishes to conduct". 9 The other subclauses are designed to support the validity of cl 13.1.
 Third, if McGrath Australasia insists, a franchisee must conduct a property management business and, in that event, the franchisee is required to use the McGrath brand and pay a fee. 14 As far as is presently known, McGrath Australasia has given permission to at least four franchisees (the precise number is not clear) to provide property management services.
 If the applicants are entitled to any relief it will be confined to conduct that concerns property management. 16 This being an application for interlocutory relief it is not appropriate for me to resolve finally any issue between the parties, including their dispute about the construction of cl 13.
 The authorities show that expressions such as "concerns" and "relates to" have a wide and general operation which should not usually be read down: Commissioners of Inland Revenue v Maple Co (Paris) Ltd [1908] 1 AC 22, 26; Fountain v Alexander [1982] HCA 16 ; (1982) 150 CLR 615, 629; Australian Securities Commission v Lord (1991) 33 FCR 144, 149.
 The closeness of the relationship that is required by the expressions "concerns" or "relates to" when considering a particular restraint is to be determined by reference to the nature and purpose of the restraint when understood in its context: PMT Partners Pty Ltd (in liq) v Australian National Parks and Wildlife Service [1995] HCA 36 ; (1995) 184 CLR 301, 313.
 If a franchise agreement was confined to the activities of the franchisee in relation to "listings and sales; accredited property, valuation services; and auctions" and is silent about the franchisee's ability to commence or continue to operate a property management business, that would not fall within the general objectives of cl 13.
 In my view, the franchise agreements entered into by McGrath Australasia do not offend cl 13.2.4 merely because they inhibit a franchisee from carrying on a property management business. 20 On the other hand, if McGrath Australasia were to exercise its power under cl 8.4(3) of the franchise agreement to require a franchisee to include property management among its Real Estate Services and to provide that service by use of the McGrath brand, the conclusion would be different.
 I have a letter from OpenDoor which advises that the property management business is "[l]ocated at McGrath Neutral Bay / Mosman, 3 Young Street, Neutral Bay. " This is, as it seems to me, a deliberate attempt to establish a relationship or link between the OpenDoor business and the McGrath name.
 That is likely to constitute an indirect involvement by McGrath Ltd, through a Related Person, McGrath Australasia, in the franchisee's property management business and thus be contrary to cl 13.1. 22 In any event, there is, I think, a real risk of there being an indirect involvement in every case where a franchisee conducts a property management business from the same premises it conducts its McGrath franchise.
 That clause, to remind the reader, provides that each of the restrictions in cl 13.1 is "separate from one another [and if] any of them or any part of them is unenforceable, the rest are unaffected. " A similar provision was considered in JQAT Pty Ltd v Storm [1987] 2 Qd R 162.
