 Accordingly, if Ceramics purchased property from Tile and thereby incurred an obligation to pay Tile the purchase price, and if that price was no more than the price the parties would have agreed upon if they had been dealing with each other at arm's length, s 109C would not deem the payment to be a dividend.
 If we treat Mr and Mrs Di Lorenzo as the "primary entity" referred to in subs (1) of s 318, Tile falls within para (d) of that subsection because it is a trustee of a trust where another entity that is an associate of Mr and Mrs Di Lorenzo, namely, Ceramics, benefits under the trust.
 Moreover, they submit that the factual dispute (as to whether there was a loan from Ceramics to Tile) "is largely an irrelevant distraction because ... the threshold legal issue is the same whether a private company [Ceramics] pays money to a trustee [Tile] for itself [Ceramics] or lends money to the trust [Tile] for itself [Ceramics]". 39 It was only very late in the day that the applicants came to contend that the monies that Ceramics paid to Tile were not loans.
 He said that the ATO was still of the view that the loan gave rise to a deemed dividend to the unitholders, as the trustee company, Tile, was an associate of the company (Ceramics) that had provided the loan, and the legislation did not exclude a loan by a company to another company in its capacity as trustee.
 There is in evidence a statement of account issued by ANZ in respect of Ceramics' bank account in which Mrs Fresta wrote "Loan DL [or DC] Tile Invest" against an entry for 14 June 2001 of a transfer of $259,467.96 out of the account.
 He agreed that that entry reflected an indebtedness of the Unit Trust to Ceramics, and that if the payments made by Ceramics had been treated as an investment by it in the Unit Trust, that entry in the tax return would not have appeared.
 The submission is, in substance, that the dealings should be treated for present purposes as having been payments made by Ceramics to itself as to three quarters and to Fresta as to one quarter, because they were beneficially entitled under the terms of the Unit Trust Deed.
 Even the minutes of the meeting of the directors of Tile on 28 September 1999 that Mr Incollingo wrote on 9 February 2005 treated at least $1,600,000 of the amounts that had been paid to Tile as having been paid to it in its capacity as trustee of the Unit Trust, albeit as the subscriptions for further units to be issued.
 The interposition between Ceramics and the unitholders of the Unit Trust and of Tile as trustee of the Unit Trust 103 Fundamentally, the applicants' case is that the interposition of the Unit Trust and of Tile as trustee of it between Ceramics and the unitholders should be ignored.
 Instead of having actually paid a dividend to Tile as trustee, Ceramics is deemed to have done so, and instead of a bare trust for them, Tile holds on the terms of a unit trust under which they are, it is accepted, presently entitled to income.
