 As a result, the Australian Government is now implementing a Broadband Connect Infrastructure Program and is seeking applications for funding from interested parties on a competitive basis in accordance with these guidelines. ... 1.3 The opportunity Under the Broadband Connect Infrastructure Program, the Australian Government will consider providing financial assistance for a small number of major projects of significant scale and service coverage.
 The Guidelines also stated that the basic principles underlying the selection process were to ensure that "all applicants are treated in a fair and equitable manner" and that the Government would "notify all applicants ... of any changes to [the] guidelines". ' 18 By the said letter Telstra sought answers to a series of questions and copies of a series of documents by 4.00 pm on 26 July 2007.
 All documents recording or referring to any consideration (including any decisions made in relation thereto) by Telstra as to whether to: (a) commence a legal challenge to the: (i) BCIP process; or (ii) the selection of OPEL Networks Pty Limited as the successful applicant for funding under the BCIP; or (b) commence legal proceedings claiming (whether solely or with other claims) that it was denied procedural fairness under the BCIP process. 10.
 All documents recording or referring to any consideration (including any decisions made in relation thereto) by Telstra as to whether or not it had sufficient information to commence proceedings for relief (other than the present proceedings for preliminary discovery) against the Minister for Communications, Information Technology and The Arts or the Commonwealth in relation to the BCIP. ' 38 Telstra repeatedly submitted that it may have been denied procedural fairness in circumstances where it never had an opportunity to submit a proposal to the Minister which might attract funding of $958 million rather than the $600 million for which the Broadband Connect Infrastructure Program Guidelines provided. 39 By the handing up in Court of a draft form of Notice to Produce at about 11:36 am on 22 August 2007 Telstra indicated, through its counsel, its willingness to comply with such a Notice to Produce.
