 Remember this is a community event, not "protected" industrial action so you will need to have approved RDO, flex leave, recreation leave etc.' Drafting of the DEWR Advice 28 By at least 27 October 2005 Mr Maynard, Ms Chaudhury and others within DEWR were aware that the Day of Protest was being organised.
 Identical advice was issued to Agency Heads and Heads of Corporate Management of (a) all agencies staffed under the PS Act (APS Advice 06 of 2005) and (b) subject to limited exceptions, all non-APS Commonwealth authorities (Non-APS Advice 04 of 2005).
 APS Advice 06 of 2005 bore the following heading: ' APS Advice 06 of 2005 --- Proposed Industrial Action --- National Community Day of Protest --- 15 November' Non-APS Advice 04 of 2005 had the same heading except for the advice reference.
 The content of the DEWR Advice was as follows: 'This Advice is to remind agencies of their obligations under the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (WR Act) in respect of any industrial action taken in support of the National Community Day of Protest against the Australian Government's industrial relations reforms on 15 November 2005. 2.
 Later Conduct of DEWR 39 On 10 November 2005 the Secretary of the Department of Prime Minister and Cabinet sent to other Agency Heads for their guidance a copy of a notice that he had sent to staff regarding the Day of Protest.
 For the following reasons I conclude that it was open to be understood in this way. 59 First, the terms of the DEWR Advice were apt to convey the message to all but the most analytical minds that the attendance of Commonwealth employees at the Day of Protest would constitute industrial action.
 In particular, I accept the evidence of Wayne Lodge, who was Manager, Workplace Relations in the ACS in November 2005, that Mr Johnson expressed approval of the terms of a draft response to an application for leave on 15 November 2005 made by the second applicant, Mr McGill.
 Geoscience Australia' 65 Having regard to the above evidence and the concessions made by the Commonwealth, I reject Ms Chaudhury's evidence that the DEWR Advice was unambiguous and accurate and advised Agencies that applications for flex leave for 15 November 2005 should be considered solely in the light of the operational requirements of the agency concerned.
 Ms Godwin gave evidence that on 14 November 2005, after the DEWR Advice was brought to her attention, she caused an email to be sent on her behalf to all National Directors, National Managers and Regional Directors regarding the Day of Protest.
 This position is the official position of the Department of Employment and Workplace Relations. ' 95 I am satisfied that the determination reflected in the advice to which Ms Churchill referred altered the position of employees in the ACS to their detriment.
 As Mr McGill's experience revealed, approval to take flex leave that would in the ordinary course have been granted was refused because the leave was to be used to attend the Day of Protest. 96 The fourth applicant (Mr McAninly) is employed within DVA and is a CPSU workplace delegate.
 Individual Applicants 99 It follows from my above conclusions that any decision whereby an individual Commonwealth employee was refused approval to be absent from the employee's workplace on 15 November 2005 because he or she proposed to attend the Day of Protest altered the employee's position to his or her prejudice.
 However, I do not believe that the People Management Branch email permits me to reverse my decision regarding your leave. ' 103 Mr Simpson acknowledged that he had the impression that Mr O'Connell considered that he was not allowed to take leave on 15 November 2005.
