 The Commissioner also contended that a sale of land at Gladstone by the Carringbush Trust (said by the taxpayer to give rise to a capital gain) was profit derived on revenue account and secondly, that Part IVA of the 1936 Act relevantly applied entitling the Commissioner to make a particular determination under s 177F(1)(a) of the 1936 Act.
 The appellants say that a prohibition upon transfer of shares does not affect the passing of a beneficial interest in the shares to CCPL; CPL became a trustee of the shares for CCPL on 26 May 1993 and as a result, a disposal for CGT purposes occurred resulting in a realised capital loss.
 If an extension is granted and the trustee makes an election (or the relevant taxpayer makes an election; s 160V(1) of the 1936 Act) resulting in a disposal at a material date , those events may result in the amended assessment of 25 November 2005 for the year ending 30 June 2001 being further amended by the Commissioner.
 That result might, in turn, depend upon whether a capital loss arises by reason of those new events; a consideration of when the capital loss arises; and whether other matters such as the Commissioner's contentions in relation to resettlement of the trust informs that outcome. 24 However, these events as to the trustee's application for an extension of time and a consideration of whether the Commissioner might make a decision favourable to the taxpayer on that question, are, for the moment, speculative.
 Because the exercise of judicial power is an appeal 'against the decision ' (s 14ZZ(a)(ii), the controversy, in principle, must be limited to events affecting the liability of the taxpayer at a date 'no later than the date upon which the objection decision is made' ( Jackson , p 20, per Hill J).
 It may be that a decision of the Commissioner in response to the application of the trustee of the Carringbush Trust in conjunction with an election, will result in a disposal event that affects the liability of the taxpayer as at the date of the objection decision by reason of the operation of the provisions of the legislation.
 Equally clearly, the taxpayer is entitled to raise contentions in response with leave and might also seek to demonstrate the relevance of future events when they occur to the question of the liability of the taxpayer at the date of the objection decision and, if relevant, seek leave to further amend the grounds of objection. 32 In addition, the appellants seek leave to amend their respective grounds of objection to raise six additional matters.
 Ground 6 is a contention that there is no reason why the court would not grant such approval as is necessary under the Corporations Act to affirm the disposal transaction on the part of the trustee on 26 May 1993. 33 I propose to give leave to each appellant to amend the Grounds of Objection to the amended assessment in each case in terms of grounds 1, 2, 3 and 5 of the proposed amendment annexed to the Notice of Motion.
 Alternatively, if the Commissioner's decision is unfavourable to each taxpayer, the appellants seek an Order that that decision form part of the respondent's objection decision and that a contended error in refusing to grant an extension, be the subject of a further amendment to the grounds of objection of each taxpayer, with leave.
 In addition, if it is demonstrated that the Commissioner erred in making an unfavourable decision under s 160WA(2), the appellants seek an Order that the Commissioner not be entitled to rely upon the s 468 argument. 35 The only questions alive in each appeal are matters going to the amended assessment and the objection decisions of the Commissioner in relation to each taxpayer's objection.
 There is no proper basis for joining in the adjudication of the questions alive on appeal a question going to the Commissioner's consideration of a request by the trustee of the Carringbush Trust nor a consideration of whether the Commissioner erred in making an administrative decision to either grant or refuse the trustee's application for an extension.
