 The letter referred to Netti Atom's disapproval of Scott bicycles being sold over the internet and included the following statement: "I would also like to point out that any Scott Bikes being listed on Dealer websites should be listed at no-less than the recommended retail price as set out on our Dealer Price List.
 Dealers that list Scott Bikes at below recommended retail prices run the risk of not being included as a Dealer for the following season. " 4 It is common ground that this communication contravened s 48 of the Trade Practices Act .
 Mr Feltis admitted that he was directly knowingly concerned in and party to Netti Atom's contravening conduct for the purposes of being subject to injunctions (s 80(1)(e)) and pecuniary penalties (s 76(1)(e)). 5 The principle underlying the prohibition in s 48 is that competition in the distribution of goods and services is undermined if vertical price restraints, such as resale price maintenance, are permitted.
 There are many cases that consider the approach a court should adopt when parties agree on penalties: see eg Trade Practices Commission v TNT Australia Pty Ltd (1995) ATPR |P41-375; NW Frozen Foods Pty Ltd v Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (1996) 71 FCR 285; Minister for Industry, Tourism Resources v Mobil Oil Australia Pty Ltd (2004) ATPR |P41-993.
 The Commission submitted that no evidence was adduced to support this assertion and the letter made no reference to product safety issues or the preference that only assembled bikes be sold over the internet or otherwise.
 The letter did, however, refer to a "protocol for handing over" which described the dealer's obligation to provide a bike that is free of faults, and there is evidence that Mr Feltis had discussions with at least one dealer in November or December 2006 about the risks of selling unassembled bikes directly to end users.
 The joint submissions stated that the penalties proposed "incorporate a discount for cooperation and early acknowledgement of liability. " The respondents acknowledged their liability at an early stage of the Commission's investigation.
 The letter stated that while Netti Atom will continue to provide dealers with recommended prices, it "[does] not require Dealers to sell bikes at these or any other prices [and] Dealers will not lose their dealership status if they sell bikes at other prices. " The respondents also substantially acceded to the relief sought by the Commission at an early stage of the proceeding.
 The statement of claim was filed on 1 August 2007 and in their defence, which was filed on 3 September 2007, the respondents agreed with each proposed remedy with the exception of certain proposed adverse publicity orders.
 Netti Atom's conduct and financial position is most similar to that found in Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Dermalogica Pty Ltd (2005) 215 ALR 482, Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Humax Pty Ltd (2005) ATPR |P42-072 and Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Tooltechnic Systems (Aust) Pty Ltd (2007) ATPR |P42-154, where penalties of $250,000, $150,000 and $125,000 respectively were imposed against the corporate respondents.
