 The fourth respondent and his wife were said to hold a third property, at 860 Hume Highway, Bass Hill on trust for the second and third respondents. 5 On the basis of the allegations made in his affidavit about the stated intentions of the second respondent the applicant sought orders restraining divestiture by any of the first to fourth respondents of the properties I have identified and 'all other valuable assets in the nature of cash, savings accounts, term deposits, shares, motor vehicles, and any interest in any business which they may own or have a beneficial interest in' .
 It should also be noted that these respondents have at no time in the proceedings accepted that the property at Bass Hill is held on trust for the second and third respondents. 7 The duty judge made the following orders (so far as here relevant): '1.
 The second, third and fourth respondents are to give to Mr Ardino, solicitor for the applicant, 48 hours' notice in writing of any proposal or steps taken to divest or pass by any of them, any interest in the properties at 48 Stacey Street Bankstown 2200 and/or 860 Hume Highway Bass Hill 2190.
 The proceeds of sale of 27 Urunga Parade Punchbowl 2196, net of any payment to any mortgagee secured against the property and the legal costs of the transaction, and any other costs as agreed between the solicitors, be placed into a joint account in the names of James Joseph Lahood and Rocco Michael Ardino. 3.
 The sale deposit for 27 Urunga Street, Punchbowl, currently held by "Bobb Real Estate" on behalf of the 2 nd and 3 rd Respondents, be paid (net of the agent's commission) into the trust account of James Lahood Associates to be held on trust in the names of James Lahood and Rocco Ardino until further order; 3.
 The proceeds of settlement of the sale of 27 Urunga Street, Punchbowl be paid (net of legal costs and disbursements associated with the sale) into the trust account of James Lahood Associates to be held on trust in the names of James Lahood and Rocco Ardino until further order; 4.
 The amounts held in trust by James Lahood Associates in the names of James Lahood and Rocco Ardino, being the net proceeds of the sale of 27 Urunga Street, Punchbowl, be paid to the Second and Third respondents forthwith; and 3.
 Costs of this motion be the Second and Third respondents costs in the cause. ' 12 I am satisfied that the second and third respondents are really seeking to vacate Orders 2 and 3 made on 25 May 2007 (which were proposed to her Honour originally as orders marked 1 and 2.
 Order 1 was added to the proposed orders by her Honour in handwriting and marked initially as Order 1A). 13 The evidence of the second and third respondents on the motion consisted solely of evidence by Mr Rahal and Mr Lahood, both of James Lahood and Associates, Solicitors, conveying information to the Court on instructions.
 I indicated on 29 May 2007 to Mr Ardino, who has appeared consistently for the applicant, that the applicant should file and serve a further affidavit dealing specifically with the matters which arose for consideration in connection with the motion at present under attention and that I would not permit him to rely on the earlier affidavit.
 Secondly, upon examination, as is now possible, it is clear that the tests for the imposition of such restraints are not satisfied, and were not satisfied in the first instance. 17 The orders which the applicant obtained from the duty judge on 28 December 2006 are asset preservation orders (earlier known as Mareva injunctions).
 Solicitors Counsel for the 1 st , 2 nd , 3 rd , 4 th and 6 th Respondents: Mr C W Robinson Solicitor for the 1 st , 2 nd , 3 rd , 4 th and 6 th Respondents: James Lahood and Associates There was no appearance for the 5 th Respondent.
