 The Tribunal accepted that Falun Gong might be considered to be a religion, and that those practising Falun Gong might constitute a particular social group for the purposes of the application of the Convention.
 The Tribunal also accepted that Falun Gong practitioners face persecution in China and that such persecution is for a Convention reason. 6 The Tribunal was not satisfied that the appellant was involved with Falun Gong as he claimed.
 In particular, the Tribunal made the following findings: The Tribunal finds that the applicant's knowledge of Falun Gong was extremely limited and not consistent with the level of knowledge that may be expected from a practitioner of more than ten years.
 The Tribunal does not accept that the applicant has practised Falun Gong in Australia, either in public or in private or that he was engaged with Falun Gong in any other manner in Australia.
 The Tribunal finds that the applicant is not a genuine Falun Gong practitioner and that if he returns to China now or in the foreseeable future, he will not engage in the practice of Falun Gong.
 The Tribunal finds that the applicant will not face persecution in China now or in the reasonably foreseeable future because of his involvement with, or the practise [ sic ] of, Falun Gong.
 The Tribunal also committed jurisdictional error by failing to give me in accordance with S424A of the Migration Act 1958 notice in writing of particulars of information that formed part of the reasons for affirming the decision of the delegate. 3.
 The Tribunal's letter said that this information was relevant as it may indicate that the appellant was of no interest to the Chinese authorities as a Falun Gong practitioner or for any other reason.
 The Tribunal considered this information to be relevant as it might have indicated that he did not have a well-founded fear of persecution in China and might have caused the Tribunal to question his credibility and the authenticity of his claims.
 The information was plainly not specifically about the appellant or about any other relevant person, and is not about a class of persons of which any other relevant person is a member.
 The Tribunal was not obliged to give particulars of the information to the appellant or to invite him to comment on it. 17 In the result, the narrow view taken by the Federal Magistrate of the s 424A ground did not affect the result of the application before the Federal Magistrates Court.
 He agreed that it was not the fault of the Tribunal that he did not provide the Tribunal with this information. 23 In the circumstances, it is clear that nothing that the Tribunal did or failed to do denied the appellant the opportunity to present his case.
