 INTRODUCTION 1 This is an appeal from a decision of Federal Magistrate Jarrett ( BRGAB of 2007 v MIAC [2007] FMCA 823) in relation to the appellant's application for a Protection (Class XA) Visa ('a protection visa').
 Subsequently, a Judge of this Court made an order under Order 80 rule 4(1) of the Federal Court Rules ('the Order 80') that the appellant be provided pro bono with legal advice as to her prospects of success in this appeal.
 I note that no suggestion, basis or particulars have been given that I am in any different position to any other Judge of the Federal Court in this regard. 6 The appellant does, however, persist in her appeal and wishes to have it heard.
 The appellant submits that because I am related to the Solicitor General of the Commonwealth, who argued the Haneef case for the Commonwealth, I am somehow precluded from sitting on her case.
 Regardless, I have considered all of the matters put by the appellant in relation to her application that I disqualify myself, both individually and in combination. 12 No proper basis has been made out as to why I should disqualify myself from further hearing the matter.
 On 31 October 2007 the barrister advising the appellant under the Order 80 informed her of his advice and of the fact that he would not act further in her case.
 The appellant drafted the current notice of appeal herself and as she points out, the grounds of that notice reflect the grounds of the application made before his Honour. 20 I also note that there would be a great difficulty on the part of the Court to reconvene in Brisbane in some weeks time, in order to hear the appellant make her oral submissions in person.
 The appellant can incorporate any further matters in her written submissions. 22 In response to my proposal, the appellant has stated categorically that she is not prepared and cannot make any oral submissions today.
 She has also said that she is not prepared to sit in the Court to hear oral submissions made on behalf of the Minister. 23 I have offered to the appellant a possibility that the case be stood down until later in the day or, in the alternative, until tomorrow or, in the alternative, until Friday to enable the appellant to prepare oral submissions and to prepare herself to be able to hear the oral submissions on behalf of the Minister.
 I should proceed today. 26 Accordingly, I do not intend to adjourn the proceedings and the application is refused. 27 The appellant has asked that the costs of today follow the event and that no specific costs orders be made.
