 The applicant claimed that an investigation by government officials and the company concluded that the accident was the fault of the painters and as a result, the company refused to pay compensation to the painters and their families.
 The applicant stated that he and Mr Lin believed that the investigators into the accident had been bribed. (6) In early March 2005 the applicant stated that he and Mr Lin organised a petition to protest over the accident and the company's inaction.
 The applicant claimed that he escaped into hiding with a friend in Xiamen city. 6 The factual background is elaborated further but these particulars set out the contention in relation to the incident itself and the insurance claim. 7 The Tribunal accepted that the contract provided that the company was responsible for work safety and insurance.
 They are these: It [the Tribunal] does not accept as credible his [the appellant's] earlier claims that during this period he participated in seven demonstrations and in the preparation of written leaflets and petitions demanding compensation.
 However, it does not accept that this led to him being a person of interest to the authorities because he was Mr Lin's deputy and that his protests against the company were regarded as anti-government as claimed.
 The Tribunal has given the applicant the benefit of the doubt that his master Mr Lin was arrested in April 2005, although there is no definite evidence apart from the applicant's assertion that it was because he organised the demonstration for compensation.
 The Tribunal has noted that the applicant's evidence in regard to Mr Lin's role in providing insurance for the painters was conflicted and he may have been arrested because of the compensation issue. 9 The Tribunal then sets out four elements of a conflict in the evidence of the appellant.
 The Tribunal further concluded that in view of the appellant's limited education and functional illiteracy, the Tribunal did not believe that the appellant had sufficient leadership skills to allow him to emerge as a person of concern to the authorities either now or in the foreseeable future. 11 The Tribunal concluded that the appellant gave evidence to the Tribunal that the protests over compensation ended in March 2005 and there was no indication from him that he would continue to pursue his claims should he return to China.
 That contention rests upon a proposition that the Tribunal identified four grounds upon which there was a conflict in the evidence of the appellant and that in reaching a conclusion as to conflicting evidence (and therefore a finding about the appellant's credibility), the Tribunal failed to comprehend and understand what exactly was put to the Tribunal. 13 The further ground is one of bias on the part of the Tribunal. 14 As to the ground based upon the conflicting evidence, Emmett FM noted at [32] of her Honour's reasons a section of transcript which led the Tribunal to express its concern about inconsistency.
 As I indicated earlier, that contention now seems to rest upon the notion that what the appellant said before the Tribunal was true and the Tribunal failed to recognise the truth of that evidence rather than a conclusion that the evidence must have been misunderstood.
