 The appellant applied for constitutional writs in relation to the first Tribunal decision and on 25 October 2005 a Federal Magistrate set aside the decision and remitted the application for review to the Tribunal to be determined according to law. 3 The Tribunal reconsidered the application for review and by decision signed on 28 February 2006 it affirmed the decision of the delegate not to grant a protection visa to the appellant.
 The delegate said: I am therefore only able to conclude that, if he was involved in Falun Gong, he was at the most a practitioner of Falun Gong exercises only, and has no profile in China. 14 The delegate noted that the appellant did not claim to have been involved in any of the protests in China which led to the large number of arrests to which the appellant had referred in his statement.
 The Tribunal member noted that the document referred to the name X and said that the name used before was Y. 32 The appellant put before the Tribunal a document which he said had arrived the night before the hearing from a senior officer in the PLA.
 The Federal Magistrate rejected that submission saying that it was "a conclusion drawn from the evidence and was not information comprehended by s 424A". 46 The Federal Magistrate rejected the submission that the Tribunal had taken into account irrelevant information, namely, stale independent country information.
 The Federal Magistrate concluded that on the evidence before him it could not be said that there had been a failure to comply with s 425 of the Act . 48 The Federal Magistrate rejected the appellant's claim that the Tribunal member had committed a jurisdictional error by making wrong findings of fact and in particular that she had erred in finding that he was not a Falun Gong practitioner in China.
 The submission was that the Tribunal member found that the appellant had not been involved with the Falun Gong movement in China whereas the delegate had found that he had been involved in the Falun Gong movement in China and that the Tribunal had not complied with its obligation said to arise in those circumstances to put the appellant on notice at or before the hearing that the question of whether he was a Falun Gong practitioner in China was an issue before it.
 The appellant submits that the question whether he was a Falun Gong practitioner in China was a jurisdictional fact and that the finding of the Tribunal member that he was not was erroneous and was made in circumstances in which she overlooked material evidence.
 For example, the Tribunal member said: In the present case, I have found that the applicant was not involved in Falun Gong before he left China ... . 58 The delegate gave extensive reasons for her decision refusing to grant a protection visa to the appellant.
 It seems to me that such a conclusion was open to the Tribunal member. 76 In those circumstances, Mr Liu's evidence was not the reason or part of the reason for affirming the decision to refuse the appellant a protection visa within s 424A(1).
 The real thrust of the appellant's submission was that either the Tribunal member rejected, for example, Mr Liu's evidence for reasons in themselves engaging s 424A(1) of the Act , an argument I have already rejected, or she simply overlooked Mr Liu's evidence and other evidence that he had some knowledge of Falun Gong after arriving in Australia and said that there was no evidence when, in fact, quite clearly there was evidence.
