 At the time of lodging a spouse visa the applicant had the opportunity to lodge an application under family category but as his relationship with his wife was and continues to be genuine he decided to go ahead with the spouse visa.
 The applicant meets public interest criteria and the strong ties with his children would prejudice them if he has to depart Australia. ... 6 This was attached to Mr Reddy's affidavit in support of his application for an extension of time within which to appeal. 7 Mr Sarkis wrote again to the Minister in a letter dated 24 July 2007: I wrote to you on 7 June regarding Mr Reddy and unfortunately the Branch Manager, Ms Kerry McKinnon, decided not to refer my letter to you in spite of having changes of circumstances and the total support of Mr Reddy's family.
 And his age would not lead him to tolerate a separation for an unknown period of time in Fiji, a country which he left many years ago. 8 On 3 August 2007, the Branch Manager of the Ministerial Intervention Unit ACT and Regions wrote to Mr Reddy.
 The letter commenced: I refer to the letter of 24 July 2007 from Mr Toufic Laba Sarkis to the Minister for Immigration and Citizenship, the Hon Kevin Andrews MP, requesting he exercise the public interest power under section 351 of the Migration Act 1958 in your case.
 On 25 July 2006, the Tribunal wrote to the applicant and advised him that the it was unable to make a favourable decision on the evidence available and requested him together with his sponsor to attend the hearing scheduled for 2 August 2006.
 On 1 August 2006, the Tribunal received a telephone call from the applicant's daughter in law who advised that the applicant was unwell and that he was unable to attend the hearing scheduled for 2 August 2006.
 Ms Reddy stated that the applicant and his wife were not happy or comfortable attending the hearing and that they requested that the Tribunal consider their matter and forward any requests that the Tribunal may have in writing.
 Had the Tribunal proceeded to make a decision on the basis of the material then before it, and in the circumstance that Mr Reddy had not appeared "to discuss the issues relating to the case," there would be no basis for Mr Reddy to allege jurisdictional error in that decision. 16 However, that did not happen.
 As earlier indicated, the Tribunal wrote to Mr Reddy on 15 September 2006 inviting him to provide further information. 17 That letter of 15 September 2006 was headed "Invitation to provide information" and commences: I am writing about your application to the Tribunal for review of a decision on a TK-Extended Eligibility (Temporary) (Class TK) visa.
 Section 359(2) of the Migration Act allows the Tribunal to invite a person to give it additional information that is relevant to the review of a decision. 18 The letter invited Mr Reddy to provide the requested information in writing by 24 October 2006 or in any extended period that had been granted as a result of a request in writing for an extension. 19 The letter said: If the Tribunal does not receive any additional information within the period allowed or as extended, it may make a decision on the review without taking any further action to obtain the information. 20 The letter importantly does not say that if additional information is received, there would not be any further communication with Mr Reddy.
 The Tribunal finds that at the time of application for the visa, and at the time of his decision, the visa applicant and sponsor were and remain married to each other under a marriage that is recognised as valid for the purposes of the Act.
 They therefore satisfy the requirements of r.1.15A(1A)(a) for a married relationship. 24 The Tribunal in what appears to be an, at times, censorious analysis of the very extensive material directed to the genuineness of the marriage concluded: The Tribunal is not satisfied on the basis of the material before it that the applicant and the sponsor are in a spousal relationship at the time of decision. 25 And The Tribunal finds that the applicant and the sponsor do not live together at the time of decision.
