 The learned Federal Magistrate dismissed an application for judicial review of a decision of the Tribunal, affirming a decision of a delegate of the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs, refusing to grant to the appellant a protection visa. 2 Counsel for the Minister informed me that, before I had come into the courtroom, at counsel's request, the interpreter, who was present to assist the appellant, had made a telephone call to a telephone number believed to be that of the appellant.
 Either, as was suggested at one point by counsel for the Minister, the Tribunal member was attempting to distinguish between what the appellant said to the Tribunal and evidence from independent sources, or the Tribunal member had simply overlooked the fact that the evidence it said was missing was in fact present in the documents.
 In the second case, it may be that the evidence that in fact existed, but was referred to as nonexistent, revealed the possibility that the appellant did have a well-founded fear of persecution for his political opinion, and that the Tribunal might have so found if it had looked at the evidence fairly.
 I also asked that another phone call be made to the appellant and that he be informed that it was not necessarily the case that he would lose his appeal, but that he would have to attend the Court in order to prosecute it if he were to succeed. 5 I adjourned the Court for some time.
 I hope that this will be the case, because it does seem to me, jurisdictional error or not, that the appellant deserves a better hearing from the system than he has received. 6 I was also informed that the interpreter was successful in getting in touch with the appellant, and conveyed my message.
 Because such a dismissal does not involve a determination of the appeal against the appellant on the merits, the appellant has a better chance of applying to the Court to have the appeal reinstated than he would have had if the appeal had been determined against him on the merits, and the order dismissing it had been perfected. 8 Counsel for the Minister also invited me to make an order for costs against the appellant and to fix those costs at $2,800.
