 Centrelink had determined that he was not eligible because he had declined various treatment options recommended by medical practitioners. 2 Counsel addressed full and helpful arguments on the merits of the proposed appeal, I would think to no less extent than would have been the case on a substantive appeal.
 He has never had any treatment for alcohol problems. 4 Mr Jansen noted the various treatment options suggested by various medical practitioners, but told the Tribunal that he would not be able to attempt detoxification at present because he was not ready to give up drinking.
 He emphasised that any treatment program should be designed to meet Mr Jansen's needs, but accepted that Mr Jansen had declined his offers of assistance. 8 Dr G Stephens, a treating doctor, in a report dated 11 April 2005, said that he expected Mr Jansen's condition would impact on his ability to function for more than 24 months and that this impact would fluctuate during that time.
 The Tribunal acknowledges that some time ago Mr Jansen experienced serious side-effects from medication for depression/anxiety, and accepts that he may be reluctant to undergo similar treatment involving medication without an assurance from his treating doctor that there will be no serious side-effects.
 Consequently he cannot satisfy s 94(1) of the Act, and the Tribunal does not need to consider whether he had a continuing inability to work under s 94(1)(c) of the Act. " 15 Thus the decision of the Tribunal appears to have turned on a finding that Mr Jansen's condition had not been "fully diagnosed, treated and stabilised" because "further reasonable medical treatment (was) likely to lead to significant functional improvement within the next 2 years".
 It would seem the Tribunal considered this was not a case where there was "a medical or other compelling reason for a person [ie Mr Jansen] not undertaking further treatment". 16 On behalf of Mr Jansen, Mr Geale of counsel said that the Tribunal erred in not applying a subjective test to the refusal of medical treatment.
 He remains so whether his fear is reasonable or unreasonable. " 19 His Honour at 303, pointed out, as had Todd DP, the difference between, on the one hand, pension claims and, on the other, workers compensation and tort claims.
 Suffice to say Smithers J construed that provision consistently with his views on the policy and purpose of the Act. 21 In Koutsakis a Full Court at 45 noted: "The cases make it clear that the mere failure of a person to undertake medical or other treatment which is recommended to him does not disentitle him from receiving a pension or an award of compensation".
 If a person falls within par 6[d], his or her condition is to be taken as "stabilised" notwithstanding the absence of the "further reasonable treatment" specified in par 6[a] and [b]. 24 The Tribunal's emphasis on the lack of "grounds" indicates that it was treating the test as objective.
 This view of Dragojlovic is confirmed by what the Full Court said in Koutsakis . 25 In the Tribunal's reasons at [16] in the third sentence the expression "genuine reason" appears to be referring to the reason as being or not being real or authentic or well-founded, as distinct from the sincerity of the person himself.
 A point made at some length in Dragojlovic is that the objective reasonableness of proposed medical treatment will be relevant for common law in workers compensation claims but not under a social security regime. 28 I conclude that the proposed appeal would not only have reasonable prospects of success; it would succeed. 29 As to delay, the decision of the Tribunal was handed down on 27 April 2006.
