 The monies which were advanced by the second respondent were secured by a first mortgage and the monies provided by the first respondent are secured by a second mortgage. 4 On 3 May 2007, the first respondent issued a notice of default alleging that the applicant was in default in compliance with the provisions of the mortgage and various facility agreements, in that the applicant had failed to make payments of interest on the due date set out in the facility agreements and to repay all the monies at the end of the accommodation period set out in those agreements.
 The notice also said if payment was not made the first respondent would sell the mortgaged land pursuant to the exercise of its powers under the mortgage. 5 On 18 May 2007, the applicant commenced a proceeding in this Court seeking relief under the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001 (Cth) (the Act) on the basis that the first respondent had engaged in unconscionable conduct in contravention of the Act.
 The applicant also seeks an interim injunction, presumably under s 12GD(3) of the Act, enjoining the first respondent from taking any action under the facility agreements and the second mortgage to sell the land the subject of the mortgage until the hearing of this application, or until further order. 6 The first question is whether there is a serious question to be tried in the sense referred to in Australian Broadcasting Corporation v O'Neill (2006) 227 CLR 57 that the first respondent has engaged in unconscionable conduct in contravention of s 12CC and s 12CA of the Act. 7 In support of his claim that the first respondent has contravened s 12CC of the Act, the applicant contended that the amount of the fees and the interest rates that were charged under the facility agreements were in senior counsel's words "exorbitant", and were substantially in excess of what was necessary to protect the legitimate interests of the first respondent.
 On each of these occasions, the terms on which the further advance was to be made were negotiated, and those negotiations led to a variation in the total amount of the risk fee payable by the applicant. 9 By way of illustration, in April 2004, in respect of an advance totalling $900,000, the first respondent stipulated for the payment of a risk fee of $700,000.
 The second part of the risk fee was for $670,000. 10 The first respondent is also entitled to charge interest on the risk fee at the default rate of interest which was 6% above the standard rate of interest of 19.5% for so long as the risk fee, once payable, remained unpaid. 11 The first respondent contended that the applicant had received the benefit of legal advice in all of its negotiations with the first respondent and that, in those circumstances, its conduct could not be unconscionable.
 It is the case that on each of the occasions of a further advance, new terms were agreed. 14 The second issue is whether there is a serious question to be tried, that by stipulating that the applicant agree to a risk fee as a condition of the advance, the first respondent engaged in unconscionable conduct in contravention of s 12CC of the Act. 15 The authorities distinguish between the nature and quality of unconscionable conduct prescribed by s 12CA of the Act which relies upon unconscionability under the unwritten law, and conduct characterised as unconscionable under s 12CC of the Act.
 In respect to the latter conduct, it is accepted that the Act contemplates unconscionable conduct occurring in a wider range of circumstances than contemplated by unconscionable conduct under the unwritten law. (See, for example, Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Simply No-Knead (Franchising) Pty Ltd [2000] FCA 1365 ; (2000) 104 FCR 253 at 265, at [31] and [37]. ) It is apparent that the list of circumstances referred to in s 12CC(2) of the Act is not exhaustive of the circumstances that can be taken into account in determining whether conduct contravenes s 12CC(1). 16 In my view, there is a serious question to be tried whether, on the proper construction of s 12CC , conduct may be unconscionable on the basis of the harshness, or the oppressive nature, of the terms which are included in a loan contract.
 Further, I am of the view that there is a serious question to be tried that, by stipulating for the payment of the risk fees, which on occasions exceeded the amount of the loan by more than 100%, the first respondent engaged in unconscionable conduct in contravention of s 12CC of the Act. 17 In my view, it is far from clear that a stipulation for a risk fee could be justified on the grounds that it is to be equated with an investment of equity in a project.
 Rather than relieving the project developer from the need to incur debt, as is usually the case in relation to an "equity" investment, the "risk fee", which was repayable on default and thereafter carried interest, had the potential significantly to aggravate the debt burden on the applicant. 18 In my view, therefore, there is a serious question to be tried as to whether in the circumstances set out above, an injunction would be issued at trial precluding the first respondent from acting upon the demand of 3 May 2007, because a significant component of the monies demanded thereunder were arguably the product of unconscionable conduct. 19 It is unnecessary, therefore, to make any findings in relation to the applicant's case based on what were said to be the excessive interest rates charged and the unconscionable conduct under s 12CA of the Act. 20 The next question is whether the balance of convenience favours the grant of an injunction.
 Further, the applicant said that the first respondent would not be prejudiced because, on the evidence of the Frank Knight valuation, the value of the land which was unsold exceeds the amount of the debt, even in the sum of $15 million as claimed in the notice of default by the first respondent. 21 The applicant also referred to the evidence of Mr Tilenni, an accountant, who deposed that of the amount claimed by the first respondent in its default notice, $3.3 million of that sum comprises risk fees.
 He also deposed that if risk fees were eliminated from the amount claimed and interest was charged at 12.5%, the total amount owing under the second mortgage would be around $8 million, and not $15.5 million as claimed. 22 The applicant also complained that the respondents had refused to give their consent to the settlement of a number of sales of lots comprising the development and this had prevented the applicant from further reducing the amount of the debt. 23 The first respondent contended that the balance of convenience did not favour the grant of an injunction.
 Nevertheless, in my view, in determining the monthly amount that the applicant should pay pending trial, that amount should take into account the fact that the first respondent claims that an amount significantly higher than $85,000 per month, is due to be paid each month. 28 Accordingly, I will require that as a condition of the grant of the interim injunction the applicant pays the sum of $150,000 to the first respondent, monthly, until further order.
