 The respondent Commissioner of Taxation assessed those repayments as liable to fringe benefits tax under the Fringe Benefits Tax Assessment Act 1986 (Cth) (the FBT Act) in the FBT years ended 31 March 2000, 2001 and 2002. 2 The Administrative Appeals Tribunal allowed the appeal of the Company: Slade Bloodstock Pty Ltd and Commissioner of Taxation [2006] AATA 660 .
 The commissioner now appeals to this Court under s 44 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (Cth). 3 It is now not in dispute that by reason of the repayments Mr and Mrs Slade received a "benefit" and that they were "employees" of the Company.
 The only remaining issue is whether the Commissioner has shown that the Tribunal made an error of law in concluding that the repayments were not "in respect of the employment of an employee" within the meaning of s 5B and thus liable to tax under s 66(1).
 Initially they operated it part time but as its success grew they became increasingly involved. 5 Apart from the loan repayments hereafter mentioned they received no remuneration from the Company or its associated trust structures whether by salary, dividends, drawings or otherwise.
 The Company's turnover and profit or loss for the following financial years was as follows: 2000 2001 2002 Turnover 200,000 355,000 836,000 Profit/Loss (616) (9,907) 29,058 6 On 28 April 1999 Mr and Mrs Slade entered into a "shareholders loan agreement" with the Company.
 Clauses 1 to 4 of the agreement deal with loans advanced by the Company to the shareholders and contain provisions designed to ensure that such loans are on commercial terms and thus not subject to the operation of legislation which would deem them to be dividends.
 At the end of each year a corresponding credit was entered in Mr and Mrs Slade's loan accounts with the Company, that is to say the payments of their expenses by the Company were set off against the loans owing by the Company to them.
 Tribunal's reasons 10 The Tribunal noted at [48] the Commissioner's contention that since Mr and Mrs Slade were paid no other salary or wages, notwithstanding their absolute control over the Company and its absolute dependence on their services, that it would be artificial to source the payment to their ultimate beneficial interest in the business, either alone or predominantly.
 There was no material relationship between the employment of Robert and Corinna and the provision of the benefits --- indeed, there was no relationship. " The FBT Act 11 As already noted, it is not now in dispute that Mr and Mrs Slade received a "benefit".
 It is nevertheless worth noting that s 136(1) of the FBT Act defines a benefit as including "any right (including a right in relation to, and an interest in, real or personal property), privilege, service, or facility and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, includes a right, benefit, privilege, service or facility that is, or is to be, provided under: (a) ... (b) ... (c) an arrangement for or in relation to the lending of money. " 12 "Fringe benefit in relation to an employee" is defined to mean "a benefit ... in respect of the employment of the employee". 13 "In respect of" is defined to mean "in relation to the employment of an employee, includes by reason of, by virtue of, or for or in relation directly or indirectly to that employment". 14 Further, s 148(1) provides that a reference in the Act to the provision of a benefit to a person "in respect of" the employment of an employee is a reference to the provision of such a benefit "(a) whether or not the benefit is also provided in respect of, by reason of, by virtue of, or for or in relation directly or indirectly to, any other matter or thing; ... (g) whether or not the provision of the benefit is, or is in the nature of, income. " A question of law? 15 The appeal under s 44(1) of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act is only available on a question of law.
 This is a question of law. "In respect of" 17 It is true that the repayments were related to the entitlement of Mr and Mrs Slade as creditors of the Company and also, as the Tribunal pointed out, had a connection with them in their capacity as ultimate beneficial owners of the business via the trust structures and the Company.
 The Company's business could not have operated without their work as employees. 18 Moreover, the terms of the written agreement quoted at [6] above explicitly contemplate that one of the reasons Mr and Mrs Slade are to get repayment of their loans is for the discharge of their own personal obligations such as mortgages and school fees.
