 1 This is a motion by the tenth respondent/cross-claimant, Rosanza Pty Limited ("Rosanza"), for an order that one paragraph in the Defence to the Amended Cross-Claim be struck out and that judgment be given for Rosanza against the cross-respondents in the sum of $419,129.40 for unpaid rental under a lease agreement together with interest and costs. 2 The background and the nature of the principal proceeding is set out in the judgment given by me in relation to an application by the applicants for an asset preservation order: see KGL Health Pty Limited v Mechtler [2007] FCA 1410.
 It is not unusual to plead a cross-claim both as a set-off and counterclaim, and this can conveniently be done by referring a counterclaim back to the paragraphs of the pleading where the facts and matters giving rise to the set-off are pleaded. 8 One difficulty with a set-off defence by the cross-respondents is found in clause 3.22 of the Lease, which provides that "[Peninsula] must make all payments under this lease without set-off or counterclaim and without any deduction. " Accordingly, although it is a matter to be determined at the final hearing in these proceedings, it would be considerably difficult to establish a set-off defence to the Amended Cross-Claim.
 THE ABATEMENT DEFENCE 9 The cross-respondents' abatement defence particularises clause 11 of the Lease which is entitled "Damage and destruction" and which provides that "[i]f the premises are totally or partially destroyed or damaged so as to be unfit for the reasonable occupation and use by [Peninsula] ... then a fair proportion of the Rent payable ... will be suspended until either the premises are again fit for occupation and use or the lease is terminated". (Emphasis added. ) 10 One question which arises on this submission is whether an abatement defence based on clause 11 of the Lease can apply in the present circumstances.
 Reliance on clause 11 of the Lease is clearly expressed in paragraph 9 of the Defence to the Amended Cross-Claim, and I believe this submission should be open to ventilation at the final hearing because the application of clause 11 may turn on the precise nature and extent of the works carried out, their impact on the premises and the consequences of the breaches being enforced.
