 With respect to the latter, they submitted that, in the absence of statutory provision to the contrary, costs should follow the event in accordance with normal practice. 4 I accept that, before it was consolidated with the proceeding under the WR Act , the proceeding under the HREOC Act was a separate proceeding to which s 170CS(1) had no application.
 At least until the consolidation of the two proceedings, therefore, the respondents should have their costs of the proceeding under the HREOC Act (save, of course, to the extent that I decide otherwise in particular respects dealt with below). 5 The position subsequent to consolidation is more problematic.
 The respondents had intended to bring their discovered documents to court on the first day of the trial, and they readily accepted a proposal whereby they would deliver the documents to the registry slightly in advance of the trial.
 I dealt with that claim as though it was part of the discovery aspect of the motion, and dismissed it. 13 Although the applicant was unsuccessful under par 4 of her Notice of Motion dated 22 September 2006, in one quite significant respect subsequent events established that the applicant had a point of substance about the respondents' discovery which should have prevailed when the Notice of Motion came on for hearing.
 In this respect they seek to identify a number of aspects of the applicant's conduct of the proceeding which constituted, or involved, unreasonable acts or omissions on her part. 22 On 5 February 2007, the applicant gave notice that she would move the court for orders in the following terms: 1.
 I have already dealt with the costs of that Notice of Motion, and I am not disposed to treat the applicant's (unsuccessful) application for an adjournment as though it were a separate, free-standing, event within the proceeding.
 The matter was listed for 23 February in any event, and there is no basis upon which I should infer, and the respondents have not asserted, that their costs were increased only as a result of the applicant's application for an adjournment. 24 I am disposed to take the same approach to the second paragraph in the Notice of Motion of 22 February 2007.
 On the question whether I should stand down from further hearing the matter, counsel for the respondents said no more (on 23 February) than that he had heard nothing from the applicant by way of evidentiary support for the assertion implicit in that paragraph.
 The hearing on 23 February ran from 9.14am until 1.29pm, and, although it is possible that the respondents' costs were somewhat inflated by the need to consider the applicant's Notice of Motion dated on 22 February, they have put nothing before me in that respect.
 After the closure of the respondents' evidentiary case, the applicant indicated that she desired to reopen her case for the purpose of calling a witness whom she had anticipated would be called, but who was not called, by the respondents, Ms Aileen Brown.
 I agree that the applicant's conduct of her own case was inefficient, and that she devoted considerable time to pressing the respondents' witnesses for answers to questions which, if barely relevant, were not obviously calculated to advance her own case or to destroy that of the respondents.
 That is to say, although I would accept that, objectively, a deal of time might have been wasted by the applicant in the conduct of her own evidentiary case, and in the testing of the respondents' case, I think it probable that a competently conducted, thorough, case on behalf of the applicant would have taken about the same time.
