 The matter that he raised on the hearing before me was a submission to the effect that he had not had an opportunity to have his case properly put before the Tribunal, and that he was not present during at least part of the proceedings before the Federal Magistrate. 2 The adequacy of the interpretation was a matter dealt with in some detail in the decision of the Tribunal.
 In any case, the Full Court of this Court has held on several occasions that the mere fact that a decision is not logical is not of itself a ground for judicial review: NACB v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCAFC 235 at [29] ; W404/01A of 2002 v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCAFC 255 at [35] ; VWST v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 286 at [18] . 5 Another contention which was raised in the Notice of Appeal related to the construction of s 425 of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) and its application to the circumstances of the present case.
 One matter which was raised by the appellant was that the Tribunal did not put him on notice that his failure to move to Karachi was going to be a critical issue in its decision. 6 In its recent decision in SZBEL v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] HCA 63 at [35] (' SZBEL '), the High Court enunciated the principle that if the Tribunal takes no step to identify and raise an issue other than those which the delegate considered dispositive, and does not tell the applicant what that other issue is, the applicant is entitled to assume that the issues the delegate considered important comprise all the issues in relation to the decision under review.
 However, having regard to the transcript of the proceedings in the Tribunal, the Federal Magistrate formed the view that the issue had been referred to as an important question by the Tribunal, which was sufficient to satisfy the principle set out in SZBEL . 7 In SZBEL , the High Court refers to an obligation on the Tribunal to invite an applicant to amplify any aspect which it believes will be taken into account and of which the applicant may not be aware.
 The Tribunal raised these questions and indicated their importance in questions 46 through to 57 of the transcript before the Tribunal. 8 In those circumstances, although the principles of SZBEL are indeed called into play, I consider that the task imposed on the Tribunal by those principles has been satisfied.
 Accordingly, having heard the submissions of the appellant and having considered the reasoning of the Tribunal and the Federal Magistrate below, I am of the opinion that this appeal should be dismissed with costs as it does not have any substance and in particular because the question of misinterpretation was not raised either before the Federal Magistrate or in the Notice of Appeal before this Court. 9 For the above reasons, the appeal is dismissed.
