 This section provides as follows: If the court concerned is satisfied that there has been unlawful discrimination by any respondent, the court may make such orders (including a declaration of right) as it thinks fit, including any of the following orders or any order to a similar effect: a) An order declaring that the respondent has committed unlawful discrimination and directing the respondent not to repeat or continue such unlawful discrimination b) An order requiring a respondent to perform any reasonable act or course of conduct to redress any loss or damage suffered by an applicant c) An order requiring a respondent to employ or re-employ an applicant d) An order requiring a respondent to pay to an applicant damages by way of compensation for any loss or damage suffered because of the conduct of the respondent e) An order requiring a respondent to vary the termination of a contract or agreement to redress any loss or damage suffered by an applicant f) An order declaring that it would be inappropriate for any further action to be taken in the matter. 7 Mr O'Gorman SC for the applicant also sought a substituted order in relation to an apology to the applicant, namely that the Minister by personal letter apologise to the applicant, however this continued to be the subject of dispute by the respondent.
 Accordingly, it is not the case that he was unable to access health services or was denied such access c. the real issue for the applicant was that he was denied something he perceived to be his right d. there is no basis to submit that there was a wilful disregard of the applicant's rights by the respondent e. there is no evidence that the applicant continues to feel hurt f. it does not follow that the respondent did not act in an exemplary fashion. 3.
 Madgwick J was of the view that the child would have been distressed and confused by the events, and viewed the respondent's conduct as hurtful, but that the harm to the child was likely to have been transient and not extreme. 18 While it is the same applicant and the same respondent in QUD324/2005 and QUD522/2005, it is appropriate in my view to consider damages separately in each proceeding.
 In my view, this claim is excessive. 21 In my view the effects of this incident on the applicant cannot be compared with, for example, serious interruption to education ( Clarke 202 ALR 340) or emotional trauma and career impact as a result of sexual harassment ( Leslie [2002] FCA 32).
