 The action of the first respondent and the second respondent by its representative the first respondent in causing the deceased to be detained at the Villawood Immigration Detention Centre and continuing to detain him up to 9 December 2003 being the date of the judgment of the High Court of Australia in Shaw v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs [2003] HCA 72 ; [2003] 218 CLR 28 was: (a) Unlawful, illegal and a breach of the Migration Act 1958 in that it failed to have regard to the fact the deceased was not an unlawful non-citizen under the Act, (b) Unlawful, illegal and unreasonable for any period longer than was necessary to identify that the deceased was not an unlawful non-citizen under the Act. " THE RELEVANT PROVISIONS OF THE ACT 5 Subsection 189(1) of the Act provides: "(1) If an officer knows or reasonably suspects that a person in the migration zone (other than an excised offshore place) is an unlawful non-citizen, the officer must detain the person. " 6 Subsection 501(2) of the Act provides: "(2) The Minister may cancel a visa that has been granted to a person if: (a) the Minister reasonably suspects that the person does not pass the character test; and (b) the person does not satisfy the Minister that the person passes the character test. " NOTICE OF MOTION 7 The respondents submit the applicant's application should be dismissed first because he is barred by reason of a res judicata or issue estoppel from prosecuting the proceeding.
 That is, if Mr Robicheau personally did not "know" or "reasonably suspect" Mr Coleman was an unlawful non-citizen, Mr Coleman is not entitled to pursue an action for wrongful imprisonment but could seek only to be remanded to lawful custody. (8) The decision in Re Patterson is a decision in which the reasons of the majority do not have a single strain of reasoning and which has been described as having "had no precedent value beyond its own facts": Shaw at [34] --- [35], [49]. (9) Indeed, in Ruddock v Taylor , the majority indicated (at [17]) that, in Shaw , a "majority of the Court also held at [39] that Patterson should be regarded as authority for what it decided respecting s 64 of the Constitution and the constructive failure in the exercise of jurisdiction by the Minister . " That is, it should not be regarded as authoritative in deciding what the law was pertaining to identification of who are aliens: Shaw at [34] --- [37]. (10) This is particularly telling given that there is a material factual distinction between the present case and that considered in Patterson .
 Indeed, counsel for the applicant conceded as much, confining the pleading at [29] to Mr Coleman's continuing detention from 10 March 2003, when Mr Coleman's brother telephoned the Department and spoke to a Ms Cecilia Cheung, informing her that his brother and the whole family first arrived in Australian in 1967 and asking her whether she was aware of a High Court decision about British subjects not being subject to deportation.
