 I noted on one report that the case officer for Chantelle and Hope had advised that the children (Chantelle and Hope) had not had any contact with their father Mr HOPKINS since at least 2 years and that Mr HOPKINS had not exercised his contact privileges.
 In the case of Dallas, the relevant reports states that the court order (placing Dallas under the sole parental responsibility of the Minister for Community Services) makes no mention of any contact arrangements or orders between Dallas and his father Mr HOPKINS. 24.
 I considered that, as Mr HOPKINS' children are currently under the sole parental responsibility of the Minister for Community Services, living in New Zealand would not be an option for the children if Mr HOPKINS' visa were cancelled and Mr HOPKINS were removed from Australia.
 The respondent filed supplementary written submissions on the new ground prior to the hearing of 29 June 2007. 21 When the hearing resumed, counsel for the applicant ultimately indicated that the first ground contained in the further amended application, being the procedural fairness ground, was not pressed.
 First, the Minister did not make a finding about what was in the best interests of the applicant's children, secondly, that the Minister did not make a finding about each of the three children as individuals which was contrary to the Direction, and thirdly, that there was insufficient information for the Minister to found any such findings, in any event.
 The applicant primarily relied on the comments of the Full Court in Wan , which held that the Administrative Appeals Tribunal ("the Tribunal") had failed to treat the best interests of the children as a primary consideration in the determination.
 It is also clear that the Minister, having considered what was known of the circumstances of each of the three children, reached a decision that non-cancellation of the visa would be in the best interests of each of the three children.
 This arose in a context where the Tribunal had not identified the children's best interests as being a "primary consideration" and appeared to have approached the question of the children's best interests on the assumption that the applicant's visa would be cancelled.
 Noting that the Minister had said in the reasons that she had given primary consideration to the best interests of the children, and despite the "restrained language" of the reasons in discussing the children's interests, his Honour at [47] applied the approach of Branson J in W157/00A .
 The Department in fact took a number of steps to inform itself of the circumstances concerning the children, including by requesting the applicant's welfare officer to discuss matters affecting the children with the applicant and provide the Department with further information.
 The Department also liaised directly with DOCS and provided relevant documents to the applicant for comment. 39 The other contention raised by the applicant, being that the information about the children before the Minister was not sufficient to make a finding about their best interests, is also difficult to understand.
