 The learned Federal Magistrate erred in not finding that the Tribunal acted without jurisdiction in that the decision was based in part on a finding not open on the material before the Tribunal. 4.
 He had not, prior to the hearing before the Tribunal, sought to support this claim by reference to the alleged incident in which some unnamed individuals sought to abduct him from school and were frustrated by the actions of the school principal.
 The applicant states that he participated in political activity during the 1994 campaign and received numerous death threats, he claims that bombs were flung at his party office although he was not there at the time, and as a result of losing the elections he was subjected to acts of violence by supporters of the SLFP and its allies, namely leftist parties.
 The [appellant] confirmed that despite the harm that he had suffered in the alleged beating he had not reported this incident to police, stating that the police always supported the party in power and that he could not identify the assailants.
 The delegate was prepared to accept that the appellant may have been attacked during the period of election campaigns in Sri Lanka but not that such violence continued at other times.
 The appellant's legal advisor, in his submission to the Tribunal, referred to physical injuries which had been sustained by the appellant but did not give any details of any of the occasions on which such violence occurred and, in particular, did not provide information as to the dates on which such incidents were said to have taken place.
 However, in the case of the [appellant], he has not reported suffering any specific harm as a result of these threats and intimidation and has not indicated that any of his political opponents carried out, or attempted to carry out these threats.
 The appellant's contention assumes that his evidence and submissions forged a link between the threats and intimidation and the violence to which he claimed to have been subjected.
 The better view is, however, that the Tribunal was noting that the appellant had not given evidence or made submissions to this effect either to the department or to the Tribunal.
 So understood, the Tribunal's reasoning was that, because the appellant had not linked specific acts of violence to specific threats, the threats were to be treated as being "idle" and that those who uttered them had no intention of carrying them out.
 Such a process of reasoning is consistent with the Tribunal's earlier finding that the appellant had not been beaten by his political opponents and does not suggest that the Tribunal ignored the appellant's claims to have suffered physical attacks.
 In its reasons for decision the Tribunal said: "I have considered these letters, which contain little detail about when these threats have occurred and who actually made these threats.
