 Uniline denies infringement of the patent and, in turn, cross-claims for a declaration of invalidity of the relevant claims of the patent and revocation of the patent on grounds of lack of novelty, lack of inventive step (and thus a determination of whether the invention claimed is obvious), lack of clarity (that is, a failure to comply with s 40(3) of the Patents Act 1990 (Cth)) and a contention that the relevant claims are not 'fairly based' on matters described in the specification (s 40(3)).
 Uniline denies embodiment of the applicant's design in its Uniline Spring Clutch assembly. 7 Uniline makes no claim for the previously foreshadowed revocation of the Registered Design. 8 Each action is to be heard together. 9 As to the design infringement proceedings, Uniline concedes that it ought to give discovery of: 1.
 The applicant says Uniline's discovery should go further and extend not only to category 1 documents but also documents evidencing or recording knowledge on the part of Uniline of the Registered Design at the time the Unidrive Spring and/or Unidrive Spring Clutch assembly was sourced or created or designed including instructions to the designers, manufacturer or importer of the Unidrive Spring or Unidrive Spring Clutch which make reference to the Registered Design (category 2 documents) or which make reference to the SBriggs Spring Clutch (category 3 documents).
 The applicant also seeks discovery from Uniline of documents evidencing or recording any knowledge on the part of Uniline of the existence of similarities or alleged similarities between the design of the features of the Unidrive Spring and the design or features of the Registered Design (category 4 documents) and knowledge of similarities between the design of the Unidrive Spring and/or Unidrive Spring Clutch and the design or features of the SBriggs Spring Clutch (category 5 documents). 11 Uniline says the infringement case simply pleads embodiment of the Registered Design and embodiment is an objective question of fact for the eye of the Judge in the assessment of the essential features of the design, perhaps aided by expert evidence and that knowledge of the Registered Design (or knowledge of the matters the subject of categories 2, 3, 4 and 5) is not relevant to the case pleaded.
 Uniline in the cross proceedings denies infringement and says the patent (or at least the relevant claims of the patent) is invalid on the four identified grounds which is, no doubt, why Uniline says the 'threats' are unjustifiable. 17 Uniline seeks from SBriggs all documents relating to the two letters and two oral threats (categories 1, 2, 3 and 4).
 However, it seems to me that any document recording any comparison of the Unidrive Spring Clutch and/or Unidrive Spring with SBriggs' patent is relevant in the sense contemplated by s 55 of the Evidence Act and whether forming part of category 1 or not, ought to be disclosed. 29 Accordingly, in QUD236 of 2007 I propose to make the following orders.
 Documents evidencing or recording or relating to the research, creation, testing and development of the design of the UNIdrive Spring and/or UNIdrive Spring Clutch by Uniline or by any third parties or sourcing of the UNIdrive Spring and/or UNIdrive Spring Clutch by Uniline from third parties, including but not limited to: (a) memoranda and correspondence, including electronic correspondence, as well as briefs or sets of instructions provided by Uniline; and/or (b) reports, materials, artwork, drawings, mock ups, prototypes, visual material, presentations or advice. 2.
 Documents that constitute or record any notes, observations, experimentation, trials, testings, sketches, drawings made: (a) by or on behalf of the inventor named in Australian Letters Patent No. 706458 (Patent); (b) by or on behalf of any person on behalf of SBriggs Pty Ltd; and (c) in relation to the design, development or testing of any spring clutch referred to in the patent the subject of the invention as claimed. 4.
 The costs of the directions hearings on 12 November 2007, 19 November 2007 and 21 November 2007 be reserved including the costs of and incidental to the application by Uniline Australia Ltd application heard on 12 November 2007 in relation to Order 29, rule 2 of the Federal Court Rules . 30 In relation to QUD306 of 2007, I propose to make the following orders: 1.
 Documents evidencing or recording or relating to the research, creation, testing and development of the design of the UNIdrive Spring and/or UNIdrive Spring Clutch by Uniline or by any third parties or sourcing of the UNIdrive Spring and/or UNIdrive Spring Clutch by Uniline from third parties, including but not limited to: (a) memoranda and correspondence, including electronic correspondence, as well as briefs or sets of instructions provided by Uniline; and/or (b) reports, materials, artwork, drawings, mock ups, prototypes, visual material, presentations or advice. 5.
 The costs of the directions hearings on 12 November 2007, 19 November 2007 and 21 November 2007 be reserved including the costs of and incidental to the application by Uniline Australia Ltd heard on 12 November 2007 in relation to Order 29, rule 2 of the Federal Court Rules . 31 For the purposes of the Orders in each action, the following terms (where relevant) bear the following meaning: 'Di Stefano' means Carmelo Joseph Licciardi Di Stefano. 'Documents' has the same meaning as is applicable for Order 15 of the Federal Court Rules 1979 (Cth). 'Registered Design' means the Australian Design Registration No.
