 Accordingly I will, in these reasons, refer to the first-named appellant as the appellant. 3 On 11 March 2005 the appellant lodged an application for a protection visa with the then Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs.
 On 25 July 2005 the appellant applied to the Tribunal for a review of that decision. 4 The appellant attended a hearing before the Tribunal on 13 December 2005, and on that day the Tribunal affirmed the delegate's decision.
 The appellant's claims differ in some detail between the written and oral evidence but the substance of the claims is briefly summarised as follows. 6 As the Federal Magistrate noted, the grounds upon which the appellant claimed to be a person to whom Australia owed protection obligations, were essentially that he was a Falun Gong practitioner who had 'fallen foul' of the authorities and had been detained on two occasions.
 The appellant claimed that his treatment had been more severe on the second occasion and he had to expend a considerable sum of money bribing authorities to release him. 7 On 8 August, a differently constituted Tribunal held a hearing which the appellant attended.
 The Tribunal then wrote a letter to the appellant dated 8 August 2006 ("the s 424A letter") which provided him with particulars of information that would, subject to any comments he may make, be the reason or part of the reason for deciding that he was not entitled to a protection visa. 8 Following the provision of each piece of information, the Tribunal set out in bold the reason why it had considered that information to be relevant.
 The Tribunal had regard to several inconsistencies in the appellant's evidence. 10 The Tribunal noted that the appellant had stated in his protection visa that he was introduced to Falun Gong when he received a brochure in the mail.
 The appellant claimed that he had telephoned a number that was listed in the brochure, and that the woman who had answered the phone led him to the process of Falun Dafa and had invited him to a meeting.
 However, before the previously constituted Tribunal, he stated that he was introduced to Falun Gong through a woman he did not know, but whom he saw practising Falun Gong in a park in the company of other practitioners.
 Although this information was put to the appellant by the s 424A letter, he did not respond. 11 In his protection visa, the appellant stated that in October 2003, he was detained for a second time for printing and distributing Falun Gong materials at his school and was accused of trying to indoctrinate an entire school.
 Further, the appellant had told the first Tribunal that he could not leave China immediately after he was released from detention, because in China, before a person is allowed to travel, that person must submit to a 'political assessment' by the authorities.
 The appellant claimed that he was employed as a teacher and later a Deputy Principal in his protection visa application, but before the second Tribunal he claimed that he was employed as a teacher for three years and then commenced his own trading business until 1998.
 The Tribunal failed to refer to relevant independent information for the consideration of my application and the Tribunal made such mistake because of the bias against me. ' THE DECISION OF THE FEDERAL MAGISTRATE 18 The Federal Magistrate found no jurisdictional error.
 In these circumstances, the appellant is unable to rely upon a ground of review that there was 'no evidence' to support the Tribunal's findings: WAJS v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 139 at [11] - [13] .
