 The "cash rate" allocated pensions operate on a similar basis to the above No. 2 Fund "cash rate" products, except that a regular annuity is paid out under the policy which reduces the policy account. 12 The liabilities of the two funds are in the vicinity of $1.9 billion.
 No. 1 Fund and No. 3 Fund are closed to new business, are quite small and may be put aside for present purposes. 14 The principal business referable to No. 2 Fund is issuing annuities on a term certain basis, with or without the return of capital at the end of the annuity term.
 The Scheme provides for the transfer of assets with a value in the order of $1.9 million to the Challenger No. 2 Fund, being sufficient according to the actuaries to back the liabilities transferred, although not being all of the assets attributable to the MetLife No. 2 and No. 3 Funds.
 Challenger is to pay a purchase price of $30.5 million for the business transferred and will incur costs and charges of some $14.5 million, these sums to be met from its shareholders' funds.
 It is proposed to amend the contracts to seek to ensure that the affected policies meet the immediate annuity definition requirements of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 , which provides exemption from income and capital gains tax in respect of assets held to back immediate annuities.
 There are no material disadvantages to transferring policyholders. 9.2 Challenger's Existing Policyholders Based on the comments and analysis in this report it is concluded in respect of the existing Challenger policyholders: 9.2.1 In Terms of Policyholder Contractual Rights and Benefit Expectations There will be no impact on the benefit rights or expectations of the existing policyholders of Challenger arising from the proposed transfer. 9.2.2 In Terms of Policyholder Benefit Security Each of the Statutory Funds of Challenger and Challenger as a whole will remain in a sound financial position and the existing policyholders' benefit security will remain adequate after the proposed transfer.
 A summary of its opinion is as follows: "In accordance with the scope of our review, we have considered whether the proposed Scheme properly and adequately safeguards the contractual benefits and other rights of the policy owners of MetLife and Challenger and whether their reasonable benefit expectations or the security of their policy benefits would be adversely affected if the proposed Scheme were implemented.
 That role has naturally been referred to in many of the authorities (eg Re Application of Commonwealth Life Ltd [2003] FCA 637 at [13] ; Re MLC Lifetime Co Ltd and MLC Ltd (No 2) [2006] FCA 1367 at [14] ).
 I shall return to the position of APRA in another respect later. 31 It was submitted that the interests of insurers should be respected as the development of a viable industry is an object of the Act.
 The evidence to justify reopening explained the difficulties in proposing a solution in a few hours, but did not explain the blanket refusal to accept any condition, or the failure to seek an adjournment.
