 On 26 June 2007 the respondent filed a creditor's petition alleging that Mrs Perovich had committed an act of bankruptcy by failing to comply with the requirements of the bankruptcy notice on or before 27 March 2007.
 MR MARTIN: The only basis is that Mrs Perovich perceives --- there's a perception of bias against her because of the adverse finding that your Honour made in relation to her application to set aside the bankruptcy notice.
 It is alleged that the learned Magistrate erred in fact and in law in not acceding to the adjournment application, in not acceding to the disqualification application and in making the sequestration order.
 He declined to follow Greenhill and held that s 41(5) "is concerned with a claim of a bankruptcy notice for an amount greater than is, in fact, [owed] under a judgment " (emphasis in original).
 Following the entry of a judgment, however, the amount due by the judgment debtor to the judgment creditor, and the amount for which execution might issue, is the sum stated in the judgment.
 The circumstance that the Supreme Court subsequently varied the judgment entered in the District Court, reducing it by the sum of $5,400, provides no support for the contention that this Court should have itself examined the correctness of the judgment.
 That ground was that the Federal Magistrate had made an adverse finding on Mrs Perovich's application to set aside the bankruptcy notice which had been served on her and which was relied on by the respondent when seeking the sequestration order.
 This occurred on 14 September 2006. 29 Senior counsel for Mrs Perovich (who did not appear below) accepted that the adverse credit findings in Traditional Values were not relied on in support of the disqualification application.
 It is also understandable because counsel appearing for Mrs Perovich had not drawn the Federal Magistrate's reasons in Traditional Values to his attention or sought to rely on them in support of the disqualification application.
 This amounted to speculation: there was no evidence about the type of evidence which might be obtained, from whom it might have been obtained and the reasons it had not already been obtained.
