 Order 17 rule 1 of the Rules in respect of inter-partes proceedings which have already been commenced). 2 Order 15A rule 2 ensures that a person providing discovery under Order 15A is not required to produce documents which, on the ground of privilege, the person could not be required to produce. 3 In relation to the inspection of documents discovered pursuant to an order made under Order 15A, Order 15A rule 10 provides: ' 10 Division 2 of Order 15 shall, with any necessary modification, apply to the inspection of the documents referred to in a list of documents made and served in accordance with this Order as if the list were a list of documents as mentioned in Order 15 rule 2. ' 4 Order 15 deals with discovery and inspection of documents in normal inter-partes proceedings.
 In addition Opel tendered a bundle of correspondence which became Exhibit OAM1. 24 The thrust of Opel's evidence is that, firstly, some of the documents that the Minister may discover to Telstra pursuant to an order that may be made under Order 15A rule 6, in response to Telstra's Amended Application: (a) may contain information of a confidential nature, the confidentiality of which has not been waived and which Opel is entitled to protect; and (b) which, if produced to Telstra for inspection pursuant to an order for production of such documents, that may be made in accordance with Order 15A rule 10 and Order 15 rule 11, could involve a loss of that confidentiality. 25 Secondly, the Minister consents to Opel being added as a party to Telstra's Amended Application filed 9 August 2007.
 Failing such a joinder, the Minister would 're-consider' the possibility of reading affidavits prepared by Opel and of putting submissions against the making of an order for discovery, or limiting the scope of any permitted inspection of discovered documents. 26 Thirdly, Telstra opposes the relief sought in Opel's Notice of Motion, but would be prepared to entertain an appropriate confidentiality regime which would apply to the inspection of documents by or on behalf of Telstra. 27 In my opinion the Minister's consent to the relief sought in Opel's Notice of Motion is irrelevant.
