 That subsection requires the Tribunal to invite the applicant to appear before the Tribunal to give evidence and to present argument "relating to the issues arising in relation to the decision under review": and see SZBEL v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] HCA 63 ; (2006) 81 ALJR 515 at [34] - [35] .
 This leads me to find that he has fabricated a set of claims for himself for the sole purpose of engaging Australia's protection obligations. " 5 What needs to be emphasised about this is that the delegate put the credibility of the appellant squarely in issue and questioned the veracity of the claims he had made.
 I do likewise: "3.1 The Applicant claimed that he feared persecution because: (a) he was homosexual; (b) he had converted from being a Sunni Muslim to a Shia Muslim; and (c) he was a member of the Jaffria Youth Pakistan ("JYP"). 3.2 He claimed that he had been harassed, kidnapped and beaten in 2005. 3.3 The Tribunal did not accept the Applicant's claims.
 The Tribunal stated that, as I had put to the Applicant in the course of the hearing, the fact that there was no mention of his claimed conversion to the Shia faith, his membership of the JYP or his claimed kidnapping in his original application or in the statement accompanying his original application might lead me to conclude that he had fabricated these claims on the basis of the documents which he had received from Pakistan.
 The Tribunal stated that I might conclude that there was no truth in his claims that he had converted from the Sunni faith to the Shia faith, that he was a member of an organisation called the JYP or that he had been kidnapped by the Lashkar-e-Taiba in 2005 because he was a member of the JYP.
 Whereas at the hearing before me he said that he had ceased working for Dewan Salman Fibre Ltd approximately a year before he had left Pakistan at the end of November 2005 to come to Australia because he had had a chest infection and he had been advised to have a rest, in his response to the section 424A letter he said that he had left his job there in November 2005 because everybody in the factory had known that he was gay.
 The Applicant said at the hearing before me that he claimed to have converted from the Sunni faith to the Shia faith on 12 March 2005 but in his response to the Tribunal's section 424A letter he said that his kidnapping, which he claimed had occurred because he was a member of a Shia organisation, the JYP, had occurred on 9 March 2005.
 As I put to the Applicant in the course of the hearing and again in the section 424A letter, I consider that the Applicant has fabricated his claims with regard to his conversion to the Shia faith, his membership of the JYP and the kidnapping on the basis of the documents he has received from Pakistan.
 Having regard to my findings of fact I do not accept that the Applicant has a well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of his religion or his membership of any particular social group such as the JYP or the organisation of eunuchs if he returns to Pakistan now or in the reasonably foreseeable future.
 Against this background it cannot properly be said that any further inconsistencies exposed in his s 424A answers relating to his claims or any greater doubts his answers engendered about his credibility raised new or unexpected issues for which, in fairness, a further opportunity for comment ought to have been provided.
