 I will amend the description of the second respondent to read "Former Minister for Health/Current Minister for Education" as requested by the applicant. 5 On 1 June 2006, a delegate of the Commission terminated the complaint of race and disability discrimination pursuant to s 46PH(1)(c) of the HREOC Act on the basis that it was lacking in substance, and gave Ms Bahonko notice of the termination on the same day.
 She sent further letters vehemently denying the allegations and provided her version of the events. 25 On 4 June 2004, Ms Bahonko filed an application with the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal ('VCAT') for review of the NBV's decision of 24 May 2004 to suspend her registration.
 A letter was written to Ms Bahonko explaining the NBV's decision to continue the investigations and the suspension of her registration. 27 Ms Bahonko claimed she was told by the NBV's investigator, Ms Miln, that the NBV would lift her suspension, but due to her not signing some papers, this did not occur.
 It was submitted that there is no evidence to suggest that the NBV's decision on 14 October 2004 was made on any unlawful discriminatory ground. 60 The NBV submitted that, even if Ms Bahonko's allegations against its conduct in the investigations are well-founded (which it does not accept), those allegations do not demonstrate that those decisions were made on any ground of unlawful discrimination.
 She claimed that the Minister had engaged in "unprecedented human rights abuses, racial vilifications, discrimination and all the possible criminal activities". 88 In her written submissions, filed with the leave of the Court after hearing, Ms Bahonko described in great detail the effects and consequences of the alleged discriminatory acts of the respondents.
 She claimed that anything positive and to her benefit is consistently refused by the respondents and the State of Victoria. 89 Ms Bahonko also raised claims against the respondents under the Equal Opportunity Act 1995 (Vic) for alleged discrimination on the basis of impairment, political beliefs or activity, race and religious belief and activity.
 It is certainly not sufficient evidence of racial discrimination that Ms Bahonko is of a different "racial makeup" to members of the NBV. 102 Furthermore, other than bald assertions, there is no evidence to suggest that the NBV's decision to suspend Ms Bahonko's registration was done on any unlawful discriminatory ground.
 However there is nothing to suggest that it was on the basis of Ms Bahonko's race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin. 103 Similarly in relation to Ms Bahonko's complaint against the NBV about its decision to impose conditions, there is no evidence that the decision was made on any unlawful discriminatory ground.
 As was submitted by the NBV, it had power under the Nurses Act to impose conditions on the registration of a nurse, and there is nothing to suggest that its decision to exercise that power was in any way an act done on the basis of Ms Bahonko's race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin.
 The Minister was not directly involved in the decisions and conduct of the NBV, but rather the NBV was constituted as a distinct and separate body under the Nurses Act and its decisions were its own. 117 Further, and in any event, s 18A is confined to the acts of agents and employees which, as the Minister submitted, does not extend to the NBV, as the NBV is not an employee or agent of the Minister.
 On the basis of my finding above that there is no evidence to suggest that the NBV contravened s 42 , this claim is without merit. 119 I accept the Minister's submissions that Ms Bahonko did not make any credible claim against the Minister, and refuse her application for an extension of time to bring proceedings against the Minister.
