 They also say that his conduct in writing the article for publication in Western Australia and in New South Wales was misleading or deceptive or likely to mislead or deceive in contravention of s 10 of the Fair Trading Act 1987 (WA) and s 42 of the Fair Trading Act 1987 (NSW) respectively. 10 Insofar as Mr Barry's conduct involved writing the article for publication on the worldwide web and sending it by email he is said to have contravened s 52 of the TPA.
 By publishing the article in The Sunday Times newspaper, Nationwide News is said to have been "involved", within the meaning of s 74 of the Fair Trading Act (WA), in Mr Barry's contravention of s 10 of that Act.
 What they say, however, is that the article published by The Sunday Telegraph was accessed through the internal communications systems of Nationwide News and used as the template for the article published in The Sunday Times. 15 It is admitted that Mr Barry's conduct in researching and writing the article was in trade or commerce and that Mr Breen was acting in trade or commerce when he engaged him by commission to write the article.
 The respondents also say that Mr Barry's conduct as a freelance journalist in researching, writing and submitting to Mr Breen the text of what became the article amounted to conduct in New South Wales in trade and commerce.
 Mr Barry accepts that his commission envisaged his consent to the likely publication, by The Sunday Telegraph and The Sunday Times newspapers in Australia or other media institutions within the News Group in Australia, of the substantial terms of the text which he submitted. 16 The allegations that the article contained false statements and that Mr Barry engaged in misleading or deceptive conduct are denied.
 Alternatively, pursuant to O 11 r 16(a) or (b) of Federal Court Rules that paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 12, 13, 14 and 15 of the Statement of Claim do be struck out as against the Second, Third and Fourth Respondents. 3.
 In Australian Ocean Line Pty Ltd v West Australian Newspapers Ltd (1983) 66 FLR 453, Toohey J refused to dismiss proceedings against the newspaper for misleading or deceptive conduct in relation to a story it carried about services and conditions aboard a cruise ship, The Dalamacija.
 And further: New s 65A will operate to exempt the media and (other persons who engage in businesses of providing information) from the operation of those provisions of Division 1 of Part V of the Trade Practices Act which could inhibit activities relating to the provision of news and other information.
 In my respectful view, the Court, should be astute not to allow utilisation for a purpose for which it was never intended. 41 The question remains whether a freelance journalist who supplies a news article to a media organisation under a contract to do so is excluded from the exemption in s 65A.
 It was submitted on behalf of Mr Bond and Lesotho Diamond that, in such a case, it is "strongly arguable" that the publication by the journalist is "... in connection with ... the supply ... of goods or services ... where the publication was made ... pursuant to a contract ... with a person who supplies goods or services of that kind": see s 65A(1)(a)(i) read with s 65A(1)(a)(vi)(A)).
