 Before the Tribunal the appellant stated that she was not an Indonesian national and that, in effect, no reliance could be placed on the information contained in her Indonesian passport, which she presented on arrival in Australia, because the passport had been obtained falsely in Indonesia by a people smuggler, based on a bogus marriage.
 In coming to that view, the Tribunal relied upon information recorded in that passport that the appellant had married an Indonesian citizen on 11 March 2004, that she divested herself of her Chinese citizenship and gained Indonesian citizenship on 18 March 2004.
 At one point in its reasons the Tribunal said: 'The Tribunal accepts that the applicant had no idea that the actions of others in acquiring for her an Indonesian passport has meant that she has effectively put herself under the protection of the Indonesian government.
 The appellant said that the Indonesian passport had been falsely obtained, she was not an Indonesian national and she remained a Chinese national. 10 The Federal Magistrate noted that the Tribunal had considered the information in the appellant's statutory declaration of 15 November 2004, because the Court Book recorded a note saying that the Tribunal had not recalled its decision because 'the details provided were already made known to me at the hearing'.
 The Federal Magistrate found that on the material, it was open to the Tribunal to reach the opinion that Indonesia was the appellant's country of nationality within the meaning of that reference in Article 1A(2) of the Convention definition.
 The Federal Magistrate said he was unable to identify jurisdictional error. 11 The Federal Magistrate said that the passage from the reasons of the Tribunal referred to at [7] above: '...shows that it was aware of the applicant's claims that she, in fact, had no real connection with Indonesia and that she had acquired her Indonesian passport and nationality under a mistaken impression as to the significance of this. ' 12 The Federal Magistrate stated that the determination of the appellant's country of nationality did not arise in the course of reviewing whether the Tribunal's decision was affected by jurisdictional error since it was enough that he was satisfied that the Tribunal had not made a jurisdictional error in finding the appellant could claim the protection of Indonesia.
 This was that the Federal Magistrate erred in failing to find the Tribunal made a jurisdictional error by not complying with s 424A(1) of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act'), because the Tribunal relied on inconsistencies between the appellant's statutory declaration and protection visa application, without first seeking the appellant's comment in writing.
 In some cases, however, it will have been necessary for the refugee to secure false documentation in order to successfully exit her country or in order to circumvent the visa controls imposed by some asylum states on the nationals of refugee-producing countries.
 It also followed, according to the appellant, that statements in the Indonesian passport, to the effect, that she had lost her Chinese nationality and acquired Indonesian nationality, did not conclusively establish those facts because they were founded on the assumption that the marriage was a genuine marriage.
 In other words, the appellant claimed that, in her circumstances, the existence of a passport which on its face was validly issued did not, in fact, establish that she was an Indonesian national, and that Indonesia would, on the true facts being revealed, accept her as an Indonesian national and accord her the protection accorded its nationals. 17 In my view, the Tribunal acknowledged the claim by the appellant that her Indonesian passport did not evidence her true nationality because it had been obtained falsely.
