 The reasons for all the orders made were set out in Re Richstar Enterprises Pty Ltd; Australian Securities Investments Commission v Carey (No 3) (2006) 232 ALR 577.
 On 7 August 2006 orders were made joining the tenth and eleventh defendants and interim preservation orders were made in relation to the property of the tenth defendant but not in relation to the eleventh defendant. 4.
 On 29 January 2007 and 5 February 2007 the Court made orders and extended existing orders in relation to the first, fifth to tenth and twelfth defendants.
 The ING receivers appointed to Westpoint Corporation Pty Ltd (Westpoint Corporation) have made demands upon Richstar and Silkchime Pty Ltd for payment of moneys and have indicated they will commence proceedings seeking recovery of the debts claimed.
 The AGS expressed the view that it was necessary for Mr Carey to make application to the Court to obtain appropriate orders permitting his client to proceed with the proposed distribution.
 Any wages payable to Mr Carey or distributions or loans from the Hilton Trust or the Healthcare Property Trust and any money held by the receiver under previous orders shall be paid into that account. 19 The receiver would have power to identify, preserve and secure Mr Carey's property for the benefit of potential creditors.
 I am therefore prepared to make the proposed orders. 23 In order to deal with conflicts of interest that might arise the receiver has proposed an amendment to the orders in respect of Mr Carey by the insertion of a new paragraph 8A.
 There is nothing to gainsay that. 27 I am prepared to make the orders proposed in respect of Richstar subject to an amendment to [14.2] proposed by the receiver.
 Orders proposed for the seventh, ninth and tenth defendants 28 I will make the orders proposed for the above defendants which merely extend existing orders to 31 January 2008.
 Orders proposed for the twelfth defendant --- Healthcare 29 The orders proposed for the twelfth defendant include provision for a sum of $200,000 to be paid into the Carey Account subject to the orders affecting Mr Carey and the operation of that account.
 At the hearing I required an affidavit to be filed in relation to the way in which the proposed payment was to be effected. 30 Mr Carey's affidavit exhibited a letter of advice from Healthcare's accountants dated 28 June 2007.
 On 24 January 2006 Messrs Korda, Zohar and Winterbottom were appointed as receivers and managers of Westpoint Corporation and Huntingdale Village Pty Ltd (Huntingdale Village) in its own capacity and as trustee for the Huntingdale Village Unit Trust.
 The amendments which he proposed, and to which I have already made reference, have been agreed by the parties as an appropriate way to remove potential conflict. 34 Westpoint Management, Huntingdale Village and Vannin are all named in the orders relating to Mr Carey as trustees of property effectively under his control.
