 The approaches are set out in s 87(1): (1) The Minister must decide which one of the following approaches must be used for assessment of the relevant impacts of an action that the Minister has decided is a controlled action: (a) assessment by an accredited assessment process; (aa) assessment on referral information under Division 3A; (b) assessment on preliminary documentation under Division 4; (c) assessment by public environment report under Division 5; (d) assessment by environmental impact statement under Division 6; (e) assessment by inquiry under Division 7. 12 Section 87(3) sets out the matters which the Minister must consider in making a choice under s 87(1).
 The RPDC also said that it would amend the guidelines to "take into account the Australian Government's involvement in the approval process and then the RPDC will invite public comment, early in the New Year". 31 Senator Campbell provided reasons for the controlled action decision on the action the subject of the first referral on 12 March 2005.
 The letter referred to "Gunns decision to withdraw from the RPDC process and refer the project to the Government". 54 Mr Early gave evidence that he and other officers from the Department met with Gunns representatives on 22 March 2007 "to discuss how a new referral from Gunns Limited would work, should Gunns Limited formally withdraw from the existing referral process and make a new referral". 55 The notes of that meeting, which were settled by Mr Early, record that Gunns "had commenced drafting a new referral for submission to the Department as soon as possible".
 The notes also record that representatives of the Department noted: ...they could not pre-empt the Minister's decision on the level of assessment but that, if he decided on assessment on preliminary documentation and set the period for public comment at 20 business days, a decision on whether or not to approve the project should be possible by the end of August provided Gunns provided high quality information and were able to respond quickly (ie within two weeks) and adequately to any public comment.
 It is not intended to permit forum shopping through a change of Minister, or indeed (not relevant in the present case) a change of government. 82 They contend further: Withdrawing a referral in order to submit a new referral for the same action and replacing an assessment process with a new one in relation to the same action is inconsistent with the orderly and sequential decision making regime found in Ch 4.
 Section 74B(2) states: If this Division applies to a referral, any other provisions of this Chapter that would, apart from this subsection, have applied to the referral cease to apply to the referral. 85 Counsel also refer to s 74C which deals with the giving of written notice to a person proposing to take an action, that the Minister considers the action would have unacceptable impacts.
 I consider it suggests that the Minister formed the view that it was not applicable for the purpose of identifying controlling provisions relevant to the action. 117 The Minister said in his reasons for the 2007 controlled action decision at [15]: I found that there is no likelihood of the proposed action having a significant adverse impact on a matter protected by any provision of Part 3 of the EPBC Act other than, potentially, ...(World Heritage),...(Wetlands of international importance),...(Listed threatened species and communities),...(Listed migratory species) and...(Commonwealth marine area).
 Counsel contend this demonstrates prejudgment and that the Minister misunderstood what an informed decision is for the purposes of the EPBC Act. 122 In order to decide on assessment on preliminary documentation, the Minister must be satisfied under s 87(5) that the assessment approach will allow an informed decision to be made on whether or not to approve, for the purposes of each controlling provision, the taking of the action.
 This is confirmed by the Minister's comments in the reasons at [23]: ...I found that information about the impacts of the proposed action on the matters protected by the controlling provisions for the action had been made available to the public in a reasonable and comprehensive way and for a substantial period of time.
 I found that a further comprehensive process of seeking public comment on the proposed action (as would occur through an assessment by public environment report, environmental impact assessment or public inquiry under Divisions 5, 6 or 7 of Part 8 of the EPBC Act) would not be required in order to enable me to make an informed decision whether or not to approve the proposed action.
