 The Claim group also has the capacity to contain descendents of prior attendees and participants in KPC meetings and activities , (if they are not already in the claim group) and if they are have the necessary ancestry relating to inheritance (i.e. if they are valid Kokatha).
 The Map was subsequently produced by the NNTT and widely distributed. " It makes no reference to self-authorisation. 21 There is evidence annexed to an affidavit of Mr Reid of statements signed by various elders and lawmen of surrounding Western Desert regions all stating in identical terms that: "I assure you that as far as Kokatha people are concerned, Ningil Reid (Richard Reid) is the Traditional Elder for Kokatha.
 The clauses may well be vulnerable at this point for this reason. 33 What clauses 4 to 6 do reveal, though, is that the group as presently listed does not contain all of the persons who are said to be the actual holders of native title.
 Neither the application nor the evidence provide certain guidance to permit ascertainment of who are the other actual native title holders who, together with the listed members, are said to be all of the holders of native title rights and interests in the claim area. 35 I would add that it is unsurprising that the definition of the group itself suffers the above vices.
 While the Form 1 suggests three distinct bases of authorisation --- (i) self-authorisation, (ii) authorisation by Elders of surrounding Western Desert Tribes and (iii) authorisation by KPC members at a meeting on 17 March 2007 --- the application itself does not betray whether these are intended to be alternative or cumulative.
 I note in passing that (i) there is no evidence provided by Mr Reid that the enumerated claim group acknowledge his power of self-authorisation; and (ii) Mr Reid has attempted to secure the signatures of some, but by no means all, of the listed claim group both to a copy of the list and to an attached claim map --- both unnecessary steps if Mr Reid could self-authorise.
 Mr Reid's authorizations to bring the Kokatha Nation Claim fundamentally derives from S 251B(a) authorizations given by prior Kokatha people including prior custodians 'brothers under the law', and also affirmed by Kokatha people in the western desert surrounds who went through the law with Mr Reid and subsequently witnessed what happened to him and how he eventually came by the Custodianship.
 The Crown at point 48 and elsewhere in saying that the claim is to be authorized by 'all persons who ... hold the common or group rights. ' The person who fundamentally holds the common or group rights of all Kokatha people is the Custodian himself ( wadi miri wadi ) and Mr Reid (and his successors) are in the claim group (if this amendment is made).
 It explains both the failure to rely on self-authorisation in the accompanying affidavit and the unacceptable lack of clarity in the evidence of authorisation. 42 Mr Reid's participation in the North Stirling and Spear Creek meetings in relation to the Kokatha Native Title Claim cast further doubt on the power now being claimed.
 But, as French J indicated in Bolton at [44], the s 251B(b) requirement necessitates that the authorisation process must be able to be traced to a decision of the native title group who adopt that process. 47 It is at this point of tracing back that the alleged authorisation's ineffectiveness becomes apparent.
 Both the State and the ALRM in their submissions sought a costs order, inter alia, for the purpose of providing a clear message to any further potential native title claimants that it is necessary to ensure that matters of form and procedure are strictly to be adhered to when lodging claimant applications.
