 BUCHANAN J: 1 This judgment deals with an application for an extension of time in which to appeal against a judgment of Lloyd-Jones FM ( Sutherland v Vale [2007] FMCA 1617). 2 Mr Sutherland's application is supported by an affidavit by the solicitor who had the day to day carriage of the proceedings in respect of which leave is sought, Mr Patrick Kaluski.
 Mr Kaluski swears that at the time of this conference he did not appreciate that an appeal was to be filed within 21 days and that the time in which to appeal expired on the day of the conference.
 In the circumstances I can see no prejudice to the respondent if time is extended. 3 However an extension of time will not normally be granted if an appeal would have no prospects of success.
 The effect of the cross-claim was, for the first time, to challenge the notice some four years after it was issued. 7 Counsel for Mr Vale advanced a series of challenges to the validity of the notice arguing, in a number of respects, that strict compliance with the provisions of s 139ZQ was required and that a failure to strictly comply was fatal to the validity of the notice.
 His Honour erred in finding that a Notice under s.139ZQ of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 was misleading in that it referred to a transfer "within two years" notwithstanding the definition of "the commencement of the bankruptcy" in s.5 of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 . ' Ground 1 9 One reason why the requirements of s 139ZQ have been said to require a strict construction is that non-compliance carries criminal sanctions (s 139ZT).
 The trustee relied upon the higher of the two as the foundation for his claim that the value of Mrs Vale's interest in the properties was $270,000, although she transferred that interest for $7.
 If the claim for the payment of money made in the notice is disputed, s 139ZS provides a means by which the controversy as to the application of Div 3 of the Act to the transaction is to be resolved and determined by the Court. ' 14 Section 139ZS was invoked in the present case.
 Mr Skinner has said, however, he proposes to argue that Halse v Norton should not be followed and that the Court should decide instead that the onus in an application under s 139ZS lies properly upon an applicant under that provision and not upon a trustee.
 The Federal Magistrate accepted a contention that s 36 of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 (Cth) (which deals with reckoning of time) resulted in the transfer being more than two years before the bankruptcy.
 The trustee contends, however, as it did before the Federal Magistrate that the definition of 'the commencement of the bankruptcy' in s 5 of the Act, in combination with s 115 of the Act, lead to the conclusion that the commencement of the bankruptcy (as also appears on the face of the sequestration order) is 26 February 2001.
