 The motion is brought pursuant to s 31A of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth), and O 20 r 5 and O 11 r 16 of the Federal Court Rules 1979 (Cth) ("the Rules"). 2 When the matter came on for hearing before me, Mr Walsh handed up a draft statement of claim setting out the bases on which he brought the application.
 Accordingly, neither the application nor the draft statement of claim discloses a federal element which would give this court jurisdiction to deal with the matter. 3 In addition, there were several fundamental problems with Mr Walsh's draft statement of claim.
 Although it is important to bear in mind the difficulties which a litigant in person may have in placing proper pleadings before the Court, the draft statement of claim is not framed in a way which complies with the requirements of the Rules, nor does it appear to set out any intelligible cause of action known to the law.
 It is difficult to make any sense of the pleadings in order to ascertain any nexus between the pleadings and the relief which is sought. 4 Accordingly, it seems to me that the application in this matter should be struck out on the basis that it is bound to fail and has no reasonable prospect of success.
 Having regard to the impossibility, in a practical sense, of responding to these allegations, I do not think the draft statement of claim improves the position in this case. 5 I have also had regard to the detailed judgment delivered in the proceedings previously brought by Mr Walsh where Buchanan J examined a statement of claim in relation to similar facts, albeit based on different causes of action, and ordered that it be struck out and the proceedings dismissed (see Walsh v University of Technology, Sydney [2007] FCA 880).
 In that decision, his Honour examined carefully the relevant authorities concerning the dismissal of proceedings, the adequacy of a statement of claim as a proper proceeding, and the necessary elements of a claim under the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
