 The Tribunal was not satisfied that the statutory elements of the grant of protection were made out, or that the appellant was involved in the receipt of smuggled Bibles. 7 By consent, the appellant tendered the transcript of the hearing in the Tribunal.
 I became a Christian after I arrived in Australia...I always wanted to be a Christian even when I was at home but I did not have the freedom to practise it...I wanted to believe when I was back at home '.
 The appellant now submits that this last response gave rise to a claim by the appellant which the Tribunal did not consider, namely that she wished to adhere to the Christian faith.
 The appellant concentrates on the statement ' I wanted to believe it when I was back at home ' and submits that it amounted to a claim as to the future. 8 It is apparent from the transcript that the appellant was saying that she had wished to be a Christian when in China but had not become one prior to arriving in Australia.
 The appellant distinguishes between her practice of the religion, which was rejected by the Tribunal on the basis of credibility and a claim that, whether or not she practised the Screaming Sect form of Christianity, she wished to continue to adhere to the religion on her return. 10 There was no such separate aspect of the claim to be a Christian which the Tribunal failed to consider.
 That is, the Tribunal addressed its questions and its conclusions to the issue not only of the appellant's practice of Christianity but also to her beliefs and adherence to the tenets of the faith. 11 This ground of appeal is not made out.
 In identifying the requisite opportunity to be heard, the applicant is entitled ' to be given the opportunity of ascertaining the relevant issues and to be informed of the nature and content of adverse material ' ( Alphaone at 590-1; SZBEL at [32]).
 Where the Tribunal made it clear that it was "starting afresh", the appellant could not have assumed that the reasons given by the Delegate would identify for her the issues that arose in relation to that decision because she was not aware of the content of that decision.
 The practice of Christianity 18 The appellant submits that, by reason of s 425 of the Act, the Tribunal was not entitled to relieve itself of the obligation to deal independently with the decision under review, the decision of the Delegate.
 In circumstances where the Delegate had accepted the appellant as a Christian and made no adverse finding as to her credibility, the appellant contends that she had no reason to believe that she would be disbelieved on this issue.
 If they are factual matters that go to the issue arising in relation to the decision under review (ie, risk generally), the Tribunal is not obliged to put each of those factual matters to the appellant.
