 Regulation 1.24 in that division requires statutory declarations to be provided in respect of certain evidence. 2 Regulation 1.21 in Div 1.5 relevantly provides: ' (1) In this Division: ... statutory declaration means a statutory declaration under the Statutory Declarations Act 1959 ' ('the 1.21 definition').
 The appellant accepts that the statutory declarations before the Tribunal and before the Delegate were not in accordance with the form prescribed by the Commonwealth Act. 5 The appellant sought judicial review of the Tribunal's decision in the Federal Magistrates Court.
 Provision is made for the "prescribed form" under reg 3 of the Statutory Declarations Regulations 1993 (Cth). 10 By s 7 and s 8 of the Commonwealth Act, a Commonwealth declaration in the prescribed form is a statutory declaration for the purposes of the Regulations unless the contrary intention appears.
 The appellant does not suggest any such contrary intention. 11 The appellant draws a distinction between a statutory declaration " made under" the Commonwealth Act and a statutory declaration "under" the Commonwealth Act, the latter being prescribed by reg 1.21.
 The fact that the expression used is "under" rather than "made under" does not mean that statutory declarations made in accordance with legislation other than the Commonwealth Act are or were intended to be included for the purposes of Div 1.5.
 That may be so but it does not mean that the intention was the opposite, to include State declarations. 14 The appellant submits that, if the intention were to specify only Commonwealth declarations in reg 1.21, the intention was not executed.
 A statutory declaration under or in accordance with the Commonwealth Act is a Commonwealth declaration which complies with s 8 of the Commonwealth Act. 15 Regulation 1.21 is a definition for the purposes of Div 1.5 of the Regulations, which relates to domestic violence.
 That regulation provides that a statutory declaration made under the relevant provisions of Div 1.5 is not admissible in evidence before a court or tribunal otherwise than in an application for judicial review or merits review of a decision to refuse to grant a visa or in a prosecution "under section 11 of the Commonwealth Act" for the making of a false declaration.
 If a State Act comes within "any Act" in s 27(c) (cf a reference to "a State Act" as envisaged by subs 38(3) of the Acts Interpretation Act ), "statutory declaration" when used in the Regulations would include a declaration made by virtue of a State Act, unless the contrary intention appears.
 There would be no purpose in defining "statutory declaration" in reg 1.21 merely to include a Commonwealth declaration because that has already been provided for by s 27 of the Acts Interpretation Act and s 7 of the Commonwealth Act ( Project Blue Sky Inc v Australian Broadcasting Authority [1998] HCA 28 ; (1998) 194 CLR 355 at [71] ). 23 Section 27 applies subject to a contrary intention.
