 It is submitted, and I accept, that the critical matter in a case of this kind is that circumstances which would call for disclosure in the interests of purchasers, but which might not be caught by the continuous disclosure regime, which are called "excluded information", should be disclosed.
 I am satisfied on the evidence, albeit, of course, this is done ex parte, that there was no "excluded information" which should have been, and was not, disclosed in the present case.
 That being the case, it is difficult to see that there is any substantial injustice to any party occasioned by regularising the situation save for the possibility that a purchaser may be able to prove that there was "excluded information" which should have been disclosed.
 However, it is submitted that a purchaser who was able to prove such circumstances would have independent causes of action available and, indeed, the causes of action which would have been available would have regard to these particular provisions.
 I might say that the evidence is that the great bulk of, perhaps all of, the persons who received placements are what might be called professional or sophisticated investors.
 The orders sought to be made will be made pursuant to s 1322(4) and therefore subsection (6) is applicable and provides a barrier to the making of orders subject to the satisfaction of the Court as to the matters there listed.
 I have indicated the extent to which I think there may be any disadvantage to any person which is not met by the orders and I weigh against that the severe effect upon those who have taken the placement.
 It had been considered at a level within the organisation which was not able to give the necessary dispensation, principally because of the fact that it concerned events which had taken place and was not restricted to things that might happen.
 However, as a matter of substance, there was concern within the ranks of the relevant officers as to whether or not there was "excluded information" not disclosed and that concern was drawn to the attention of the company.
 Furthermore, ASIC has now been given all of this information, served with relevant documents in connection with this application and advised of the time and place at which the application will be made.
 The notice which is going to be given to ASIC, the Australian Stock Exchange and to the persons who would have sold to those purchasers does seem to me to give a reasonable possibility of the word getting out to any purchasers substantial enough to be interested in pursuing any remedies.
 That is a prudent proviso in matters dealt with ex parte and there are no other parties albeit that many of the people concerned have notice of the proceeding.
