 The award provisions were less favourable than those under the certified agreement which, by operation of cl 5 of the certified agreement, had priority over the award. 3 On 24 November 2004 Skilled sold its mechanical engineering business to MES.
 By cl 9.1 of the sale agreement MES covenanted to offer to each employee of Skilled a position with MES on terms and conditions no less favourable than those governing the employees' employment on the date of the offer.
 By cl 9.3 MES assumed liability for all employee entitlements including any entitlements for notice or redundancy on termination. 4 In anticipation of the sale agreement being executed, on 12 November 2004 MES wrote to employees at the workshop and offered them employment with MES.
 The relevant parts of the letter of offer read: "At the meeting on Friday 12 th November Skilled informed employees of its decision to sell the Workshops (sic) business including the Workshops (sic) property, plant and equipment, to MES.
 It is a specific condition of MES' purchase of the Workshops (sic) business and binding upon MES that all the benefits you accrued with Skilled are preserved, including continuity of service and accrued entitlements (e.g. annual, long service and sick leave, RDO's, time off in lieu and any entitlements on termination of employment).
 The employees were told by the representatives of Skilled and MES that all employee entitlements, including redundancy entitlements, would be carried over to the new company if the employees accepted employment with MES.
 Statements were made to the effect that if the employees chose not to "sign up" with MES they would not receive redundancy payments from Skilled. 6 Many Skilled employees accepted the offer and commenced working with MES.
 The evidence does not suggest that those terms and conditions incorporated the certified agreement and the award. 15 It was said that the letter of offer, by stating that the certified agreement and the award "will continue to govern [all employees'] employment with MES during and after the transmission of the Workshops (sic) business to MES", had the effect of incorporating the certified agreement and the award.
 The effect of s 170MB of the pre-amendment Workplace Relations Act was that the certified agreement would continue to govern the employees' employment with MES as a statutory instrument.
 The contention is that pursuant to the certified agreement employees were entitled to redundancy on the termination of their employment with Skilled in November 2004 and MES assumed the obligation to make those payments.
 By the sale agreement MES promised to stand in substitution for Skilled as regards the employees' entitlements so that they would not be adversely affected by the transmission of the business.
 The other view is that it should be treated as having validly terminated the employees' employment because both MES and the employees acted upon the letter treating the notice as being effective.
