 It argues that the power of the Court to grant interlocutory relief is grounded in s 23 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) ("FCA Act"), which gives the Court " power, in relation to matters in which it has jurisdiction, to make orders of such kinds, including interlocutory orders ... as the Court thinks appropriate ".
 Finally, it submits that the balance of convenience falls in favour of the Court exercising its power to grant the relief, and thereby protects what it claims is the " very strong public interest " in ensuring StoresOnline complies with the terms of its undertaking. 6 StoresOnline submits that it has complied with most of the terms of the undertaking it gave to the ACCC, and that any breaches were minor and should not persuade the Court to exercise its discretion to grant the relief sought.
 StoresOnline also submits that the balance of convenience does not favour the ACCC because there has been no material harm or prejudice to the ACCC or its purchasers; reliance on the public interest is not decisive; and the breadth of the ACCC's Amended Application travels beyond the scope and duration of some of the terms of the original undertaking. 7 Three issues therefore arise.
 It cannot be invoked to grant an injunction where the Court acquires its jurisdiction under a statute which provides an exhaustive code of the available remedies and that code does not authorise the grant of an injunction . ' (Emphasis added. ) 9 An Act conferring jurisdiction upon the Federal Court may limit the scope of the Court's power under s 23 of the FCA Act by providing an exhaustive statement of the orders which the Court may make in relation to breaches of the conferring Act.
 There is nothing in the language of s 87B which limits the jurisdiction of the Court to hear the ACCC's application and, if appropriate on the evidence, make the orders it sees fit. 11 StoresOnline disagrees with the proposition that the TPA does not exclusively set out the powers of this Court to make injunctions in respect of relief sought under the TPA.
 It refers to s 80 of the TPA, which set out circumstances in which injunctions may be granted for contravention or possible contravention of specified provisions in the TPA, and submits that there can be no other source of power for this Court to grant injunctions as relief in applications made under the TPA. 12 StoresOnline relies on Thomson as authority for the proposition that the Federal Court cannot grant injunctive relief in respect of matters under the TPA unless it does so pursuant to s 80 of the TPA, therefore rendering the ACCC's application for orders beyond the jurisdiction of this Court.
 The ordinary and natural meaning of s 87B(4) is to give the Court power to better enforce undertakings by converting them into orders of the Court, and to make other orders in its discretion, if and when it becomes appropriate. 15 Section 80 is a provision invoked when there has been contravention or possible contravention of specified provisions in the TPA.
 To limit the Court's ability to grant injunctions at the request of the ACCC where undertakings given under s 87B have been breached is a non-beneficial and inappropriate interpretation of s 87B. 16 Given that s 87B is not an exhaustive expression of the power of the Court to make orders in relation to an application pursuant to that section, I consider that the Court has jurisdiction to entertain this application for the relief sought by the ACCC.
 BREACH OF UNDERTAKING 17 Once it is established that a respondent has breached a term of an undertaking given to the ACCC, the Court may make an order directing the respondent to comply with that term of the undertaking (s 87B(4)(a)) and any other orders it deems appropriate (s 87B(4)(d)). 18 In this case, breaches of certain terms of the undertaking given by StoresOnline are conceded.
 Specifically, these admissions relate to the terms of the undertaking requiring StoresOnline (i) to ensure the testimonials used in the presentations contained certain information (paragraph [17(d)(ii)] of the undertaking) and (ii) to notify the ACCC of the dates and locations of presentations to be made in Australia (paragraph [27] of the undertaking).
 Accordingly, this breach is sufficient to enliven the jurisdiction of the Court in s 87B(4)(a) to make orders directing StoresOnline to comply with paragraphs [14] and [15] of the undertaking. 21 With respect to the other terms of the undertaking which the ACCC alleges have been breached, I do not make findings as to whether a breach has in fact occurred.
 The ACCC says that StoresOnline's approach to compliance with the terms of the undertaking has been very unsatisfactory, and this is clearly demonstrated, for example, by the minimalist and embedded references made to the "cooling-off" period at the time purchasers bought the packages, and the inaccurate or ineffective "qualifying statements" contained in the scripts used in Australian presentations.
