 EXPLANATION FOR THE DELAY 3 In an affidavit affirmed on 13 September 2006, the applicant states that he received the judgment on 4 September 2006 as it was sent to him by ordinary mail and that he was not aware that he had 21 days to file the notice of appeal. 4 The Federal Magistrate delivered an ex tempore judgment on 18 August 2006.
 The applicant claims he joined Panchayat, a local village body, and gave lectures, and as a result has been beaten and threatened by those opposed to the Mandal Commission, a group proposing the reservation of seats in education and government jobs for lower castes. 6 The applicant further asserts his involvement in certain political activities to oppose upper class people in the area.
 The applicant claims that local authorities are controlled by upper class Hindus and they cannot protect him. 7 A delegate of the first respondent refused the application for protection visa and the applicant subsequently applied for a review by the Tribunal of that decision.
 However the independent evidence also demonstrated that the central government has taken active measures to redress discrimination although caste oppression regularly occurs and there is evidence of inter-caste violence. 9 The Tribunal accepted that the applicant may have suffered discrimination as a scheduled caste member and that he was a supporter of the rights of scheduled caste members.
 However, despite such discrimination, the Tribunal found that, as the applicant had high school education, it would be reasonable for him to relocate to an urban area to avoid caste conservatism of rural areas and avail himself to affirmative action programs and if necessary, governmental protection.
 No jurisdictional error was found to be apparent on the Tribunal decision as consideration was given as to whether there was a well-founded fear of persecution in India as a whole, not just in the local area of the applicant, and whether relocation was appropriate. 15 The Federal Magistrate also found that the Tribunal did not breach s 424A of the Act as independent country information is excluded from the operation of s 424A: s 424A(3)(a).
 In my opinion, the approach of the Federal Magistrate and his Honour's conclusions were clearly correct. 18 In relation to the first ground, I agree with his Honour that there was no error of law in the Tribunal's finding that the applicant could relocate in India as it found that the persecution claimed to be suffered by the applicant was localised in rural areas.
 As his Honour found at [25], the information relied upon was independent country information, which falls within the exceptions in s 424A(3)(a) because it is information that is not specifically about the applicant or another person and is just about a class of persons of which the applicant or other person is a member.
 Furthermore, as his Honour noted, the Tribunal did put matters relating to the independent country information to the applicant at the hearing. 20 The three further grounds were not raised before the Federal Magistrate but can be considered on their merits.
 Even though it was not required to put such information to the applicant according to the exception in s 424A(3)(a) , the Tribunal clearly put the applicant on notice that it would be considering the independent country information and in these circumstances there can be no breach of procedural fairness or natural justice. 21 Further, I do not need to consider any common law rules relating to natural justice as s 422B of the Act was in force at the time the applicant made his application to the Tribunal on or about 10 June 2005. 22 The fourth ground asserts that the Tribunal's findings were biased.
