 Nature and extent of conduct 129 From 1999 to May 2003, Scott Mechanical, through the conduct of Mr Scott, made or arrived at: 1. two Miscellaneous Arrangements or Understandings and gave effect to each of them; 2. the DSA Group Arrangement or Understanding and gave effect to it; 3. seven DSA Arrangements or Understandings and gave effect to each of them; 4. two HJ/KFC Group Arrangements or Understandings and gave effect to each of them; and 5. five HJ/KFC Arrangements or Understandings and gave effect to each of them. 130 In about October 2000 Scott Mechanical became a party to the DSA Group Arrangement or Understanding.
 These amounts include a 'discount' of 25 per cent to reflect and acknowledge the cooperation of Mr Barrie and AMEC Engineering with the applicant and the saving in time and expense to the applicant and the Court in avoiding the need for a contested hearing in relation to liability.
 Specifically, it has also admitted that the making of or arriving at and giving effect to the AMCA Members Arrangements or Understandings and the Table Arrangements or Understandings was in contravention of ss 45(2)(a)(i) and (ii) and 45(2)(b)(i) and (ii) of the Act; 8.
 These amounts include a discount of approximately 30 per cent to reflect and acknowledge the cooperation of Mr Blinco and LL Nominees with the applicant the saving in time and expense to the applicant and the Court. 210 The amounts referred to above have been agreed upon having regard to the nature and extent of the contravening conduct engaged in by Mr Blinco and LL Nominees during the period relevant for the imposition of pecuniary penalties.
 There was also an umbrella 'DSA Group Arrangement or Understanding', one of the provisions of which was to discuss upcoming projects and to make or endeavour to make 'DSA Arrangements or Understandings'. 4. in relation to projects for Hungry Jacks and Kentucky Fried Chicken outlets, designated tenderer arrangements or understandings were made called 'HJ/KFC Arrangements or Understandings'.
 The amount of loss or damage caused 237 In relation to the arrangements or understandings where CMS was not the designated tenderer, such arrangements or understandings could not have been given effect to without the representatives of tenderers being willing to accept (and in fact accepting) cover prices.
 Mr Ferguson is an employee, director and shareholder of MPM, and a director and shareholder in Mechanical Project Services and Advanced Air Systems. 394 Messrs Pierce and Ferguson were at all material times a director of MPM acting within the scope of his actual or apparent authority as a director, servant or agent of MPM in respect of his alleged conduct.
 However, 12 of the Miscellaneous Arrangements or Understandings were made or arrived at and given effect to more than six years prior to the MPM respondents being added as parties to the respondents (s 77(2) of the Act), and consequently no penalty may be imposed in respect of that conduct as it preceded December 1998; 2. five AMCA Members Arrangements or Understandings and Subsequent AMCA Members Arrangements or Understandings and gave effect to them by making 33 Table Arrangements or Understandings.
 However, nine (9) of the Miscellaneous Arrangements or Understandings were made or arrived at and given effect to more than six (6) years prior to HVAC being added as a party to the respondents (s 77(2) of the Act) and consequently no penalty may be imposed in respect of that conduct as it preceded December 1998. 2. made or arrived at five (5) AMCA Members Arrangements or Understandings and Subsequent AMCA Members Arrangements or Understandings and gave effect to them by making thirty (30) Table Arrangements or Understandings.
 However, three (3) of the AMCA Members Arrangements or Understandings were made or arrived at and given effect to more than six (6) years prior to the HVAC being added as a party to the respondents (s 77(2) of the Act) and consequently no penalty may be imposed in respect of that conduct as it preceded December 1998. 3. made or arrived at thirty (30) Table Arrangements or Understandings and gave effect to a provision or provisions of each of them.
 Contraventions 469 HVAC does not dispute or oppose the conduct admitted by its directors, servants or agents, namely Messrs Lewis, Ballantyne and McLeod on its behalf in relation to the arrangements or understandings referred and declared by the Court, constituted conduct by HVAC in contravention of s 45(2) of the Act which are detailed below.
