 Thus, Mr Parker suffered, as a statutory construct, an injury arising out of or in the course of his employment. 31 That injury resulted in impairment as the injury to Mr Parker's right eye resulted in the 'loss of the use or the damage or malfunction of [a] part of the body' of Mr Parker (see the definition of impairment in s 4(1) of the SRC Act) and thus a liability arose to pay compensation to Mr Parker in respect of that injury (s 14(1) of the SRC Act). 32 However, the injury resulted in impairment that was 'likely to continue indefinitely' (see the definition of permanent in s 4(1) of the SRC Act).
 Where it is possible to isolate the compensable effects of an injury upon a pre-existing or underlying condition the assessment of the degree of permanent impairment should reflect only the impairment due to those compensable effects. 47 The principles of assessment, in essence, recognise that the task to be addressed is one of determining the degree of permanent impairment of an individual resulting from an identified injury.
 However, the Guide only operates in circumstances where an injury has been suffered by an employee resulting in permanent impairment. 53 To the extent that the Guide seeks to operate in circumstances where an individual has suffered an injury resulting in permanent impairment, by qualifying the determination of the degree of permanent impairment by asking, additionally, whether Mr Parker would have suffered blindness in the right eye had the injury not occurred, the Guide cannot do so.
 What might have occurred had the injury not been suffered giving rise to resultant permanent impairment is not to the point. 55 Accordingly, the Tribunal erred in the construction of s 24 of the SRC Act and the role and construction of the Guide. 56 The decision of the Tribunal must be set aside. 57 Section 44(4) of the AAT Act confers a power upon the Court in the exercise of the jurisdiction conferred by s 44(1), to make such order as the Court thinks appropriate by reason of its decision.
