 1 This is an application dated 18 October 2006 for an extension of time to file and serve a notice of appeal from an order of a Federal Magistrate made on 14 August 2006.
 On that day the Federal Magistrate made an order dismissing the applicant's application for review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal which was signed on 21 December 2005 and handed down on 17 January 2006.
 On 20 June 2003 the applicant husband lodged an application for a Protection (Class XA) visa with the Department of Immigration and Multicultural Affairs under the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act').
 On 7 November 2005 the RRT wrote to the applicants, pursuant to s 424A of the Act, inviting them to comment on information the RRT considered would be the reason or part of the reason for affirming the decision of the delegate.
 Thirdly, the RRT did not consider it plausible that the applicant was detained and tortured by police and accused of co-operating in espionage with South Korea and while able to exit and enter Korea as often as the applicant had.
 It rejected his claim that he left South Korea fearing persecution and found that he came to Australia for business and/or employment purposes. 9 The RRT considered the applicant's situation if he were to return to South Korea in the foreseeable future.
 It found that there was no evidence to suggest that persons who were union members until 1991 would be treated unfairly in South Korea. 10 The RRT also considered the claims that the applicant's children have adapted to Australia and there was 'unfairness' in South Korea.
 However, the RRT found it did not have discretion in relation to humanitarian issues. 11 On the basis of the evidence, the RRT was not satisfied that applicant's claims gave rise to a real chance of persecution now or in the reasonably foreseeable future. 12 On 23 February 2006 the applicant sought judicial review of the RRT's decision in the Federal Magistrates Court.
 The applicant asserted that there was a denial of justice; that the RRT did not fully review the supporting documents; and that the applicant's arguments were true and genuine but not accepted. 13 On 14 August 2006 the Federal Magistrate dismissed the applicant's application.
 Furthermore, the RRT adopted procedures that were fair and did give reasons why it rejected the applicant's claims. 14 His Honour pointed out that the third claim made before him only went to the merits of the RRT decision and amounted to a challenge to factual findings.
 He deposed that the RRT had denied him procedural fairness by ignoring parts of his claims and failing to carefully assess the documents. 16 The draft notice of appeal only raises one ground: 'The Refugee Review Tribunal denied the Applicant procedural fairness in that it relied upon information adverse to the Applicant.
 It was a piece of country information relied upon by the RRT for its determination that the applicant would not be treated unfairly if he were to return to South Korea. 30 The other matter which was raised by the applicant related to his family.
