 The applicant proposes to serve each respondent with the Application filed on 5 September 2007, the affidavits of Kenneth Philp and Gary Brian Morgan each filed on 5 September 2007, a Statement of Claim filed in the proceeding on 5 September 2007, a copy of the Notice of Motion filed 5 September 2007 and a copy of any order the court might make in dealing with the Notice of Motion. 2 The applicant in the proceeding is a company incorporated in the People's Republic of China.
 The registered particulars for the New Zealand and Habode patents describe the second respondent, Rodney Mark Gibson, as the inventor of the invention the subject of both patents. 7 Between June to August 2007, the respondents by their New Zealand patent and trade mark attorneys, A J Pietras Co wrote letters to Transformable Homes Pty Ltd to the effect that Habode was the patentee of the Habode patent; that patent conferred exclusive rights upon Habode; and that attempts by Transformable Homes Pty Ltd to sell, offer for sale or import into Australia for sale transportable homes would constitute an infringement of the Habode patent resulting in suit.
 Those letters are: letter Janet Stead Associates (patent attorneys for Transformable Homes) to Pietras --- 28 June 2007; letter Pietras to Stead --- 4 July 2007; letter Pietras to Stead - 26 July 2007; and letter Pietras to Stead --- 28 August 2007. 8 On 8 August 2007, the applicant's solicitors, Bennett Philp, wrote to A J Pietras Co seeking an undertaking that the respondents would not make any claim upon the applicant or any assignee, distributor or end-user of the applicant's products that the exploitation within Australia of the applicant's portable building product infringes the Habode patent.
 Ltd's associated entities/agents/distributors worldwide. 9 The affidavit of Gary Brian Morgan deposes to his relationship with the applicant and Renhe Xiamen; details of Renhe's business and that of Renhe Xiamen; Renhe's Australian business arrangements with its distributors and importantly, the history of Mr Morgan's relationship with the second respondent and the dealings between the second respondent, Habode and Renhe Xiamen and the ultimate breakdown of commercial relations between those parties.
 Presumably, in any action for infringement brought by Habode, the applicant would cross claim for revocation of the patent. 11 The applicant says that the respondents have made unjustified threats of patent infringement proceedings against both the applicant's Western Australian distributor and against the applicant directly by force of the letter to Bennett Philp dated 9 August 2007 in respect of the applicant's business activities, through its distributors, in Australia.
 A threat can be made by means of a letter from a legal representative [211] (see also the authorities mentioned by her Honour at [208] --- [211]; see also Occupational and Medical Innovations Limited v Retractable Technologies Inc. [2007] FCA 1364 per Dowsett J at [5] --- [9] and [29] --- [40]. 14 I am satisfied that a threat of infringement has been made to the Western Australian distributor of the applicant and the applicant by letter received in Australia and that the applicant is a person aggrieved.
