 (first court hearing) INTRODUCTION 1 At the first court hearing on 25 October 2007 of this application by the plaintiff (Bolnisi) under s 411 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (the Act), I ordered Bolnisi to convene a meeting of its members for the purpose of their considering, and if thought fit, approving (with or without modification) a scheme of arrangement between Bolnisi and its members.
 Its securities are listed on the New York and Toronto stock exchanges. 4 The Coeur subsidiary through which the acquisition will be affected is Coeur d'Alene Mines Australia Pty Limited (Coeur Australia) which has been incorporated for the purposes of the proposed scheme of arrangement. 5 The proposal is that Bolnisi shareholders will receive $0.004 in cash and 0.682 shares in Coeur (or Chess Depository Interests representing Coeur shares (CDIs)), for each of their shares in Bolnisi. 6 Through a subsidiary (Fairview), Bolnisi owns 73 percent of the shares in the capital of Palmarejo Gold and Silver Corporation, a Canadian corporation.
 Options 10 The directors of Bolnisi, or, where relevant, their associates on their behalf, have entered into Option Deeds with Coeur, under which Coeur will have an option to buy the shares in Bolnisi in which the directors or their associates have an interest.
 On the Implementation Date, Bolnisi is to pay the cash component to the Scheme Shareholders from the trust account. 12 In relation to the scrip component of the Scheme consideration, under cl 5.3 of the Scheme, on the Implementation Date the names of the Scheme Shareholders are to be entered in the shareholder register of Coeur, and uncertificated holding statements are to be despatched to them representing the total number of Coeur shares issued to them.
 ASIC 16 There was before the Court the "usual letter" from ASIC indicating that it did not wish to appear at the first court hearing or to make any submissions in opposition to the making of an order for the convening of the Scheme meeting.
 Independent expert's Report 17 There was before the Court a report by Mark Pittorino and Stephen Reid of Deloitte Corporate Finance Pty Limited (Deloitte) verified by affidavit by Mr Pittorino to the effect that the Scheme is fair and reasonable and is therefore in the best interests of shareholders of Bolnisi.
 Approvals have been given at the second court hearing in similar circumstances in connection with a number of previous schemes: see the discussion by Jacobson J in Re Solution 6 Holdings Ltd (2004) 50 ACSR 113 at [37]---[45], and the earlier authorities to which his Honour there referred.
 Warranty of freedom from encumbrances 22 By cl 8.2(b) of the Scheme, the Bolnisi shareholders are deemed to warrant to Coeur that the shares the subject of the transfer to Coeur Australia will be unencumbered and that the shareholders will have full power and capacity to transfer them to that company.
 The maximum period during which the no shop provision can operate is the period of seven months from the date of the MIA, that is to say, the period from 3 May 2007 to 3 December 2007. 24 The amount of the break fee is US$7.78 million.
 Of course the break fee is not payable by Bolnisi merely because its shareholders do not agree to the Scheme. 25 I discussed no shop and no talk and break free provisions in Re APN News Media Ltd (2007) 62 ACSR 400 at [25]---[55] and in Re Investa Properties Ltd [2007] FCA 1104 at [31] ---[35].
 Clause 12 of the Merger Implementation Agreement between Bolnisi and Coeur ... is an exclusivity provision which provides that, during the exclusivity period, competing third party proposals are not to be sought and discussions or negotiations may not be entered into in relation to a third party proposal.
