 I believe that if the employment were an aggravating factor, one would anticipate that the symptoms would subside when the employment was ceased. ' 11 The Tribunal also referred to a report from Dr Larry Fingleton, Ms Butler's treating General Surgeon.
 She argued that it was not put to her, nor was she allowed to respond to the allegations, (a) that she did not hold the telephone in her left hand whilst at work; and (b) that symptoms developed in her right arm after she left work.
 She did not mention the issue of the hand in which she held the telephone. 20 In its reasons for decision the Tribunal did not identify the issue of which hand Ms Butler held the telephone in whilst at work as an issue that needed to be addressed to reach a decision on whether her condition was work related.
 The critical paragraph in the Tribunal's reasons for decision which explains the Tribunal's preference for Dr Harvey's evidence is [23]: 'I cannot be satisfied that the medical research evidence before me supports, on medical grounds, a general causal relationship between keying and nerve entrapment (including carpel [sic] tunnel syndrome and ulnar nerve entrapment).
 Rather, the Tribunal assumed its accuracy but decided, partly by reference to the evidence of Dr Harvey, that the symptoms that she experienced in her left elbow had no connection with the way that she held the telephone at work.
 She agreed that leaning on her right elbow could not account for the symptoms that she told Dr Fingleton about. 25 Counsel for Telstra submitted to the Tribunal that the opinion of Dr Burgess, which linked Ms Butler's symptoms in her left elbow to her leaning on that elbow, did not explain her symptoms in the right elbow.
 Although it was not put to her that the symptoms in her right arm developed after she left work, the true significance of those symptoms was not the timing of their development; it was that they arose in an elbow that she did not, as a matter of practice, lean on while speaking on the telephone.
 The Tribunal was not under an obligation to disregard the symptoms experienced by Ms Butler in her right arm because no person expressed an expert opinion on the relevance of the symptoms in Ms Butler's right arm other than in respect of her carpal tunnel syndrome.
 While acknowledging that the Tribunal was not bound by the rules of evidence, Ms Butler argued that 'there must be occasions and are occasions that a tribunal could reject evidence that is clearly inadmissible and based on extreme hearsay' . 38 Ms Carrall was Ms Butler's manager although she did not work at the same location as Ms Butler.
 She was not required for cross-examination. 41 The evidence contained in the statement of Ms Carrall and Ms Small and the oral evidence of Ms Carrall was plainly relevant to the issues required to be determined by the Tribunal.
 It was not obliged to accept what she said, including what she said about the amount of keying that she did. 42 The Tribunal did not take into account an irrelevant consideration when it took into account the evidence of Ms Carrall and Ms Small.
