 That amended Claimant Application forms the basis of the consent determination proposed to be made today. 4 The agreement reached between the parties and filed in the Court on 14 November 2007 confers exclusive and non-exclusive rights on the Ngadjon-Jii People to use and enjoy the land and waters in the determination area. 5 The agreement between the parties is subject to the Court being satisfied that it has the power to make orders in terms of those sought and the Court being satisfied that it is proper to do so.
 Section 87 of the Act allows the Court, if it is satisfied that such an order is within its power, to make an order in, or consistent with, the terms of the parties' written agreement without holding a hearing. 8 Where the Court makes an order in which a determination of native title is made, s 94A of the Act requires the Court to set out details of the matters mentioned in s 225.
 Section 225 provides: 'A determination of native title is a determination whether or not native title exists in relation to a particular area (the determination area ) of land or waters and, if it does exist, a determination of: (a) who the persons, or each group of persons, holding the common or group rights comprising the native title are; and (b) the nature and extent of the native title rights and interests in relation to the determination area; and (c) the nature and extent of any other interests in relation to the determination area; and (d) the relationship between the rights and interests in paragraphs (b) and (c) (taking into account the effect of this Act); and (e) to the extent that the land or waters in the determination area are not covered by a non-exclusive agricultural lease or a non-exclusive pastoral lease --- whether the native title rights and interests confer possession, occupation, use and enjoyment of that land or waters on the native title holders to the exclusion of all others. ' CONSIDERATION OF AGREEMENT AND DRAFT DETERMINATION: 9 In considering whether it is appropriate to make the order that the parties seek, I have had the benefit of the Summary of Connection Material report of Dr Sandra Pannell, Anthropologist, prepared in September 2007 and filed as an annexure to the affidavit of Martin Edwin Ellis Dore on 7 November 2007.
 Thus, while some individuals lived at Top Camp and Gulkagulka , other Ngadjon-Jii people, during the same period, occupied camp sites in 'the Jungle' (in Malanda), at the junction of the Ithaca and North Johnstone Rivers, on farms at Glen Allyn, at Bunjabilli (aka 'Bottom Camp' in reference to Top Camp, at Lamins Hill) at Butcher's Creek, and at the camp at the Malanda Falls. ... [57] Twentieth-century anthropological and linguistic accounts provide further evidence of the general physical connection of the Ngadon-Jii people to the claimed areas.
 For example, based upon fieldwork with Ngadon-Jii informants in the 1930s and again in the 1970s, including several of the claimants' immediate forebears, Norman Tindale, recorded that "Ngatjan territory was virtually all in rainforest extending from Atherton in the west to near Innisfail on the coastal plains". ' 12 In reviewing the Ngadjon-Jii People's claimed cultural connection, Dr Pannell continues: '[58] For the claimants, language is identified as one of the distinctive cultural features of their group. ... [59] The Ngadjon dialect was acquired from the Ngadjon-Jii relatives in the parental and grant-parental generation.
 Claimants, whether old or young, posses language names, which, among other things, refer to rainforest faunal or floral species or to named places on Ngadjon-Jii country. ' 13 In reviewing the Ngadjon-Jii People's claimed spiritual connection, Dr Pannell writes: '[65] Ngadjon-Jii people maintain a spiritual connection to the claimed lands through the transmission of oral narratives about 'Dreamtime' beings and Ngadjon-Jii ancestors, known as the 'old people'.
 The language-named Storytime or 'Dreamtime' places acknowledged and protected by the Ngadjon-Jii people point to the claimants' belief that their traditional lands and waters constitute a sentient landscape, forever occupied by both Dreaming and ancestral spirits. ' 14 Dr Pannell states in her report that the entitlement of the Ngadjon-Jii claimants to possession of the claim area is recognised by members of neighbouring Aboriginal groups.
 On the basis of these interviews, and also based upon the outcome of the group meetings, it is the opinion of the research anthropologist that there is a widespread consensus in the regional Aboriginal community, that the claimants are; (1) Ngadjon-Jii, and (2) that they are the 'Traditional Owners' of the lands and water under claim by the claimant group. ' 16 Dr Pannell's report contains many examples in which the Ngadjon-Jii People have maintained their connection to the determination area.
 These include: occupying the remnant forests or otherwise utilizing them to avoid being taken to missions that operated during the first half of the twentieth-century; working on local farms whilst occupying traditional dwellings; engaging in occupations carried out on the country, such as timber cutting or fossicking; and in some cases, returning to Ngadjon-Jii country upon release from government missions. 17 According to Dr Pannell's report: '[92] With the exception of some of the members of the Parkinson family, who reside on Palm Island, at the time when the native title claim was lodged, practically all of the Ngadjon-Jii claimants lived either in Malanda or in Atherton. ' 18 I am satisfied, based on all of the information available to the Court, that the Ngadjon-Jii People have a long-standing and continuing connection to the determination area under traditional laws acknowledged and traditional laws observed by them.
 Associate: Dated: 12 December 2007 Solicitor for the Applicant: North Queensland Land Council Aboriginal Corporation Solicitor for the First Respondent: Crown Law Solicitor for the Second, Third and Fourth Respondents: MacDonnells Law Date of Hearing: 12 December 2007 Date of Judgment: 12 December 2007 SCHEDULE 1 DETERMINATION AREA The Determination Area comprises all of the land and waters described in the following Parts, excluding any area of land and waters on which a public work, as that expression is defined in the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth), is or has been established on or before 23 December 1996, and any adjacent land and waters the use of which is or was necessary for, or incidental to, the construction, establishment or operation of the work.
 EXCLUSIVE AREAS Part A The land and waters, being: Area Determination Plan lot number Lot 31 on AP16251 Lot 2 on AP14230 NON-EXCLUSIVE AREAS Part B The land and waters, being: Area Determination Plan lot number Lot 130 on NR910 Lot 6 on AP14230 Lot 142 on NR7206, excluding the area of land and waters subject to former Lease of Agricultural Farm 180 which commenced on 1 July 1909 Lot 7 on AP14230 Lot 301 on NR6075 Lot 5 on AP14230 Part C The land and waters, being: Area Determination Plan lot number Part of Lot 19 on NPW921 formerly described as Part of Lot 19 on NPW696, excluding the area of land and waters subject to former Lease of Land Selection 323 which commenced on 1 January 1883, and excluding the area of land and waters subject to former Deed of Grant No.18557 for Agricultural Farm 1344 dated 9 June 1960 situated in former portion 116 in Parish of Bellenden Ker in the County of Nares, and excluding the area of land and waters subject to former freehold Lot 3 on RP855879.
 Lots 1 and 4 on AP14230 Lot 1421 on NPW396, excluding the area of land and waters subject to former Lease for Special Purposes No.5054 which commenced on 1 December 1926, and excluding the area of land and waters subject to former Lease for Special Purposes No.14990 which commenced on 1 December 1946 Lot 3 on AP14230 SCHEDULE 2 DESCRIPTION OF THE NATIVE TITLE HOLDERS In respect of the Determination Area, the common law holders are those people known as the Ngadjon-Jii People.
