 The Commission expressed concerns about the Proposed Acquisition. 2.3 On 27 August 2004: (a) the Consortium offered to give certain undertakings under section 87B of the Act to allay the concerns of the Commission; and (b) the Commission informed the Consortium that it agrees in principle to the Consortium's proposed undertaking terms and therefore does not propose to intervene in the matter pursuant to section 50 of the Act , subject to the Commission's acceptance of appropriate undertakings under section 87B of the Act . 2.4 Accordingly, the Consortium Members, ANS and DBNGP Holdings offer these Undertakings for acceptance by the Commission. 4.
 On 25 October 2004 the Commission accepted the Undertaking under sub-section 87B(1) of the Act on the basis that the Undertaking addressed its concern that: (a) Alinta 2000's indirect interest in the DBNGP; and (b) the fact that Alinta Network Services Pty Ltd ( ANS , now called Alinta Asset Management Pty Ltd ( AAM )) would undertake operating, maintenance and construction activities associated with the DBNGP would give Alinta 2000 the ability to effect anti-competitive outcomes in the relevant downstream markets. 5.
 Clause 5.4 of the Undertaking provides that: (a) Subject to clause 5.4(b), Alinta undertakes that no person who is a director or secretary or a member of the staff of Alinta or any of its Related Bodies Corporate (other than ANS) will be involved in commercial negotiations between DBNGP Holdings (and, or, EEWAT) with other Shippers relating to gas transportation on the DBNGP. (b) Nothing in clause 5.4(a) prevents a person to whom that clause applies from being involved in commercial negotiations between DBNGP Holdings (and, or, EEWAT) with a particular Shipper if the Shipper consents in writing to that person being involved in the negotiations. (c) EEWAT and DBNGP Holdings undertake to give the ACCC written notice of all Shipper consents referred to in clause 5.4(b). 6.
 Alinta 2000's conduct in seconding Shelley Kalms to DBP, and permitting her to remain there in circumstances where Alinta 2000 knew that she was involved in commercial negotiations with Shippers, constituted a breach of clause 5.4 of the Undertaking. " 4 Having considered the agreed statement of facts in the light of the pleadings, I am prepared to make orders in the terms sought.
