 That rule provides: 'On a directions hearing under this Order the Court or a Judge shall give such directions with respect to the conduct of the proceedings as are thought proper. ' 2 Without prejudice to the generality of this rule, sub-rule 15(2) provides that the court may determine, amongst other things, to do the matters specified in pars (a) to (g) inclusive. 3 Ryan J in Australian Telecommunications Corporation v Lambroglou (1990) 12 AAR 515 held that the general power conferred by the rule was wide enough to allow the court to strike out the whole or part of a notice of appeal under s 44 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (Cth) ('the Act').
 Alternatively, such a power could be found in s 23 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth). 4 In this particular case Mr Theo seeks to appeal from a decision by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal ('the Tribunal') given on 24 November 2006. 5 In that decision the Tribunal determined that the application by Mr Theo for review of a decision to deny him a Disability Support Pension was frivolous or vexatious within the meaning of s 42B(1)(b) of the Act, and pursuant to s 42B(1)(a) of that Act dismissed the application and directed that the applicant not, without the leave of the Tribunal, make any further application for review to the Tribunal in respect of a decision refusing the applicant a Disability Support Pension. 6 The basis for those orders is that Mr Solon Theo applied for a Disability Support Pension on 23 May 2006.
 I am therefore satisfied it is appropriate to make a direction in the terms sought by the respondent . ' 7 On the motion, Mr Theo sought to argue that there was a contract of which he was able to take the benefit between the Commonwealth of Australia and him which arose out of a sheaf of Commonwealth statutes, including the Income Tax and Social Services Contribution Assessment Act 1936 (Cth), retitled in 1965 to the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth), the Social Services Contribution Act 1945 (Cth), as well as the Social Services Consolidation (No 2) Act 1950 (Cth) and the Income Tax and Social Services Contribution Act 1962 (Cth). 8 The submission by Mr Theo is that such laws confirm a contractual arrangement between the Australian Government, and the public and non-conformity to those contractual arrangements amounts to a breach of contract.
 It was said by Mr Theo that Mr McCabe failed to express an opinion on the validity of the mentioned relevant laws which do not contain any restrictions similar to those which disbarred him on the basis of his age for the Disability Support Pension for which he applied on 23 May 2006. 9 The legal position is, quite simply, that there is no such contract to be derived from that legislation which frees Mr Theo from the age restrictions which apply to the grant of a Disability Support Pension.
 Regardless of the history of that particular matter, it cannot be argued that there is a legal error demonstrated in the judgment of the Tribunal with respect to the refusal of the application lodged for a Disability Support Pension by Mr Theo on 23 May 2006 when Mr Theo was 72 years of age. 11 In those circumstances, it is in the interests of everybody, including Mr Theo, that his appeal be dismissed. 12 The notice of motion seeks costs.
 I will hear the parties on that, but there seems to be no reason why the ordinary rule as to costs should not apply. 13 Finally, I should note that in respect of the three social security payments which were mentioned by Mr Theo in the course of discussions this morning, namely, the Newstart Allowance, Disability Support Pension and the Age Pension; he is not eligible for either a Newstart or a Disability Support Pension by virtue of his age. 14 Mr Theo is an undischarged bankrupt and he asserts that he has no means.
 It is clearly in Mr Theo's interests that he adopts an efficient and compliant attitude to an application for an Age Pension. 15 The orders of the court are that the appeal QUD 465/06 is dismissed, and the respondent is to have his costs of and incidental to the appeal to be taxed, if not agreed.
