 1 This is an application under s 39B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) and s 475A of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act') as it was before the amendment effected by the Migration Litigation Reform Act 2005 (No 137 of 2005) for prerogative relief directed to the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs and the Refugee Review Tribunal ('the Tribunal'). 2 The applicant for relief applied for a Protection (Class XA) Visa on 12 March 2005.
 The Tribunal conducted a review and on 5 October 2005 decided to affirm the decision not to grant a protection visa. 3 The applicant submits that the Tribunal made three errors of law which went to its jurisdiction.
 The applicant's main problem was that he was suspected of being of the Baha'i faith. 7 The Tribunal then set out the information and evidence put before it at the review hearing.
 The information is that, (in contrast to the claim made at the hearing that you intend to convert to the Baha'i faith), at your arrival interview, your protection visa application and in your interview with the Delegate, you said your concern was that you had been and would be accused of converting, although you were not a Baha'i and were still a practising Muslim.
 The Tribunal's summary is as follows: 'The letter states that in May or June 2005 two vehicles (one police, the other unmarked) came to the house and four people claiming to be police entered, searched and ransacked the house, interrogated the applicant's family as to his whereabouts, and took the applicant's father away.
 In other words, the Tribunal did not address his claim that even though he was not of the Baha'i faith, he would be persecuted because the authorities would think that he was of that faith.
 It accepted that Baha'i is a persecuted religious minority in Iran, and that a convert from Islam to the Baha'i faith would be at an even greater risk of persecution than someone born into a Baha'i family. 15 The Tribunal found that the applicant was not of adverse interest to the Iranian authorities.
 The critical finding is that the applicant was not of interest to the Iranian authorities and that negated a conclusion that the authorities thought that he had converted to the Baha'i faith. 16 The Tribunal went on to deal with the applicant's claim that he intended to convert to Baha'i.
 He gave evidence of such an intention, and it was appropriate for the Tribunal to consider that question in view of the evidence that those of the Baha'i faith are a persecuted religious minority in Iran.
 The findings made by the Tribunal were open to it and it did address the claim that he intended to convert and would be persecuted as a result, and the claim that he would be persecuted because the authorities in Iran considered that he had converted.
 The Tribunal was entitled to conclude for the reasons it gave that the applicant was not of adverse interest to the Iranian authorities and therefore to reject his story that he had been detained and questioned.
