 The method of delivery was described in a way which was not restricted to infrastructure or equipment provided or connected to Foxtel customers. 2 A standard 'access agreement', which was Appendix 2 to the undertaking, identified in detail the circumstances in which Foxtel would actually provide the identified services.
 The terms of Appendix 2 made clear that Foxtel would be under no obligation to provide services to other telecommunication service providers using infrastructure or equipment which was not supplied by Foxtel pursuant to a current subscription arrangement with its individual customers.
 The practical effect of the stipulations was that Foxtel would not provide services to other telecommunication service providers which effectively allowed transmissions of material except to persons who were, at the relevant time, Foxtel's own customers who held a current subscription. 3 Foxtel characterised the stipulations as 'terms and conditions' about the manner of delivery of services.
 There is no occasion for a public inquiry, although the ACCC must still publish the undertaking and invite and consider submissions (s 152CBD(2)). 19 In this second case, which is what the present proceedings concern, the undertaking is not in operation until it is accepted by the ACCC (s 152CBF).
 Any such determination is, to the extent of inconsistency with an access undertaking, of no effect (s 152CGB). 21 The significance of whether a particular stipulation operates as a limitation upon the supply of a service (s 152AL(7)) or as a term or condition about a matter concerning compliance with the obligations set out in s 152AR will need to be examined in further detail.
 If terms and conditions are specified in a special access undertaking which is accepted by the ACCC there may not be a future arbitration which imposes obligations inconsistent with the terms and conditions. 25 The ACCC is directed that it must either accept or reject a special access undertaking (s 152CBC(2)).
 Failing specific agreement with an access seeker about compliance with standard access obligations, any terms and conditions specified in the undertaking govern the manner of compliance about matters with which they deal (s 152AY(2)(b)(i)). 27 It is only terms and conditions in relation to standard access obligations which the ACCC is required to assess for consistency (s 152CBD(2)(a)).
 Because they are specified in relation to standard access obligations with respect to a declared service, terms and conditions of this kind necessarily apply within the field of the active declared service to which an undertaking relates. 28 By contrast, and as earlier indicated, the statutory scheme accommodates the possibility that an undertaking and therefore the scope of a declared service, may be limited.
 However, the proposition that Appendix 2 (which contains a specific and clear limitation upon the scope of the services to which its own terms relate) is applied by clause 2.2 of the undertaking in a manner which does not affect the scope of the services described by Appendix 1 but rather, and only, specifies terms and conditions concerning access to them, produces an odd result.
 This is a question of degree. ' 59 This passage, in my view, comes uncomfortably close to confusing (if not eliminating altogether) the important distinction between a limitation on the scope of a service to be supplied (on the one hand) and terms and conditions relating to the obligation to provide access to the service (on the other).
 The issue for consideration in relation to the tying clauses is whether the clauses are consistent with the obligation to supply the active declared service on demand pursuant to ss.152AR(3)(a). ' 61 The ACCC recorded Foxtel's position as follows: 'Foxtel asserts that the tying clauses are bona fide terms of supply and not a limitation within the meaning of ss.152CBA(5).
 The Commission's conclusion is that the tying clauses are consistent with the obligation to supply the declared service. ' 67 I earlier set out the requirements, stated in s 152CBD(2)(a), that the ACCC must not accept a special access undertaking unless satisfied that terms and conditions specified in the undertaking would be consistent with the special access obligations.
