 In the absence of a jurisdictional error this ground fails. " 8 His Honour found that it was apparent from its decision that the Tribunal adopted a correct approach at law in concluding that the threats did not give rise to a well founded fear of persecution for a Convention reason.
 As the Tribunal did not accept that the appellant had a well founded fear of persecution for a Convention reason, and the ground of review before the Court fails in limine as no basis arose for State Protection. 9 In relation to the second ground, his Honour observed that the Tribunal clearly found that the appellant's experiences before his departure from Israel did not amount to persecution for a Convention reason.
 I accept as correct the Respondent's submissions that there was no need in the instant case for the Tribunal to turn to the question of whether there had been a failure of State protection until the Tribunal had first concluded that the Applicant had a well founded fear of being persecuted for a Convention reason and that the requirements of section 91R of the Act had been met.
 It follows that the Tribunal was not obliged to make any determination about the availability of State protection, it having earlier decided that the Applicant did not have a well founded fear for a Convention reason. [38] This ground too must fail. " 10 Accordingly, his Honour dismissed the application.
 The Federal Magistrate erred in law by finding that the Tribunal had not made a jurisdictional error in circumstances where the Tribunal failed to consider whether threats of disappearance and death made to the appellant by Israeli security forces could, by themselves, amount to 'serious harm' for the purposes of s 91R Migration Act 1958 (Cth). 2.
 The Federal Magistrate erred in law in failing to decide upon the appellant's argument that the Tribunal had made a jurisdictional error by failing to consider whether physical harassment of the appellant by Israeli Special Forces, including detaining the appellant and pointing a gun at him, could amount to "serious harm". 13 The appellant sought the following orders: 1.
 In considering s 91R , Marshall J found (his Honour's decision was reported at [2004] FCA 1495 ; (2004) 139 FCR 405) as follows: "(at 410) Counsel (for the claimant) submitted that the Federal Magistrate was correct to conclude that the making of a threat to life is serious harm for the purpose of s 91R(1)(b).
 However, the Tribunal concluded that it was not satisfied that the incidents of harm referred to by the appellant constituted "serious harm" for a Convention reason when taken cumulatively, or further that the Israeli authorities had a genuine, continuing interest in the appellant for a Convention reason, or that there was a real chance that the appellant would be seriously harmed for a Convention reason by the Israeli authorities in the reasonably foreseeable future if he were to return to Israel.
 On the material before me there appeared to be no evidence that the appellant had sustained such serious psychological harm or would sustain such harm if he returned to Israel. 28 Finally, and notwithstanding Mr Rangiah's persuasive arguments, I am satisfied that the High Court's findings in relation to the meaning of the word "threat" as an instance of serious harm in s 91R(2)(a) Migration Act extend to the concept of threat as "serious harm" within s 91R(1)(b).
 The fact that the applicant suffered no other harm at the hands of Heem throughout this period is indicative of the fact that the threats were designed to frighten and intimidate him and that Heem or the Israeli Special Forces did not seriously intend to act upon them.
 Further it considered the incidents cumulatively and despite that matter was not satisfied that the Applicant's experiences amounted to persecution for a convention reason. " 38 On the face of para [18] of his Honour's judgment, contrary to the submission of Ms Wheatley, it is not apparent that his Honour has dealt with the issue whether the physical ill-treatment of the appellant could constitute "serious harm".
