 The notice says that in particular a responsible entity of a registered scheme must exercise the degree of care and diligence a reasonable person in that position would exercise; act in the best interests of members and if there be a conflict between the interests of members and the entity, give priority to the member's interests; and treat members of the same class equally and those of different classes, fairly.
 The notice then says that if Primary Securities Limited ('PSL') is appointed as responsible entity it will conduct a review of management arrangements; review fees currently charged by AOL to members; conduct a review of frost damage to trees; and replace the auditors to the Project with others.
 The fair inference open from the conjunction of those observations with the statement of opinion of the members calling the meeting is that AOL has failed to discharge the identified duties which condition the view of those calling the meeting that the interests of members would be better served by removing AOL and replacing it with PSL. 11 The applicant contends that of the 56 members recited in the Notice of Meeting for Project 4, 24 of them consented to their name being endorsed on the notice, 4 of them did not agree and 21 of them provided no response to a request made of them that they consent to their name being included within the 56 nominated members.
 Mr Shaw says that on or about 4 December 2007 he was informed by Mr Peter Bysouth, a member of Projects 4 and 5 that he did not call either of the meetings of members for those Projects and that his name was included on the Notices of Meeting without his consent.
 Mr Shaw says that Dr Mack told him that he did not consent to his name being used to call a meeting and he has 'not called any meetings of members for any of the Australian Projects and is willing to swear an affidavit to that effect'.
 No affidavit from Dr Mack has been filed. 22 In relation to the consents obtained by Mr Livadaras from members of Project 4 endorsed on the Notice of Meeting, many of the consents are dated well after the date of receipt by members of the notice on or about 2 November 2007.
 A purported change of the scheme's responsible entity is 'ineffective unless it is in accordance with this Division' (s 601FJ(2)) and 'a company cannot be chosen or appointed as the responsible entity or temporary responsible entity of a registered scheme unless it meets the requirements of section 601FA ' (s 601FK ).
 In order to maintain continuity for those persons dealing with the register, a company recorded by ASIC as a responsible entity of a registered scheme remains the responsible entity until the record is altered to name the new entity, notwithstanding anything in Division 2. 34 A responsible entity might retire or be removed by members.
 Section 601FM(1) is in these terms: If members of a registered scheme want to remove the responsible entity, they may take action under Division 1 of Part 2G.4 for the calling of a members' meeting to consider and vote on a resolution that the current responsible entity should be removed and a resolution choosing a company to be the new responsible entity.
 An extraordinary resolution in relation to a registered scheme means, among other things, a resolution 'that has been passed by at least 50% of the total votes that may be cast by members entitled to vote on the resolution (including members who are not present in person or by proxy)' (s 9).
 As to kind, 'each of the following is a kind of financial product (a) for interests in a managed investment scheme, all the interests in that managed investment scheme' (Reg. 7.1.04A(2)) and as to class, 'an interest in a managed investment scheme is in the same class as another interest in a managed investment scheme if they are both interests in the same managed investment scheme' (Reg. 7.1.04B(2)).
