 The Registrar made the orders referred to above on 23 May 2007 and the application for review by APM was made on the same day. 4 At the time the statutory demand was served Brian Leslie Fisher was the sole director and secretary of APM. 5 The application for review is brought under s 35A(5) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) and is a hearing de novo (s 35A(6)). 6 On 23 May 2007, I stayed the operation of the winding up order.
 By reason of s 459S of the Corporations Act APM may not, without the leave of the Court, oppose the application for it to be wound up in insolvency on a ground that it could have relied on but did not so rely on for the purposes of an application by it for the statutory demand to be set aside. 8 No application for leave under s 459S was made by APM.
 In any event, as no application was brought pursuant to s 459S, no effort was made to show the Court that it could be satisfied that the ground would be material to proving that APM was solvent (s 459S(2)) as distinct from just leading evidence as to solvency generally.
 The adoption of a cash flow test for solvency does not mean that the extent of the company's assets is irrelevant to the inquiry. 12 The above legal principles (and others) were conveniently set out by Weinberg J in Ace Contractors Staff Pty Ltd v Westgarth Development Ltd (1999) FCA 728 at [44] . 13 I have concluded that APM has failed to demonstrate that it is solvent, it having the burden to the requisite civil standard to prove solvency.
 In addition, Mr Miller recognised that the high interest rates accruing to the loans of APM meant that, putting aside any other calls upon any money in court, these funds would be needed to repay loans in order to minimise ongoing interest charges and that the sale of properties must accordingly be made immediately.
 The evidence before the Court does not indicate that this will or can occur in any reasonable time frame, or that the moneys from such sales will be available in any event to pay creditors. 20 I have given APM ample opportunity throughout this hearing to demonstrate solvency, and it has already had the benefit of substantial time.
 I did this because it was submitted on behalf of APM that the proceedings instituted in the Supreme Court by APM, seeking that it be paid the money in court in priority to other competing claims, would be dealt with quickly and I considered that APM should be given the opportunity to pay out the creditors it accepted had valid claims.
 The learned judge in the Supreme Court did indicate that if the matter was ready for trial and APM could convince the court on proper affidavit material there was an urgency about the matter, he would endeavour to hear it in the last week of October 2007.
 Therefore, to allow APM any further time, and await the result of the Supreme Court proceedings, would be of no consequence. 24 I should indicate that Mr Miller was not cross-examined upon his report of 30 August 2007 by any of the creditors, supporting creditors or the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ('ASIC') (which was given leave to intervene in these proceedings).
 The attack made was upon the appropriateness or otherwise of his approach and the material he relied upon. 28 In any event, whilst I accept that the rule in Browne v Dunn may apply to expert testimony, there is no rule of law requiring that evidence not challenged in cross-examination be accepted.
 It was further contended that the indemnity ranked as a first charge upon the assets of the trust and, if the Court were not satisfied of the solvency of APM, that it should exercise its power to accede to the request of APM to be removed from the office of trustee (a request made during the course of the hearing) upon certain undertakings being made as to certain funds.
