 The nature of the contract, if any, formed between the parties and any interest acquired by Mr Lewarne is also a live issue in this proceeding. 7 The purchase of the hotel business was settled on 25 July 2003.
 Ms Dalitz says that, at the Mosman meeting, there was no discussion of a purchase of shares in Momentum and that Mr Scotts described his plans as 'I will retain control with 80% ownership in the business, Lewarne will purchase 15%...of the business'.
 Mr Lewarne makes his case against both Momentum Productions (under the Trade Practices Act ) and Mr Scotts himself (under the Fair Trading Act ), although of course to the extent that the representations were allegedly made by Momentum, Mr Lewarne's case is that Mr Scotts made the representations in his capacity as director of Momentum.
 Mr Scotts and/or Momentum would, as one of the initial plans for the business after the assignment date, demolish part of the wall between the hotel and the adjoining building and extend the area of use under the liquor licence into the adjoining building; 3.
 Mr Scotts and/or Momentum would, as one of the initial plans for the business after the assignment date, construct a new poker machine area and install and operate poker machines in the adjoining building; 5.
 Mr Scotts and/or Momentum would continue to operate the ten existing poker machines at the hotel and would, as one of the initial plans for the business after the assignment date, procure and operate 5 additional poker machines at the hotel; 6.
 Mr Scotts gave evidence that he saw this as an opportunity to assist his sister who was having difficulty raising finance to complete the purchase of the business and that he also saw it as a good business opportunity.
 Mr Scotts admitted that these representations had been made, to the extent only that Momentum had open to it an option on the lease that, if exercised, would have allowed the hotel business to operate out of the premises for a total period of 22 years.
 Mr Lewarne: Yes that is fine, Anthony has told me about that. 146 In cross-examination Mr Scotts strongly expressed the opinion that he was entitled to use the $300,000 paid by Mr Lewarne as he saw fit and that "I chose to use it to pay out a residential property which Mr Lewarne knew all about ...".
 Mr Scotts claims that the payment was made pursuant to an agreement in respect of Lewarne's purchase of shares in Momentum Productions, that any such agreement has been terminated and accordingly that the money ought to be repaid.
 Mr Lewarne claims that the payment was made as a part-payment of the profit share in the East Village Hotel business to which he is entitled. 166 I have rejected the argument that Mr Scotts and Mr Lewarne entered into an agreement for the purchase of shares in Momentum and have found that they entered into a partnership agreement.
