 The appellant's claim was rejected by a delegate of the Minister and, on review of the delegate's decision, by the Refugee Review Tribunal. 2 On the hearing of the appellant's application to the Federal Magistrates Court for judicial review of the decision of the Tribunal, the appellant relied solely on a contention that the Tribunal had failed fully to comply with s 424A of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth).
 The Federal Magistrate rejected this contention and dismissed the application. 3 The only issue raised on this appeal from the judgment of the Federal Magistrates Court is whether the learned Federal Magistrate ought to have allowed the appellant's application for judicial review on the basis that the Tribunal failed to comply with the requirements of s 424A of the Act.
 WHO CARRIED THE BURDEN OF PROOF? 8 The Federal Magistrate concluded that s 424A did not apply to the information on which the Tribunal made its finding because that information was information that the appellant gave to the Tribunal during his Tribunal hearing, or alternatively, because his Honour was not satisfied to the contrary. 9 The appellant formally submitted that the approach of the Federal Magistrate was erroneous in that the Minister carried the burden of proving that s 424A(1) did not apply to the information upon which the Tribunal based its finding that the appellant had had assistance from his adviser since May 2005 (see s 424A(3)).
 I am therefore prepared to proceed on the basis that it is more likely than not that the Tribunal had regard to information in the Departmental file before making its finding regarding the appellant's assistance from his adviser. 11 However, a finding that the Tribunal had regard to information in the Departmental file does not necessarily lead to the conclusion that s 424A applied to that information.
 To succeed in his contention that the Tribunal failed to comply with the requirements of s 424A in respect to the information upon which its finding was based, it was necessary for the appellant to satisfy the Federal Magistrate that the Tribunal did not base its finding on information that he gave for the purposes of his application to the Tribunal. 12 It was open to the appellant to adduce evidence before the Federal Magistrates Court of what information he did, and did not, give to the Tribunal for the purposes of his application, including during his hearing.
 The Federal Magistrate had ordered that evidence of what was said at the appellant's Tribunal hearing was to be presented in the form of a transcript verified by affidavit and that a tape recording would not be received in evidence without the leave of the court obtained prior to the hearing.
 The appellant does not challenge the appropriateness in the circumstances of the refusal of the adjournment application. 13 It was also open to the appellant to make an application to this Court to receive on his appeal evidence additional to that adduced in the Federal Magistrates Court (see O 52 r 36 of the Federal Court Rules ).
 No such application was made. 14 The case sought to be made by the appellant before the Federal Magistrates Court and on appeal was that, even in the absence of evidence of what information the appellant provided to the Tribunal during his hearing, the Federal Magistrate ought to have been satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that the information on which the Tribunal based the finding identified in [6] above was not information provided by the appellant during that hearing.
 The reasons for decision of the Tribunal thus tend to establish that the appellant gave to the Tribunal the information that Mr Haque was his adviser both as at the date of the Tribunal hearing and in May 2005 (ie the date of his visa application). 16 The finding of the Tribunal that Mr Haque had been available to give the appellant advice throughout the period between May 2005 and the date of the Tribunal hearing may reflect an inference drawn solely from the information identified in the previous paragraph.
 If it does, s 424A plainly did not apply to that information because it was information that the appellant gave for the purpose of his application to the Tribunal. 17 Even if it be assumed that the Tribunal placed weight on information in addition to that identified in [15] above in reaching its finding, that additional information may have been given to the Tribunal by the appellant for the purpose of his application or it may have come to the Tribunal from another source.
 Indeed, the following factors suggest that his Honour was right to conclude that the first option was the more likely. 18 As mentioned above, the appellant did not give evidence before the Federal Magistrates Court to the effect that he gave no relevant information additional to that identified in [15] above to the Tribunal.
