 Section 439C provides that at a meeting convened under s 439A, the creditors may resolve that the company execute a DOCA specified in the resolution or that the administration should end or that the company be wound up.
 The reason is that reg 5.3A.07 provides that if the Court makes an order under s 445D terminating a DOCA, the company is deemed to have passed a special resolution that the company be wound up voluntarily.
 The Supplementary Report related to a query that Mr Hamilton had raised in the Report touching on payments made by Wellnora on 12 August 2005 out of the proceeds of the settlement of the sale of Unit 1.
 On 18 January 2006, Mr Hamilton: (a) received the executed documents from Ms Soong; (b) caused to be mailed to Ms Soong a notice of demand for books and records, a blank form of RATA and a questionnaire; and (c) prepared and executed a notice of the first meeting of creditors of Wellnora, to which was attached Mr Hamilton's statement of independence.
 I did not consider it necessary to go beyond those matters I have enumerated above, in forming a decision or determination as to what is in the best interest of creditors, either the proposal and DOCA or a winding up.
 He states that his own investigation and analysis of the affairs of Wellnora did not lead him to conclude that Wellnora had been established for the purpose of avoiding tax or that there had been a deliberate avoidance of tax.
 Mr Hamilton exhibits to his affidavit time sheets showing that a total sum of $38,525 is owing based on the hourly rates for himself and his staff in connection with the defence of this proceeding.
 He refers to counsel's advice to him that if the DOCA is set aside and the DCT is not required to reimburse the full amount of the Creditors' Fund, he (Mr Hamilton) may face a liability in that amount ($65,000).
 The Administrators also submit that an effect of termination of the DOCA on 21 June 2006 is that the DCT thereupon ceased to be a creditor of Wellnora, and so ceased to have standing to apply under s 445D or 445G.
 Section 436E requires the administrator to convene the first meeting of creditors within five business days after the administration begins (it begins when the administrator is appointed --- in the present case on Wednesday 18 January 2006).
