 The applicant and Ms Brough were divorced on 25 August 2004. 5 The applicant's father has never been part of his life and he has met him on only two occasions and that was when he was a child.
 Between 1999 and 27 March 2002, the applicant established and operated a business involving the spraying of concrete over bitumen surfaces and engraving bitumen surfaces. 7 The applicant committed a number of offences between 1998 and 2002.
 The direction provides that the other considerations are generally to be given less individual weight than that given to primary considerations. 19 Subject to a submission that the Tribunal member misunderstood the nature of the discretion he was exercising, the applicant did not suggest that the Tribunal member erred in his consideration of the first two primary considerations.
 The Tribunal finds that, for the reasons given, and in the best interests of the child, the applicant's visa should be cancelled. 29 The Tribunal member then considered the matters which appear in the direction under the headings "Other Considerations" and "Other International Obligations" respectively.
 The second limb involves a submission that the Tribunal member misunderstood or misinterpreted the provisions of the FLA in rejecting the applicant's submission that in making the contact orders by consent the Federal Magistrates Court was articulating that the best interests of the child would be served by allowing him to have contact with his father.
 That was the case at the time of the interim orders (s 65E) and at the time of the final orders (s 65AA) and it was the case even if the orders were made by consent, although the FLA gave the Court a discretion as to whether it considered certain matters in the case of consent orders (see s 68F at the time of the interim orders and s 60CC(5) at the time of the final orders).
 Although the Federal Magistrates Court could order that there be contact between the applicant and Jedi, its orders at least allowed for it and it must be taken that the Federal Magistrates Court considered that contact between the applicant and Jedi was in the best interests of Jedi.
 Although the Tribunal member did not say why he rejected the applicant's submission that weight could be placed on the orders made by the Federal Magistrates Court, it must have been because he misunderstood the provisions of the FLA.
 The first step the applicant must establish is that by rejecting the applicant's submission the Tribunal member was concluding that the orders did not reflect a view by the Federal Magistrates Court about the best interests of Jedi.
 The Tribunal member was bound to make up his own mind about the best interests of Jedi having regard to the matters in the direction and his inquiry involved an examination of the range of matters referred to in the direction. 44 For these reasons, I reject the applicant's first submission. 45 The applicant also referred to the presumption of equal shared parental responsibility introduced by the Family Law Amendment (Shared Parental Responsibility) Act 2006 (Cth).
 In any event, it is clear that the Tribunal member did not overlook them, and his conclusion that they were not of assistance to the applicant was open to him on the evidence and in light of his task under s 501(2) of the Act . 2.
