 By those orders I approved the entry by the second applicant (Mr Hamilton) in his capacity as Official Liquidator of the first applicant (Newpage) into a Deed of Settlement and Release (the Deed) between them on the one hand and the first respondent, Casino Busters International Pty Ltd (CBI), and the second respondent (Mr Parsons), the sole director of CBI, on the other hand, and approving Mr Hamilton's compromising a debt of CBI and Mr Parsons to Newpage accordingly.
 The third respondent (Mr Yii), the sole director of Newpage, caused the payments to be made. 6 The conflicting accounts given by Mr Parsons and Mr Yii of the circumstances surrounding the making of the two payments and subsequent events were outlined in my reasons for judgment of 4 April 2007 referred to above.
 The Deed also recited that Mr Hamilton desired to make further claims against Mr Parsons in the proceeding, including but not limited to claims for "involvement and/or assistance in breach of fiduciary duty and claims for misleading and deceptive conduct". 9 The Points of Claim asserted (in paras 8 and 11) that there was "no consideration, or no proper consideration," for the making of the payments of $610,000 and $1,527,000.
 During the course of hearings of other applications in this proceeding, counsel for Mr Hamilton and Newpage had also referred to the payments as having been uncommercial transactions within s 588FB of the Act. 10 Whichever class or classes of voidable transactions the payments were said to have constituted, Mr Hamilton intended to seek an order under s 588FF of the Act that CBI and Mr Parsons pay the sum of $2,137,000 to Newpage.
 It provided that Mr Parsons would pay a certain amount to the applicants, would make himself available to give evidence for Mr Hamilton and Newpage on the hearing of the proceeding, swear affidavits, and generally assist Mr Hamilton in connection with the examinable affairs of Newpage and with the claims being made against Mr Yii.
 Section 477(2A) provides: (2A) Except with the approval of the Court, of the committee of inspection or of a resolution of the creditors, a liquidator of a company must not compromise a debt to the company if the amount claimed by the company is more than: (a) if an amount greater than $20,000 is prescribed--the prescribed amount; or (b) otherwise--$20,000.
 The expansion of the liquidator's powers to act without approval was recommended on the basis of the competence and qualifications of persons who act in the capacity of liquidator. 23 The Harmer Report's recommendations were reflected in the omission of the general requirement of approval from subs (1) and the insertion of a requirement of approval in new subss (2A) (debts to the company of more than any prescribed amount exceeding $20,000, and if none was prescribed, $20,000), and (2B) (agreements that may end or be performed beyond three months after they are entered into). 24 The meaning of the word "debt" can be affected by its context.
 In Tietyens 31 ACSR 1 a claim of equitable damages based on accessorial liability for breaches of trust, the primary cause of action being a claim based on Barnes v Addy (1874) 9 Ch App 244, was similarly held not to be a claim of a debt to the company. 25 The voidable transactions claim pleaded in the Points of Claim is not a claim of a debt to Newpage.
 There is no present liability under such a claim --- a liability would come into existence only if and when the Court made an order under s 588FF if Mr Hamilton applied for the order and proved that the payments constituted a voidable transaction. 26 In HIH [2004] NSWSC 5 at [12] and QBE Workers Compensation (NSW) Ltd v GJ Formwork Pty Ltd (2006) 56 ACSR 687 ( QBE ) at [4]-[5], Barrett J said that where there is room for argument about whether a claim is one of a debt to the company, the court should err on the side of treating the claim as a debt rather than decline to grant approval under s 477(2A).
 The different role of directions under s 479(3) of providing guidance and protection to the liquidator appears from the judgments in Re GB Nathan and Co Pty Ltd (in liq) (1991) 24 NSWLR 674, 679-680; Re Spedley Securities Ltd (in liq) (1992) 9 ACSR 83 at 85 ( Spedley ); State Bank of New South Wales v Turner Corporation Ltd (1994) 14 ACSR 480 at 483. 34 In a doubtful case, the Court can "to the extent that approval may be required" grant approval under s 477(2A), and otherwise direct under s 479(3) that the liquidator is justified in entering into the compromise in question.
 In Tietyens 31 ACSR 1, Weinberg J held that he lacked jurisdiction under s 477(2A) but gave directions under s 479(3). 38 For reasons that appear below, it is not necessary (and it is not desirable) that I attempt to define the concept of "a debt to the company" as that expression appears in s 477(2A).
 As indicated above, however, I respectfully agree with the line of authority to which I have referred to the effect that the expression does not embrace a liability that arises only after the liquidator has chosen to apply for an order under s 588FF of the Act and satisfied the court of the existence of the various elements of one or other of the classes of voidable transaction provided for in the Act, and the court has made an order under that section. 39 Notwithstanding the terms of the Points of Claim, counsel who appeared from time to time for Mr Hamilton and Newpage had in fact referred to the claim against Mr Parsons and CBI on several occasions as one of "debt".
 Mr Yii may raise other issues which will require disclosure of the Deed or of parts of it, whether generally or on a restricted basis. 46 For the above reasons I ordered that the transcript of the hearing and the Deed not be published without leave of the Court, and that that Deed be placed in an envelope that was to be sealed and not opened without leave of the Court.
