 TELSTRA'S RESPONSE 9 Telstra submits that the ACCC's claim should be dismissed because: (1) none of the 12 Events convey either of the Coverage Representations; (2) none of the Events convey the CDMA Comparison Representation if the CDMA Comparison Representation is a representation as to present fact.
 At the very least, some of the brochures were available at certain metropolitan Telstra Shops in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. 31 Class 3 is confined to mobile phone users, including potential mobile phone users, in Melbourne and Brisbane who were also customers at Telstra Shops.
 Under the heading, " BIGPOND MOBILE SERVICES ", the AFL Website Advertisement contained the following words to the right of a handset: afl.com.au is now mobile! watch exclusive mobile AFL video and get live scores, news match stats on your 3G Mobile and Telstra's Next G TM Network.
 Next G is the next generation mobile network, bringing high-speed, wireless broadband Internet to mobile phones and laptops across Australia. 56 Under the handset and these words was the tagline " Faster, Simpler, Everywhere you need it --- Click here for a Demo! " Since 17 September 2007, the AFL Website Advertisement has not contained the words "Everywhere you need it".
 The First Coverage Representation 57 The ACCC submits that the First Coverage Representation is conveyed by the following passage: Next G is the next generation mobile network, bringing high-speed, wireless broadband internet to mobile phones and laptops across Australia .
 The First Coverage Representation 71 The ACCC submits that the First Coverage Representation is conveyed by the media release and, in particular, the highlighted passage in [70] above and the references to several remote parts of Australia: off the coasts of Southern Tasmania and Western Australia.
 Faster, Simpler, with Coverage Everywhere you need it . " ("the Telstra Next G Website"). 78 Under that heading, the home page contained the words: The Next G network is Telstra's next generation wireless broadband network, brining high-speed broadband to mobile phones and laptops across Australia .
 The whole thrust of the website page was to tell an ordinary or reasonable member of the class that users were able to use it wherever they needed it by the use of phrases such as " across Australia " and " Say hello to coverage across Australia " and the repeated reference to the tagline " Everywhere you need it ".
 I do not accept that an ordinary or reasonable person would equate the statements made in, and the impressions conveyed by, the Network for Business Brochure with the claim that the Next G network offers coverage "everywhere in Australia".
 The First Coverage Representation 98 As with the Everywhere Advertisement and the Cramer Testimonial, I do not accept that an ordinary or reasonable person would equate the statements made in, and the impressions conveyed by, the Cairns television advertisement with the claim that the Next G network offers coverage "everywhere in Australia".
 The First Coverage Representation 102 As with the Everywhere Advertisement and the Cramer Testimonial, I do not accept that an ordinary or reasonable person would equate the statements made in, and the impressions conveyed by, the 'all over the country' radio commercials with the claim that the Next G network offers coverage "everywhere in Australia".
 The First Coverage Representation 106 As with the Everywhere Advertisement and the Cramer Testimonial, I do not accept that an ordinary or reasonable person would equate the statements made in, and the impressions conveyed by, the Next G Family Brochure with the claim that the Next G network offers coverage "everywhere in Australia".
