 I further ordered that the costs of the proceeding to set aside the statutory demand be reserved with written submissions in relation to the question of costs to be forwarded to the court for determination on the papers. 2 The plaintiff sought to set aside the demand on three grounds. 3 First, that the demand contained a defect and substantial injustice would arise should the demand not be set aside. 4 Secondly, apart from any question of injustice arising out of effect being given to a demand contended to be defective, the plaintiff contended that the failure to recite correctly the total amount of the debt due and payable (rather than the lesser sum reflected in the demand) constituted a failure to comply with a mandatory obligation going to the validity of the demand.
 First, that the goods supplied by the defendant to the plaintiff and identified in one of the tax invoices in question, are not fit for the relevant purpose and secondly, that goods listed in two other tax invoices making up the amount of the statutory demand were not ordered by the plaintiff from the defendant and were not supplied by the defendant. 6 In the result, the plaintiff failed to establish the first two grounds of the application. 7 The defendant, apart from responding to all three grounds relied upon by the plaintiff, also contended that the plaintiff had failed to comply with s 459G(3) of the Act, compliance with which goes to jurisdiction.
 The defendant says that had Mr McInnes clearly and fully stated the content of the grounds for a genuine dispute, the defendant would have been afforded the opportunity to withdraw the statutory demand prior to the filing of the application. 13 In the course of the judgment, I expressed some reservations about the adequacy generally of the affidavit of Robert McInnes sworn 26 October 2006 as the affidavit failed to engage directly and precisely with the content of the contentions of the defendant.
 In addition, the defendant was strongly of the view that the application to set aside the statutory demand was fatally flawed irrespective of any question going to a genuine dispute and sought to resist the application on that ground. 14 In terms of the real burden of the grounds of the application, the first two grounds unsuccessfully advanced by the plaintiff in challenging the statutory demand were less significant than the unsuccessful argument of the defendant going to s 459G(3) and the question of whether having regard to a consideration of the affidavit material, the plaintiff had established a genuine dispute between the parties. 15 Although the plaintiff established a genuine controversy of fact, some of the affidavit material put on by the plaintiff was unsatisfactory and failed to properly address the central contentions of the defendant and simply expressed denials or assertions at a high level of abstraction.
