 (Revised from Transcript) 1 On 9 October 2007, Gyles J made orders for the hearing and determination separately of two questions pursuant to O 29, r 2 of the Federal Court Rules . 2 Those questions were formulated as follows: 1.
 On the grounds alleged in the Relevant Paragraphs of the Amended Statement of Claim, whether the Respondent is under a duty or obligation to deliver to the First Applicant the originals or alternatively, any copies of documents provided by the Respondent to the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA) during the period 19 September 2006 to 10 December 2006 (the APRA documents) and hence entitled to the relief claimed in paragraph 1 of the Amended Application. 2.
 Alternatively, on the grounds alleged in the Relevant Paragraphs of the Amended Statement of Claim, whether the Respondent is under a duty or obligation to deliver to the Court all of the APRA documents for the purpose of allowing the First Applicant to inspect, take notes and make copies of same, and hence entitled to the relief claimed in paragraph 2 of the Amended Application.
 That urgency arose out of a forthcoming supervisory visit to be conducted by APRA on 10 December 2007. 4 The source of the obligation imposed upon the Respondent to keep the First Applicant ("the Trustee") so informed was said to be a fiduciary duty owed by Mr Rickus.
 Reference may also be made to like observations made subsequently in Pilmer v Duke Group Ltd [2001] HCA 31 , 207 CLR 165 at 197---8 by McHugh, Gummow, Hayne and Callinan JJ. 5 At the commencement of proceedings today, Senior Counsel for the Trustee sought leave to further amend both the Amended Statement of Claim and the Amended Application .
 The very fact that the Trustee, but for its desire to have the issues determined quickly, may also potentially wish to cross-examine the Respondent, only provides further reason for reservation. 8 Another area of factual uncertainty potentially surrounding the application is whether or not the documents produced by Mr Rickus pursuant to the notice were his personal property or the property of the Trustee.
 It is unnecessary to cite further authority for the proposition that the procedure contemplated by O 29 should be adopted with caution and is a procedure fraught with difficulties, other than the decision of the Full Court in Save the Ridge Inc v Commonwealth [2005] FCAFC 203 , 147 FCR 97. 9 It should further be noted that at the commencement of the proceedings today, APRA sought leave to intervene pursuant to s 320 of the Superannuation Industry Supervision Act 1993 (Cth).
 Neither the Trustee nor the Respondent sought to contend that the Authority could not intervene because the proceedings presently before the Court did not relate to a matter arising under the 1993 Act within the meaning of s 320(1).
 The question as to whether the Applicant should pay the First Respondent its costs on an indemnity basis, and the question as to whether an order should be made under Federal Court Rules O 62, be reserved and heard on 26 November 2007 at 9:30am. 9.
 The First Respondent file and serve any submissions in support of an application for costs on an indemnity basis, together with an order that those costs be paid forthwith, and an indication as to the quantum of those costs, no later than 22 November 2007 at 5pm. 10.
