 A history of this matter is summarised in the respondents' written outline of submissions, which I gratefully adopt: (i) On 30 May 2005 the applicant filed an application seeking judicial review of a range of alleged decisions. (ii) On 5 July 2005 the applicant provided the respondents with a proposed amended application. (iii) On 24 August 2005 I heard the applicant's motion seeking leave to amend the application and the respondents' motion seeking to strike out part of the application and opposing leave to amend the application. (iv) I determined the motions by reference to the proposed amended application.
 To review the decisions of the first respondent, made on 5 May 2005, pursuant to ... section 41A of the SRC Act, to: (a) ... (b) Delegate to Megan Pitt, who is an employee of AGS, all of her powers as a rehabilitation authority under Part III of the SRC Act, in relation to the applicant, who is also an employee of AGS. (c) To review the conduct of the second respondent, or such other persons involved, in procuring this delegation from the first respondent. ' (v) With respect to [A6], it is to be noted that the amended application was in a different form from the original application which provided: '6.
 To review the decisions of the first respondent, made on 5 May 2005, pursuant to section 55ZA of the Judiciary Act , and section 41A of the SRC Act, to: (a) Delegate all of her powers as an employer (including her employer powers at common law) in relation to the applicant, (who is an employee of AGS) to Megan Pitt (who is also an employee of AGS). and (b) Delegate to Megan Pitt, who is an employee of AGS, all of her powers as a rehabilitation authority under Part III of the SRC Act, in relation to the applicant, who is also an employee of AGS. (c) To review the conduct of the second respondent, or such other persons involved, in procuring these delegations from the first respondent. ' (Paragraphs removed by the amendment are in bold. ) (vi) The applicant sought leave to appeal my judgment. (vii) On 18 October 2005 Branson J stood over the leave to appeal application to allow the applicant to make an application to me to be allowed to re-plead the claims in relation to ss 39B(1) and (1A) of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth).
