 The Second Applicant is an American subsidiary of the Finnish company. 6 The Metso Group designs, manufacturers and services a range of ore processing equipment, the most important of which is its comminution equipment, including grinding mills.
 Concern was immediately expressed that Mr Tuckwood may have accessed documents for purposes other than the business of the Metso Group when it emerged that he had accessed design documents related to " pad bearings ".
 The result of that analysis was that a large number of documents were identified as having been accessed which did not relate to any such current engagement. 24 Moreover, on 5 November 2007 -- two days before Mr Tuckwood communicated his intention to terminate his company's contract with Metso -- he inserted a USB drive into the computer at 6:49am.
 There was no apparent and legitimate reason for Mr Tuckwood to be then accessing the Applicant's programs or information or downloading drawings or other information. 26 Comparable evidence has been given to specific programs accessed by Mr Kalra and Mr Rauscher, being programs to which neither had any legitimate reason to access.
 In addition to FL Schmidt, the next closest competitor is the Krupp-Polysius corporate group. 30 The manufacture of a successful grinding mill requires a great deal of " know-how " which cannot be discerned simply by a physical examination of individual mills.
 The Metso Group has invested 25 years of development into producing ever larger mills. 31 The second way in which the Applicants claim that they establish a serious risk of actual or potential damage is to maintain that the risk is real and immediate.
 In the absence of specific design standards, it is said to be almost impossible for any manufacturing subsidiary of CITIC to commence building mills of the requisite size. 34 Prior to July 2007, the CITIC Group had never been a competitor of the Applicants.
 A typical Metso grinding mill, it is said, might require 1000 hours of design and drafting of drawings. 35 The inference, submit the Applicants, is that the CITIC Group was only able to cease negotiations and to supply the mills itself via a subsidiary by reason of the information now available to it from Messrs Kalra, Rauscher and Tuckwood.
 Mr Tuckwood also modified files on his laptop less than a half hour before Mr Carson attended Metso's premises to conduct his investigation. 38 An examination of Mr Kalra's laptop revealed that materials and emails had been deleted.
 Mr Rauscher's laptop also evidenced files being deleted and having " been filtered to remove some codes . " 39 The circumstances in which confidential information has been accessed, presumably downloaded or transferred, and thereafter deleted from computers is sufficient to found a conclusion that there is a real possibility that evidence will be destroyed if the orders now sought are not made.
 Until further order, pages 19, 20, 22 and 23 of exhibit MG-01 to the affidavit of Mark Glendenning, affirmed on 29 November 2007, be confidential and access limited to: a) The Applicants and their advisors; and b) The legal representatives of the Respondents. 2.
