 Is Hilditch responsible for any part of its claimed loss because it allowed the discharge operation to continue notwithstanding its knowledge that the cargo was contaminated during the discharge operation: see Art 4 r 2(i)?
 The clause also sought to exempt Dorval from liability for any admixture not caused by unseaworthiness or error or fault of Dorval or its servants in the loading, care or discharge of the cargo.
 I infer that the signature of the Export-Import Bank of Korea was intended to authorise, to the extent that it had any property in the bill or the cargo, further dealings in the property by delivery of the bill as a negotiable instrument.
 Capt Edgerton and Mr Kanagasabai had known each other for quite a long time. 39 Capt Edgerton had considerable expertise in the operation of chemical and gas tankers and had been providing specialist services for the loading and discharge of cargoes and operation of chemical tankers for over 25 years.
 By that he meant that if valves 703 and 704 were open to permit pumping out of tank 7C the only point in the ship's lines potentially separating the Yubase 6 and caustic soda cargoes was valve P21.
 He said that it was good practice to close valves 703 and 704 as well as valve P21 if the discharge of caustic soda from tank 7C stopped to enable the discharge of the Yubase 6 to proceed.
 The chief officer said that there were only two lines available for pumping out the cargo and that the crew had prepared line 2 for the discharge of the Yubase 6 from tanks 6P and 6S.
 He also found caustic soda in the 5 tins sampled from tanks VO 20 and VO 17 into which the bulk of the Yubase 6 had been discharged. 65 Mr Ambler, a laboratory supervisor at Intertek, supervised analytical tests in July 2006 on the samples in the 5 tins.
 But, he said, assuming that some additive or additives which were mildly acidic or acidic were present in the Yubase 6, the acidic material would react with the caustic soda. 69 Mr Flynn, whose evidence I accept, had said Yubase 6 contained acidic material which caustic soda, being highly alkaline, would attack, resulting in a change to the nature of the oil.
 There is no evidence to suggest, however, that lightning, in the form of caustic soda or some other contaminant, struck the Yubase 6 twice --- once before and once after it passed the ship's manifold.
 Dorval did not identify how admixture could have occurred through two different causes in the same discharge operation. 76 I am satisfied that the admixture happened on the ship before discharge of the Yubase 6.
