 There is a back up proceeding pursuant to the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) in the event that any issue is not a question of law for the purposes of s 44 of the AAT Act. 2 The Veteran served in the Royal Australian Navy between 4 March 1948 and 14 June 1973.
 The Tribunal found that the kind of death suffered by the Veteran was that of cerebrovascular disease in relation to which there was an applicable Statement of Principles (SOP), namely Instrument No 51 of 2006 currently in force.
 There had been previous Instruments but the matter proceeded on the basis that the current Instrument would govern. 3 The SOP, so far as is relevant, was in the following form: " Factors that must be related to service 5.
 Counsel for the Commission drew attention to the form of the concluding paragraphs of the reasons for decision in which the correct approach is recited. 8 That explanation would be convincing were it not for the reasoning of the Tribunal which is consistent with seeking to establish the necessary link rather than disproving it.
 Later in a discussion about when the crew go ashore to drink, he also said that: "if you don't join them, they reckon there's something wrong with you" That account obviously applied to operational service .
 Naturally enough, the applicant's statement of facts and contentions was directed to establishing the reasonable hypothesis. 16 The transcript of the argument that took place before the Tribunal does not reveal any submission on the part of the representative of the Commission that a reasonable hypothesis, if raised, was negated beyond reasonable doubt.
 That is a common phrase used where considering whether a reasonable hypothesis has been raised pursuant to s 120(3). 17 Counsel for the Commission submits that the key to the decision lies in the finding that the Veteran commenced drinking in 1949 after he joined the Navy because he was enticed by his mates to drink and that he continued to drink alcohol thereafter because he had "acquired a taste for it".
 It was that dependence that provides the link with the death, not the commencement of drinking of alcohol. 18 The argument put by Counsel for the Commission is not unlike that considered in Bull 188 ALR 756 .
 The facts, of course, were different from those in issue here. 19 The foregoing analysis persuades me that the mis-statement of the statutory task pursuant to s 120(1) in the reasons cannot simply be ignored and treated as a slip of the pen.
 As Barwick CJ said in Keeley v Brooking [1979] HCA 28 ; (1979) 143 CLR 162 at 169: "To be satisfied beyond all reasonable doubt is, for the purposes of the law, to be certain. " 20 The presiding Member of the Tribunal appeared to recognise that in the comment made during the course of argument which I have quoted.
