 Mr Petro conducted his case upon the basis of an assertion that the quantitative contribution of the table file and the editor file, together, in a typical WebStable CMS was slightly less than 1%, and Dais was not heard to take issue with that. 14 I turn next to the process of the development of the table file and the editor file, and of the involvement of Mr Petro therein.
 That system required a table file and an editor file. 19 In order to obtain the table file and the editor file required for the Food Direct newsletter system, Mr Petro made access to the table file and the editor file on the existing web site of one of Dais's commercial clients.
 It was put to him that the records of Dais described him as "the person responsible for the HR Advantage Consultant site", to which he responded, "Okay, I accept it, but like I said, I have absolutely no memory of it".
 That circumstance, together with Mr Petro's inability to recall ever having worked on that site, leads me to find that that site was probably not the one from which Mr Petro downloaded the table file and the editor file. 48 In the circumstances, and for the reasons stated above, I could not find, on the probabilities, that Mr Petro reproduced the table file or the editor file from the HR Advantage CMS.
 While the existence of that exhibit was drawn to my attention, Dais did not present any argumentative case designed to establish that, along the dimension of originality, the table file and the editor file were, or either of them was, a substantial part of the whole body of the source code in the CMS.
 Mr Muys said that he had, without prompting or assistance from anyone, accessed and downloaded the table file and the editor file from the HR Advantage site simply by directing his browser to the following addresses: www.hradvantage.com.au/_script/CDAITable.js and www.hradvantage.com.au/_script/CDAIEditor.js.
 The administrator in either case will have a user name and password by reference to which he or she will be able to access all the source code in the relevant CMS, including that in the table file and the editor file.
 Undoubtedly Mr Petro used for his own benefit information which he had acquired in the employ of Dais, namely, the location (by reference to Dais's file naming conventions) of the table file and editor file in a Dais-built CMS.
 THE CORPORATIONS ACT CLAIM 100 Dais contends that, when Mr Petro downloaded the source code for the table file and the editor file in about June 2004 and subsequently used that information, he contravened s 183(1) of the Corporations Act .
 That subsection is as follows: A person who obtains information because they are, or have been, a director or other officer or employee of a corporation must not improperly use the information to: (a) gain an advantage for themselves or someone else; or (b) cause detriment to the corporation.
