 Ms Li issued a proceeding in the Federal Magistrates Court, claiming that the officer's decision was affected by jurisdictional error, including a denial of natural justice. 2 Federal Magistrate Burchardt dismissed Ms Li's application.
 While this early part of the interview with Ms Li was not recorded, it is evident from comments the officer made later in the interview (shortly after 12.14pm when a Bahasa Indonesian interpreter was present and when recording of the interview had commenced) that he had formed this view during the part of the interview when an interpreter was not present. 4 At p 2 of the transcript, the officer is recorded as saying: 'Ms Li, you've indicated to me that you have come to Australia to speak with some customers in order to see how a shipment had gone that arrived last week. ' The transcript records that the interpreter is present at this stage, but that Ms Li (as distinct from the interpreter) gives the non-responsive answer: '...I can speak English I think. ' 5 Shortly thereafter, the officer decided that a Mandarin interpreter would be more appropriate.
 The discussion continued by reference to a container of clothes which was on its way to Australia and would be picked up by her 'customer', Mr Patterson, in the week after her arrival. 7 At p 13 of the transcript (which is still during the period where no interpreter is present) the interview is recorded as follows: 'OFFICER: You come to Australia this time for business?
 I bring money, go back. ' 8 At about 1.15 pm, again without an interpreter, the officer commenced to read a notice of intention to consider the cancellation of Ms Li's visa.
 During the course of reading that notice, a Mandarin interpreter became available and the officer re-read the notice, which the interpreter translated to Ms Li. 9 At p 15 of the transcript, the officer is recorded as saying to the interpreter: 'I'm just explaining to her, and if you can repeat this, it has come to the department's attention that there may be grounds for cancellation of your visa under section 116 of the Migration Act for the following reasons, okay.
 Therefore, you have ceased to have an intention only to visit or remain in Australia as a visitor temporarily for the purpose of visiting an Australian citizen. ...' 10 The officer went on to inform Ms Li that he would conduct an interview at 1.30 pm that day to give her an opportunity to give reasons why her visitor's visa should not be cancelled. 11 It appears that by this stage the officer had formed a preliminary view based on comments made by Ms Li, without the assistance of an interpreter, that Ms Li had come to Australia, in part, to conduct business. 12 At 1.40 pm, while a Mandarin interpreter was present, the officer asked Ms Li to provide reasons why the grounds for cancellation do not exist.
 At p 21 of the transcript (as corrected), Ms Li said, through the interpreter: '...Because I am carrying many things for many people this time, mainly the things my customers asked me to buy for them in Cambodia. ...' 13 Shortly thereafter, at p 23 of the transcript, the officer said that he had decided to cancel the visa 'under s 116(1)(g) and regulation 2.43(1)(j) ', as 'Ms Li has come to Australia for the intention of conducting business'.
 Counsel contended that the officer denied Ms Li a fair opportunity to put her case during the period prior to when he had formed the view that there may be grounds for cancelling her visa.
 PROCEDURAL FAIRNESS 18 The information obtained by the officer, on which he considered that there may be grounds for cancelling Ms Li's visa, was obtained from Ms Li in the absence of a proper translation of the communications between them.
 In the circumstances, no practical injustice arose (see Re Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs; Ex parte Lam [2003] HCA 6 ; (2003) 195 ALR 502 at [37] ). 19 Although the officer inappropriately obtained some information from Ms Li without proper interpreting facilities, he afforded her an opportunity to disabuse him from any prima facie views he had formed as a result of those discussions.
 REFUSAL TO ADMIT AFFIDAVIT EVIDENCE 20 Ms Li sought to tender before the Federal Magistrate affidavit evidence about the conditions and conduct of the interview and about her lack of understanding of the officer's questions, absent an interpreter.
 Even if this evidence had have been admitted it would not have demonstrated any injustice which was not remedied by proper interpretation of the notification under s 119 of the Act and proper interpretation of the subsequent interview which commenced at 1.40 pm.
