 ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER 7.1 This Deed will be binding upon the KM and Eastern Guruma claimants, and any prescribed body corporate appointed by the KM and Eastern Guruma claimants as agent or trustee of native title rights held by them and the KM and Eastern Guruma claimants shall each ensure and procure that any such prescribed body corporate appointed by them will first agree to be bound by all the obligations of the respective claimants under this Deed. 7.2 The KM and the Eastern Guruma claimants shall not assign or transfer any of their native title rights or their rights and obligations under this Deed without first procuring the transferee or assignee to enter into a Deed with the KM or Eastern Guruma claimants agreeing to be bound by all the obligations of the transferor and assignor under this Deed. 8.
 AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO THIS DEED OF AGREEMENT 1.1 Each of the Eastern Guruma applicants and each of the PKKP applicants signs this Deed for themselves and in their capacities as their claimant group's registered applicants, with the authority and on behalf of all the members of their claimant group. 1.2 The Eastern Guruma applicants warrant that they have consulted with the Eastern Guruma claimants and that they have the authority to act for and legally bind all the Eastern Guruma claimants to the obligations set out in this agreement and that all the Eastern Guruma claimants will be bound by the terms of this agreement. 1.3 The term "Eastern Guruma claimants" shall include any persons who are included as native title holders in the Third Schedule of any determination of native title in the Eastern Guruma claim. 2.
 ILUA 8.1 Eastern Guruma claimants agree that within a reasonable time of the request of the PKKP claimants to do so and the presentation of the form of an Indigenous Land Use Agreement containing the terms of clause 2 of this Deed, that they and any PBC appointed for the Eastern Guruma claim area will enter into the said agreement and agree that it may, at the option of the PKKP claimants, be registered as an Indigenous Land Use Agreement under the Native Title Act ("the ILUA agreement") 8.2 The Eastern Guruma claimants agree that they and any PBC appointed for the Eastern Guruma claim area shall, on the request of the PPKP claimants, do all things and sign all documents reasonably necessary in order to enable the ILUA agreement to be registered as an Indigenous Land Use Agreement under the Native Title Act . 8.3 The Eastern Guruma claimants and their members shall not take any steps to challenge or object to the registration of the ILUA agreement as an Indigenous Land Use Agreement under the Native Title Act . 9.
