 It refers to the second applicant as Michelina Dimasi when her correct name is Maria Dimasi. ' And at [6]; 'That error in my view is fatal and is not a mere defect or irregularity of a kind which could be cured by a declaration by this Court.
 He also rejected the argument that service on the first appellant had been defective because the first appellant was referred to in the affidavit of service as "Frank Dimasi", rather than "Frank Dimasi trading as F and M Dimasi (A Firm)", as named in the extract of the order of the Magistrates' Court at Mildura.
 However, the Federal Magistrate was wrong in law in proceeding to hear the application before him (to set aside the Bankruptcy Notice) on the basis that a bankruptcy notice can be bad against one debtor but remain valid as against another debtor named in the same bankruptcy notice. 2.
 His Honour ought to have found that the Bankruptcy Notice was capable of misleading a debtor because it failed to name one of the two joint judgment debtors and instead stated as the name of one of one of the two joint judgment debtors "Michelina Dimasi" which is not the name of either judgment debtor. ' The second appellant, Maria Dimasi, appeals against the costs order made against her on 24 October 2006, and the relevant grounds of appeal are; '3.
 Form 1 appears in Schedule 1 of the Regulations , and paras 1---4 provide for the identification of the debtor, the creditor and the time and place for payment. 28 Section 40(1)(g) of the Act identifies the act of bankruptcy as depending upon the service of "a bankruptcy notice under this Act ".
 Given the serious consequences attached to service of a bankruptcy notice and non-compliance with it, judgment creditors are required to comply strictly with the requirements governing bankruptcy notices, which, as well as effective service, include that they be in the correct form and have the specified contents.
 The questions whether the defect or irregularity is a formal defect or irregularity, and whether substantial injustice has been caused and cannot be remedied, are separate and distinct, the latter question arising only if the former is answered in the affirmative. ' 30 In this case, there has been a failure to comply strictly with a statutory requirement, as the second appellant was not correctly identified in para 1 of the bankruptcy notice.
 A defect will not be characterised as "a formal defect or an irregularity" if it could reasonably mislead a debtor as to what is necessary to avoid the commission of an act of bankruptcy. ' 44 The first appellant can be taken to have known, before the service of the bankruptcy notice, that he was jointly liable with the second appellant on a judgment debt owing to the respondent.
 In my view, no "substantial injustice" has been caused in the present case. (c) The order for costs against the second appellant 48 Mr Bigmore contended that, if it were held that the learned Federal Magistrate should have set aside the bankruptcy notice as against both appellants, then costs in the court below should follow the event or, at worst for the appellants, there should be no order as to those costs.
 He did not press the contention that his Honour's discretion miscarried in awarding costs on an indemnity basis against the second appellant even if the bankruptcy notice were not set aside as against the first appellant. 49 In view of my conclusion that the bankruptcy notice was effective as against the first appellant, it is unnecessary to consider the contention which was pressed as to costs.
