 Relevantly, in respect of costs, s 347(1) of the Act provided: '347(1) A party to a proceeding ... in a matter arising under this Act ... shall not be ordered to pay costs incurred by any other party to the proceeding unless the first-mentioned party instituted the proceeding vexatiously or without reasonable cause. ' 21 In relation to the question of costs it is appropriate to note that the applicant failed to establish some contraventions of s 298SC(c) said to have occurred on 17 February 2004 (see [294(b), (f) and (j) of the primary judgment].
 The words attributed by Mr Summers to the fourth respondent included: 'You won't get back on this site [indicating the Fairy Meadow site] , that is a union site, and you won't get back on that site [indicating the Wollongong site] if you're not a union member. ' 57 It is important to note that the fourth respondent was well aware of the fact that he was not entitled to make representations such as he did.
 I knew that it was not possible for the CFMEU or its employees or delegates to insist on a person joining the Union ...' The fourth respondent simply denied using the words attributed to him as set out above (see his Affidavit sworn 3 August 2006 paragraphs 18 and 19). 58 Notwithstanding the fourth respondent's knowledge that it was improper for the CFMEU or its employees or delegates to insist upon workers joining the union, nevertheless on 28 March 2003 he witnessed the third respondent's execution of the 'CFMEU Code of Conduct for Union Delegates' form which recorded the third respondent's agreement to abide, to the best of his capacity, by the Code of Conduct, which included the undertaking, referred to at [45] above, to ensure that all workers on the Fairy Meadow site were financial members of the relevant union. 59 In relation to the fourth respondent's conduct in contravention of Part XA of the Act, two contraventions were found.
 However, once again, they were silent on the rights of workers in respect of freedom of association. 71 Information and belief evidence was placed before the Court to suggest that towards the end of December 2006 the Union's 'Code of Conduct for Union Delegates' form was modified by, relevantly, deleting the word 'ensure' and substituting 'encourage' so that paragraph 10 came to read: 'To encourage all workers on site to be financial members of the union ...' No indication has been provided as to whether new forms have been printed, any new forms have been executed and, if so, how many, or procedures put in place for the destruction of old forms. 72 An Affidavit affirmed by the Senior National Legal Officer for the Construction and General Division of the first respondent read at the hearing on relief and costs, contains no information to demonstrate that the Union has attempted to inform its organisers or union delegates that the Act aims to confer rights to freedom of association on workers.
 These documents have included relevant information in relation to the freedom of association provisions of the WRA. ' 73 Alas, no document has been tendered or attached to establish what 'relevant information in relation to the freedom of association provisions' of the Act has been circulated. 74 The same Senior National Legal Officer has conducted 18 briefing sessions with organisers, officials, delegates and industrial officers on various aspects of changes to industrial laws between December 2004 and November 2006.
 Once again, the Affidavit is silent as to how the rights of workers to freedom of association under the Act were explained, if at all. 75 The second respondent's Senior Legal Officer has also affirmed that on 23 February 2007, that is to say after the judgment on liability was handed down in this matter and 'mid-hearing' on the questions of relief and costs, counsel for the respondents and the solicitor for the respondents 'undertook a detailed explanation of the "Freedom of Association" provisions of the WorkChoices legislation to Organisers of the Union'.
 Once again no evidence has been proffered as to what was said, although one might infer that guidance as to the importance of compliance with the freedom of association provisions was provided. 76 Whether that be the case or not, the serious nature of the contraventions of Part XA of the Act by the first and second respondents and the complicity of those respondents in the contravening conduct of the third and fourth respondents through their provision and use of the 'CFMEU Code of Conduct for Union Delegates' form warrants the imposition of significant penalties against those respondents in respect of their conduct in contravention of Part XA of the Act. 77 Whilst there have been six separate contraventions, each of which could attract a penalty of $10,000, it seems to me that, firstly, the contraventions referred to in [2(e)] and [2(f)] above, and also in [2(h)] and [2(i)] should be addressed on the basis that they arise out of one course of conduct.
 I do not consider that contravening conduct by each of the third and fourth respondents, which simultaneously exposes both the first and second respondents to liability for the same contravening conduct in accordance with s 298B(2) of the Act, renders it appropriate that each of the first and second respondents should suffer the same maximum penalty, if a maximum penalty were, relevantly, in contemplation. 79 Having regard to these matters and to all the circumstances of the case, appropriate penalties would total $10,000 for each of the first and second respondents in respect of their conduct in contravention of Part XA of the Act which has been found to have occurred.
 These penalties should be apportioned by reference to the several contraventions referred to in [2] above as follows: First Respondent [2(d)] $5,000 First Respondent [2(e)] $2,500 First Respondent [2(f)] $ 2,500 $ 10,000 Second Respondent [2(g)] $5,000 Second Respondent [2(h)] $2,500 Second Respondent [2(i)] $ 2,500 $ 10,000 Appropriate and necessary orders to stop contravening conduct and remedy its effects 80 The next matter for consideration is to determine what, if any, additional orders should be made under s 298U(e) and (f) of the Act to 'stop' the conduct in contravention of Part XA of the Act and/or to 'remedy its effects'. 81 Without going into any greater detail in relation to the Court's powers than that provided at [8]-[19] above, it is appropriate and necessary in all the circumstances of the case to make orders for the destruction of Code of Conduct for Union Delegates forms which call upon delegates to use their best endeavours to ensure that all workers on a site are financial members of the relevant union.
 Conduct which encourages and leads to the contravention of provisions such as s 298SC(c) should be stopped. 82 In addressing whether, in all the circumstances of the case, it is appropriate and necessary to make orders to remedy the effects of the conduct of the respondents in contravention of Part XA of the Act, those effects need to be identified. 83 Put simply, the contravening conduct at the Fairy Meadow site on 19 January 2004 was indiscriminate.
 Such a result could not have been intended. ' 105 It is also important to note that in matters arising under the Act, one does not plead causes of action, rather in a Statement of Claim one pleads facts out of which claims, as recorded in the relevant Application, are said to arise. 106 The applicant's proceeding was not instituted vexatiously or without reasonable cause. 107 In any event I am not satisfied that, in respect of any of the claims under s 170NC, 298S(2)(a) or s 298SC(c), where the claimed contraventions were not made out, those claims were raised vexatiously or without reasonable cause. 108 There should be no order as to costs.
