 The letter included the following statement: "Pursuant to Article 20(3) of the Agreement, our client hereby notifies Hume Computers and Hume Business of its intention to terminate the Agreement with effect on and from 31 March 2007. " 5 There is evidence before me that the letter was delivered by hand to the offices of the solicitors on 22 December 2006.
 Notwithstanding this, and in spite of the commercial imperative to bring the Distributorship Agreement to an end (see [2006] FCA 1439 at [32] ), the Hume companies contend that the letter was not a valid notice of termination. 6 The parties agree that if the letter was a valid termination notice, the interlocutory injunctions should be dissolved.
 The first is whether there is any onus upon Exact to prove that the notice was effective under Dutch law. 8 The second issue is whether a notice not issued by Exact, but by its solicitors, was a valid notice. 9 The third issue is whether a notice not sent to either Hume Computers or Hume Business, but to its solicitors, was effective. 10 The fourth question is whether the letter contained an unequivocal statement of Exact's election to terminate. 11 The fifth question is whether the letter, considered as a whole, constituted a repudiation of the Distributorship Agreement by Exact. 12 If these questions are determined adversely to the Hume companies, they contend that a condition should be imposed on the discharge of the injunctions and release of the undertakings.
 Issue 2 --- Notice of termination given by solicitors 17 The Hume companies put Exact to proof that Messrs Baker McKenzie, had authority to give notice of termination on behalf of Exact as its agent. 18 It is plain from the unredacted portions of Exhibit G that Bakers had actual authority to give the notice.
 It approves Mr Hambrett's draft letter to Hume' lawyers. 19 There is no other inference apart from the obvious one that Exact conferred actual authority on Baker McKenzie to give notice of termination in the terms stated in the letter of 22 December 2006. 20 Nothing in Article 20(3) of the Distributorship Agreement, or any other article, prescribes the method by which notices are to be given.
 In particular, nothing precludes a party from giving notice by its agent. 21 Townsend Carriers Ltd v Pfizer Ltd ( 1977) 33 Prop Comp R 361 is authority for the proposition that where an agreement does not preclude the giving of notice by an agent, the notice can be given by the agent in its own name; at 365 per Megarry VC.
 Issue 3 --- Notice of Termination given to Hume's solicitors 28 For reasons stated under Issue 2, Article 20(3) did not preclude the giving of notice to an agent, provided of course that the agent had authority to receive it. 29 The same principles of agency apply to the giving and receipt of a notice.
 It is whether the email of 22 December 2006, attaching a copy of the letter of the same date, constituted written notice. 48 Counsel for Hume submitted it did not because an email is an electronic representation of writing and therefore does not constitute writing itself as required by Article 20(3).
 It is hostile to technical interpretations and undue emphasis on niceties of language; see also Finishing Services Pty Ltd v Lactos Fresh Pty Ltd [2006] FCAFC 177 at [25] (Kiefel, Sundberg Edmonds JJ). 53 Applying this approach, in my opinion the letter conveyed clearly and unequivocally that the Distributorship Agreement is to terminate with effect on and from 31 March 2007.
 The Condition Proposed by Hume 56 In my opinion there is no warrant for the imposition of a condition that Exact pay the compensation required by Article 21. 57 In my earlier judgment at [12] I said that the meaning of Article 21(1)(a) is not entirely clear, although it plainly enough entitles Hume to substantial compensation on termination of the Distributorship Agreement. 58 Whatever the proper construction of Article 21(1)(a), Exact has not breached it nor threatened to do so.
