 A condition may be considered fully stabilised if it is unlikely that there will be any significant functional improvement, with or without reasonable treatment, within the next 2 years. 6.
 It is assumed that a person will generally wish to pursue any reasonable treatment that will improve or alleviate an impairment, unless that treatment has associated risks or side effects which are unacceptable to the person.
 In exceptional circumstances, where a condition was considered not stabilised and a permanent impairment rating not assigned because reasonable treatment for a specific condition has not been undertaken, the medical officer should: evaluate and document the probable outcome of treatment and the main risks and or side effects of the treatment; and indicate why this treatment is reasonable; and note the reasons why the person has chosen not to have treatment. ' 4 The applicant was not assessed as having an impairment of 20 points or more and the pension was thus refused.
 It appears that this condition is currently under-diagnosed and under-treated. ' 8 The AAT found that the applicant was severely disabled by several conditions including depression and it accepted the evidence that she was still depressed approximately two years after the initial diagnosis.
 We find therefore that the Applicant cannot be assessed under Table 20 as her chronic pain has not been diagnosed or treated much less stabilised. ' 13 No source is quoted for that finding.
 Referral to a pain clinic was not suggested by any of the medical practitioners and that suggestion does not point to any particular diagnosis or treatment which was required.
 Whether on the proper construction of Sch 1B of the Social Security Act 1991 , in considering whether the applicant's chronic pain was a permanent condition, the AAT was required to determine whether or not it was unlikely there would be any significant functional improvement, with or without reasonable treatment, within the next two years.
 Whether on the proper construction of Sch 1B of the Social Security Act 1991 , the conclusion that the applicant's chronic pain had not been treated was open.
 Whether on the proper construction of Sch 1B of the Social Security Act 1991 , the conclusion that the applicant's chronic pain had not been diagnosed was open.
 Whether on the proper construction of Sch 1B of the Social Security Act 1991 , the conclusion that the applicant's chronic pain had not been stabilised was open.
 Whether on the proper construction of Sch 1B of the Social Security Act 1991 , the conclusion that there had been no intervention in relation to her chronic pain syndrome was open.
