 The particular provision of s 659 , which was sought to be engaged, was subs 659(2)(e), which makes it unlawful to terminate employment for a reason, which includes: 'The filing of a complaint, or the participation in proceedings, against an employer involving alleged violation of laws or regulations or recourse to competent administrative authorities. ' 2 The allegation concerning s 661 was that Mr Sapula had not been afforded the period of notice of termination of employment, which that section requires, which, in his case, being a person of more than 45 years of age, is a period of notice of at least five weeks. 3 It became clear, during the course of the directions hearings, which have so far taken place, and Mr Sapula accepts, that in fact he had not made any complaint to an organisation outside his employment.
 That decision seems to me to be directly on point and adds further support for what, in any event in this case, appears clearly enough from the statutory provisions, namely that Mr Sapula has no cause of action arising under s 659 of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth). 6 Neither does he have any cause of action arising under s 661 of that Act. 7 I have been asked by the respondent to give summary judgment for it in the proceedings.
 However, so far as the proceedings in this court are concerned, it is clear to me that, as a matter of law, the proceedings always lacked an adequate foundation and, objectively speaking at least, there was no basis for them being commenced. 10 Attached to the claim for unlawful termination of employment, which was filed in this court, is a certificate from Senior Deputy President Marsh of the Australian Industrial Relations Commission, indicating her view that it was not likely that Mr Sapula would succeed in alleged contraventions of ss 659 or 661 of the Act. 11 Although that would not determine the question of whether proceedings were brought with or without reasonable cause, in the present case, I am satisfied that the underlying facts did not provide any basis for an attempt to engage either of the provisions and that, accordingly, the limitation in s 666 does not apply. 12 As a matter of principle, I feel that I have no alternative but to accede to the request for costs, that application having been made by the respondent.
