 I will tell all later. ' 9 During the course of the Tribunal hearing it would appear that the appellant became rattled by a question which related to an allegation by him that he had been charged on 13 August 2001 with an offence in relation to certain conduct said not to have taken place until 14 August 2001.
 It thus finds that he was not a credible witness. ' 11 Later the Tribunal recorded: 'In his oral evidence, the applicant claimed that a false case had been filed against him on 13 August 2001 in relation to events that occurred on 14 August 2001.
 The Tribunal ... does not find it plausible that the case would have been filed before the events which were to be the subject of the case had even occurred as there would be no basis for the case had it been filed then. ' 12 The Tribunal continued towards the end of its reasons by saying: 'The Tribunal has considered all the documents submitted by the applicant to support his case but in light of his lack of credibility and the documentary evidence about the availability of fraudulent documents from Bangladesh referred to in the Independent Evidence, it has decided to give them no weight.
 Consequently, the Tribunal finds that the applicant does not have a well-founded fear of persecution in Bangladesh for any Convention reason. ' 13 It is no part of the Court's function to determine the correctness or otherwise of the conclusions which were reached by the Tribunal Member.
 The following passages are recorded in the ' FINDINGS AND REASONS ': 'During the hearing the applicant claimed that he was not feeling well due to back pain, chest pain and a runny nose, and that he had been sick and mentally upset when he prepared his protection visa application.
 On the basis of the prescription and written referral the applicant submitted at the hearing and the Tribunal's conversations with Dr Deva, the Tribunal accepts that the applicant consulted a doctor on the morning of the hearing, was prescribed medication and referred for a lumbar spine examination.
 The Tribunal has not accepted that any illness affected the applicant's ability to give evidence. ...' 17 Later, when the Tribunal put to the appellant that it expected him to be able to state four of the aims and objectives of the Awami League of which he claimed to be a member, rather than just two, the Tribunal Member recorded the following: 'Only when the Tribunal put to him that it expected him to be able to state what the aims and objectives were did he say he forgot the others and was not mentally well.
 The Tribunal asked the applicant how else he would be affected in giving evidence by the backpain besides not being able to recall dates, he stated that he was not feeling very well, felt pressure on his chest, and the pain affected him.
 Allars's submission and this aspect of the complaint is also not made out. ' 33 What has not been addressed by his Honour in the above analysis is the relevance of Dr Deva's opinion concerning the appellant's ability to think clearly as a result of his alleged pain and Dr Deva's doubt as to whether the alleged pain was genuine.
 On three separate occasions in the Tribunal's ' FINDINGS AND REASONS ' the Tribunal made findings that the inconsistencies in the appellant's account of past events and other matters could not be explained by some physical or mental condition which impaired his ability to give evidence.
