 The Single judge of the Federal Magistrate Court in his Honours judgment delivered on the 15 December 2006 failed to find error of law, jurisdictional error procedural fairness and relief under section 39B of the judiciary Act 1903. 3.
 The RRT also spent some time summarising independent country information about religious tensions in India as a whole and in Tamil Nadu, the state where the appellant lived. 9 The RRT obviously detected that the appellant had difficulty giving his evidence.
 The RRT said: 'I accept that while back in Triplicane the applicant was assaulted in 1998, although his evidence was that his assailants, travelling in an auto-rickshaw, were drunk and that their vehicle struck his bicycle as he rode it along a road, after which they assaulted him.
 However, I accept that the applicant found this incident very distressing and that he may have interpreted it in the way he has claimed. ' 13 The next matter dealt with was the appellant's claim that Hindu families wanted to kill him because of his charitable work or support of a political party in Tamil Nadu.
 Taking all the above factors into account, it appears highly unlikely, and I am not satisfied, that anyone might have wished to harm him in subsequent years for a reason arising from his having been involved in charitable activities in the past.
 However, if I am wrong on this point, I am satisfied for the following reasons that the chance of his being harmed for a Convention reason elsewhere in India is remote. ' 15 The RRT then went on to deal with the appellant's claims on a further basis.
 However he does not claim to have been threatened or harmed by Hindu extremists or anyone else outside the Chennai area of Tamil Nadu during the ten years prior to his departure for Australia.
 Therefore, while I am satisfied that he was fearful of being harmed anywhere in India by Hindu extremists or Hindu supporters of another political party, I find that that fear was not well-founded. ' and: 'I consider that the applicant could reasonably be expected to relocate within India.
 They largely alleged a lack of procedural fairness or a failure to give proper consideration to the case and were without any apparent substance. 21 The matters raised by the amended application were also rejected.
 The focus of the Convention definition is not upon the protection that the country of nationality might be able to provide in some particular region, but upon a more general notion of protection by that country.
