 On 17 November 2006 on Mr Lock's application an order was made for the examination of Mr John Viscariello under s 596A of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), and that, pursuant to s 596D of the Act, he produce certain books and records concerning the examinable affairs of the companies in terms of the summons annexed to the order (the November Order).
 It was put that, following the appointment of Mr Lock and Mr Sheahan, there were three liquidators of the companies and that, because there was no determination that they may exercise their respective powers severally, s 506(4) requires not less than two of them to have to make the application for the November Order.
 The introductory words of Order 5, and at least Order 5.1, do not have any content which suggests that the Registrar who made the August Order intended to direct them how to exercise that limited function, and in particular that they could do so only jointly.
 The contention seeks to vary the summons by deleting pars 2-4 of the schedule which (it is common ground) seek the production of documents relating to the personal financial position of Mr Viscariello. 17 The order for the examination of Mr Viscariello was made under s 596A of the Act as he was a director of the companies.
 It was put that, at this point in the administration of the affairs of the companies by Mr Lock and Mr Sheahan limited to possible breaches of s 588G and any action following from such suspected breaches, the liquidators should only be focusing upon learning whether there had been such breaches and whether any claim by reason of such breaches might be made against Mr Viscariello.
 There may well be circumstances where examination on a particular topic is oppressive because the balance referred to in BPTC 14 ACSR 460 is not maintained at one stage of an examination and is at an adjourned stage of the examination, or is oppressive at one examination but not at any subsequent examination.
 Counsel for Mr Viscariello acknowledged that Mr Lock and Mr Sheahan might secure a further order for the examination of Mr Viscariello under s 596A at a later date and for the production of documents relating to his personal financial position to assess his capacity to meet any judgment. 24 I do not accept that the November Order could not, in the exercise of the Court's discretion under s 596D, require the production of documents relating to Mr Viscariello's capacity to meet any judgment.
 Consequently, I do not accept the contention that seeking information about Mr Viscariello's capacity to meet any judgment, even at an early stage of the investigation process, was necessarily inappropriate or that the Court did not have power to order production of documents for that purpose.
 However, I do not regard the scope of the documents required to be produced by the summons as limited to seeking practical information as to the actual worth of any claim that might be made against Mr Viscariello. 25 The width of pars 2-4 of the schedule to the summons is self-evident.
 I propose to strike out pars 2-4 of the summons, and to vary the November Order to the extent to which the summons as annexed is part of that order, by striking out those paragraphs of the annexure. 30 Mr Viscariello will nevertheless have to attend to further examination.
 Counsel for Mr Lock indicated in submissions that that topic was not addressed in the affidavit in support of the application for the November Order. 33 I order that the costs of Mr Viscariello's motion be as follows: Mr Lock should pay the counsel fees of Mr Viscariello of the hearing on 17 January 2007.
