 It is also not presently in dispute that a doctor reading the advertisement would be familiar with his or her ability to indicate on a prescription that there was not to be brand substitution of the product the subject of that prescription where the trade name was used by the doctor.
 GenRx submits that, although the evidence is to the effect that improved stability is not an advantage and does not result in superior product performance, doctors may be misled by the implication that it is an advantage. 16 Servier submits that the representation is true.
 That is not a matter for determination at this stage. 17 Servier submits that a doctor would take the advertisement as a whole to indicate that the makers of Coversyl are urging him or her to exercise the discretion not to permit substitution of Coversyl for, inter alia, reasons of improved stability.
 This gives rise to the question of the importance of stability to the doctor. 18 I accept that there is a serious question in the O'Neill sense. 19 There is little evidence on the number of advertisements presently "in the pipeline" or the difficulties faced by Servier if it were ordered not to place further advertisements asserting improved stability.
 It submits that, rather than write a separate prescription or appropriately endorse the standard form of box by, for example, ticking it and adding ' for Coversyl ' the doctor may simply not bother.
 The pharmacist is then free to make the substitution with a generic product and Servier loses the profit on that sale. 25 Servier submits that the purpose of the stamp is to assist a doctor to make a clear and visible statement to the pharmacist that brand substitution is not permitted for Coversyl specifically.
 Servier says that the stamp enables a doctor to indicate that brand substitution is not permitted for Coversyl in circumstances where other medications are prescribed and brand substitution for those medications (but not Coversyl) is permitted.
 While Servier submits that this is unlikely, there is no evidence that stamps, naming the product, are distributed by other innovator drug companies to assist doctors to specify that generic substitution is not permitted. 28 If the use of the stamp is legitimately to encourage doctors to ensure that there is no substitution for Coversyl where they would not otherwise do so, the loss of market share and profit to Servier would also be difficult to quantify.
 The evidence suggests that some doctors feel sufficiently strongly about brand substitution generally, or with respect to Servier as the company which markets Coversyl, that they will tick the standard box preventing substitution with or without the stamp.
 On this basis, Servier would suffer no loss or a reduced loss of sales. 31 Servier points to the risk that pharmacists will not notice the box that has been ticked on the standard form prescription to prohibit brand substitution.
