 Section 711(5)(c) of the Act requires that if the prospectus for an offer of security states that the securities will be able to be traded on a financial market, the prospectus must state that an application for admission of the securities for quotation on that financial market will be made to the operator of that market within 7 days after the date of the prospectus. 2 The prospectus in this matter was issued by the applicant company Geopacific Resources NL on 22 December 2006 and was lodged with the Australian Securities and Investment Commission ("ASIC") on that date.
 In light of s 723(3)(a) and s 724(1)(b)(i) of the Act, the company was under obligation to apply for quotation with the ASX within 7 days of the lodgement date, that is by 29 December 2006. 3 The quotation was in fact lodged on 5 January 2007, being 7 days after the end of the period for application prescribed by the two subsections to which I have referred.
 The purpose of the offer of shares was to enable the company to expand its program of drilling and exploration in response to copper and gold targets that had been generated by work to date done in Fiji, as well as to enable to company to acquire advanced exploration property. 5 Turning to the reason for delay, it emerges from the affidavit of Mr Pringle, a director of Geopacific Resources, that while he was not personally involved in the preparation of the quotation application, he was aware of the need for it, but was unaware of the obligation to lodge it with the ASX within 7 days of lodgement of the prospectus.
 On 5 January he received an email transmission from an official at the ASX which pointed out that the company had not applied to the ASX for quotation of the securities to be issued under the prospectus within the 7 day window. 6 Following receipt of that email, Mr Pringle contacted the company secretary who prepared a quotation application and informed him of the ASX email.
 He was in other words, unaware of the requirement to comply with s 723(3)(a) and s 724(1)(b)(i) of the Act. 8 Following a course, which has now become common in applications of this character, the legal advisers to Geopacific Resources made contact with, and served notice of, these proceedings, together with the affidavits and annexures, upon both ASIC and the ASX. 9 On 11 January 2007 ASIC indicated to Geopacific Resources legal advisers that it did not object to the proposed orders sought in these proceedings and did not intend to appear at the hearing of this matter.
 On 15 January an officer of ASX in turn communicated with the legal advisers that it was not aware of any reason why, if the Court granted the orders sought, ASX would not proceed in the usual way to grant quotation securities upon receipt of an application for their quotation, subject to the usual conditions. 10 The correspondence went on to indicate that the ASX was not aware of any reason why Geopacific Resources would not be able to satisfy the usual conditions imposed.
 Nonetheless, it is the case that extending time in a manner proposed in this application, that is up to and including 5 December 2007 (the date upon which the quotation application was in fact lodged with the ASX) will have the effect of depriving subscribers of a right that they would otherwise enjoy by virtue of the provisions of s 724(2) of the Act. 17 This notwithstanding, I am satisfied that in the circumstances of this matter it would be appropriate to make the order sought by the applicant.
 The principal consequence of refusal of the order would be to compel the company to undergo further expense to resolve its mistake. 19 Given that I am not satisfied that there is any likelihood of prejudice to third parties, i.e. to the subscribers, I do not think it appropriate to inflict unnecessary inconvenience and expense on the applicant by refusing its application. 20 Accordingly I order that: (1) The time for service and hearing of the Application be abridged. (2) Pursuant to s 1322(4)(d) of the Act, the period of seven days referred to in subs 723(3)(a) and 724(1)(b)(i) of the Act in respect of the Prospectus of the Plaintiff dated 22 December 2006 and lodged with ASIC on 22 December 2006 be extended to and include 5 January 2007. (3) Upon service of these orders on ASIC, ASIC will include such orders on its database. (4) The plaintiff make an announcement to the ASX disclosing the terms of these orders forthwith. (5) The plaintiff and all other interested parties including ASIC have liberty to apply to revoke or vary the orders above.
