 The cross-examination of Mr Jack Moller proceeded until the close of business on 11 December 2006 and resumed on 12 December 2006 until the luncheon adjournment at about 12:49 pm. 8 At the adjournment I indicated that the Court would resume at 2:15 pm and requested that Mr Jack Moller be back at the Court by that time, inferentially so as to continue with his evidence. 9 I should indicate that Mr Jack Moller, the second respondent, and Mr Carl Moller, the third respondent, are father and son.
 Senior counsel for the applicants said words to the effect: 'We are very troubled by the absence of a medical certificate and we do not accept any assertion made from the bar table as to the condition of the second respondent. ' 15 Shortly thereafter I observed that Mr Jack Moller was 76 years of age.
 Senior counsel for the applicants proceeded to make an open offer in Court to settle the applicants' case against the second respondent, Mr Jack Moller, who, needless to say, was not present at the time. 19 On 14 December 2006 a revised form of that open offer was sent by letter to the second respondent inviting him to submit to the proposed settlement contained in that letter.
 During the course of the morning the open offer to Mr Jack Moller to settle the matter was revived but earlier today Mr Jack Moller informed the Court that he was not disposed to accept it. 21 Mr Jack Moller failed to communicate with the Court to advise it of his wishes, prior to his non-attendance at the continuation of the hearing yesterday, that is to say Thursday 12 April 2007.
 When the matter was called for hearing yesterday Mr Carl Moller acknowledged that his father Mr Jack Moller was absent and said: '... unfortunately he does have a medical condition and I have a doctor's certificate explaining that condition and he wont [sic] be attending Court. ' 22 A medical certificate of Dr Kerry Callan of 10 April 2007 was handed up but did not become evidence before the Court.
 A copy of it was made available to counsel for the applicants. 23 Leave was granted to the applicants yesterday to file and serve a Notice of Motion returnable before the Court at 10:15 am today seeking certain relief referrable to the non-attendance of Mr Jack Moller on 12 April and the declared attitude of Mr Jack Moller towards the further conduct of the litigation as against him, which attitude was reported to the Court by his son Mr Carl Moller yesterday.
 However, it was indicated by Mr Carl Moller that his father intended not to return to Court for the further hearing of the matter and also intended not to return to the witness box to conclude his evidence and allow the further cross-examination of himself by junior counsel for the applicants to proceed. 24 After being served with the Notice of Motion returnable for 10:15 am today and apparently hearing a report from Mr Carl Moller as to what transpired in Court yesterday, Mr Jack Moller attended Court this morning along with his son Mr Carl Moller.
 He has indicated that he does not wish to accept the revived settlement offer of 14 December 2006, nor does he wish to submit to a judgment against him; rather, he wishes to rely upon his Defence and he is content to have the matter dealt with by the Court in his absence.
 In an endeavour to ascertain what if any application Mr Jack Moller wished to make, it became clear that he wished to be excused from giving further evidence in the case. 26 It seemed to me that logically his application to be so excused should be addressed first and then I would allow the applicants to seek such relief as they may be advised under their Notice of Motion filed 12 April 2007.
 Senior counsel for the applicants agreed that it was appropriate to first address the desire of Mr Jack Moller to be excused from giving further evidence in the case. 27 Section 11(1) of the Evidence Act 1995 (Cth) ('the Evidence Act ') provides: '11(1) The power of a court to control the conduct of a proceeding is not affected by this Act, except so far as this Act provides otherwise expressly or by necessary intendment. ' 28 A deliberate non-attendance by a witness before the court may well justify the institution of proceedings for contempt.
 It's clear that no arrangement was put in place by Mr Jack Moller to have Dr Callan attend Court today or, for that matter, yesterday, to provide evidence as to his current medical condition. 31 When invited to consider the possibility of a 10 minute adjournment to allow Mr Jack Moller to contact Dr Callan to see whether she would be available to come to Court at some time later in the day today to give evidence, Mr Jack Moller declined the opportunity, informing the Court that doctors were busy people and they could not drop things at a moment's notice to come to Court to give evidence, or words to that effect. 32 Mr Jack Moller informed the Court that if someone wanted Dr Callan to be in Court, that party would have to subpoena Dr Callan.
 In the circumstances there is no medical evidence at all before the Court in relation to Mr Jack Moller's medical condition. 33 Having said that, I am reminded of my observation on 13 December 2006 that I was satisfied that the condition in which the Court observed Mr Jack Moller on the afternoon of 12 December 2006 was not that of a person who was 'putting it on', rather he appeared to be in some distress of a medical nature.
 In relation to s 41 of the Evidence Act , the primary submission of counsel for the applicants is that the power conferred on the Court to disallow a question or to inform a witness that it need not be answered is to be addressed by the Court seriatim, so that there is no power to provide for a blanket disallowance or relief from answering all further questions.
