 Mr McVeigh was appointed as trustee in its place and a vesting order was made. 2 This application comes about because Mr Bove contends that Mr and Mrs Charlton acted in breach of the duties they owed Golden River Footwear under ss 180 and 181 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), their fiduciary duty of good faith (to avoid conflicts of interest and not to profit from their position) and their common law duties to act with reasonable skill, care and diligence in the performance of their duties of office.
 Further Mr Bove alleges that by reason of the alleged breaches the trust assets were depleted and, in some cases, found their way into the hands of Kiss Tell Australia Pty Ltd, a company controlled by the Charltons. 3 Mr Bove requested Mr McVeigh to bring an action against Mr and Mrs Charlton and their company for damages and to recover the allegedly misappropriated trust assets.
 Instead he made an application in the Supreme Court of Victoria for "directions pursuant to O 54 of the Supreme Court (General Civil Procedure) Rules 2005 as to the respective entitlements of the trustee and the defendants [Fumina Pty Ltd and Mr Bove] to the property of the trust. " That application has not yet been listed for hearing. 4 In these circumstances Mr Bove asks for leave to bring the action in the name of Golden River Footwear against the Charltons and their company.
 The action will seek to recover damages, equitable compensation and an account of profits from the Charltons for breaches of duty, and damages for conversion and passing off and the recovery of trust assets from their company. 5 Section 237 of the Corporations Act sets out what Mr Bove must establish to obtain leave.
 As regards this requirement the rebuttable presumption in s 237(3) that granting leave is not in the best interests of the company does not arise as the Charltons, being directors of the company, have a material personal interest in the decision not to bring the proceeding. 7 Ms Turner who appeared for the prospective defendants (other than Mr McVeigh) made two points in opposition.
 Indeed, it is likely that if it were to succeed the court would order that the damages and any property the company might recover be made over to Mr McVeigh as trustee and in whom the trust assets have vested. 8 Still, that the action will not financially benefit Golden River Footwear does not lead to the conclusion that the action is not for its benefit.
 That is a suit that can only be maintained by the company to whom the duties are owed, Golden River Footwear. 10 Accordingly I will grant the leave sought but on condition that Mr Bove give an undertaking that he will be responsible for the costs incurred by Golden River Footwear and any costs that it might be ordered to pay.
