 In an appeal, the Court shall have regard to the evidence given in the proceedings out of which the appeal arose, and has power to draw inferences of fact and, in its discretion, to receive further evidence... 6 Although the discretion conferred by s 27 is not expressed to be limited in any way, the principles that should guide the Court in its exercise are well established and uncontroversial.
 In his letter, the appellant argued that he had a right to apply for an instalment order after receiving the bankruptcy notice and requested the Trustee to prepare an affidavit for the purposes of this appeal addressing a number of issues including: (i) the basis for the Trustee's fees; and (ii) the appellant's attempts to make payments under the instalment order and the alleged rejection of those payments by the Trustee's office.
 Moreover, had his Honour been presented with this additional evidence, it is submitted, he might not have exercised his discretion in the way he did. 11 In the normal course of events a litigant is bound by his or her conduct of the trial.
 Failure to go behind judgment debt 13 Where a petitioning creditor relies on a judgment debt the Court must be satisfied as to the validity of the debt and, to that extent, it may be said that the judgment 'is never conclusive in bankruptcy'; Wren v Mahony [1972] HCA 5 ; (1972) 126 CLR 212 at 224.
 His Honour commented that the jurisdictional issue had been overlooked but that if the proceedings were remitted to the Local Court, the respondent intended to agitate the issue before that court. 19 In the proceedings in the Federal Magistrates Court it is clear that the question whether the Federal Magistrate should go behind the judgment of the Local Court was raised but not in the context of any challenge to the assignment.
 His Honour's comments indicate that the issue was considered in the context of whether the Local Court judgment was final: To the extent that it may have been argued during the course of the proceeding, it is not appropriate in this instance for this court to go behind the judgment of the local court relied upon in the bankruptcy notice which in turn then triggered the creditors petition.
 His Honour referred to Wren v Mahony at 225 and continued: Lest there be any doubt in the present case, applying the relevant principles to the circumstances set out in the affidavit material relied upon by the debtor it is my concluded view that there is no basis in that law for this court going behind the judgment.
 Since the arbitration, purported re-hearing and appeal to which Malpass AJ referred, an application to set aside the bankruptcy notice has been dismissed by a registrar of this Court, a sequestration order has been made by a registrar of this Court, there has been an unsuccessful application to set aside the sequestration order in the Federal Magistrates Court and now an appeal to this Court.
 It is accepted that the section gives the Court discretion to decline to make the order if persuaded 'that the public interest in dealing with the insolvent debtor and the rights of individual creditors are outweighed by other considerations'; Totev v Sfar (2006) 230 ALR 236 at 243.
 It is for the debtor to persuade the Court that the circumstances are such as to warrant an exercise of the Court's discretion in his or her favour. 23 Before the Federal Magistrate, the appellant raised the issue of whether the Local Court judgment was a final judgment and also whether the stay order made by the Local Court ought to preclude the creditor from pursuing its petition.
 In the alternative the appellant submits that his Honour should have enquired into the circumstances surrounding the appellant's failure to make the instalment payments. 26 His Honour dealt with the solvency question briefly: The court has the usual discretion to consider whether a sequestration order should be made and in this instance, whether it is appropriate to simply dismiss the application for the review of the order which is already in existence.
