 The concluding paragraph of the letter referred the applicant to the websites of the Federal Magistrates Court (FMC) and the Federal Court for further information about applications and advised that he could also contact the Federal Court Registry 'which is also the Registry for the Federal Magistrates Court'. 5 The applicant's parents prepared an application for judicial review and on 11 October 2006 they took it to him at Villawood Detention Centre where he was in custody.
 Was the application to the FMC or the Federal Court? 8 The applicant submits that the FMC's lack of jurisdiction is irrelevant because the documents faxed to the registry on 11 October constituted an application to the Federal Court and not to the FMC.
 Counsel for the respondent, Mr S Lloyd, elaborated on this point in his written submissions: The Minister contends that there is no proper basis for a court that lacks jurisdiction in respect of a matter to be empowered to transfer the substantive proceeding to a court that has jurisdiction in respect of it.
 The matter was so transferred and addressed by the Federal Court in Ogawa v Registrar of the High Court of Australia [2006] FCA 607 , although ultimately it was dismissed by consent. 26 I also find some support for the view I have expressed in considering as a whole the Migration Act provisions for judicial review.
 Either way, the decision is a 'migration decision' as that term is defined in s 5(1) of the Act. 28 Under s 476 , the FMC has the same original jurisdiction as the High Court in relation to migration decisions, other than in respect of the exceptions listed in s 476(2).
 Such a conclusion is not mandated by my conclusion on the issue of transfer and it would certainly not improve the efficiency of migration litigation to restrict this Court to deciding an issue that the FMC could have decided for itself.
 As indicated at [6] above, this confusion has been resolved and the respondent accepts that the documents were faxed on that date. 37 Applications for an extension of time to make an application for judicial review are subject in the Federal Court to the same time limits as apply in the FMC.
 The question is pertinent to the present application which was filed outside the application period for applications in either court and for which an extension of time is sought. 38 Although the present proceeding was transferred to this Court pursuant to s 39 of the Federal Magistrates Act , in my view this Court's original jurisdiction in relation to the migration decision made by the Tribunal arises not under s 476A(1)(a) but under s 476A(1)(b).
 The legislature's power is not so restricted in relation to the jurisdiction of the FMC or the Federal Court. 40 Division 2 of Part 8 of the Migration Act allocates jurisdiction for the review of migration decisions between the FMC and the Federal Court.
 The recent High Court decision in Bodruddaza v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs [2007] HCA 14 , that s 486A is invalid as an impermissible restriction on the right of applicants to seek relief under s 75(v) of the Constitution , does not cast doubt on the Parliamentary intention which is made plain in the Reform Bill EM.
 Nor does it impugn the validity of the time limits imposed on applications to the FMC or to this Court. 44 I conclude therefore that while the Federal Magistrate was entitled to transfer the proceeding to this Court pursuant to s 39 of the Federal Magistrates Act , that transfer did not give this Court original jurisdiction under s 476A(1)(a) in relation to the decision of the Tribunal.
