 1 These reasons concern claims for costs by the First and Second Respondents/Cross Claimants, the University of Melbourne and Recaldent Pty Ltd ("the University parties") against the Applicant/First Cross Respondent and the Second to Fifth Cross Respondents ("the NSI parties") and the Sixth to Eighth Cross Respondents ("the Probiotec parties").
 In reaching the conclusion that the claims were valid, I found that the patent did not lack novelty; that there had not been anticipation or public disclosure of the patent so as to invalidate it; and that the patent claims were not invalid because they did not involve an inventive step.
 I also rejected submissions that the patent was obtained by fraud for false suggestion or misrepresentation and that there was no fair basis for the claims or that there was a lack of clarity in the claims in suit. 3 In relation to the cross claim brought by the University parties against the NSI parties that they had engaged in misleading and deceptive conduct under the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ("the TPA Act "), I found in favour of the NSI parties.
 I did not then make any order as to costs. 5 On this application the University parties seek costs against the NSI parties and the Probiotec parties in respect of the claims and cross claims in the proceedings and in particular the claim for unjustified threats, the cross claim for patent infringement and patent invalidity and the cross claim for the breach of the TPA Act .
 Accordingly, this means that the effect of the undertaking is not just interlocutory, but rather final and perpetual. 19 Finally, the Probiotec parties say that the invalidity issue was not raised by them, but rather in the cross claim by the NSI parties.
 They contend that there is no evidentiary foundation for a conclusion that the NSI parties would have resolved their cross claim if the Probiotec parties had admitted the validity of the Complex patent, and that it cannot be said that the Probiotec parties kept the invalidity issue alive.
 THE UNIVERSITY PARTIES AND THE PROBIOTEC PARTIES 20 I am satisfied in this case that the joinder of the Probiotec parties was appropriate and necessary, and that on the evidence they were part of a group of companies involved in the infringing conduct.
 I am also satisfied that the way in which the proceedings were conducted, and having regard to the Defence they filed, demonstrates that the Probiotec parties put the University parties to proof on their claims of infringement and denied the validity of the Complex patent.
 The end result of this consideration is that, although they took no active part in argument or in the conduct of the proceeding, the Probiotec parties, in denying infringement and asserting invalidity in the event that infringement was found to have been made out, were content to allow the NSI parties to put the case and to rely on the same submissions thus advanced.
 In view of the conclusion which I have reached above and the reasons for that conclusion, the contents of Mr Stringer's affidavit do not persuade me that the Probiotec parties should not be jointly and severally liable for costs in this matter.
 MISLEADING CONDUCT 30 The only issue as to costs concerning the NSI parties relates to the claims under the TPA Act in the cross claim brought by the University parties. 31 This issue relates to costs sought for breaches of the TPA Act alleged in the Second Further Amended Cross Claim.
