 His Honour said, at [11] of his judgment of 22 November 2006, that counsel for the party who tendered the documents "specifically eschewed" any suggestion of inadvertence in the tender.
 The second respondent, Mrs Boensch, is Mr Boensch's wife. 8 On or about 30 August 2005 Mr Pascoe gave a notice under s 77A of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) to the former solicitor for Mr and Mrs Boensch, Mr James Leong.
 I will refer to those documents as Exhibit SDP6 in these reasons. 13 Counsel for Mr Boensch submits that the documents in Exhibit SDP6 are a subset of the First Documents.
 His Honour directed that any application in relation to the admissibility of Exhibit SDP6 be filed by 5 September 2006. 15 On 8 September 2006, Mr and Mrs Boensch filed a document entitled "Amended Interim Application" seeking inter alia a declaration that the documents comprising Exhibit SDP6 were documents to which legal professional privilege attaches.
 It is apparent that the Extra Documents did not form part of the First Documents, namely those produced to Mr Pascoe in answer to the s 77A notice. 20 [50] of Mr Leong's statement was as follows: "By this statement I do not intend to disclose any confidential communications for which legal professional privilege may otherwise be properly available.
 I do not intend to waive any legal professional privilege otherwise properly available. " The Proceeding before the Federal Magistrate 21 Mr Leong was called by counsel for Mr Boensch to give evidence on 21 November 2006.
 However, Mr Leong failed to understand this and said that [51] was correct. 24 In the course of argument Mr Johnson informed his Honour that the documents in JL1 included documents that had not previously been disclosed to Mr Pascoe.
 If it now appears that in relation to 51 that answer is not correct --- " 26 The following exchange then took place: "HIS HONOUR: Mr Heath, let us get this absolutely clear.
 All I am left with then is a deliberate tender of documents which could have been tendered under cover with no more than a description and added to the list of SDP6 documents if that was thought appropriate.
 Whether there was a waiver of privilege over the Extra Documents 34 The test of implied waiver of privilege was stated by the High Court in Mann v Carnell at [29].
