 An injunction restraining each of the respondents (and both of them together) by themselves, their servants, agents and representatives until trial or earlier order from: (a) representing to any person that any piece of plywood has the characteristics necessary for that piece of plywood to be classified as meeting the standard; (b) Representing to any person that any piece of plywood has a particular stress grade as that term is used in the standard; (c) Representing to any person that any of the respondents is in a position to determine whether any piece of plywood: (i) meets the standard; of (ii) has a particular stress grade as that term is used in the standard. 2.
 An injunction restraining each of the respondents (and both of them together) by themselves, their servants, agents and representatives until trial or earlier order from: (a) supplying to any person any piece of plywood marked as complying with the standard or as having a particular stress grade; and (b) making any agreement with any person or entity to test any piece of plywood so as to determine compliance with the standard or so as to identify its stress grade. 3.
 An injunction compelling the respondents to swear an affidavit demonstrating compliance with the injunction sought by paragraph 4. ' 3 The essence of Plywood's allegations is that Jag is misrepresenting that the plywood panels which it labels comply with the Australian/New Zealand Standard Plywood --- Structural AS/NZS 2269:2004 ('the Standard') when the plywood panel does not comply, or, in the alternative, in circumstances where the plywood panel may not comply with that Standard. 4 On 2 November 2006, I declined to grant interlocutory relief and ordered that the costs of the respondents be their costs in the principal proceedings.
 For the purposes of interlocutory application, I was prepared to assume that there was such requirement, and that there is an obligation on persons such as Jag, if labelling products as meeting the standards required by AS/NZS 2269:2004 , that the plywood comply with that Standard. 8 I note that Mr Simon Dorries, the General Manager of Plywood simply says in his affidavit that: 'It is commonly accepted in Australia that plywood which is to be used for [structural] purposes must meet the relevant standard. ' (Emphasis added. ) 9 Clause 1.1 of the Standards provides: ' 1.1 SCOPE This standard specifies requirements for the manufacture, grading, finishing and branding of structural plywood.
 Procedures for the application of stress grades are provided in Section 4. ...' 11 The Standard later says: ' 1.2 APPLICATION The specification for any grade of structural plywood shall consist of the general requirements given in this Section together with the requirements for veneers given in Section 2, the manufacturing requirements given in Section 3, and the application of stress grades and mechanical properties given in Section 4. ' 12 Clause 4.3 of the Standard deals with mechanically F-graded structural plywood sheets.
 Through a Memorandum of Understanding with the Commonwealth government, Standards Australia is recognized as Australia's peak national standards body. ' (Emphasis added. ) 14 According to clause 3.4.1 of the Standard, and the affidavit of Mr Dorries, a sheet of plywood can only comply with the Standard if each veneer in it is of at least Quality D or better, as that term is defined in clause 2.6 of the Standard.
 To determine whether a particular veneer is of Quality D, one must ascertain that: (a) the veneer is free from decay and active insect attack; (b) in any 300 mm long line drawn across the grain anywhere on the plywood sheet, the aggregate dimension of knots, gaps in edge joints, splits, holes, patches, bark and resin pockets, gum veins and areas of inactive decay shall not exceed 120 mm for softwood veneer and 75 mm for hardwood veneer; (c) any imperfections in the veneer is within those permitted by clause 2.6.2 of the Standard. 15 Clause 4.3 of the Standard deals with mechanically F-graded structural plywood sheets.
 That clause commenced: 'Mechanically F-graded structural plywood sheets shall be constructed of veneer of the qualities described in Section 2 or Clause 3.4.1(c) and every sheet shall be graded in accordance with Appendix C.' 16 That clause provides for the determination of the deflection of each sheet and for a determination of a particular value calculated, amongst other things, according to the modulus elasticity of the particular stress grade in megapascals, the particular stress grade being listed in table 4.1 of the Standard. 17 Mr Dorries deposes, on the basis of information and belief, that a stress grader, once owned by Carter Holt Harvey, a manufacturer represented by Plywood, was sold to a Mr Andrew McLeod, a former employee of a former member of Plywood, North Coast Plywoods, commonly known as Norply.
 The applicant did not fill the order, and on being asked why the applicant would not supply the upgrade, told Mr McLeod that because Norply was not planning to rebuild its factory, Mr Dorries not see why it needed the upgrade. 20 Later, Mr Dorries says he received a further call from Mr Wintour demanding to know why the applicant would not supply the upgrade.
 Otherwise, the applicant would not supply it. ' 21 On 28 February 2006, a subsequent email by Mr Dorries to Mr Wintour indicated that one of the conditions that had to be met was a commitment in writing from the Norply Board that: 'The machine will only be used to stress grade structural plywood manufactured by [Plywood] manufacturing members. ' 22 On 28 February 2006, Mr Wintour, as General Manger for North Coast Plywood Products Pty Ltd, replied to Mr Dorries.
 The overseas mills advise of the specifications of the plywood which can only be ascertained by the manufacturer and label the plywood with that information. ' 39 Mr Lyngcoln, addressing the possibility of certification by a manufacturer of compliance with the requirements of the Standard as to the composition and quality of the veneers and the bonding in the plywood, said in an affidavit sworn 20 July 2006 that: ' ... it may be possible that the plywood manufacturer could provide the sub-contractor evidence by means of a formal manufacturing specification and quality control document that the product to be tested in accordance with Clause 4.3 meet the stipulated conformance requirements of AS/NZS 2269-2004'. 40 Mr Wintour deposes that, since July 2006, examples of the labels applied by Jag to the panels which it tests include the following: 41 I have earlier referred to the suggestion by Jag that it is not asserting that the panels which it labels are compliant with the Australian Standard.
 The quality manual requires the first respondent to obtain evidence of a quality control system in accordance with ISO9001 from each manufacturer of each tested sheet and that such manufacturing incorporates the requirements of the Standard. ' 52 The results of the testing by Mr Hall are seriously disputed by evidence on behalf of the first and second respondents. 53 I do not accept the contention on behalf of the first respondent that: ' ... the first respondent does not assert that the plywood tested by it complies with the Standard, nor that the plywood is suitable for structural purposes.
