 However she had said that the Part 1 examination was being held in a few weeks' time and the applicant could apply to sit for it. 92 The applicant contends there are sound reasons for accepting her account in preference to that of Dr Cole.
 The fourth is that Dr Cole asserts she suggested the applicant should get back into the hospital system as a dermatology resident whereas it was not something either the applicant or her husband recalled yet it was a suggestion which would have impacted on their lives.
 At a meeting on or about 10 October 2000 Dr Swarbrick then Chairman of the WA Faculty of the College and Chairman of the College's selection committee for the 2001 trainee registrar position in Western Australia provided feedback to Dr Shahid.
 At a meeting on or about 23 October 2001 Dr Swarbrick then Chairman of the WA Faculty of the College and Chairman of the College's selection committee for the 2002 trainee registrar position in Western Australia provided feedback to Dr Shahid.
 The respondent acknowledged receipt of her application and incorrectly advised her also to apply to RPH. 192 The applicant claims to have made this application induced by and in reliance upon the matters pleaded in pars 11, 13 to 15 and 19 to 20 of the claim.
 His evidence in relation to this aspect, based as it is on the requirement for clinical training in the Handbook and his years of experience in dermatological practice and with the respondent and its selection processes, is evidence to the contrary of the statement being misleading.
 Dr Swarbrick, although present, had not added to his original CV assessment of the applicant. 2003 SELECTION PROCESS FOR POSITION COMMENCING IN 2004 220 In January or February 2003 the applicant downloaded the respondent's 2003 Training Program Handbook and read through it.
 The statement in the 2003 Handbook was not misleading or deceptive. 2004 SELECTION PROCESS FOR POSITION COMMENCING IN 2005 231 In January 2004 the applicant obtained the respondent's 2004 Training Program Handbook and read it through. (Her evidence was she downloaded it; there is evidence of a hard copy being mailed by the respondent to her).
 The national office of the respondent advised the WA Faculty to consider the application and to disregard previous appeals as a consideration. 233 In July 2004 the applicant sought clarification from the respondent whether or not she was also required to apply to RPH.
 He also stated that RPH 'had no control over their process of selection'. 277 Around 24 December 2004 the respondent acknowledged the applicant's appeal and advised that it had been forwarded to the appeals committee and that there may be significant delays in seeking to convene an appeals committee for the second and third appeals.
 By providing RPH with the respondent's decision on the selection of the appropriate candidate for the Trainee Registrar position for the relevant year without allowing for the appeal period to expire or, if an appeal is lodged, for the appeal to be heard and determined, the respondent dissipated the subject matter of the Appeal.
