 Accept defective work or permit omissions. ' 99 In ' SECTION 8 --- BUILDING WORKS ' the contract between the applicant and Albury City Council provided in respect of finishes, that the walls of the Kremur Street Pumping Station should be concrete with a finish described as 'F3' in accordance with Section 6.
 Under the heading ' 4.10 Inspection and testing ' Australian Standard AS 9002: 1994 provided: '4.10.1 General The supplier shall establish and maintain documented procedures for inspection and testing activities in order to verify that the specified requirements for the product are met.
 Under the heading ' 4.10.1 General ' the following appears: 'The supplier shall establish and maintain documented procedures for inspection and testing activities in order to verify that the specified requirements for the product are met.
 It is my opinion that there should be continued surveillance of the witness and hold points of the work performed by this contractor . ' On 15 February 1999 the Department wrote again to the applicant concerning its application for registration as a pre-qualified contractor.
 PROVIDE THIS PROGRAM BY 5 PM FRIDAY 26 TH FEBRUARY 1999. ' On 26 February 1999 the applicant wrote to the Department setting out 'a sequence of events and activities for the final programming and finalisation of the project'.
 Mr Liu's diary notes for Thursday 11 March 1999 included an entry against 8.30 am reading: 3 'COMMISSIONING OF KREMUR STREET [There is then a note indicating site visits by Colin Johnson, A Foley, John Ellwood and Daryl McGregor]. ...
 In his letter dated 3 June 1999 to the Department addressed ' Att: Mr Kevin Ellison ' Mr Filardo wrote under the heading 'Re: Contractor's Reports of Performance ': 'We refer to the reports issued by your departmental officers and counter signed by yourself on the Kremur Street Pumping Station contact (sic) S10/97 S9/98 respectively.
 The truth of the matter is, the Department does not want Eden or Ces Filardo on their list and irrespective of what we or put up (sic) , we came to the conclusion that bias and discrimination would prevail and we would never be able to carry out work for the Department of Public Works Services of New South Wales.
 The only thing remaining is fair and proper compensation which we expect from your Department, for wrongfully and deceitfully inducing us in paying money and tendering for work only to be rejected for one reason or another every time .
 After that time the Department will consider the above matters, together with any response from your company and will determine whether your company will be considered for future contracts. ' By letter dated 27 December 1999 the applicant replied to the Department's letter of 17 December which had only been received on 24 December 1999.
 The Contractor Performance report dated 24 May 1999 did not recommend your firm for future works based on its performance on that contract. ' The Department proceeded to seek the applicant's response on its reported poor performance as contained in the Contractor Performance Report of 24 May 1999 being the report issued following practical completion.
 On 21 December 1999 Mr Liu issued a Contractor Performance Report in respect of the applicant's contract with the Albury City Council for the construction of a Kremur Street Pumping Station 'Overflow stormwater management and civils 2' for which the tender price had been $504,732.63, which tender had been accepted on 15 December 1998.
