 If, on the other hand, I refuse the applicant leave to file the PFASC then I should next consider the second respondents' application to strike out the applicant' s 12 September SOC. 13 It is asserted in the PFASC that the first respondent was employed by the applicant as a sales account manager from 28 October 1998 to 28 February 2005.
 It is pleaded that in giving those quotations the confidential information (as earlier particularised in the PFASC) was used in that the quotations set out the products supplied by the applicant to the client in question and the product replacement sought to be supplied by the second respondents, and the difference in cost between the two products. 18 It is further pleaded some time in March 2005 after the first respondent commenced his employment with the second respondents, the second respondents commenced supplying products to two particular clients of the applicant: pars 17 and 18 of the PFASC. 19 It is pleaded as against the first respondent that the first respondent has, in breach of his duty of trust and confidence, used and/or disclosed confidential information in providing the written quotations: par 21 of the PFASC.
 No particulars are given of how or when the male second respondents acquired that knowledge. 22 The plea in par 25 is that the male second respondents had actual knowledge that the first respondent had acquired confidential information possessed by the applicant. 23 The plea in par 26 is that the male second respondents 'at all material times' had actual knowledge that the first respondent was disclosing or using that confidential information in providing the written quotes. 24 Alternatively, it is pleaded that the male second respondents after 14 March 2005 knew that the first respondent was disclosing or using the applicant's confidential information in the written quotes: par 27 of the PFASC.
 The knowledge may be imputed the plea asserts because of the second respondents' failure to make any inquiries or take proper steps to ensure that the first respondent was not disclosing or using the applicant's confidential information. 29 It is pleaded by reason of the matters in pars 23, 24, 25 and 26 or 28 of the PFASC that the second respondents knowingly participated in each of the first respondent's breaches of his duty of trust and confidence. 30 As a particular to this plea it is asserted that the acts, conduct and knowledge of each of the second respondents is imputed to them all.
 The plea is that by reason of the male second respondents' actual knowledge, or all the second respondents' imputed or constructive knowledge, the second respondents knowingly participated in each of the first respondent's breaches of his duty of trust and confidence. 31 Next it is pleaded because of the matters in pars 23, 24, 25 and 26 that the second respondents aided and abetted or procured the first respondent to contravene the Act or were knowingly concerned in or a party to that contravention: par 30 of the PFASC.
 It is further pleaded in par 30 of the PFASC that the acts, conduct and knowledge of each of the second respondents are imputed to all of them. 32 This plea may be understood to mean that because the male second respondents 'at all material times', which because of the plea in par 27 must be at a time prior to 14 March, had actual knowledge of the matters in par 25 all of the second respondents aided, abetted, counselled or procured or were knowingly concerned in or party to the first respondent's contravention of s 183(1) of the Act .
 This plea may be understood to mean that by reason of the actual knowledge of the male second respondents or the constructive knowledge of all the second respondents, the second respondents knowingly participated in a breach of the first respondent's duty of trust and confidence. 35 In par 33 it is pleaded, by reason of the matters in pars 23, 24, 25 and 27, the second respondents aided, abetted, counselled or procured the first respondent to contravene the Act or were knowingly concerned in or a party to the contravention and by reason of that were persons who were involved in the first respondent's contravention of s 183(1) of the Act in relation to the two clients of the applicant earlier described and thereby themselves in contravention of s 183(2) of the Act : pars 33 and 34 of the PFASC. 36 This paragraph also includes the same plea that the acts, conduct and knowledge of each of the second respondents imputed to them all.
 More importantly, the knowledge of the female second respondents and any imputed knowledge obtained by all respondents by reason of the acts or omissions in par 28 cannot rise above constructive knowledge. 52 The plea that the first respondent breached his duty of trust and confidence is a plea of breach of fiduciary duty: Hospital Products Ltd v United States Surgical Corporation [1984] HCA 64 ; (1984) 156 CLR 41 at 96-97.
 A person who knowingly participates in a breach of fiduciary duty is liable to account to the person to whom the fiduciary duty was owed where that person obtains a benefit by that participation: Consul Development Pty Ltd v DPC Estates Pty Ltd [1975] HCA 8 ; (1975) 132 CLR 373 at 397. 54 It was not put that the second respondents could not be liable without actual knowledge of the first respondent's breach of fiduciary duty.
 It was accepted that a plea that the second respondents knowingly participated in a breach by the first respondent of his duty of confidence with the kind of knowledge pleaded in par 28 of the PFASC could be allowed to stand. 55 In Consul Development Pty Ltd v DPC Estates Pty Ltd , Gibbs J (at 398) and Stephen J (at 412) with whom Barwick CJ agreed expressed different views as to the knowledge required to establish liability in circumstances of this kind.
