 1 This arises as the consequence of a notice to appeal against a judgment of a Federal Magistrate (McInnis FM) dated 11 December 2006 dismissing an application for review of an earlier decision of the Federal Magistrates Court on 13 November 2006.
 The applicants did not attend the court on that day, and the Federal Magistrate proceeded to make an order that the application be dismissed in their absence pursuant to r 13.03A of the Federal Magistrates Court Rules 2005 (Cth). 4 On 17 November 2006, the first applicant applied to have the matter reinstated and annexed a medical certificate dated 11 November 2006, purporting to explain the applicants absence.
 It is this decision to which the current appeal relates. 5 In dismissing the application, the Federal Magistrate did not accept that a reasonable excuse for non-attendance had been provided, stating: 'In my view, the medical evidence, combined with the evidence given this day by the Applicant is insufficient to justify the court reaching a conclusion that there is a reasonable excuse for non-attendance by the First Applicant and indeed by the Second Applicant. ' 6 In the alternative, the Federal Magistrate considered the competency of the applicants' claims and concluded that given the application to the Court was not filed until 20 June 2006, it fell outside of the statutory timeframe as provided for by s 477 of the Act so that there was no arguable case.
 Notice of objection to competency 7 I note that in examining the decision on appeal, despite the obvious breach of time limitations, his Honour had held that the application did not contain grounds to support the relief sought and concluded that the applicants did not have an arguable case.
 On 13 March 2007 the respondent filed a notice of objection to competency citing these grounds. 8 Without seeking the appropriate leave to do so, the applicant filed a notice of appeal in this Court on 28 December 2006 which raises the following grounds: (a) the decision of the Tribunal was made without jurisdiction or is affected by an error of jurisdiction; (b) the decision of the Tribunal being affected by jurisdictional error is not a decision to which s 474 of the Act applies; and (c) the decision was a denial of procedural fairness and natural justice. 9 In the circumstances, particularly of the applicants being unrepresented, I treated the notice of appeal as an application for leave to appeal.
 On 30 April 2007 a medical certificate reading as follows was faxed to the Court: '30 April 2007 To Whom it May Concern: This is to certify [the first applicant] attended Complete Care Medical Centre on 30 Apr 2007 and he is unfit to attend court from 30/04/07 to 02/05/07 (inclusive) due to severe lower back pain.
 The Associate advised that the Court would continue to convene at the appointed time on 1 May 2007 and would telephone the first applicant at that time on the same mobile telephone number. 12 On the convening of the Court on 1 May 2007 a telephone connection was attempted with the first applicant's nominated mobile telephone number.
 A message was left requiring the telephone holder to call the Court's nominated telephone number. 13 The following observations may be made in relation to this medical certificate: (a) it bears at the top of the page a reference to the date of 19 January.
 No explanation is before the Court as to why that date appears when the relevant Court officer states it was duly received on 30 April 2007; (b) the terms of the certificate state only that the first applicant's disability of severe lower back pain makes him unfit to attend court between certain dates.
 Counsel responded that in circumstances where the first applicant was on notice of the possible effect of his conduct in failing to communicate with the Court (other than by providing a medical certificate), made it inappropriate for that course to be followed.
 I agreed. 16 I therefore proceeded with the hearing in accordance with FCR O 52 r 38A(1)(d). 17 In my opinion the decision of his Honour, the Federal Magistrate is not attended with sufficient or any doubt to warrant it being reconsidered.
 Additionally he was satisfied that the application was out of time and that time could not be extended pursuant to s 477(1) of the Act. 18 I am unable to perceive any error of law in that second conclusion. 19 It followed, in my view, therefore that his Honour was correct to dismiss the application.
