 The Appellant worked in Saudi Arabia in various marketing positions between 1997 and 2000 and worked in the aviation industry between 2000 and 2001. 15 In July 1998 whilst on a short holiday from the Middle East the Appellant met his future wife at a party for Christian friends of the Appellant in Bangalore.
 Notwithstanding the Appellant's commitment to the doctrinal values, beliefs and practices of the Roman Catholic faith and his fianc's strict commitment to the values, beliefs, practices and philosophy of the Hindu faith (and that of her family), his future wife's parents agreed to the marriage. 16 The Appellant returned to India in June 1999.
 The Appellant contended that his 'fear' was not simply a regional fear and that should he return to India and live in places other than Salem or Bangalore, his wife's relatives might, by some means, obtain information that he had returned to India. 19 The Appellant contended that after leaving India on 1 February 2001 and returning to the Middle East, the Appellant retained a lawyer to commence divorce proceedings against his wife in India.
 In those submissions, the Appellant reiterated the factual matters recited in these Reasons and contended that the Shiva Sena, RSS and VHP formed part of the ruling BJP government and that these groups had been responsible for many anti-social and anti-communal activities and, in particular, the persecution of Christians.
 The Appellant is an adherent of the Roman Catholic faith. (b) The Tribunal did not accept the Appellant's contention that he met and married a woman from a high caste Brahmin Hindu family in 1999. (c) The Tribunal found the Appellant's evidence concerning his meeting with his contended wife and their subsequent marriage implausible.
 In thus weighing the assessment of 'affirmative satisfaction', the Tribunal did not fall into error as contended by the Appellant ([4] and [5]). 30 In assessing the question of whether the Appellant held a fear of persecution (that is, subjectively held a fear) and whether, if held, that fear was well-founded as an objective assessment of the facts and contentions, the Tribunal assessed both the plausibility of the Appellant's contentions having regard to the claims made in the Appellant's statement lodged with the application (that is, at the date of the application) and evidence given orally at a subsequent hearing before the Tribunal (that is, at the date the Tribunal conducted the review).
