 There is no challenge to the form of the statutory demand or to Ms Taylor's evidence of having posted it as just described. 4 The defendant contends that the statutory demand was not served on it because it was not delivered to the registered address and was not otherwise received by the defendant. 5 According to the defendant's notice stating grounds of opposition, it opposes the application for the winding up order on the following grounds: 1.
 An annexure to Mr Vane's affidavit shows that Box 590 was "issued" on 22 February 2006 and that the defendant paid $60.00 for Box 590 on 31 March 2006, but the plaintiff did not suggest that I should not accept Mr Vane's evidence that the defendant had maintained Post Office Box 590 as its Post Office box from before February 2006 down to the present time. 10 In Mr Vane's experience, all mail addressed to Unit 3 is delivered by Australia Post to Box 590. 11 The defendant employs Ms Mannile as an administrative assistant, and has done so since 25 February 2006.
 Ms Mannile works on Tuesday, Wednesdays and Thursdays only, and on the days when she does not work, the mail is not collected. 12 Mr Vane states that Ms Mannile has not been absent from work on any of her work days between 28 November 2006 and the date of his affidavit.
 LEGISLATION 15 Section 459C of the Corporations Act provides, relevantly, that on an application to wind up a company in insolvency, the Court must presume that a company is insolvent if, during the period of three months ending on the day when the application was made, the company failed (as defined by s 459F) to comply with a statutory demand.
 If we do not know that the statutory demand was served on, or at least by, some date, we cannot know that the 21 day period has expired without compliance and that the presumption as to insolvency has been enlivened. 17 Section 142(1) of the Corporations Act provides that a company must have a registered office in the jurisdiction and that communications and notices to the company may be addressed to its registered office.
 In so far as this provision applies, it would raise a presumption that the statutory demand in the present case was received at Unit 3 on Monday 4 December 2006. 19 Section 5C of the Corporations Act provides, relevantly, that the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 (Cth) ("the Acts Interpretation Act ") applies to the Corporations Act .
 The High Court had to consider s 42(1)(c) of that Act, which was a provision similar to s 109X of the Corporations Act , and s 39(1) of the Acts Interpretation Acts 1956 to 1962 (Qld) as it then was , which was similar to s 29(1) of the Acts Interpretation Act .
 It is the company that chooses not to have such a facility, or to have as its registered office premises to which it is not practicable for mail to be delivered, or simply to make an arrangement with the Post Office for mail addressed to the company's registered office not to be delivered to that office but to be deposited in its Post Office box instead. 28 Section 109X of the Act and the first limb of s 29(1) of the Acts Interpretation Act reflect these policy considerations. 29 The fact remains, however, that s 160(1) of the Evidence Act (likewise the second limb of s 29(1) of the Acts Interpretation Act ) allows for the possibility of the company displacing the presumption as to time of receipt (and s 29(1) 's deemed time of service provision).
 In fact, subs (2) of s 29 of the Acts Interpretation Act has the effect that it is the "fourth working day" period specified in s 160(1) of the Evidence Act that applies, because, by reason of subs (2), s 29 is not permitted to affect the operation of s 160 of the Evidence Act .
 In any event, the defendant's submission is simply that the plaintiff is not in a position to rely on either statutory provision as to time because, on the evidence, the statutory demand was not delivered to Unit 3 at all. 31 In my view, the defendant has not adduced "evidence sufficient to raise doubt about the presumption" in terms of s 160(1) of the Evidence Act (or, a fortiori , "proved" the contrary of the deemed time of service provision of the Acts Interpretation Act ). 32 I do not know why Mr Vane did not receive the statutory demand.
 A similar observation would apply, mutatis mutandis , to the deemed time of service provision found in the second limb of s 29(1) of the Acts Interpretation Act . 36 Counsel for the parties referred me to several authorities on the statutory provisions to which I have referred, in factual contexts in which mail addressed to a company's registered office was deposited in its Post Office box rather than delivered by post to the registered office.
