 The appellant was also informed that the reconstituted tribunal had listened to the tape of the hearing before the original tribunal and had read the transcript of the hearing and the relevant material from the appellant's file. 4 In the letter the appellant was advised that: "...the Tribunal wishes to give you an opportunity to provide any final submissions.
 If you or your adviser wish to provide additional submissions or comments on the Tribunal's concerns or information or documentation about your mental capacity this is to be done in writing and to be received by the Tribunal by 5 November 2005. " The appellant did not respond. 5 The tribunal affirmed the delegate's decision.
 In its reasons it stated: "It is clear that the first Tribunal had concerns about the credibility and plausibility of the Applicant's claims, about the Applicant's state of mental health, and in any case, with whether his claims brought him within the Convention. ...
 As this Tribunal noted in its letters to the Applicant and his adviser on 13 October 2004, it shares the concerns of the first Tribunal, and this Tribunal gave the Applicant and his adviser a further opportunity to provide submissions, or information, or documentation about the Applicant's mental state.
 Liu v Minister for Immigration [2001] FCA 1362 ; (2001) 113 FCR 541 was cited as authority. 9 The magistrate rejected the Fairness Issue in relation to which the appellant claimed that he had not been given sufficient time to explain all the circumstances that formed the basis of his claim.
 But the requirement of speed in decision-making in s.420 of the Act has been held to be "of a different order" than other aspirations in that section for "fairness and justice", and default of this provision would not, of itself, constitute jurisdictional error: as per Kirby J in NAIS Ors v Minister for Immigration [2005] HCA 77 ; (2005) 223 ALR 171 at [75] .
 Similarly, the discrepancies which the Tribunal detected in the three summonses to the applicant to attend Court, could not have been overcome by an appearance of candour or truthful demeanour on the part of the applicant had he given evidence before the Tribunal as reconstituted.
 The Tribunal also relied on internal inconsistencies between the applicant's claims to have been in hiding for some months before leaving for Australia and other parts of his account. " At [32], Ryan J went on: "It will be seen, even from the brief rsum which I have just given, that the approach which led the Tribunal to characterise certain parts of the applicant's claims as implausible, was based on a dispassionate analysis of the content of the applicant's evidence, not the manner in which it was given.
 It was a situation where the Tribunal member simply found the claims implausible without receiving some other evidence, some other documentary evidence that might back them up. " 19 The fact is that this case is one in which little (if any) weight need be given to the demeanour of the appellant.
 It is true there is no medical report that explains the appellant's medical state, but the tribunal did ask the appellant to provide a report but he declined. 22 In light of the foregoing I am satisfied that the finding on credibility was open to the tribunal without the need for a future hearing.
 In this connection I take into account what McHugh J observed in Re Minister for Immigration for Multicultural Affairs Ex Parte Durairajasingham [2000] HCA 1 ; (2000) 74 ALJR 405, 417: "If the primary decision maker has stated that he or she does not believe a particular witness, no detailed reasons need to be given as to why that particular witness was not believed.
 The disbelief arose from the Tribunal's view that it was inherently unlikely that the events had occurred as alleged. " 23 The second issue is whether the second tribunal failed to comply with s 420 of the Act because its review was not "fair, just, economical and quick".
