 It appeared that the Department of Immigration and Citizenship (the Department) had contemplated the possibility of some such application as an affidavit sworn by the solicitor, Mr Corbould, and another affidavit sworn by a departmental officer, were provided to the Court during the proceedings.
 He did not depart from Australia thereafter and from 1 September 1994 became, by operation of law, the holder of an Absorbed Persons Visa. 5 As appears from Mr Corbould's affidavit Mr Morrison has a long list of criminal convictions dating back over 24 years.
 The offences which rendered him liable for consideration of cancellation of his visa under s 501 were specified as the offence of attempted murder and the associated offence of entering a dwelling with intent for which he had been sentenced in the Supreme Court on 21 August 1990.
 The full submission was set out at Annex E to the minute. 13 In the minute it was noted that Mr Morrison had come to Australia at the age of 12, had never departed and that all of his family reside in this country.
 It was then stated that the Australian community might expect that a visa holder whose only ties appear to be this country would not have his visa cancelled or be removed from Australia.
 I interpolate that there was no suggestion that there was any immediate prospect of that happening. 16 There followed in the minute a reference to the degree of hardship which would be caused to immediate family members lawfully resident in Australia.
 There was a related concern expressed in Mr Richards' affidavit that the departmental detention facilities are not correctional facilities and do not have the physical security measures, or resources, associated with correctional facilities.
 The Department did write to the Western Australian Minister for Corrective Services, on 28 April 2007, requesting that Mr Morrison be placed within a Western Australian correctional facility while he was in immigration detention.
 Had some form of representation been obtained earlier, following the notice of intention to cancel a visa, then it is possible that there might have been communication with the Department which would have avoided the suddenness of this removal.
 The intention to cancel Mr Morrison's visa was something of which he has known for a long time and indeed he has made submissions on his own account and provided supportive material from relatives and associates in answer to it.
 While I also had regard to the fact that there were obviously considerable resources being devoted to his expeditious removal for the reasons that have been given, the question whether those reasons would be judged on their merits as good or bad, is not a matter which concerned the Court.
 There was not enough to disclose, as I have indicated earlier, a collateral purpose for his removal on this basis and therefore I was not prepared to grant the immediate interlocutory relief that was sought.
