 The applicant abandoned any reliance upon 17 of the 19 drawings previously pleaded; continued to rely upon two of the plans previously pleaded (BC 41 A003), an assembly drawing and (BC 41 D013) a drawing for a component described as a 'side cutter bar'.
 The respondent put to Mr Pesch that the date of 12 March 2002 was not the date of creation of the document having regard to the inconsistent later date of October 2003 noted in the document at page 30 to the List of Documents.
 The respondent took Mr Pesch to a version of BC 41 D001 contained at page 15 of the applicant's list of documents which Mr Pesch agreed was the same drawing as document number 8 in the applicant's discovery bearing the date 4 March 2002.
 The 1727mm or 68" bucket is the most popular of the respondent's 4 in 1 buckets and is the industry standard size for 4 in 1 buckets. 133 Mr Preece says that he has been involved with sales for 11 years and for one half of that period he has been the respondent's sales manager.
 Mr Gouder says that a day or two after Mr Preece volunteered he could secure access to a new Norm 4 in 1 bucket, a new bucket was brought in to Digga's premises and inspected to determine the scope of modifications from the old Norm bucket.
 The point of these references is to support an argument that the features exhibited in other pivot mechanisms in the market (that is, pivot mechanisms that are common place, well known and straightforward) are such that the differences between the respondent's pivot mechanism and that of the applicant do not give rise to a conclusion of objective similarity.
 Nevertheless, I have formed the view that there is substantial similarity between the respondent's drawings for its inner and outer pivot arms making up the pivot mechanism of its 4 in 1 bucket with that of the applicant's drawing. 205 I have found that the applicant's drawings for the side cutter bar and the floor side plate are not original and thus no copyright subsists in those drawings.
 Having regard to a visual comparison between the drawing for the respondent's pivot mechanism both as to the inside and outside pivot arms of October 2005 and the applicant's drawing for its pivot mechanism, differences are apparent in the two sets of drawings.
 The respondent has infringed the applicant's copyright subsisting in the applicant's drawing for an outside mounting bracket (BC 41 D018) by making a plan or drawing for an outside mounting bracket for a 4 in 1 bucket and by manufacturing a three-dimensional outside mounting bracket for a 4 in 1 bucket between 2 December 2003 and approximately October 2005 being the date of introduction by the respondent of a redesigned outside mounting bracket for its 4 in 1 bucket. 2.
 The respondent has infringed the applicant's copyright subsisting in the applicant's drawing for an inside mounting bracket (BC 41 D016) by making a plan or drawing for an inside mounting bracket for a 4 in 1 bucket and by manufacturing a three-dimensional inside mounting bracket for a 4 in 1 bucket from 2 December 2003. 3.
 The respondent has infringed the applicant's copyright subsisting in the applicant's drawing for a pivot mechanism comprising an inner pivot arm and an outer pivot arm as reflected in the applicant's drawing BC 41 D015 by making a plan or drawing for an outside pivot arm and inside pivot arm as a dual arm pivot mechanism for a 4 in 1 bucket and by manufacturing a three-dimensional component which is a reproduction of the applicant's drawing. 4.
 The respondent has infringed the applicant's copyright subsisting in the applicant's front assembly drawing by making a plan or drawing of the front assembly of the respondent's bucket. 214 The evidence of Dr Gilmore is that notwithstanding the development of the amended drawings in October 2005 for the pivot mechanism, the respondent has not adopted a pivot mechanism of that design and continues to manufacture and assemble a pivot mechanism in accordance with its initial drawings which are a substantial reproduction of the applicant's drawings.
 Mr Parker says that such an approach to determining the profit on the production of a 4 in 1 bucket is consistent with Accounting Standard AASB102 for determining the cost of inventories and Australian Taxation Office Ruling TR2005/11 for the use of absorption costing in valuing trading stock for tax purposes.
