 The applicant contended by its statement of claim, filed in the Federal Court on 2 March 2007, that throughout the 1990s and between 2000 and 2002, it purchased, and subsequently integrated into its computers, hard disk drives that were manufactured by the first respondent Fujitsu Ltd, or its subsidiaries, and imported into Australia by the first and/or the second respondent Fujitsu Australia Ltd, which is an Australian resident corporation.
 The computers assembled by the applicant, which contained those hard disk drives, were subsequently sold by the applicant to the Australian market. 2 It is contended by the applicant that the first respondent is a company incorporated in Japan, that at all material times it owned all the issued shares in the second respondent and that it carried on business throughout the world, both directly and through its subsidiaries, as a manufacturer and wholesaler of computer components and accessories.
 Furthermore, the second respondent is said to have been engaged at all material times in business in Australia by way of importing computer related products, including hard disk drives, manufactured by the first respondent or its subsidiaries and making wholesale sales of those and other products. 3 At the first directions hearing on 28 March 2007, the applicant sought leave, pursuant to Order 8 rule 3 of the Federal Court Rules , to serve an originating process on the first respondent in Japan.
 I directed that the matter be set down for interlocutory hearing on 9 May 2007 in order to consider further that application for service out of the jurisdiction. 4 As outlined in the application filed with the Federal Court on 2 March 2007 and later described in the applicant's written submissions, the applicant's claims against the first respondent are based, in part, on an allegation that the first respondent is liable for the conduct of its agent and wholly owned subsidiary the second respondent.
 The 'defective' hard disk drives allegedly contained a manufacturing defect which caused 'significantly in excess of 50% of the defective [hard disk drives] to fail in a period of 1 month to 18 months after commencement of use..., and caused many further of the defective [hard disk drives] to fail after 18 months of use but before 5 years of use'. 5 The applicant has pleaded three causes of action against the respondent.
 The applicant submitted that its claim was a 'paradigm' case of contravention of s 52 of the TPA, with the first respondent making a representation in writing that the hard drives it manufactured were extremely reliable and the applicant subsequently relied upon those representations. 6 Secondly, the applicant has pleaded that the first respondent, either by itself or its agents including its subsidiary, the second respondent, breached the duty of care it owed the applicant in selling and marketing the defective hard drives or in failing to provide accurate advice in relation to the defective hard drives.
 For example, it was said that the applicant may be successful against the first, but not the second respondent, in relation to liability for the alleged defects in the manufactured goods, as the duty owed by a manufacturer of goods is not owed by a distributor: in that regard reference was made to McPherson's Ltd v Eaton [2005] NSWCA 435 ; (2005) 65 NSWLR 187.
 In that regard, the applicant referred the Court to the dicta of French J in Traxon Industries Pty Ltd v Emerson Electric Co (2006) 230 ALR 297 at [63]-[64], where his Honour observed as follows: The question that then arises is whether, given that the causes of action in misleading or deceptive conduct and breach of contract are within O 8 r 1, that is sufficient to satisfy the requirement that the rule "applies to the proceeding" within the meaning of O 8 r 2(2)(b).
 The term ' causes of action ' in item 1 was asserted to carry the same meaning as it did in relation to the previous Order 8 rule 1, as construed in Distillers Co (Biochemical) Ltd v Thompson [1971] NSWLR 83 at 90, the correct approach being to ' ask the question, where in substance did this cause of action arise '.
 The applicant asserted that the representations were made in Australia, the failure to warn occurred in Australia, the defective hard drives were bought in Australia and the damage was suffered in Australia. 14 Secondly, the claims for relief under the TPA were also submitted to be claims for a breach of an 'Act' within items 11, 12 and 13 of rule 2, which appear as follows: 'Kind of Proceeding in which originating process may be served on a person outside Australia ... 11 Proceeding based on a breach of a provision of an Act that is committed in Australia 12 Proceeding based on a breach of a provision of an Act (wherever occurring) seeking relief in relation to damage suffered wholly or partly in Australia 13 Proceeding in relation to the construction effect or enforcement of an Act, regulations or any other instrument having, or purporting to have effect under an Act ...' In terms of the operation of items 11 and 13, the misleading representations and the failure to warn comprised or included conduct submitted to have occurred in Australia, whilst in relation to item 12, as previously observed, the damage was submitted to have occurred in Australia.
 One of the cases referred to was Fubilan Catering Services Ltd v Compass Group (Australia) Pty Ltd [2004] FCA 532 in which French J granted leave to the applicant to serve originating process on the English parent of an Australian registered subsidiary, based on allegations of misleading or deceptive conduct in the course of contractual negotiations between the applicant and that subsidiary, and of an alleged breach of fiduciary duty.
