 After careful examination of all the evidence before me, I am satisfied that the Applicant does not have a well-founded fear of persecution for a Convention-related reason in Fiji. (Emphasis added). 4 The grounds of that amended application to the Federal Magistrates Court included the allegation that the appellant was a refugee within the meaning of the Convention, and particulars of that claim included the following: c.
 The applicant questions how the Tribunal could have reached a conclusion without addressing the claims under race, politics and particular social group, which went to the heart of the applicant's case. (Emphasis added). 13 Concerning the claim of persecution because of membership of a particular social group, the Federal Magistrate said: 31.
 Consequently, the application should be dismissed. 15 I note that Mr Kumar, who appeared for the appellant on this appeal, said from the Bar Table that the statement in the first sentence in [36] of the Federal Magistrate's reasons was incorrect.
 His claim also clearly regarded his involvement in politics with the Fiji Labor Party, and asserted a fear of persecution for political or imputed political opinion. 17 It was submitted for the appellant that the findings and reasons of the Tribunal (which are set out above) clearly show that the Tribunal's consideration of the persecution claimed by the appellant was limited to ethnicity.
 This conclusion applied to persecution for whatever reason. 23 In NABE v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 263 ; (2004) 144 FCR 1, the Full Court (Black CJ, French, and Selway JJ) said at [60]: In SGBB v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs (2003) 199 ALR 364 at [17], Selway referred to the observation by Kirby J in Dranichnikov , at 405, that "[t]he function of the Tribunal, as of the delegate, is to respond to the case that the applicant advances".
 He also referred to the observation by von Doussa J in SCAL v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCA 548 that "[n]either the delegate nor the Tribunal is obliged to consider claims that have not been made" (at [16]).
 Selway J however went on to observe in SGBB (at [17]): 'But this does not mean the application is to be treated as an exercise in 19 th Century pleading. ' His Honour noted that the Full Court in Dranichnikov v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs [2000] FCA 1801 at [49] had said: 'The Tribunal must, of course, deal with the case raised by the material and evidence before it.
 It follows that if the Tribunal makes an error of fact in misunderstanding or misconstruing a claim advanced by the applicant and bases its conclusion in whole or in part upon the claim so misunderstood or misconstrued its error is tantamount to a failure to consider the claim and on that basis can constitute jurisdictional error.
 It may be "subsumed in findings of greater generality or because there is a factual premise upon which [the] contention rests which has been rejected": Applicant WAEE [ WAEE v Minister for Immigration [2003] FCAFC 184] (at [47]).
 But as the Full Court said in WAEE (at [45]): If the tribunal fails to consider a contention that the applicant fears persecution for a particular reason which, if accepted, would justify concluding that the applicant has satisfied the relevant criterion, and if that contention is supported by probative material, the tribunal will have failed in the discharge of its duty, imposed by s 414 to conduct a review of the decision.
 This is a matter of substance, not a matter of the form of the tribunal's published reasons for decision. 25 In WAEE , the Full Court said, at [47]: The inference that the tribunal has failed to consider an issue may be drawn from its failure to expressly deal with that issue in its reasons.
 It was said that the finding as to the applicant's credibility and the reliance on an earlier trip in 2003 was "part of the decision", and pursuant to s 424A of the Act, the Tribunal was obliged to give notice to the applicant particulars of that information. 32 It is plain from the passages of the transcript of the hearing earlier set out in these reasons that the Tribunal, in its oral hearing, made it plain to the appellant that the information about the time that he has had his passport, and his earlier visits to Australia, were relevant to its decision.
