 She also advised that she and Mr Chey had a child. (i) On 2 December 2005, pursuant to s 359A of the Act , the Tribunal wrote to Erskine Rodan as Mr Chey's migration agent inviting Mr Chey to comment on information relevant to the existence of a genuine spousal relationship.
 This information was the information that Ms Tong had given to the Department in 2003. (j) On 5 December 2005, the Tribunal invited Mr Chey to attend a hearing on 19 January 2006. (k) By letter dated 16 December 2005, received at the Tribunal on 20 December 2005, Erskine Rodan, on behalf of Ms Tong, responded to the Tribunal's letter of 2 December 2005.
 The Tribunal found that, if they were initially in a genuine spousal relationship, it deteriorated quickly after Mr Chey's arrival in Australia; that Mr Chey and Ms Tong separated in March 2003; and that Ms Tong's conduct in 2003 was the behaviour of a person frightened of Mr Chey.
 The Tribunal is not satisfied that [Mr Chey's] continued association with [Ms Tong] reflects his commitment to a shared life with her and is not merely a faade maintained to secure permanent residence. " The Tribunal therefore found that Mr Chey did not meet the essential criteria for the grant of a permanent visa because he was not in a genuine spousal relationship with Ms Tong.
 The appellant's argument accepted that it was proper for the Tribunal to question him and Ms Tong on matters affecting their credit and, in particular, to question them about what had occurred in 2003 and Mr Chey's knowledge of Ms Tong's family.
 In the appellant's submission, at the hearing the Tribunal did not address what had happened to the appellant and Ms Tong over the previous two years (that is, in 2004 and 2005) and the appellant was not challenged about these matters.
 On the contrary, by focusing on one subject only, the appellant (and Ms Tong) might have been led to believe (mistakenly) that if they satisfied the Tribunal about it, then the Tribunal would be satisfied about the remaining issues in the case.
 Put another way, the appellant and Ms Tong might have been misled to believe that, so far as the Tribunal was concerned, almost the only obstacle in their path was the information given by Ms Tong to the Department in 2003.
 The Tribunal's consideration of the appellant's case as regards significant matters such as this was, so counsel argued, so perfunctory that it did not amount to consideration of his claims at all. 36 Counsel for the first respondent argued that the question of whether a person is a "spouse" is essentially a question of fact and evaluation for the decision-maker.
 The first respondent submitted that the Tribunal's reasons disclosed that it considered the matters required by reg 1.15A(3) before deciding that it was not satisfied that the appellant was in a spousal relationship with Ms Tong at the date of its decision.
 Apprehended bias 38 Counsel for the appellant relied on the conduct of the Tribunal before and during the hearing, as well as the decision of the Tribunal as a whole, to support the proposition that a reasonable observer would consider that the Tribunal had brought a closed mind to the issues under consideration.
 In that case, it was enough that the Tribunal considered the relevant evidence under the topics referred to in the regulation (as the Tribunal did in the present case). 53 Examination of the Tribunal's reasons in the present case and, in particular, its consideration of the evidence relevant to reg 1.15A(3), also shows that the requisite matters were considered and are reflected in the Tribunal's findings to the extent they are relevant.
