 1 In this proceeding which was commenced on 4 September 2006 the applicant, Andrew Morton Garrett, seeks an extension of time in which to file and serve a notice of appeal from a judgment of Lindsay FM in action ADG 90 of 2004 in the Federal Magistrates Court of Australia given on 25 January 2005. 2 The proceeding which was before the Federal Magistrate was for an extension of time to seek a review of a decision of Registrar Christie made on 24 September 2004 when the Registrar made a sequestration order against the estate of the applicant.
 The Federal Magistrate refused the application for an extension of time. 3 The application to this Court was accompanied by a draft notice of appeal of 25 pages. 4 The respondent appeared and filed a notice opposing the application, the grounds of which were: '(1) The Appellant has provided no acceptable explanation for the lengthy delay in pursuing an appeal against the decision of Federal Magistrate Lindsay of 24 January 2005. (2) The material relied upon by the appellant does not show any arguable grounds for appeal. ' 5 When the matter was first called on before me on 16 October 2006 I pointed out to Mr Garrett that his application was not competent because the order made by Lindsay FM was interlocutory and no appeal lies from an interlocutory order of a Federal Magistrate, except by leave of the Court.
 He claims to be entitled to the orders sought as Managing Trustee of the Andrew Garrett Group of Family Trusts. 7 As I explained to Mr Garrett during his submissions this morning, this Court of course could not set aside a judgment made in the District Court of South Australia.
 Mr Garrett agreed that, in those circumstances, I could not make an order setting aside the sequestration order, however, he pursued the order sought in paragraph (1) that I should stay the sequestration order made on 24 September 2004 until such time as the matter is heard in the District Court of South Australia. 9 In my opinion, no order for a stay ought to be made.
