 1 On 4 June last, pursuant to s 1322(4)(d) of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (the Act), I ordered that, for the purposes of s 723(3) of the Act, the time within which the plaintiff might make an application for the admission of unsecured convertible notes issued pursuant to the plaintiff's prospectus dated 16 May 2007 (the Prospectus) to quotation on Australian Stock Exchange Limited (ASX) be extended to 24 May 2007.
 Section 723(3) relevantly provides: "(3) If a disclosure document for an offer of securities states or implies that the securities are to be quoted on a financial market ... and: (a) an application for the admission of the securities to quotation is not made within 7 days after the date of the disclosure document; or (b) the securities are not admitted to quotation within 3 months after the date of the disclosure document; then: (c) an issue or transfer of securities in response to an application made under the disclosure document is void; ... " 5 The order was sought pursuant to s 1322(4)(d) which is as follows: "(4) Subject to the following provisions of this section but without limiting the generality of any other provision of this Act, the Court may, on application by any interested person, make all or any of the following orders, either unconditionally or subject to such conditions as the Court imposes: ... (d) an order extending the period for doing any act, matter or thing or instituting or taking any proceeding under this Act or in relation to a corporation (including an order extending a period where the period concerned ended before the application for the order was made) or abridging the period for doing such an act, matter or thing or instituting or taking such a proceeding; and may make such consequential or ancillary orders as the Court thinks fit. " The Court must not make an order unless it is satisfied that no substantial injustice has been, or is likely to be, caused to any person (s 1322(6)(c)). 6 I am satisfied that the failure to observe the statutory time limit was the result of inadvertence due to the illness and consequent distraction of the company secretary.
 It is aware of, and consents to, the application. 7 The principles applicable to this application have been discussed by Lindgren J in Re Insurance Australia Group Ltd [2003] FCA 581 ; (2003) 128 FCR 581 and Re NuSep Ltd [2007] FCA 613.
 As a further safeguard, leave to apply was granted to any person who can demonstrate sufficient interest to modify or discharge the orders upon appropriate notice being given to the plaintiff. 9 It is for these reasons that the relief was granted.
