 That the First to 6 th Respondents be joined to this action. ' 3 The application was filed on 23 November 2005 and was accompanied by a statement of claim. 4 The applicant is bankrupt by virtue of a sequestration order made by Registrar Christie on 24 September 2004.
 He says he is the trustee of three discretionary trusts, the Andrew Garrett Family Trust, the Andrew Garrett Family Trust No 2 and the Andrew Garrett Family Trust No 3. 5 The first respondent is a commercial person who is a lender of money.
 In those circumstances, the matter was adjourned with a direction that the applicant file an amended statement of claim. 8 During that hearing there was additional argument about documents that had been requested by the second and third respondents.
 The second and third respondents submitted that the complaints in the statement of claim related to dealings between them or their clients and the applicant, in relation to the Andrew Garrett Family Trust and the Andrew Garrett Family Trust No 2.
 The requested documents had not been produced, nor had the amended statement of claim been filed. 10 In the meantime, on 24 January 2006 the first respondent filed a notice of motion supported by an affidavit to have the statement of claim struck out, on the basis that it disclosed no reasonable cause of action against him.
 The fifth respondent also sought to have the amended statement of claim struck out on the basis that it did not disclose a reasonable cause of action against him. 15 The sixth respondent sought to have the amended statement of claim dismissed, or in the alternative struck out.
 The applicant said that he was not in a position to pay costs, but was entitled to an indemnity as trustee of the trust who was a party to the action. 17 I decided to deal with the application to strike out only, and made an order striking out the amended statement of claim filed on 20 February 2006.
 The second and third respondents sought to press their application for summary dismissal of the proceedings pursuant to O 20 r 2. 18 They submitted that the applicant did not have standing to bring the action.
 It was their argument that the causes of action, if any accrued to the Andrew Garrett Family Trust and Andrew Garrett Family Trust No 2, and because the applicant brought his application as the trustee of the Andrew Garrett Family Trust No 3, there must be a plea of a valid assignment of the cause of action to the trustee of that trust. 19 It was contended there was no such assignment for three reasons.
 The matter came on for hearing some weeks ago and it was pointed out to Mr Garrett that the respondents' application to strike out the proceeding was under consideration, and there was presently no statement of claim on file; the statement of claim having previously been struck out. 33 Mr Garrett responded by filing a further notice of motion seeking the following further alternative orders: '1.
 That an order be made that Andrew Morton Garrett (c) be granted leave to represent the interests of Evajade Pty Ltd in its capacities as joint trustee of the Andrew Garrett Family trust, The Andrew Garrett Family Trust No 2 a (sic) The Springwood Park Unit Trust as the 2 nd Applicant. 2.
 The proposed amended application asserts that the application is brought by the applicants in their capacities as sole trustee of the Andrew Garrett Family Trust No 3 and in their capacities as Joint Trustees of the Andrew Garrett Family Trust and the Andrew Garrett Family Trust No 2 and the Springwood Park Unit Trust.
 The proposed amended application identifies the following causes of action: 'This application is brought pursuant to causes of action alleged against the 1 st to 8 th Respondents of Breach of Contract, Unconscionable Conduct, Breach of the Trade Practices Act (1974) (C'th), the Bankruptcy Act (1966) (C'th), The Trustee Agency Act (1935) (State), The Banking Act (1959) (C'th), The Bills of Exchange Act (1909) (C'th), Breach of Trust, Unclean Hands Breach of Duty of Care, Misrepresentation, The Crimes Act (C'th), The Criminal Act (1995) (C'th).
