 Mr Smith will consent but seeks permission to go on an overseas holiday with his family for 10 days from 29 September 2008. 2 Mr Vandeloo, a senior financial investigator with ASIC, has sworn the main affidavit in support of ASIC's application.
 In substance, they concern a loan by ANZ to Opes of $95 million which Opes then applied to discharge certain of its indebtedness to ANZ by way of collateral for the re-delivery by ANZ to Opes of a package of shares.
 Those benefits included the right to appoint investigating accountants to inquire into and report to ANZ on Opes' affairs, the execution of new securities in favour of ANZ in the form of fixed and floating charges, mortgages over shares held by the directors of Opes, cross-guarantees and indemnities provided by Opes and limited guarantees and indemnities by the directors of Opes, and the payment of a $50,000 co-operation fee by Opes to ANZ.
 Benefits including the return of the shares to Opes by ANZ and a moratorium on margin calls and the issuing of default notices flowed to Opes upon the execution of the deed. 3 As a result of the transactions Mr Vandeloo formed the opinion that the unsecured creditors of Opes are worse off by reason of the transactions between Opes and ANZ.
 His reasons include that the loan, while sufficient to secure the return of the shares, was inadequate to cover an approximate $116 million shortfall in a client account managed by Opes and the priority afforded to ANZ over unsecured creditors by way of the cross-guarantees and the fixed and floating charges.
 He was involved in negotiations to amend the lending agreement between Opes and ANZ and subsequently executed the Co-operation Deed, together with the cross-guarantees, indemnities and the fixed and floating charges in favour of ANZ.
 According to ASIC's investigations, at the time these transactions were entered into, Mr Smith knew or ought to have known that Opes was insolvent, that the loan was insufficient to cover the $116 million shortfall and could not be repaid and that the amendments to the lending agreement and the granting of new securities in favour of ANZ would be detrimental to the position of unsecured creditors.
 Section 184 provides that an officer commits an offence if he or she is reckless or intentionally dishonest and fails to exercise his or her powers and discharge his or her duties in good faith in the best interests of the corporation or for a proper purpose.
 The investigation is looking generally into the affairs of the Opes group and consequently many issues have been raised for consideration. 7 At the moment, though, the only issue for me to resolve is whether Mr Smith should be permitted to go on an overseas holiday.
 Mr Smith says that, if permitted to travel, he will return to Australia and continue to co-operate with ASIC's investigation. 8 As I mentioned during the course of submissions, there are several factors of concern were I to accede to the request.
 In this case the possibility of proceedings for both civil penalty provisions and a prosecution for criminal offences is so great, and the risk of absconding sufficiently significant, that it would be wrong to allow Mr Smith to leave. 11 But there must be some limit to the restriction.
 I raised with Mr Burnside QC, who appears for ASIC, how long it will take for ASIC to complete its investigation into Mr Smith's actions and make a decision whether civil proceedings will be instituted or whether ASIC will refer possible criminal charges to the Director of Public Prosecutions.
