 1 The applicant has applied to the Court for summary judgment under Order 35A of the Federal Court Rules , against the second, third, eighth, eleventh, twelfth, thirteenth, fourteenth, seventeenth and eighteenth respondents. 2 None of these respondents has filed a defence in the proceeding.
 None has attended at directions hearings. 3 The applicant is the owner of a registered trade mark and other intellectual property rights in relation to a form of footwear known as "Ugg boots".
 Following inquiries and the execution of search orders it alleged that each of the respondents was, in one way or another, involved in the manufacture and/or marketing of counterfeit Ugg boots. 4 The applicant commenced proceedings in this Court on 9 November 2007.
 By notice of motion dated 6 August 2008 (as amended by leave of the Court granted on 1 October 2008) the applicant seeks summary judgment against those respondents.
 The applicant obtained leave under s 471B of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), to continue the proceeding against each of these respondents. 6 The applicant seeks various forms of relief against the respondents in its sixth further amended application. 7 Order 35A r 3(2) provides for the entry of default judgments in the event that a respondent fails to do one of a number of things.
 The applicant relies on the failure, by each of the respondents, to file a defence and the failure of those respondents to attend directions hearings. 8 There is evidence before me by affidavit which satisfies me that each of the respondents has been served with the further amended statement of claim, the sixth further amended application and the various notice of motion regarding the summary judgment application. 9 An applicant for an order under Order 35A does not have to prove its claim by way of evidence.
 The orders sought should be made. 11 On 3 January 2008 the applicant obtained orders from Ryan J against two other respondents (the twentieth and twenty-first respondents) which were conditioned by a requirement that the applicant provide security for an undertaking which it gave to his Honour on that day.
