 On 30 April 2007 Senator Johnston, who was then the Minister for Justice and Customs, issued an amended notice. 4 On 6 June 2007 a magistrate determined pursuant to s 19 of the Act that Mr Tervonen was eligible for surrender for offences itemised in the amended notice issued on 30 April 2007.
 Gyles J subsequently confirmed the magistrate's order of 6 June 2007 save in respect of certain offences omitted from the amended notice under s 16 as a result of the order of the Full Court which found that notice substantially, but not entirely, valid ( Tervonen v Finland [2008] FCA 781).
 The argument 7 The foundation for the fresh proceedings instituted by Mr Tervonen was the proposition that some of the warrants relied upon by Finland were warrants for the arrest of Mr Tervonen for pre-trial investigation purposes rather than to stand trial 'accused' of relevant 'offences' , which are essential ingredients in the statutory meaning given by s 6 of the Act to the term 'extraditable person' . 8 The question whether a person is an 'extraditable person' is one of the matters which lies at the heart of the determination of a magistrate under s 12 of the Act and the formation of the opinion of a Minister under s 16 of the Act.
 The earlier attempts to put the argument 11 At this point it is necessary to distinguish between the proceedings before Rares J and the appeal from Rares J to the Full Court (on the one hand), which were each concerned with s 16 of the Act, and the proceedings before Gyles J (on the other hand) which were concerned with s 19 of the Act.
 If Gyles J was incorrect the arguments remain available in that context, although it does not appear that they relate to all the warrants outstanding against Mr Tervonen. 12 Gyles J, however, did not think that Mr Tervonen's contentions were unworthy of consideration or necessarily wrong so far as they concerned fundamental aspects of the extradition arrangements between Australia and Finland.
 The first limb in Dcor 18 Flick J decided that Mr Tervonen's argument had no prospects of success for the reasons given by Gyles J, that it should have been raised in the appeal proceeding against the orders of Rares J and that it was an abuse of process to raise the matter now.
 Any argument that a person is not an "extraditable person" , because there is no warrant for his arrest for an "offence" , is an argument which should have been raised --- if it was to be raised at all --- when the Minister's decisions under s 16 were under scrutiny by this Court either at first instance or on appeal.
 In the present case it required an assessment of whether it was 'unreasonable' for Mr Tervonen not to have raised his present contentions on the appeal against Rares J and whether there is a risk of 'conflicting judgments' if he is allowed to argue the matter now. 26 Because the application of the doctrine of Anshun estoppel calls for the exercise of a judgment I am prepared to accept that there is room for argument about Flick J's conclusion.
 That is because he must not, under the Act, be surrendered unless Finland has given a 'specialty assurance' to the effect that he will only be tried for offences for which he is surrendered (see s 22(3) and (4) of the Act). 35 In my view, therefore, there is a possibility of substantial injustice to Mr Tervonen unless it is clear that an appeal against the judgment of Flick J would have no prospect of success.
 I am also satisfied that the interests of justice require that the opportunity to argue an appeal should not be denied to Mr Tervonen. 38 Naturally, Mr Tervonen's failure to press the argument on the appeal from Rares J remains a formidable obstacle to his prospects on appeal but it is not my task to decide whether Flick J was correct or incorrect in his approach to that issue.
