 However, for convenience, I will refer to the remaining four respondents as "the respondents". 5 Mr Stang and Mr Kritzler are directors of Novapharm and the fifth respondent (Ms Ditterick) is employed by the company. 6 There are three motions before the Court. 7 The respondents move by notice of motion filed also on 15 August 2007 for an order dismissing the proceeding insofar as it relates to certain paragraphs of the application and certain paragraphs of the statement of claim. 8 The respondents also move by notice of motion also filed on 15 August 2007 for an order pursuant to O 27 r 4 of the Federal Court Rules that certain subpoenas issued on 8 August 2007 at the request of Mr Glueck be set aside. 9 Mr Glueck moves the Court by notice of motion filed on 25 October 2007 for leave to file an amended application and an amended statement of claim in the forms annexed to his notice of motion. 10 The respondents' motion for summary dismissal relates to the existing application and statement of claim.
 Undoubtedly, the Court has jurisdiction to entertain Mr Glueck's application in so far as it seeks revocation of the Patent on these grounds. 14 Mr Glueck did not comply with O 58 r 14(1) of the Federal Court Rules by serving a copy of the application and statement of claim on the Commissioner of Patents. 15 Mr Glueck does not suggest that the Invention was not a patentable invention.
 Mr Glueck pleads that Novapharm, in trade or commerce, engaged in conduct that was misleading or deceptive in contravention of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) (the TP Act ) by misrepresenting to the Australian Patent Office (APO) that Mr Glueck had consented to Novapharm's applying for and obtaining a grant of letters patent in relation to the Invention and that it was entitled to such a grant, when he had not so consented and it was not so entitled.
 Again, misleading or deceptive conduct in trade or commerce in contravention of s 52 of the TP Act is pleaded (in paras 30 and 32). 19 Third, in relation to the application for the US Patent, generally similar allegations are made of misrepresentations to the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO).
 It is alleged in para 47 that in reliance on various representations by Novapharm, the USPTO issued the US Patent to Novapharm in respect of the Invention, in consequence of which Mr Glueck has suffered loss and damage. 20 Fourth and finally, there is an allegation in respect of a CIP application made to the USPTO in or about February 2003 by Novapharm.
 In para 57 Mr Glueck pleads that in reliance on the representations, the USPTO, pursuant to the CIP application, issued the CIP US Patent to Novapharm in respect of the Invention, in consequence of which Mr Glueck has suffered loss and damage. 21 Associated with the four groups of misrepresentations are allegations of fraud and forgery, and allegations of accessorial liability, in various combinations, on the part of Mr Stang, Mr Kritzler and Ms Ditterick.
 CONSIDERATION 22 The respondents rely on two grounds for their attack on the proposed amended statement of claim and, through that document, on the proposed amended application. 23 First, they say that the pleaded representations made to the APO and to the USPTO were not made "in trade or commerce" for the purposes of s 52 of the TP Act .
 Accordingly, they submit that all claims founded on each alleged contravention by Novapharm of s 52 of the TP Act , including the claims of accessorial liability founded upon those alleged contraventions, cannot succeed. 24 The respondents refer to the authoritative construction of the expression "in trade or commerce" in s 52 of the TP Act given by the High Court in Concrete Constructions (NSW) Pty Ltd v Nelson [1990] HCA 17 ; (1990) 169 CLR 594 ( Concrete Constructions ).
 In any event, allegations that Novapharm had made the representations in trade or commerce permeate the proposed amended statement of claim and lie at the heart of Mr Glueck's claims. 35 In the result, the proposed amended application and the proposed amended statement of claim should not be allowed to be filed because the former would claim relief, including accessorial relief, based on alleged contraventions of s 52 of the TP Act , and the latter would plead claims for such relief. 36 I turn now to the respondents' second ground of attack.
 I am not favoured with submissions as to the implications that such a finding would have for the title to the US Patents. 43 In view of my conclusion on the respondents' first ground for attacking the proposed amended application and the proposed amended statement of claim, the s 52 argument, I do not need to reach a final decision in relation to the respondents' second basis for its attack.
 I make it clear, however, that in ordering that the proceeding be otherwise dismissed, I am deciding at this stage no more than that Mr Glueck will not be entitled to seek relief based on a contravention of s 52 of the TP Act in any amended application which he files. 49 The subpoenas were issued by reference to the existing application and statement of claim.
