 Thereupon the previous solicitors advised that their instructions had been withdrawn and the present solicitors became the solicitors on the record. 5 On 19 February 2008 Baldwin Shelston, the ninth respondent, filed a Notice of Motion seeking summary dismissal and strike-out security for costs and costs on the Motion.
 Thereupon, on 26 March 2008, the first to eighth respondents filed and served an Amended Notice of Motion seeking summary dismissal or an Order striking out parts of the Amended Statement of Claim. 6 On 1 April 2008 the ninth respondent filed a similar Notice of Motion but also claimed Security for Costs.
 The hearing on 21 November 2008 was conducted by reference to that Further Amended Statement of Claim. 7 On 28 May 2008 I made orders pursuant to the application for summary judgment by Baldwin Shelston and struck out the pleadings in relation to the conspiracy claim in the Trade Practice claim.
 There is no evidence before me as to when and whether it is likely that any such security will be provided. 11 At the hearing on 21 November 2008, the first eight respondents indicated they no longer continue to press an application for summary dismissal, but pressed an application for security for costs against the first applicant.
 The ninth respondent pressed its application for summary judgment and strike out of parts of the Further Amended Statement of Claim. 12 When the matter came on before me for hearing Mr Hasson applied for an adjournment on the basis that his Counsel was otherwise engaged and that he had only been served with the documents on or about 17 November 2008.
 The response of 19 August 2008 was that the fist eight respondents would be prepared to consent to Orders staying the second applicant's proceedings subject to the second applicant paying security for costs and that if the security had not been paid by 16 September 2008 the proceeding be dismissed.
 The foreshadowed re-pleaded case was not indicated by the applicants' solicitors, as mentioned earlier, until the day before the hearing on 21 November 2008. 16 A draft document was handed to the parties by the applicants' solicitor on 20 November 2008 entitled "Second Further Amended Statement of Claim" (which is the fourth attempt to plead the matter).
 Nor did he attempt to cross-examine any of the deponents of the affidavits as to the history of the proceeding or the issue of costs. 21 Mr Hasson referred to the Second Further Amended Statement of Claim recently produced, but did not respond to any criticisms levelled as to the manifest deficiencies and inadequacies of that document.
 There is substantial evidence as to the costs, delay and expenses incurred by the respondents to these proceedings, which it now appears highly unlikely they will be ever able to recover. 23 Having regard to the long and unsatisfactory history of this matter, and bearing in mind the substantial costs incurred by the respondents to date, coupled with the absence of any proper pleadings, I am persuaded that there has been a failure to exercise due diligence in prosecuting the claim in accordance with the directions of the Court.
 Accordingly, I propose to dismiss the proceeding. 26 As to the question of costs, in accordance with the accepted principles, I consider this is an appropriate case in which to award costs to the respondents of the proceedings subject to costs orders already made.
