 1 The applicant, Logic Group Tyres Pty Limited ("Logic") seeks relief against the first respondent, Tokio Marine Nichido Fire Insurance Co Limited ("Tokio"), as insurer under a contract of insurance formed between Logic and the second respondent, Mirabell Point Pty Limited ("Mirabell").
 Mirabell is said to have been agent for Tokio, meaning that Tokio is liable for Mirabell's representations and conduct concerning the supply of insurance cover for goods stored in premises said to be owned by Mirabell.
 On the same day, Mr Dejanovic also signed a document entitled "Certificate of Insurance for Self Storage Customers", which bore the names "Storage King Cheltenham" and "Logic Group Tyres", and also registered a broker's name, "Midland Insurance Brokers Australia P/L".
 Despite this, the invoices were paid monthly by Logic. 6 On 1 March 2006, Logic arranged to rent three further storage spaces from "Storage King Cheltenham" at the same site, namely Units 14, 21 and 86.
 In response, Tokio submits that there is no basis for presuming that Mirabell was its agent in relation to the insurance of the tyres. 11 To succeed on this point, Logic must show that Mirabell acted in a way which attracted liability, and that any such liability is borne, as a result of a relationship between principal and agent, by Tokio.
 It is clearly pointed out that the goods are stored at the sole risk of Logic, and that "Storage King Cheltenham" is not liable for the loss of any goods stored on its premises.
 The customer acknowledges that "Storage King Cheltenham" is not acting as an agent of the insurer, is in fact not the insurer, and has not provided any recommendation or opinion in relation to insurance benefits.
 The inference thus to be drawn from the evidence is that the express exclusion clause was or should have been read by Logic at the time of signing, and that Logic is bound by the express written terms of the contract into which it entered.
 DID MIRABELL OWE A DUTY OF CARE? 16 Logic submits that Mirabell is liable because it owed a duty of care to Logic to ensure that the security on the Cheltenham site was sufficient to prevent theft.
 Logic also says that Mirabell is liable for its own misrepresentations as to the arrangements for insurance and as to the sufficiency of the insurance policy to protect against theft. 17 Several documents in evidence provide details of how and by whom the business at the Cheltenham site was conducted.
 The precise services in relation to the conduct of the "Business" are set out more specifically in other paragraphs of the Agreement. 21 On the basis of this and other evidence, Logic submits that Mirabell must have been aware of the fact that Logic was storing tyres in bulk at the Cheltenham site.
