 Their request for information was, on occasions, more than that: assertions that the second respondent, and later the first respondent, should do things which they allegedly had not done; and that the second respondent was doing things detrimental to the interests of NAC.
 Nevertheless, no other persons more obviously than the applicants were identified as persons from the Anangu who might have been kept informed of the progress of the administration, and I think it was appropriate that, by some means, the Anangu should have been kept generally informed as to its progress.
 In declining to order costs, the Court considered inter alia, the fact that the proceedings raised novel and important questions of law in relation to the alleged deprivation of liberty of individuals, executive power of the Commonwealth, and the operation of the Migration Act 1956 (Cth).
 That evidence was to show that the second respondent, despite evidence given at the hearing, had not progressed the administration with the speed at which he had said he would, and that the outcome of the administration has been regarded by the Anangu as unsatisfactory, even though it is ongoing.
 By letter of 4 August 2006, the second respondent said that the applicants did not have any specific capacity or standing to obtain information regarding the administration, and that he would consider the identity of persons to whom information should be provided and the manner of dissemination in due course.
 By final response on 15 November 2006, whilst maintaining that he was not obliged to respond to the requests of the applicants, the second respondent outlined the main priorities of the administration and how they were to be addressed both in the short term and the long term. 20 In essence, an informative response about how the administration was progressing was only given after some five months from the first request for such information.
 The correspondence included requests for information in relation to the progress of the administration and the possibility of arranging a meeting with the respondents. 22 On 29 August 2006, they asked if the first respondent had received a report from the administrator and whether they could be apprised of its content.
 The applicants are members of the NAC, and all, except for Margaret Smith, were former members of the Governing Committee before the appointment of the second respondent. 25 Part III of the Act reveals an intention for Aboriginal Councils to be established within particular areas to provide services to the Aboriginals living in that area and to perform functions for the benefit of those Aboriginals.
 I therefore consider that the level of response of the respondents to the applicants' requests for information is a factor which may have informed the applicants' decision to have instituted these proceedings and, to a point, to have maintained them.
 The Magistrate had refused the defendant's application for costs on the ground that the informant had acted reasonably in instituting the proceedings and that the defendant had caused suspicion to fall on him by failing to seek proof of ownership of the goods when he acquired them.
 For example in Capolingua v Phylum Pty Ltd (1991) 5 WAR 137 , the way the defendants had pleaded their case, their conduct at a mediation conference and their counsel's failure to comply with orders pre-trial, caused the issues to be obscured, and unnecessary evidence to be led, resulting in an unnecessarily prolonged trial.
