 1 The plaintiffs, Brookfield Multiplex Limited (formerly Multiplex Limited), and Brookfield Multiplex Funds Management Limited (formerly Multiplex Funds Management Limited), are defendants in a securities fraud class action that is pending in the Federal Court.
 They agree to pay any money they might receive by way of judgment or settlement into a common account maintained by Maurice Blackburn from which payments are to be made in accordance with the relevant funding agreement.
 First, group members are required to contribute money's worth (the promise to pay money received on their claims into a common account) as consideration to acquire benefits (the funding of the action) produced by the scheme.
 Second, the money's worth (the promises) is used in a common enterprise (the scheme), or alternatively the promises are pooled, to produce financial benefits for group members (the funding or the ability of group members to pursue their claims against the plaintiffs without any liability for costs).
 Without in any way wishing to be exhaustive the following difficult issues arise: (a) assuming that there is a "scheme", is the promise by the litigation funders a benefit "produced by the scheme"; (b) assuming that the promises the group members make have the character of a contribution of "money's worth", is what has occurred a "pool[ing]" of those contributions or the use of them "in a common enterprise"; (c) if yes to (b), does this "pool[ing]" or "common enterprise" produce a "financial benefit" for the group members?
 It is not alleged that they carry on business (ie the scheme) in Australia, although that may be inferred. (Somewhat surprisingly, nothing is made of the fact that if these foreign companies are carrying on business in Australia they are not registered as required by s 601CD).
 At any rate, in Australian Securities and Investments Commission v Edwards [2004] QSC 344 it was said that: "The concept of the operation of a managed investment scheme does not require the identification of but one place, as the place where the scheme is operated.
 To obtain leave under O 8, the court must be satisfied that: (a) the court has jurisdiction in the proceeding; (b) the proceeding is a proceeding to which O8 r 2 applies; and (c) the applicant has a prime facie case for the relief which he seeks: O 8 r 3(2).
 In Agar v Hyde [2001] HCA 41 ; (2000) 201 CLR 552 Gaudron, McHugh, Gummow and Hayne JJ said at 571 that: "[C]ontemporary developments in communications and transport make the degree of "inconvenience and annoyance" to which a foreign defendant would be put, if brought into the courts of this jurisdiction, "of a qualitatively different order to that which existed in 1885"".
 It then falls upon the foreign defendant to show why service should be set aside. 8 There can be no issue that two of the conditions stipulated in O 8 r 3(2) are satisfied.
 Nor would it, in my opinion, be appropriate to go into much detail on what is, after all, an ex parte application. 9 Bearing these strictures in mind, I think the plaintiffs have shown enough to justify an order for service out of the jurisdiction.
 It is often much harder to hold that reading after a full analysis of the purpose and object of the provision, such as occurs at a trial. 10 Accordingly I will make the orders sought by the plaintiffs.
