 His Honour considered that 'no issue was raised for the decision of the Court whether a solicitor litigant in person is entitled to recover profit costs for his or her own time and effort'. 5 The contrary conclusion has been reached in A D Douglas Pty Ltd v Lawyers Private Mortgages Pty Ltd [2006] FCA 690 at [10] per Dowsett J.
 Where a solicitor acts for himself or herself there cannot be independent and impartial advice, and this is in principle a strong reason for holding that a solicitor litigant should not be entitled to costs of acting for him or herself. 26 However, I do not believe that it is open to me to follow the Supreme Court of Western Australia, or to discard the Chorley exception.
 Secondly, in Atlas Corporation Pty Ltd v Kalyk [2001] NSWCA 10 , the Court of Appeal held that, despite Dobree, Guss was an authoritative endorsement by the High Court of the Chorley exception, that the statements of the majority on that issue were not obiter dicta, and that it had not been overruled in Cachia, and so was binding; accordingly the court followed Guss.
 Subsequently, in the Federal Court of Australia, Dowsett J in A D Douglas Pty Ltd v Lawyers Private Mortgages Pty Ltd [2006] FCA 690 , has agreed (at [10]) that Guss and Cachia state the law in Australia, and that the Chorley exception applies. 8 In Winn [2007] VSC 360 , Kaye J said: 4 The applicable principles are quite longstanding and not significantly in dispute.
 See for example London Scottish Benefit Society v Chorley, Crawford and Chester, Guss v Veenhuizen (No.2). 5 On the other hand, it is well established that a litigant in person other than a solicitor is not entitled to costs including costs arising from time spent in preparing for the case.
 Particularly bearing in mind that the application for leave to appeal and appeal is imminent and as the Chorley exception is the only basis raised for opposing costs, I consider that it would be appropriate to reserve the question of costs of and incidental to the application for determination by the Full Court on the application for leave to appeal and if leave is granted, on the appeal. 10 I will make that order.
