 1 The Travel Compensation Fund ('the TCF') by application filed on 31 July 2008 applies pursuant to s 59 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) and O 15A r 6 of the Federal Court Rules (Cth) ('the Rules') for an order that the respondents make discovery to the TCF of the documents identified in Schedule 1 to the application.
 The 10 March 2008 letter did not refer to the causes of action identified in the 12 November 2007 letter nor to the arguments made by the respondents' solicitors against those causes of action in the 7 December 2007 letter. 15 The respondents submit that the 10 March 2008 letter represented a 'change of tack' by the TCF.
 The introduction of that material does not suggest that the TCF sought to institute some other unidentified cause of action. 18 There is nothing in the 10 March 2008 letter to suggest that the TCF had accepted the challenges made by the respondents' solicitors or that the TCF had decided not to pursue the previously identified causes of action. 19 It follows that the respondents' submission does not succeed.
 Allegations relating to accuracy of Orient's financial records 20 The respondents submit that the TCF has not asserted that the banking transactions identified in the 10 March 2008 letter were not properly recorded in the accounts of Orient nor has the TCF asserted that the financial position of Orient was materially misstated in Orient's financial report for the 2006 financial year. 21 The Court observes that there is no requirement in O 15A r 6 of the Rules that an applicant must make explicit allegations of wrongdoings to justify an application to the Court under that rule. 22 Notwithstanding such observation, the Court considers that although the TCF has not specifically alleged the above, in the 12 November 2007 letter the TCF did broadly identify the allegations the TCF would make should a proceeding be instituted against the respondents by stating: Our client's cause of action against your client will be based on allegations that your client provided audit reports and accounting services which misrepresented the financial status of Orient.
 Duty of care 25 The respondents claim that they have not breached the alleged duty of care that they may have owed to the TCF and rely upon the decision in Dartberg Pty Ltd v Wealthcare Financial Planning Pty Ltd and Another [2007] FCA 1216 ; (2007) 164 FCR 450. 26 The Court considers that Dartberg is distinguishable on its facts.
 In considering that question Middleton J was required to determine whether a duty of care may have existed and whether there was any evidence before the Court that such duty had been breached. 27 In the present proceeding the TCF identified its possible causes of action against the respondents as arising under the Fair Trading Act 1987 (NSW) and the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
 However, the Court considers that the question of 'interweaving' is not of particular significance to the current application for preliminary discovery. 32 The current belief of the TCF that it has or may have the right to obtain relief against the respondents principally arises out of certain banking transactions of Orient as identified in the 10 March 2008 letter and as analysed in Mr Humphreys' preliminary report.
 Withholding information 38 Relying upon the observations of Lindgren J in Glencore at [15], the respondents submit that the TCF has an obligation not to withhold information for the purpose of satisfying O 15A r 6(b) of the Rules. 39 The respondents observe that the legal advisers of the TCF attended the offices of PPB Chartered Accountants Business Reconstruction Specialists ('PPB'), the liquidators of Orient, and inspected 18 boxes of documents of Orient's primary records.
 Accordingly, it is submitted that the Court cannot be satisfied that the TCF has made 'all reasonable inquiries' under O 15A r 6(b) of the Rules nor be satisfied under such paragraph that the TCF does not have 'sufficient information to enable a decision to be made whether to commence proceeding' against either of the respondents. 40 The Court observes that in his preliminary report Mr Humphreys informed the solicitors for the TCF of the nature and results of his enquiries.
 The respondents submit that the production of those documents is accordingly unnecessary. 47 In respect of such submission the Court notes that the affidavit filed in support of the application establishes that the general ledger details for the 2005 and 2006 financial years have been supplied by PPB to the TCF.
