 1 This case concerns alleged infringement of, and alleged invalidity of, three innovation patents, a new breed of patent that was introduced into the Patents Act 1990 (Cth) (the Act) effective from 24 May 2001 by the Patents Amendment (Innovation Patents) Act 2000 (Cth).
 Revocation of innovation patents, otherwise than in the course of examination, re-examination and opposition, is dealt with by s 138 in the same manner as revocation of a standard patent, the grounds being set out in s 138(3). "Patentable invention" is differently defined for the purposes of a standard patent and for the purposes of an innovation patent in s 18 of the Act --- the principal difference lies in the fact that, for the former, an inventive step is required and, for the latter, an innovative step.
 On 24 February 2006, this proceeding was commenced by Delnorth against the respondent Dura-Post (Australia) Pty Ltd (Dura-Post) for infringement of Patent No 1 based upon the manufacture and sale of roadside posts under the name Flexi-Steel post. 6 On 18 April 2006, Application for Innovation Patent No 2006100297 (Patent No 2) was filed and it was certified on 6 July 2006.
 The abstract of the invention is as follows: A flexible traffic standard which includes an anchor support assembly consisting of a hollow cylindrical tube and a driving point, and a resilient standard assembly comprising a tempered spring steel strap, the bottom end of which is disposed within a rigid tube, and a resilient tubular cover which encloses the strap and tube.
 I can find, however, that use of sheet spring steel was not known for use in connection with roadside posts or analogous uses and that none of the cited patents was part of common general knowledge in Australia at the time.
 The answer to this question must again be "yes" for the reasons set out in relation to issue 15. 65 Issue 17: Does the claimed roadside post involve an innovative step over information made publicly available in relation to a prototype steel post developed by Mr Dennison and Mr P Turner in Tasmania?
 We constructed a full sized post which was modelled on and had a width and curved profile which were similar to a PVC post produced by SVP Industries Pty Ltd which was supplied to Dura-Post for sale by Dura Post.
 The post did not spring back as quickly as I would have liked, and had we pursued the project I would have liked to trial the use of other flexible steels of different tempering and thickness to perfect the post's performance..
 Although I do not recall the exact dates, in or about 1999 or 2000 and well before I sold the Dura-Post business in 2002, I worked on the development of a roadside guide post constricted of a flexible steel.
 His evidence was as follows: I first learnt of a proposed use of flexible steel in relation to roadside guide posts in or about 1998 or 1999 during a visit to Peter Turner (the then owner of Dura-Post), to the workshop on his farm near Winkleigh and Flowery Gully in the West Tamar municipality of Tasmania.
 That is a different material from sheet spring steel and, for the reasons referred to in relation to the SupaFlex post, there is an innovative step. 78 Issue 19: Does the claimed roadside post involve an innovative step over US No 6375385 (Kennedy)?
 It is said that this will occur only where the post is used with a recess, but the roadside post claims contain no limitation that reflects the nature of the invention as disclosed and described in the body of the specification.
 It is submitted that the invention disclosed in the body of the specification is truly a use of a method of using a spring steel post in conjunction with a recess but that the claims are not so limited and are, therefore, not fairly based upon the specification.
