 Mr Todd's service in the regular naval forces also included a period from 7 December 1972 until his discharge from the regular naval forces on 13 January 1975, which constituted "defence service" for the purposes of the Veterans' Entitlements Act . 2 By a claim which was received by the Department of Veterans' Affairs on 20 January 2005, Mr Todd made a claim in respect of a disability which was identified in that claim as "anxiety disorder".
 He attributed that particular condition to "excessive worry, poor sleep habits and social withdrawal", in terms of symptoms, and as to its causation "due to my medical condition of plural plaque which I believe is a major illness which causes stress". 3 A medical diagnosis is endorsed on that particular claim.
 However, the Repatriation Commission very properly looked to the substance of the endeavour by Mr Todd to engage the jurisdiction of this Court under s 44 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act rather than, as it perhaps might have, addressing whether indeed there was a question of law raised at all.
 In other words, I did not understand it to be pressed, on behalf of Mr Todd, that the Tribunal erred in failing to apply Statement of Principles 101 of 2007. 7 There may be a very good reason for that in the course which proceedings took before the Tribunal.
 That is not, in itself, a complete absolution for a body such as the Administrative Appeals Tribunal to look no further, but it certainly explains why the proceedings before the Tribunal took the course which they did. 8 The mischief that was said to underpin para (b) and, for that matter, as I understood it, para (c) in the questions of law, was that the Tribunal had erred in accepting the evidence of another psychiatrist, Dr Mulholland, in preference to that of Dr Likely.
 We note Dr Mulholland opines that the anxiety condition had its onset at about this point. 13 The Tribunal continued at paras 15 and 16 as follows: Given the shortcomings in the evidence of Dr Likely, we prefer and accept the evidence of Dr Mulholland.
 That particular condition seems to have been accepted on the basis, sadly but unsurprisingly, that it had its origins in exposure to asbestos present in ships on which Mr Todd served whilst in the regular naval forces. 15 The Tribunal formulated the terms of paras 15 and 16 by reference to criteria which were relevant, so the parties put it, in Statement of Principles 102 of 2007.
 While there is some evidence pointing to a worsening of the applicant's symptoms after the 2002 diagnosis, there is also evidence that the applicant had been experiencing most if not all of these symptoms for some time and that they have not varied in intensity since 2002. 20 And the conclusion which the Tribunal reached is expressed in para 22 as follows: Given our conclusions on the medical evidence, we do not think Mr Todd can satisfy the relevant statement of principles.
 That appears from an annotation on the copy of Dr Stephenson's report and there is a further annotation, "Generalised anxiety disorder". 30 The submission which was developed by reference to this was that the Tribunal ought, notwithstanding the course proceedings took before it, to have considered the question of whether the claimed anxiety disorder was a condition in respect of which an hypothesis could be developed connecting it with circumstances of either eligible defence service or operational service.
 A difficulty though with that, quite apart from any question of the absence of anything having been made of this before the Tribunal, is that Dr Stephenson seems later to have changed her opinion as to what was the nature of the condition which she described in that general way in 1998. 31 The material before the Tribunal included a further report from Dr Stephenson, dated 22 November 1999.
 There is no error of law in that preference, and neither do I find any error of law in the way in which the Tribunal has chosen to explain its reasons for that course. 35 This is a difficult case at a humane level, in the sense that there is every reason for sympathy for Mr Todd's lung condition having regard to the circumstances of his naval service.
