 There is common ground that the relationship will not be able to be re-established. 5 The principal relief sought in the amended application of 14 December 2007 seeks orders under ss 233 , 232 and 233 (1)(d) of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth), and under s 1324 of the Corporations Act as well as declaratory relief.
 It is that the Cubelics have conducted the affairs of APD in a way which is contrary to the interests of its members as a whole, or alternatively, in a way which is oppressive to, or unfairly prejudicial to, or unfairly discriminatory against its shareholder Andrew Ciccarello Pty Ltd.
 Mr Ciccarello says he was simply excluded by the Cubelics because they wished to conduct the affairs of APD in a certain way and that they were unhappy with his continued involvement, particularly in his role securing building services supplied to APD through an entity called Civil Works Group (SA) Pty Ltd (CWG).
 CWG is a civil engineering company of which the directors are Mr Ciccarello, Mr Steve Cubelic and Mr McNamara, and of which the shareholders are Mr Ciccarello, Able Property Development Pty Ltd (a company controlled by Mr Ciccarello and his wife) and Cubelic and Sons Pty Ltd (a company controlled by the Cubelics).
 The Cubelics for their part say that each of the three directors participated on the basis that they would respectively contribute equal sums of money by way of loans into APD to enable it to finance the proposed development projects beyond the finance provided from banking institutions, and that Mr Ciccarello simply was unable, and therefore declined, to do so.
 Both Warren J in Yunghanns and French J in Gray , in essence, said that the general ground upon which a Court appoints a receiver and manager is ultimately for the protection or preservation of property for the benefit of persons who have an interest in it.
 That is based upon cl 41.1.2 of the APUT trust deed which relevantly provides: A trustee shall be disqualified from holding office if .... (in the case of the Company) it goes into liquidation or a receiver or receiver and manager or administrator is appointed to any of its assets or undertaking.
 It is said that it is most undesirable for the Court to create a void until the appointment of a new trustee, either by the unit holders at a special general meeting, or under the Trustee Act . 34 In my view, the appointment of a receiver and manager of the assets of the APUT trust would not have that consequence.
 It would have been quite straightforward for the defendants, by their solicitors, by mid-September 2007 to have said that the net proceeds of sale were paid to SA Prawns Pty Ltd, as an entity which had advanced monies to APD to complete the purchase of the North Brighton property.
 Indeed, on information presently before me, I think the Cubelics did not disclose the fact of the payment of the net proceeds of sale of the North Brighton property to SA Prawns Pty Ltd, made on 12 September 2007, until late in January 2008 and then only in circumstances where it was almost inevitable that such disclosure would have had to have been made.
 There is nothing to indicate that that was a decision best made in the interests of APD in its capacity as trustee of the APUT. 39 There is nothing to indicate that SA Prawns Pty Ltd has the capacity to reimburse those funds to APD if, for some reason, it becomes necessary to do so.
 It is unclear whether they regard the order of 2 November 2007 as preventing them from doing so, or whether they proposed to sign a contract for the sale and purchase of that unit without notice to Mr Ciccarello, or whether they proposed to complete the sale and purchase without notice to Mr Ciccarello.
 Had the Cubelics taken the view that they could sign a contract for the sale and purchase of that unit of the Beach Road Brighton units, or indeed all of them, that would in effect have transferred the equitable interest in that unit or those units to the purchaser before anything could be done about it by Mr Ciccarello in the event that he was concerned about it.
