 Storm says that there is nothing in the arrangements reflected in the letter of 18 May 2007 between the Bank and Storm which casts an obligation upon Storm to manage the margin loan borrowing by any particular customer who applied for and took up a loan with the Bank.
 Storm says that, objectively viewed, such an obligation if it was to subsist would be manifest and extant in the documents. 18 Storm says that it did not provide monitoring or management for its clients of margin loans, in the ordinary course.
 The only role (para 27) which Storm had in the management or monitoring of margin loan facilities for customers of the Bank "was that CGI was entitled to give notice of a margin call to the customer by giving such notice to Storm". 21 Mr Cassimatis says these further things.
 In October 2008, the Bank supplied particular data to Storm by email in which it said that based upon a report run by the Bank that morning there were 640 margin calls for Storm and that the Bank had "been advised by Group Risk that all margin calls above 95% need to be resolved this week".
 That data related to daily data sheets sent by the Bank to Storm which set out details of each client, the balance of the loan, the credit limit, the security value, the market value of the securities, the current loan to security ratio and the margin call to security ratio.
 Mr Cassimatis says that no one from the Bank suggested that Storm had failed to manage the loans or that Storm had breached any obligation to manage margin calls or otherwise fail in managing the loan facilities. 26 Another meeting occurred on 4 December 2008 at the Bank's office.
 Mr Cassimatis says that he had no authority to do so and that had he formed a view that a particular client should sell securities the subject of a margin loan he would routinely give that advice either in writing or confirmed by writing and would not effect such a transaction without the "direct instructions of the particular client".
 He says that he did not give instructions during the course of the meeting or at all to take any such action or express any view that the Bank ought to sell or redeem securities in respect of "any or all margin loan accounts of Storm clients in general or any particular Storm clients or class of clients". 28 Mr Cassimatis thought that he might be able to assist in resolving the Bank's concern about the 640 or so accounts.
 The first is an inference that the Bank wanted clients to be aware of their position which suggests that Storm did not have such a desire and secondly, that the Bank's desire to assist the borrower in clearing the outstanding amount suggests that Storm did not have any such interest.
 He says that he resigned from the Bank in June 2003 but for many years prior to that it was the Bank's practice to monitor the position of its margin loan customers and in the event that a margin call was looming, the Bank contacted either Storm or the client direct.
 Of course, the ultimate position must be tested at trial where the evidence will be closely examined and findings reached on all aspects of the controversy. 44 Storm also relies upon a further letter written by the Bank on 17 December 2008 in which it says that Storm is "completely responsible for your financial position".
 In that letter, the Bank changed its position slightly from one of asserting sole management of the clients margin loan throughout the period to one where "Storm Financial is primarily responsible for your margin loan and we are disappointed if they have not kept you informed of your account position or any instance of margin call".
 Storm says that it only complains about that as a statement which reinforces the notion that Storm as manager of the margin loan has failed to discharge its responsibilities. 45 The Bank has not offered any undertaking not to make any of the statements complained of. 46 Storm says that it has experienced many responses from clients in response to the Bank's letter of 8 and 9 December 2008.
