 The reason for this is that in opening his oral submissions counsel for the appellant commenced to raise issues which went far beyond the very prosaic grounds in the Notice of Appeal and the appellant's written submissions.
 It alleged that the proceedings disclosed no cause of action under the Copyright Act and had been filed against the wrong respondent as Autodesk Inc was the copyright owner and Autodesk Asia was the exclusive licensee of that copyright in Australia.
 At the 4 December 2007 costs hearing after some argument, counsel for Autodesk Australia indicated his client would not oppose counsel for Ginos showing his client the exhibit and discussing it provided the client gave a confidentiality undertaking in relation to it.
 I would also note, as did the Federal Magistrate, that r 1.03 (insofar as presently relevant) provides: 1.03 Objects (1) The object of these Rules is to assist the just, efficient and economical resolution of proceedings.
 Additionally, he contended before me, surprisingly, that his submissions to the Federal Magistrate by way of criticism of Mr Williams' evidence were evidence before his Honour notwithstanding that no ruling or agreement to that effect was made.
 Consistent with the broad brush approach, that adjustment ordinarily is effected through the application of a discount to the figure accepted by the court on the available evidence as appropriately reflecting actual professional costs charged and disbursements made.
 CONSIDERATION 25 As best I understand it, the appellant's case, though multipronged in its detail, was in essence that the Federal Magistrate in effect engaged in a taxation of costs in his treatment of Mr Williams' invoice.
 It is, in my view, quite erroneous to assert that the Federal Magistrate engaged, or considered he was engaging, in a form of taxation, notwithstanding that Mr Williams gave evidence of what he expected would be the taxed amount payable on the sum billed.
 It is difficult to resist the conclusion either that counsel did not understand the function performed by the 50% discount in his Honour's estimation of the appropriate sum, or that he simply disputes the percentage chosen.
 Equally, when one has regard to the function performed by the discount rate chosen by his Honour, it is obvious, in my view, that account was taken of matters raised by Mr Scragg to the extent that they were relevant, or were not inconsistent with the evidence accepted by his Honour.
