 Thus, the appellant contends that the Tribunal failed to discharge its statutory duty of review and fell into jurisdictional error. 7 Apart from these matters, the appellant made oral submissions that the Tribunal dealt with the application for review in a 'very fast' manner and the decision was 'taken quickly'.
 On 28 June 2007, the Tribunal again wrote to the appellant correcting the earlier letter of 27 June 2007 noting that the earlier letter failed to make reference to the family member position of the appellant's wife as part of the overall application for a protection visa.
 The appellant acknowledged before this Court the receipt of that letter which, of course, was entirely consistent with the return to the Tribunal by the appellant of the 'Response to Hearing Invitation' form signed and dated by the appellant on 22 August 2007 and received by the Tribunal on 24 August 2007.
 Although the appellant contends that he did not receive the letter of 30 August 2007, the Tribunal's letter was addressed to the same address for correspondence as each of its other letters to the appellant and each letter was sent by registered post.
 The appellant contended that aspects of these attacks related to perceptions on the part of Babakham and his supporters that the appellant was hostile to Muslim people. 19 The third element of the appellant's contentions involved his contended affiliation with the BJP ruling party in India.
 The Tribunal put to the appellant that his failure to agitate his concerns in those foreign countries and his willingness to return to Kukarwada suggested that the appellant did not hold a well-founded fear of serious harm of persecution for a Convention reason in India arising out of the events concerning the 2002 riots, the conduct of the Muslim community, the appellant's participation in the BJP or the activities of Babakham and his supporters.
 Finally, the Tribunal put to the appellant that the evidence before the Tribunal did not support the notion that the appellant had a 'high profile' in political or religious affairs or otherwise and thus the appellant might, in the view of the Tribunal, be able to return to India and live elsewhere in that country in safety and without risk of serious harm for a Convention reason.
 The primary judge notes that the Tribunal may have made an error of fact by assuming that the range of countries visited by the appellant in September 2006 were signatories to the Convention thus an application for asylum by reason of a well-founded fear of persecution for a Convention reason would not have been possible.
 The Tribunal concluded that 'from the limited and unsupported claims made by the applicant, the Tribunal has not been able to satisfy itself that these events are Convention related or that the applicant has a well-founded fear of serious harm amounting to persecution for a Convention reason on this basis' .
 The Tribunal concluded that consistent with the criminal or domestic conduct reflected in that hostility rather than a fear of serious harm for a Convention reason, no effort was made by the appellant to seek refugee status in any place outside India until the present application. 28 The Tribunal concluded that having regard to all of its conduct, the appellant did not hold a well-founded fear of serious harm amounting to persecution for a Convention reason within India.
