 Section 10(1) of the Citizenship Act relevantly provided at that time that: ...a person born in Australia after the commencement of this Act shall be an Australian citizen by birth. 9 Nonetheless, under the Migration Act a person born in Papua after the commencement of the Citizenship Act required an entry permit to be entitled to enter or reside in any of the States or internal territories ( Re Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs; Ex parte Ame [2005] HCA 36 ; (2005) 222 CLR 439 at [1] ).
 That provision was regulation 2 of the Papua New Guinea Independence (Australian Citizenship of Young Persons) Regulations (Cth) which provided: A person who on Independence Day --- (a) was under 19 years of age; (b) was not for the purposes of section 64 of the Constitution of the Independent State of Papua New Guinea a person who was never granted a right (whether revocable or not) to permanent residence in Australia; and (c) ceased to be an Australian citizen, shall be deemed to have re-acquired his Australian citizenship on that day.
 Secondly, Mr Charlie submitted that, as at Independence Day, he was a person who had a right of permanent resident in Australia within the meaning of s 65(4)(a) of the PNG Constitution because, as a member of his family unit, he had the permission of the Darnley Island Council to reside on Darnley Island.
 In that case at p 64 Knox CJ took the view that it followed from the opinions expressed in Minehan that: ... a person who has originally entered Australia as an immigrant may in course of time and by force of circumstances cease to be an immigrant, and become a member of the Australian community.
 Right of Permanent Residence 39 The evidence discloses that immediately prior to Independence Day: (a) Mr Charlie was living on a permanent basis with his family on Darnley Island; (b) the Darnley Island Council was aware that the Charlie family was living on the island and had, I infer, approved their doing so; (c) no steps had been taken by the Commonwealth of Australia, Queensland or the Darnley Island Council to remove Mr Charlie or any member of his family from Darnley Island; and (d) there was no formal system of immigration control on Darnley Island with the consequence that entry permits were not issued to persons arriving on Darnley island from Daru Island or other places in Papua. 40 Mr Charlie argued that the evidence established that, as at Independence Day, he had been granted a right to permanent residence on Darnley island by the Darnley Island Council.
 He accepted, however, that his asserted right of permanent residence was limited to Darnley Island; he did not contend that, as at Independence Day, he had a right of permanent residence on mainland Australia. 41 The relevance of Mr Charlie's asserted right to permanent residence in Australia as at Independence Day derives from s 64 and s 65 of the PNG Constitution .
 The special provisions made by the PNG Constitution concerning persons under the age of 19 years, which explain reg 2 of the Papua New Guinea Independence (Australian Citizenship of Young Persons) Regulations (Cth), may for present purposes be ignored because Mr Charlie did not at any time renounce his purported Australian citizenship (see s 64(2) of the PNG Constitution ). 42 It is accepted that Mr Charlie was born in Papua before Independence Day and has two grand-parents who were born in Papua.
 Section 65(1) of the PNG Constitution would thus have rendered him a citizen of Papua New Guinea as at Independence Day unless he had "a right (whether revocable or not) to permanent resident in Australia" (see s 65(4)). 43 For the purposes of the PNG Constitution a person who had "a right (whether revocable or not) to permanent residence in Australia" was a person who had "real foreign citizenship" within the meaning of s 64.
