 The advocate passed this information onto Mr Goulding and, as a consequence, he did not provide a statement in response to the s 155AA notice. 6 Section 155AA(5) of the Veterans' Act provides that if the applicant does not provide a written statement in response to the s 155AA notice within 28 days, the principal member must dismiss the review application and notify the applicant accordingly.
 Finally, it correctly decided that, in contrast, s 28A of the Acts Interpretation Act applied to the service of documents, which included giving a notice and it was therefore the apposite provision of the two provisions put forward, for giving a written notice under s 155AA(4) of the Veterans' Act. 19 Conversely, from my reading of the Tribunal's decision, I do not consider it expressed, or even implied, the conclusion that s 28A of the Acts Interpretation Act was a mandatory provision, or that a s 155AA notice must be given in accordance with that section.
 Instead, I consider that the Tribunal quite correctly construed the two --- and only two --- statutory provisions put forward by the parties to establish whether the necessary written notice was given under s 155AA(4) and decided that, so construed, one addressed the situation at hand, and the other did not. 20 In this respect it is important to bear in mind that s 44(1) of the AAT Act makes it clear that the question of law that is raised on appeal before this Court must be "from [the] decision of the Tribunal".
 In this question of law, the Commission is essentially saying that, given its findings of fact, viz that the notice was posted to Mr Gordon at his brother's address and the contents of the notice were read out to Mr Goulding by his brother, the Tribunal could not find the s 155AA notice had not been "effectively served".
 The third question of law 25 The third and final question of law set out in the Commission's notice of appeal falls into a different category i.e. it does not rely upon the Tribunal's decision at all, but rather relies upon a submission that the Commission says the Tribunal did not decide, and should have.
 The Commission says that submission was to the effect that: the s 155AA notice was given to Mr Goulding because it was sent to, and received at, an address nominated by him, the notice was read to him on the telephone by his brother, and he was aware of the contents of the notice. 26 While it is not mentioned in this third question of law, the Commission's view of the construction of s 163 of the Evidence Act is fundamental to this submission.
 Service of the s 155AA(4) notice upon the applicant is deemed to have been effective on the fifth business day after 24 May 2007, the date on which the notice was prepared --- s 163(1) Evidence Act 1995 . 27 In its outline of written submissions before me in support of this question of law (see [14] above) the Commission submitted: ... the exact date on which the notice is presumed to have arrived can be calculated by reference to s 163 Evidence Act 1995 .
 To make the link between the presumed receipt of the notice and the process of giving or serving of the notice under s 155AA, I consider the Commission needs to show that the Board has either complied with ss 29 and 28A of the Acts Interpretation Act , or some other similar provision that creates a presumption that service is effected if certain steps are taken.
 Secondly, I consider the question whether the Board complied with s 160 , is either a question of fact, or a mixed question of fact and law, neither of which can be relied upon as a question of law: see the decisions summarised at [11] and [12] above. 32 It follows that, having correctly concluded that the Commission's construction of s 163 of the Evidence Act , which was fundamental to this submission, was wrong, I do not consider the Tribunal was obligated to give this submission any further consideration, and it committed no error of law in failing to do so.
