 Somewhat confusingly, the letter then said: "Consideration has also been given to whether you should be taken to hold an absorbed person visa. " After traversing s 34(2) of the Act , the letter then said: "It has been determined that you would have been granted an absorbed person visa on 1 September 1994 and that you continue to hold that visa now. " Under the heading, "Possible visa cancellation for character reasons", the letter said: Consideration is to be given whether your absorbed person visa may be cancelled under s 501(2) of the Act and, if it is liable to cancellation, whether it should be cancelled. ...
 The deleted paragraph 58 read: I reasonably suspect that Mr GILBERT does not pass the character test and Mr GILBERT has not satisfied me that he passes the character test BUT I have decided NOT to exercise my discretion under subsection 501(2) of the Act to cancel Mr GILBERT's absorbed person visa . (Emphasis added. ) 20 Read as a whole, the issues document, and the decision section contained in it should be seen as a document in which the Minister is provided with material on which to decide whether Mr Gilbert's absorbed person visa should be cancelled and makes a decision to cancel that visa. 21 The Minister signed a "statement of reasons" for the cancellation of Mr Gilbert's absorbed person visa.
 Somewhat confusingly the reasons, under the heading of "Other Considerations", state: "On 31 August 2006, it was determined that Mr GILBERT is likely to hold an absorbed person visa in addition to his transitional (permanent) visa. " 22 However, in the context of the provision of reasons for cancellation of an absorbed person's visa it is irrelevant to consider the date on which the Minister's delegate understood the effect of s 34(2) with respect to Mr Gilbert. 23 The statement of reasons concluded by saying: "...
 It provides: The Minister may cancel a visa that has been granted to a person if: (a) the Minister reasonably suspects that the person does not pass the character test; and (b) the person does not satisfy the Minister that the person passes the character test. 28 Under s 501(6) a person does not pass the character test if he or she has a substantial criminal record.
