 The Tribunal considers that this goes to the very basis of her claims that her farming land was taken and sold by the Party Secretary. ' 9 After the RRT affirmed the decision of the delegate in a decision handed down on 23 August 2007 the appellant applied to the Federal Magistrates Court of Australia ('the FMCA') for judicial review of the RRT.
 The applicant stated that she had planted sweet potatoes approximately 5 centimetres apart, whereas the Tribunal, apparently relying upon a book by Alan Searle [sic], entitled "Growing Vegetables" [CB 74-75] asserted that a farmer in China would plant sweet potatoes 18 inches apart.
 The Tribunal took the view that this response was not acceptable because the applicant had herself referred to centimetres in answer to the original question and therefore she must have understood what a centimetre was: "The Tribunal finds that if she did not understand that word, then she would not have used it and would have measured the distance in another way.
 The Tribunal considers this goes to the heart of what she was doing in China and goes to the very basis of her claim that her farming land was taken and sold by the party secretary. " It is not for this court to cavil with the Tribunal's findings of fact, even if it might disagree, and disagree strongly, with the conclusions reached provided those conclusions are available on the evidence (see: Minister for Immigration v Eshetu [1999] HCA 21 at [40] per Gleeson CJ and McHugh J).
 I really did not know exact meaning of centimetre (cm)"; and I really did not know how long it would be for 1 "centimetre (cm)". ' 13 The RRT might have been correct to conclude that the appellant's response was an indication that she was not to be believed.
 The obligation under s 424A , if it applied, is a strict one. 14 The issue which I have identified was not a ground relied upon by the appellant in her application for judicial review before the FMCA and it is not a ground in her appeal to this Court.
 The Tribunal was not obliged to either specify, or to provide to the appellant, the particular source documents relied on: see NAVM v Minister for Immigration Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCA 99 at [32] - [33] . 8.
 In response to a concern of the Court that the information relied on by the Tribunal may not have been applicable to farming in China, again it is well established that the choice and assessment of the information relied on by the Tribunal is a factual matter for the Tribunal alone: NAHI v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 10 at [11-13] .
 There is nothing in that decision which might have alerted the appellant to the possibility that such a publication might be used to test her claims about farming practices in China (cf SZBEL v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] HCA 63 ; (2006) 228 CLR 152).
 Nothing in the decision itself indicates how a pronouncement about growing vegetables in Australian home gardens might relate to farming practices in China. 22 In my view the substance and relevance of the information which the RRT had obtained was not disclosed and the requirements of s 424A were not thereby met.
 The order of the FMCA will be set aside and in lieu thereof it will be ordered that the decision of the RRT handed down on 23 August 2007 is set aside and the matter is remitted to the RRT to be determined in accordance with law.
