 Section 39 relevantly provided: 39 Divisional applications (1) Where a complete patent application is made (but has not lapsed or been refused or withdrawn), the applicant may, in accordance with the regulations, make a further complete application for a standard patent or a petty patent for an invention: (a) disclosed in the specification filed in respect of the first-mentioned application; and (b) where the first-mentioned application is for a standard patent and at least 3 months have elapsed since the publication of a notice of acceptance of the relevant patent request and specification in the Official Journal --- falling within the scope of the claims of the accepted specification. (2) A patentee of a petty patent may, in accordance with the regulations, make a further complete application for a petty patent or a standard patent in respect of an invention disclosed in the complete specification filed in respect of the application on which the first-mentioned petty patent was sealed. ... 28 Importantly, a divisional application could be made only by an applicant entitled to the parent patent.
 In the light of those findings, it is contended that the applicant is estopped from asserting an entitlement to PP2, a further divisional of 85236/91. 30 Cooper J in his First Set of Reasons found: 75 It follows, in my view, that Stack was not entitled under s 15(1) of the Act to the grant of a patent for the invention claimed in PK2036.
 The consequence is that he was not entitled, nor were he and Grieves jointly entitled, to make any divisional application and to have granted a patent, including the petty patent, on the basis of an entitlement to Stack or Stack and Grieves under s 15(1) of the Act . 76 As the entitlement of GST to the petty patent is sourced solely in the assignment from Stack which entitled it to registration in the Register of patents, it follows that GST as the patentee is not entitled to the patent within the meaning of s 138(3)(a) of the Act .
 That evidence included a Deed dated 22 October 1996, which is a document referred to in the proposed Amended Statement of Claim in the present proceeding. 37 The applicants sought to have Alan Joseph Grieves made a respondent to the proceedings and to have the Court order the amendment of the patent, or patent request, under s 105 of the Old Act . 38 On 10 May 2000, Cooper J revoked Petty Patent No 655740 and dismissed the Notice of Motion insofar as it sought to reopen the issue of the two applicants' entitlement to Petty Patent No 645740.
 No Application has been made under s 105 of the Act in any of the pending proceedings to have the Court direct amendment of the patent request and patent so as to add Grieves as a joint patentee. 40 The High Court refused an application for special leave by Stack and GST on 26 June 2002. 41 On 30 March 2004, Cooper J made final orders in his Honour's Third Set of Reasons.
 Accordingly they are not entitled to such relief in a summary manner on these notices of motion. 43 That judgment has not been appealed. 44 Stack and GST made a further application to the High Court for special leave to appeal from the judgment and order of the Full Court of the Federal Court of 4 May 2001, which application was refused on 23 June 2005. ([2005] HCATrans 445). 45 In arguments by the applicant in relation to issue estoppel, focus was given, in large measure, in the provisions of s 15(1)(a)(b)(c) and (d) of the Old Act , which provided: 15.
 In my judgment, the finding that Stack was not entitled to the Patent No 85236/91 is, in the words of Dixon J in Blair v Curran (supra) was " a matter necessary to decide and actually was decided, as the groundwork of the decision " that Stack was not entitled to PP1. 53 It follows that GST is not entitled to PP2 and that therefore an extension of PP2 would be futile.
 Under s 107 , where a complete application for a standard patent has been made, but the patent has not yet been granted, and the Commissioner is satisfied that there are lawful grounds of objection to the patent request or complete specification but that those grounds of objection could be removed by appropriate amendments of the request or specification , the Commissioner may direct the applicant to file a statement of proposed amendments.
 If there were power, the applicant is estopped by the findings and declarations of Cooper J in his Honour's First Set of Reasons from contending as the proposed amendment would wish. 84 Finally, even if it were within power and not the subject of a binding estoppel, to amend the patent as foreshadowed by the applicant in the present matter ought not be allowed having regard to the length of time taken by the applicant to seek the amendment which it has foreshadowed.
 Stack and Grieves have not sought to assert a claim to Petty Patent No 662284, preferring to sit behind the claims made by the applicant. 86 For all of the above reasons, the foreshadowed amendment pursuant to s 105 ought not be permitted. 87 In all the circumstances, it is right to order that Petty Patent No 662284 be revoked.
 An application for revocation of the patent has now been made and pursuant to s 138(3) of the Old Act , the Court has power, and, in my opinion, should revoke Petty Patent No 662284 on the ground that the patentee is not entitled to the patent. 88 I propose to make the following orders: on the Notice of Motion of the applicant for leave to file an Amended Statement of Claim, leave is refused.
 My present view is that the applicant should pay the costs of the first respondent of and incidental to the proceeding, including the costs of and incidental to the Amended Notice of Motion filed by the first respondent on 13 December 2005, and the costs of and incidental to the Notice of Motion filed by the applicant on 16 January 2006 and the applicant should pay the costs of the second respondent of an incidental to the proceeding, including the costs of and incidental to its Amended Notice of Motion, filed 5 December 2005, and the costs of and incidental to the Notice of Motion filed by the applicant on 16 January 2006.
