 I am not persuaded that the Tribunal's failure to comply with her requests for transcripts was unreasonable, nor that it led to any unfairness in the Tribunal's procedures, nor that it was in breach of a requirement of the Migration Act . 9 In any event, it appears that transcripts of the previous Tribunal hearings were not available, and the appellant (as did the Third Tribunal) had access to the tapes of those hearings (and that of the hearing before the Third Tribunal). 10 His Honour observed that the Third Tribunal raised relevant inconsistencies in the appellant's evidence before previous Tribunals in its s 424A letter (pursuant to the Act), and considered that the s 424A letter gave the appellant ample opportunity to respond to the issues concerning his original protection visa application and his son. 11 His Honour could not find any indication that the Third Tribunal's decision was affected by an apprehension of bias against the appellant.
 Nor did it take into account that the [appellant's] educational, social and cultural background might affect the manner in which he provided his evidence. 13 His Honour noted that while the Third Tribunal arrived at an adverse conclusion on credibility in its ultimate decision, with reference to logical and supported reasons which had previously been put to the appellant, this did not suggest that there was any predetermination of that outcome.
 The second Tribunal needed to put the appellant on notice that that more fundamental adverse credibility finding was in prospect in order for the hearing opportunity afforded the [appellant] to be a real one. 34 A similar argument is now sought to be raised in relation to the process undertaken by the Third Tribunal.
 That is, it was directed to comply with s 425 if it were to again deal with the issue of the appellant's very membership of the AL. 40 I accept that there was no identification of this issue in any of the invitations to hearing issued to the appellant following the remittal by the Federal Magistrate's Court.
