 Order that the respondents pay the applicant respective sums decided appropriate by this court for oppressive conduct against the applicant. 2 The interlocutory relief claimed by the applicant was as follows: 1.
 Temporary order that Oakland Investments Ltd must cease all contact with tenants, cease from collecting any rents, refund any rents collected to date and that Oakland Investments cease all activity to sell any "ADDITIONAL PROPERTIES" until this case has been heard in full. 2.
 Order that Oakland Investments Ltd release the 2nd mortgage and caveat on the property situated at 25 Donaldson Rd, Plainlands (Lot 47 RP 841870, Parish of Laidley) to allow the contract of sale to proceed in order to satisfy all outstanding arrears, maintain serviceability of first mortgage payments by Concepcion Barnett to mainstream banks on the "ADDITIONAL PROPERTIES". 3 In the statement of claim, also filed 29 September 2008, the applicant claims, inter alia , unconscionable, misleading and deceptive conduct by all respondents contrary to s 51AC and s 52 Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ("the Act "). 4 This matter came on for directions for the first time this morning.
 Mr Howard sought leave to appear as the applicant's interpreter on the basis that, although the applicant could speak some English, English was her third language, and she was out of her depth linguistically and culturally in the context of the Court hearing.
 The applicant pay the second respondent's costs of and incidental to the application. 6 Counsel on behalf of the first, third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh respondents made oral applications in Court this morning seeking orders that the substantive application against those respondents be dismissed, and that those respondents also be entitled to costs. 7 After hearing submissions of the parties I temporarily adjourned the hearing to give consideration to issues raised by the parties.
 I consider that the application and the statement of claim so far as the applicant seeks relief against the first, third, fourth, fifth and sixth respondents, should also be struck out.
 More importantly for the purposes of today's hearing and the oral application by the seventh respondent that the claims against it be struck out, it is clear that the claim goes beyond a freezing order in that it seeks refund of rents collected to date.
 I also note that no sworn evidence has been filed by the applicant in support of this claim. 15 In relation to the claims of the applicant for interlocutory and final relief against the seventh respondent, the applicant currently faces significant difficulties because of the manner in which her case is pleaded.
 I consider that, in order for this matter to progress, both the application and the statement of claim require significant amendment. 16 In Munnings v Australian Government Solicitor [1994] HCA 12 ; (1994) 120 ALR 586 at 589 Mason CJ and Brennan and Toohey JJ observed: ...
 Although a plaintiff is often granted leave to re-plead if a statement of claim is struck out, there are some cases where the plaintiff so misconceives the cause of action that the action ought to be brought to an end. 17 In this case I am not satisfied that the application and the statement of claim disclose no reasonable cause of action or that the applicant so misconceives the cause of action that the action should be brought to an end at this stage.
 The applicant be given leave to file and serve an amended application and an amended statement of claim by 4.00 pm on 29 October 2008, in default of which the application so far as the seventh respondent is concerned stands dismissed. 19 Counsel for the third, fourth, fifth, sixth and seventh respondents submitted that their clients did not seek any orders as to costs.
