 After considering the rival opinion evidence of two American lawyers, his Honour found that US law would be applied. 6 After argument was concluded before his Honour, but before he delivered judgment, the US District Court delivered a judgment declining to stay the US proceeding.
 His Honour's orders result in important consequences for the parties, even though, as Mr Rebikoff for the respondents pointed out, they do not determine substantive rights. 8 Mr Rebikoff argued that the only prejudice alleged by the applicant was the cost of the US proceeding.
 However, he said, the applicant would in truth suffer no prejudice because, were Sundberg J's orders to be reversed, the proceeding would continue in Australia and not in the US and "the cost that they have to incur in prosecuting the proceeding in the United States would have to be incurred in Australia in any event".
 The opportunity for the applicant to contest, and possibly win, the Australian proceeding, without having to defend the more extensive US proceeding, is something of real value, the loss of which arguably amounts to real injustice, supposing Sundberg J's decision to be wrong.
 The lack of substantial injustice was so clear that the application could, and should, be disposed of by a single judge on that ground alone. 11 In theory one can envisage cases where the presence or absence of either substantial injustice or sufficient doubt is so clear and obvious that the application should be disposed of on that ground alone.
 Sundberg J's judgment deals with substantial legal issues which are appropriate for resolution by a Full Court. 13 Experience shows that, in cases like the present one, it is not really practicable to separate out the leave issue of whether there the decision below is "attended with sufficient doubt" from the substantive merits.
 Often the merits of the proposed appeal are argued no less fully than would have been the case were leave not an issue: Optiver Australia Pty Ltd v Tibra Trading Pty Ltd [2008] FCAFC 133 at [28] . 14 It would seem to be a very inefficient and wasteful course for there to be a separate hearing before a single judge, and if leave were granted, a subsequent hearing before a Full Court.
 One would expect that a Full Court dealing with the leave application would be able to deal with the hearing of the matter in a similar time. 15 Related to the question of efficiency is the matter of timing.
 Alternatively, and still less is this the subject of any promise, a Full Court might be convened before November. 16 If the application for leave were to be heard before a single judge, the hearing may not occur immediately and the judge might have to reserve his or her decision.
 While of course if leave were refused that would be the end of the matter, if leave were granted the passage of time may have made it impossible to secure a hearing date for the appeal in the November sittings or earlier.
