 Darrell Lea filed its notices of opposition to the registration of the three applications, two of which were accepted in May 2007 and the other in August 2007. 3 Meanwhile Cadbury commenced the passing off action in the Federal Court.
 If those findings were to be "confirmed" by appellate courts they "would be determinative of any factual disputes before the Registrar on similar issues (ie it is inconceivable that the Registrar would make any inconsistent findings in any opposition hearing)".
 The findings by the court "will have a direct and significant bearing on issues of fact [for the purpose of s 41(6)]. " It would be "entirely inappropriate" to continue with the opposition proceedings as that may result in findings of fact that are inconsistent with those made by the Federal Court. 7 The delegate accepted Darrell Lea's argument.
 The suspension would "avoid duplication in the decision making process, and will reduce the chance of inconsistent [factual] finding[s] resulting from the analysis of similar evidence. " 8 The delegate then gave the following direction: "[T]he present oppositions be suspended until the Federal Court decision in the passing off proceeding is handed down.
 If there is no appeal from that decision, the present oppositions shall be lifted from suspension, and further directions given such that the opposition will continue through the evidence stages in accordance with normal practice and procedure. " I take the delegate to mean (as the parties have taken the delegate to mean) that the suspension is to remain in force until all avenues of appeal from the first instance decision have been exhausted.
 The second reason is that the delegate was asked (and appears to have been prepared) to give too much significance to findings of fact made by the Federal Court. 10 On the first point it is necessary to begin with the Registrar's powers and duties.
 Importantly, reg 21.15(7) states that opposition proceedings should be conducted as expeditiously as possible. 12 The first point to observe is that while there is a provision permitting the Registrar (or his delegate) to adjourn a hearing (reg 21.15(9)) there is no express power to suspend or temporarily stay opposition proceedings.
 The general rule is that a tribunal that is required to decide an issue will be in breach of that obligation if it merely adopts the decision of the judge on the same issue. (I put to one side (a) decisions which are the trigger for administrative proceedings and (b) criminal convictions which operate in rem and may not be challenged in collateral proceedings. ) I do not mean to imply that reasons for decision given by a judge are irrelevant to an administrative tribunal.
 On the other hand, if the judge's findings are challenged, the tribunal must decide the matter for itself on the evidence before it: General Medical Council v Spackman [1943] AC 627. 19 Of course, when the tribunal is required to decide the matter for itself it is entitled to have regard to the judge's findings.
 In her reasons she said, correctly, that the court proceedings could "resolve issues which would require determination in the present oppositions. " To proceed on the basis that it is unlikely that the Registrar will depart from the court's findings and, that there is a public interest in avoiding inconsistent fact findings, indicates to me that there is a real risk that the delegate was not going to decide for herself the issues that must be decided to dispose of the opposition proceedings. 21 Sometimes there will be circumstances in which it is appropriate to delay opposition proceedings and await a court's resolution of disputed facts that may be relevant in opposition proceedings.
