 The very description of the documents and materials that were the subject of the order was an attempt to confine the seizure of materials to those belonging to the Applicants, being materials that improperly remained in the possession of their former employees and contractor, the then Respondents.
 Those pleadings, they contend, define the ambit of the dispute between the parties and the ambit of evidence relevant or potentially relevant to the resolution of that dispute. 21 The Applicants want to continue to access the materials seized as an aid to the discovery process and in order to be able to further particularise their claims.
 But, other than the Applicants' submission that leave should be granted because it is necessary (or desirable) in the " interests of the administration of justice " -- and other than the competing submission that the Applicants should not be given leave to pursue inspection for the purposes relied upon -- none of the parties (or Citic Pacific) attempted to identify less controversial considerations relevant to the exercise of the discretion.
 But, to enable a party to obtain an order pursuant to O 25B and thereafter permit that party to " rummage through " the materials seized, in order to make an assessment as to those documents which that party considers would be or should be discoverable, would defeat the perimeters within which discovery is to be made by a party, especially the more confined and restricted extent of discovery which this Court now permits.
 Although such matters may be left to one side for present purposes, it must be recognised that the Court should have been more cognisant of the potential interests of persons not represented in this proceeding -- even if those interests were not otherwise raised by the parties. 54 The fact remains that the Applicants have reviewed the seized documents and that review process has facilitated the drafting of the existing Amended Statement of Claim.
 And where, as there is at present, reason to believe that the markings and insignia on particular documents of the Applicants may have been improperly removed and replaced with those of the Respondents or others, it would be difficult to limit discovery to those categories mentioned in O 15 r 2(3).
 The appropriateness of making such an order may also be informed by the consent of the parties to such an order being made. 59 Even in the absence of any consideration being given to whether leave should be given to inspect documents seized pursuant to O 25B, an order for general discovery is considered appropriate.
 Consent to an order for general discovery should not be seen by a party from whom documents have been seized as the " price " they have to pay to resist leave being given to an opponent to inspect those documents or to continue to inspect those documents.
 It is this " traditional (broad) obligation " which has been relied upon as a discretionary reason -- should it be a matter for discretion -- to confine the tasks to be pursued by the Applicants' solicitors in their review of the seized documents. 63 A final consideration potentially relevant to an exercise of discretion remains to be addressed.
 Citic Pacific should be provided with a copy of those records that disclose the identity of those officers of the Applicants who have been given access to documents seized and the documents in fact inspected (if any). 71 Outstanding is the prospect that agreement may be reached between the parties as to the further inspection of the seized documents.
 Restricting the assistance to be provided to the Applicants' solicitors and counsel to a single person will inevitably prolong any review process -- it will take the Applicants longer to review the documents and it will delay the return to the Respondents of documents which are of no relevance to the existing proceeding.
