 1 On 28 March 2008, the Court dismissed an application brought by Blue Wedges Inc to challenge the decision of the Minister for the Environment, Heritage and the Arts (the Minister) to approve the channel deepening project involving the dredging of Port Philip Bay: Blue Wedges Inc v Minister for the Environment, Heritage and the Arts [2008] FCA 399 ( Blue Wedges ).
 All but the first and last sentences are equally applicable to the approval decision of the Minister considered by the Court in this proceeding. 6 The central question was whether there were sufficient special circumstances to justify departure from the general rule.
 The first argument was that the grounds raised in this application concerned significant issues as to the interpretation of the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (Cth) (the Act) and the future administration of it.
 The first ground was whether the Minister had failed to take into account the principles of ecologically sustainable development, or had failed to do so correctly, in view of the statute: see Blue Wedges [2008] FCA 399 at [65] .
 Although it was a novel question, it was not one which was of sufficient difficulty or complexity to take the case out of the ordinary rule. 8 The second ground dealt with the operation of s 131 of the Act, which required the Minister to inform any other Minister whom he believed had administrative responsibilities relating to the particular project about the proposed decision.
 This argument was rejected on the ground that the three matters said to be relevant, namely, the impact of maintenance dredging, the impact of oil or chemical spills, and the impact of the removal and disposal of toxic sediment in the north of Port Philip, were matters the relevance of which was a matter entirely for the Minister.
 In any event, there was an alternative basis upon which the final ground was rejected, namely, that the Minister had taken into account the three matters said by the applicant to be relevant. 10 It follows that this case can be distinguished from Blue Wedges Inc v Minister for the Environment, Heritage the Arts [2008] FCA 8 , decided by Heerey J, in that no novel point of construction or matter of particular importance in the administration of the statute had to be determined. 11 The second argument raised by the applicant regarding costs identified what were said to be a number of special features of the case, which can be fairly described as all relating to the cooperative conduct of the applicants in the progress of the litigation.
 Mr Morehead, who appeared as solicitor on behalf of Blue Wedges Inc, drew attention to the fact that the litigation was conducted in an atmosphere of urgency, where the dredging ship "Queen of the Netherlands" was already located in Port Philip Bay at the time when the Minister's decision was made public.
 He explained that this was the reason that the form of the original application contained a number of causes of action which were not later pursued. 12 The Court would, of course, in any litigation allow for a margin of error or mistake or misconception.
 As a result of the development of argument, particularly in relation to the second ground, the first respondent needed and was granted an adjournment of the proceedings to 3 March 2008. 13 The conduct of the applicant in continuing a case which could not be justified, and which it recognised could not be justified warrants the application of the ordinary rule.
 Whilst it is true that the applicant responded quickly and efficiently to the obvious deficiencies in its case, it cannot call into aid its responsiveness where the fundamental problem was a misconception of the law which gave rise to at least two days of wasted hearing time.
 The Court raised the question whether, in those circumstances, the applicant was prepared to make an open offer in recognition of some of the matters which had been canvassed during the hearing on costs.
