 For the reasons stated below, I would uphold the claim for design infringement and dismiss the cross-claim for invalidity. 3 In its statement of claim, Review alleges that the respondents --- New Cover Group Pty Ltd ("New Cover"), Maco Collection Pty Ltd ("Maco") and/or Biguang Pan --- have made, imported and sold garments in infringement of the Review Design.
 The following were not relevant in this part of the proceeding: paragraphs 18 and 19 and parts of paragraphs 24 to 26 of Mr Meng' s 24 September 2007 affidavit; paragraphs 15 to 20 of Mr Meng' s 5 November 2007 affidavit; and paragraphs 8 and 9 of Mr Meng' s 4 February 2008 affidavit.
 In a statement of claim dated 10 April 2007, Review specifically alleged that New Cover and Maco had, without its licence or authority, made, imported and sold garments embodying a design that was substantially similar in overall impression to the Review Design. 13 The Spicy Sugar garments are sleeveless fixed-wrap or cross-over dresses.
 A design is new unless it is identical to a design that forms part of the prior art base for the design, and distinctive unless it is substantially similar in overall impression to a design that forms part of the prior art base for the design: see s 16(1) and (2). 20 Review alleges, and New Cover/Maco denies, that New Cover/Maco made, imported and sold the Spicy Sugar garments.
 As noted in Redberry , the question whether New Cover/Maco made Spicy Sugar garments, as opposed to importing and selling them, does not affect the outcome of Review's principal allegation that New Cover/Maco has infringed the Review Design.
 It affects the discussion of s 75(2) of the Designs Act, below. 21 The Spicy Sugar garments will infringe the Review Design if they embody a design that is substantially similar in overall impression to the Review Design: compare the Designs Act, s 71(1)(a).
 Hence, only part of the design embodied in each style of the Spicy Sugar garments is substantially similar to the Review Design, with the consequence that the Court must have regard to the amount, quality and importance of that part in the context of the design considered as a whole (s 19(2)(c)).
 As noted in Redberry , however, in deciding whether the design embodied in each style of the Spicy Sugar garments is substantially similar in overall impression to the Review Design, the Court must also have regard to the prior art base, considered by reference to the standard of the informed user.
 As noted above, in this case in contrast to Redberry , save for the pattern (and colour), each of the styles of the Spicy Sugar garments embodies a design that is substantially similar (if not identical) to the Review Design.
 In this case, having regard to the directions in ss 19(1), (2)(a), (c) and (d), 19(3) and 19(4), the informed user would conclude that the design embodied in each style of the Spicy Sugar garments is substantially similar in overall impression to the Review Design considered as a whole, principally because of the identity in the shape, configuration and ornamentation.
 As in Redberry , Review invited the Court to calculate general damages on the assumption that every sale by New Cover/Maco should be treated as if it had been a sale by Review of the Review Dress (and on the assumption that New Cover/Maco sold all 730 imported Spicy Sugar garments in style 050620-2SS).
