 North East Equity also claimed that Proud Machinery and Mr Proud had represented that the plant and equipment would perform at the standards set in the contract, which was the basis of its claims of contraventions of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act and in negligence.
 Thus, in an 8 hour shift, Mr Tana understood that there were about 7 operating hours which would result in about 131.25 tonnes of packed product based on the rate of 18.75 tonnes per operating hour.
 IDENTIFICATION OF REPRESENTATIONS 100 North East Equity alleged that each of the purposes which I have just discussed were requirements communicated by Mr Tana to Mr Proud that any system designed and provided by Proud Machinery had to meet.
 However, I am comfortably satisfied that Mr Tana did not understand Proud Machinery or Mr Proud to be representing that it or he was capable of designing, or would in fact design, the new plant and equipment or the line itself.
 Mr Tana agreed that, by the time he made his first witness statement, he had used the crates or bins in the business for a long time and had many years of experience with them.
 Mr Tana gave his farm manager the production targets he wished for each of the 52 weeks of the year by indicating the times at which he wished to have specific quantities of carrots ready for sale.
 I am not satisfied that the quality of produce from the Guilderton farm was ever restored to a Class 1 standard. 17.3 The market for carrots 210 Mr Tana's written evidence included material to support North East Equity's claim for economic loss.
 Mr Kift explained that the profit and loss statements in North East Equity's tax returns for the financial years 2000 to 2006 contained the following total results for its vegetable business which I have summarised in the table below.
 The evidence is unclear as to whether the test of the plant and the meetings took place on 17 or 18 November 2003, although both parties agreed that by 18 November at the latest, a test and a meeting had occurred.
 Each of North East Equity and Proud Machinery agreed with the bank in December 2002 that all North East Equity's rights in relation to the new line would be either assigned by it to, or taken as being enforceable directly by, the bank.
 I am not satisfied that any substantial or greater loss was incurred. 380 However, North East Equity did not appear to make any separate claim for damages based on the deficiencies in, and disruption caused by, the flume elevators.
