 1 By a notice of appeal filed on 21 April 2008, the appellant has attempted to appeal from a judgment of the Federal Magistrates Court in Pothuwila v Minister for Immigration and Anor [2008] FMCA 345.
 The learned federal magistrate dismissed the appellant's application to the Federal Magistrates Court and ordered the appellant to pay the costs of the first respondent to that proceeding, also the first respondent to this proceeding, the Minister for Immigration and Citizenship. 2 The history of the proceeding is as follows.
 The appellant applied to the Migration Internal Review Office, which affirmed the delegate's decision. 3 The letter by which the appellant was advised of this decision informed the appellant that he needed to make an application for review by the Immigration Review Tribunal within 28 days of the date of the letter.
 It was also later held by this Court that a failure to give a notice complying with s 66(2) of the Migration Act , because of a failure to state accurately the time limit in which an application to review could be made, led to the conclusion that the obligation imposed by s 66 was never discharged and there was no valid notification of the decision.
 On this basis, in the absence of a statutory time limit, the application for review of the decision refusing a visa was revived many years later, when it came before the Migration Review Tribunal. 4 On 18 September 2007, the Migration Review Tribunal made a decision, which was handed down on 28 September 2007, affirming the decision not to grant the appellant a Sri Lankan (Temporary) (Class TT) visa.
 She refused to consider a substantial amount of material submitted by the appellant, suggesting that he may have been deserving of a protection visa, because he was in danger if he should return to Sri Lanka. 5 The appellant made an application to the Federal Magistrates Court for judicial review of the decision of the Migration Review Tribunal.
 It seems clear that a judgment given on such a basis is an interlocutory judgment for the purposes of s 24(1A) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth), and that the leave of the Court or a judge is therefore required before an appeal can be brought from such a judgment.
 He was so advised both by the Australian Government Solicitor, acting on behalf of the first respondent, and by the registry of the Court itself, but did not file any application for leave to appeal.
 Not only has the appellant not attempted to make any application for leave to appeal, he has not made any application for the fixing of a later date than that prescribed by O 52 r 5, by which he might do so. 8 It was reported to me yesterday that the appellant's daughter came to the registry of the Court, handed over a bundle of material relating to the appellant's health, and informed the registry that the appellant would be unable to appear at the hearing of this proceeding today.
 I am left in the unsatisfactory position of not really knowing whether I ought to adjourn the hearing of the appellant's case on the basis that he is unfit to attend and participate in that hearing. 10 The appellant has been notified that objection is taken to the competency of his appeal.
 If the appellant were to apply for the necessary extension of time and for leave to appeal, he would inevitably fail in his application, because his substantive attempt to appeal from the judgment of the Federal Magistrates Court is bound to fail.
