 Order 35A r 3(2)(c) provides as follows: If a respondent is in default, the Court may: ... (c) if the proceeding was commenced by an application supported by a statement of claim or the Court has ordered that the proceeding continue on pleadings - give judgment against the respondent for the relief that: (i) the applicant appears entitled to on the statement of claim; and (ii) the Court is satisfied it has power to grant; 2 The proceedings were commenced by an application on 9 April 2008.
 The applicants claimed that the respondent engaged in misleading and deceptive conduct in breach of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) and s 42 of the Fair Trading Act 1987 (NSW) and in breach of certain settlement agreements with respect to past disputes between the applicants and the respondent about similar conduct. 3 The respondent did not appear when the matter was called for hearing on 12 September 2008.
 The applicants also said that the evidence demonstrated their substantive entitlement to the relief sought. 4 The allegations of fact in the statement of claim arise from a lengthy history of dispute between the applicants and the respondent with respect to the respondent's registration of domain names.
 The Macquarie group of companies are very well known in Australia. 6 The World Intellectual Property Organisation Arbitration and Mediation Centre resolved two disputes between the first applicant and the respondent in 2003 about the respondent's registration of domain names macquarie-bank.com and macquarie-bank.net (cases D2003-0374 and D2003-0890).
 The Court made orders as sought by the applicants ( Macquarie Bank Ltd v Seagle (2005) 146 FCR 400 ; [2005] FCA 1239). 11 The first applicant also found other cases involving the respondent's registration of domain names resolved by the World Intellectual Property Organisation Arbitration and Mediation Centre.
 However, there is no sponsorship arrangement between the applicants and the respondent. 14 Searches also disclosed that, after the date of the agreement and deed, the respondent published material on websites in respect of which the respondent is the owner of the relevant domain name (namely, HonourMission.com, www.federal-court.net, MyPute.com, TerrorismSupport.com, Arrogantosa.com, BDWaldRon.com, I-C-A-C.com, may-day.biz, www.response.continues.biz and www.muckworry.com, referred to as the "Further Domain Names" in the applicants' proposed orders).
 As CSR Ltd was not the owner or affiliated with the owner the representations were likely to mislead and deceive in breach of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act . 17 In support of their submission that the respondent's conduct was in trade or commerce the applicants pointed to s 6(3) of the Trade Practices Act , the negotiations in 2003 about the disputed domain names, and a statement on one of the respondent's websites that some of his domain names were available for sale.
 Section 6(3) extends the application of the Trade Practices Act (other than excluded parts that are not presently relevant) to individuals who use postal, telegraphic or telephonic services (the latter encompassing access to the internet). 18 The applicants also submitted that the respondent's conduct of publishing material that would tend to harm or injure the reputation or good name of the first applicant, its officers or employees on the websites associated with the Further Domain Names breached the agreement dated 24 November 2003 and deed dated 16 December 2004.
 In publishing material that would tend to harm or injure the reputation or good name of the first applicant, its officers or employees on the websites associated with the Further Domain Names the respondent breached clause (5) of the agreement and clauses 3, 4 and 5 of the deed. 20 In Macquarie Bank (2005) 146 FCR 400 ; [2005] FCA 1239 at [24] the Court considered the meaning of the words "entitled to on the statement of claim" in Order 35A r 3(2)(c).
 The relief to which the applicants appear entitled on the statement of claim (and which the Court has power to grant) is relief to remedy and restrain the respondent's breaches of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act and s 42 of the Fair Trading Act and the terms of the agreement and deed. 22 The applicants' proposed orders 1 to 4 and 10 involve declarations relating to the respondent's breaches and injunctions to restrain them in relatively conventional terms.
 In the alternative, the applicants sought orders for removal of material from the websites identified as being in breach of the provisions of the agreement and deed. 25 The difficulty with the applicants' primary position with respect to proposed orders 7, 8 and 9 is that the Further Domain Names are not deceptively similar to the applicants' names and trade marks.
 Accordingly, I consider that the applicants' alternative approach is appropriate and make orders accordingly. 26 Proposed order 11, in effect, would prevent the respondent from registering any domain name without the leave of the Court and the giving of notice to the applicants of the application for leave.
