 Some of that conduct concerns accounting entries and transactions effected by Mr and Mrs Buskens. 10 On a fair reading of the Statement of Claim, Mr and Mrs Buskens are said to be the perpetrators of, or implicated in, most of the conduct which is alleged by the plaintiffs to constitute oppression. 11 No specific allegation of wrongful conduct is made against the third defendant or against its principal, Mr Wood.
 The ground relied upon is the ground pleaded in pars 88E to 88G of the Statement of Claim. 23 The plaintiffs have established that the legal expenses of the first, second, fourth and fifth defendants are all being paid by the second defendant and that those expenses will continue to be paid by the second defendant unless interlocutory relief along the lines of that which is sought by the plaintiffs is granted. 24 Although reference has been made in the plaintiffs' submissions to the other grounds of complaint pleaded in the Statement of Claim, the plaintiffs have chosen not to support any of those allegations by evidence insofar as the present application is concerned.
 In those circumstances, whilst my attention can and has been drawn to the nature of the allegations made in the balance of the Statement of Claim, the relevant principles must be applied to the one ground of complaint relied upon in the present application, namely, the complaint concerning the payment of the Buskens' legal expenses by the second defendant. 25 In the present case, Counsel for the first and second defendants and the Buskens has submitted that the plaintiffs put a case which implicates the first and second defendants in the events and transactions about which complaint is made and that the Buskens are not the sole or even the principal targets of the plaintiffs.
 As the evidence stands at the moment, there is little to be said for the proposition that the first and second defendants are separately implicated in the complaints made by the plaintiffs so that the second defendant is justified in paying all of the legal costs. 28 It seems to me that there is a serious question to be tried.
