 In doing so, the Notice of Facts and Contentions will set out a statement of the rights and interests now claimed. 12 Fifthly, the Notice of Facts and Contentions will then need to set out a list of the rights and interests that were held by the original society and the content of those rights and, similarly, a list of the rights and interests that are now asserted and held by the current or contemporary society. 13 Sixthly, I would like the Notice of Facts and Contentions to set out a description of the traditional laws and customs under which each of the rights and interests are said to derive and that would be both in relation to the original society and then progressively through to, and including, the contemporary society. 14 Seventhly, it will, of course, be necessary to put some paragraphs into the Notice of Facts and Contentions setting out an outline of the facts relied upon by the applicant group to prove historical connection with the claim area.
 They are the kind of things that I have in mind that need to be done by 30 May 2008 by the applicant group. 16 I note from the affidavit of Mr Alfred Mills sworn on 23 July 1999 , that Mr Mills asserts some framework rights which were certified by the Torres Strait Regional Authority on 23 July 1999 arising out of meetings of relevant claim group members held on 8 June 1999 .
 So there seems to be some historical content to the assertion of these rights, or identification of them at least, and in the affidavit of 23 July 1999 , Mr Mills says that the native title rights of the Naghir People are these: (a) The Naghir People have always enjoyed, and continue to enjoy, their rights to use, and occupy their land and to exclude others from it and to use and enjoy the natural resources of the land such as animal and plant life.
 For example, I regularly use bamboo from the land for the manufacture of spears. 17 Mr Mills says that Naghir People leave their land to the children and others in accordance with their tradition and custom and grant and withhold permission for others to use their land and, for example, Mr Mills' children will inherit his land. 18 Mr Mills further says: (c) Naghir People hunt over the land, forage the land, garden the land and generally use the resource of the land albeit in somewhat changing ways over the years.
