 Notably, para 6 of the FAD denied that Farmlink was, in law, a purchaser of TVO's cherries to it at the prices pleaded by TVO. 33 Further the respondents denied Farmlink was a del credere agent as pleaded by TVO or an agent on the terms pleaded by TVO.
 Nonetheless, they provide relevant contextual material and for that reason I refer to them, albeit sketchily, and primarily in relation to the "application" of purchase discounts by Farmlink and to the manner in which accounts were settled. 61 The 1999/2000 season was the first in which TVO dealt with Farmlink in relation to cherries.
 Mr Hannaford said in evidence that he could not remember specifically taking up the topic of purchase discounts with Ms Churchill at the beginning of their business relationship but that at some stage they certainly did discuss discounts and how they work and how they apply and why.
 That document set out in tabular form projected consignments by air and sea for the weeks commencing 22 December 2003 and ending 19 January 2004; the names and volumes of cherries to be supplied by named sellers; and the cherry prices.
 I find that the operative conversations concerning the market crash and the price reduction occurred on 7 and 8 January 2004 and that Ms Churchill communicated to Mr Hannaford the substance of the 7 January email, though without referring expressly to Mak losing $12 per carton. 135 To return to the consignments, on 6 January order 4028 was placed with TVO.
 It was open to Farmlink to choose to so structure its relationship with TVO --- or for that matter with Freshmart or Mak --- in a manner which obliged it to act in the interests either of TVO in the sale of cherries or of Freshmart or Mak in their purchase.
 As between Farmlink and the overseas buyer, Farmlink may have taken steps to ensure that defects for which the buyer was responsible were not passed on to it (though there is no evidence that it did so).
 As between Farmlink and TVO, unless otherwise agreed (an unlikely prospect), Farmlink had no entitlement to pass on to TVO quality discounts to the extent to which they were attributable to causes for which it or the overseas buyer was responsible.
 In any event the circumstances surrounding at least order 4020 excite a real suspicion that this order, and possibly some orders other than the above (eg order 4023), were discounted in whole or in part for reasons unrelated to quality as such.
 Ms Churchill did not advise Mr Hannaford in those conversations of any difficulties with selling TVO cherries in the Hong Kong market, save and except for saying there were allegedly problems with the quality of cherries in one shipment.
 I have found that, prior to the making of any consignments to Hong Kong and Singapore, TVO and Farmlink entered into an agreement that the prices at which cherries were to be sold to Farmlink were fixed prices.
