 1 On 26 May 2008, I made orders adjourning the plaintiff's ex parte application for leave to serve an examination summons on the examinee: Freehills, in the matter of New Tel Limited (in liq) ACN 009 068 955 [2008] FCA 762.
 In those circumstances the merits of the challenge, when other avenues of review may be open, may assume greater significance. 7 In Dexcam Australia Pty Ltd v Deputy Commissioner of Taxation [1999] FCA 1784 Heerey J decided not to reserve a matter to the Full Court as there was already a closely analogous Full Court authority on the matter.
 It will only be if the judge considers that it is convenient to refer a question, perhaps because it raises unusual difficulties or perhaps because there are conflicting decisions - the list is not exhaustive --- that a judge will normally accede to an application.
 In a number of cases I have known the judge has considered it inappropriate to refer a question and has thought it preferable to decide the case himself, leaving it to the appellate processes to correct any error that has been made.
 Considerations of orderly administration of the Court and efficient application of its resources indicate that this framework should not be lightly departed from. 13 Although I accept the present case is important not only for the parties, but for the general administration of the Income Tax Assessment Act , it is essentially no different from any case that this Court hears and in which a single judge has to resolve a question of law.
 Additionally, to the extent to which Carnegie Corporation Ltd v Pursuit Dynamics plc (2007) 162 FCR 375 followed those cases rather than Re Austral Oil Estate Ltd (in liquidation) (1986) 86 FLR 247 and Re Deposit and Investment Company Ltd (1991) 30 FCR 463 , counsel also argues that Carnegie was wrongly decided. 12 For the examinee it is argued that the summons does not originate any process.
 The definition is sufficiently wide, in my view, to confer upon them the title of proceeding in their own right. (emphasis added) 16 It is this passage which has been followed in subsequent judgments. 17 The second limb of the argument advanced for the examinee, (like the first) was not ventilated in earlier argument before me on the ex parte application.
 The extensions found in r 1 to the common law rule that jurisdiction is based on presence within the geographical jurisdiction of the court provide significant connecting factors sufficient to justify the court exercising jurisdiction in relation to persons outside the jurisdiction.
 If an examination summons falls within the definition of 'originating process' (as the cases other than Re Deposit 30 FCR 463 conclude) and is also within r 2 (which has not been challenged), then the question is whether one needs to go any further to consider the jurisdictional point addressed by Lockhart J.
 That jurisdictional point may have only fallen for consideration in Re Deposit because his Honour followed the decision of McLelland J in the Supreme Court of New South Wales to conclude that an examination summons was not an originating process. 20 Senior counsel observes that the jurisdictional consideration was not evaluated in Fiorentino 79 FCR 327 or in the other decisions which have followed Fiorentino .
 In this instance, the decision has already been made and acted upon. 25 My view is that the appropriate course for the examinee, given that the decision has already been made and acted upon, is to apply for leave to appeal from that decision if the examinee wishes to press the Full Court to set aside the order permitting leave to serve the examination summons outside of Australia.
