 However, the appellant claimed that the President of the Hydrology and Water Resource Monitoring Bureau and the Secretary of the China Communist Party kept this information secret from the public. 5 The appellant claimed that 'around' 28 April 2007 Mr Y drafted a report on the blue-green algae pollution in Taihu Lake.
 In the amended application the appellant claimed that the Tribunal had not complied with s 424AA of the Act as it had failed to orally give clear particulars of the information relied upon in its finding relating to the appellant's claimed financial hardship. 15 The appellant also filed an outline of submissions which contained a number of additional grounds, namely: 1.
 The Tribunal failed to comply with s 424A(1) of the Act by failing to give the appellant particulars of the information that was the reason or part of the reason for the Tribunal's decision in writing and failed to ensure in writing that the appellant understood why the information was relevant and failed to invite him in writing to comment on or respond to the information. 16 Federal Magistrate Scarlett, in considering the Tribunal decision record and decision in light of the claims made by the appellant, was not satisfied that there was a breach of s 424AA of the Act.
 Ground 1 18 Three particulars are provided in respect of this ground of appeal, namely that the Tribunal assessed the appellant's credibility incorrectly; the Tribunal made its finding based upon incorrect information or incorrect evidence; and the Tribunal raised incorrect issues in deciding the review application. 19 Scarlett FM found that the Tribunal's assessment of the appellant's credibility was based upon his evidence to the Tribunal, independent country information, inconsistencies within the appellant's own evidence and inconsistencies between his evidence and the independent country information.
 Scarlett FM observed that there is no basis for conducting a judicial review and interfering with the Tribunal's findings provided there is evidence upon which a credibility finding may be made. 20 Scarlett FM satisfied himself that the appellant's own evidence and the independent country information were sufficient to allow the Tribunal to make its findings concerning the appellant's credibility.
 However, the Court infers from the Tribunal hearing record, which stated that the applicant did not request time to 'comment/respond under ss 359AA/424AA ' , that such discretion was exercised. 25 In considering whether the Tribunal had breached s 424AA , Scarlett FM found that the Tribunal had 'quite clearly' relied upon the appellant's own evidence and its assessment of that evidence and the independent country information.
 Scarlett FM found that as such information did not constitute 'information' for the purposes of s 424A(1) of the Act, it was 'clearly not intended' to be covered by s 424AA of the Act. 26 The Tribunal found that there were inconsistencies in the appellant's evidence.
 Scarlett FM noted that it was well established that inconsistencies in evidence do not constitute 'information' for the purposes of s 424A of the [2007] FCA 26 ; Act (see SZBYR and Another v Minister for Immigration and Citizenship and Another (2007) 235 ALR 609 at [18] ) and accordingly do not constitute 'information' for the purposes of s 424AA.
 His Honour also observed that the Tribunal offered the appellant an opportunity to comment on certain aspects of the evidence, although before his Honour the appellant denied that he was given such opportunity. 27 The Court observes that s 424AA of the Act does not contain an equivalent provision to s 424A(3).
 Section 424A(2A) provides: (2A) The Tribunal is not obliged under this section to give particulars of information to an applicant, nor invite the applicant to comment on or respond to the information, if the Tribunal gives clear particulars of the information to the applicant, and invites the applicant to comment on or respond to the information, under section 424AA.
 Accordingly, the Court considers that what is not 'information' for the purposes of s 424A(1) of the Act is also not 'information' for the purposes of s 424AA. 28 It follows from the above that no error is apparent in the Federal Magistrate's finding in relation to the Tribunal's compliance with s 424AA of the Act.
