 Background 1 The Superannuation Act 1922 (Cth) as relevantly amended ('the 1922 Act') drew a distinction between 'The Fund' and 'The New Superannuation Fund'. 2 By s 4 of the 1922 Act ' The Fund ' was defined to mean 'the Superannuation Fund established under this Act' and ' The New Superannuation Fund ' was defined to mean the superannuation fund established by the Superannuation Act 1976 (Cth) ('the 1976 Act'). 3 The 'New Superannuation Fund', established by s 40 of the 1976 Act, was the Commonwealth Superannuation Fund No. 2 4 By s 4 of the Superannuation Act 1990 (Cth) ('the 1990 Act') the Minister administering the 1990 Act, then the Minister for Finance, was required by deed to establish an occupational superannuation scheme, to be known as the Public Sector Superannuation Scheme, for the benefit of persons employed by the Commonwealth and others and to establish and vest in the PSS Board, established by s 20 of the 1990 Act, a fund for the purposes of the scheme so established.
 In the absence of such nomination, the Trustees shall elect one of the Trustees present at the meeting as a Chairperson for the meeting. 8.4 At a meeting of the Board 4 Trustees, or acting Trustees, shall constitute a quorum and all decisions of the Board must be affirmed by at least 4 votes of the Trustees, or acting Trustees, present in person and voting. 8.5 The Board shall keep accurate records of all meetings held by the Board. ' 17 Section 6 of the 1990 Act made provision for membership of the Public Sector Superannuation Scheme.
 The notice was expressed as a ' NOTICE OF RETIREMENT --- INVALIDITY ' and provided as follows: 'I, Alastair Milroy, currently occupying the role of Chief Executive Officer of the Australian Crime Commission, using my powers and functions under Section 29 of the Public Service Act 1999 : 1. being satisfied that you are within the meaning of subsection 3(d) of the Public Service Act 1999 , inability (sic) to perform duties because of physical or mental incapacity; and 2. having received an Invalidity Retirement Certificate from the PSS Board Delegate; GIVE NOTICE TO YOU, Anne Maree Matthews, Executive Level 1, that you are to be retired from the Australian Public Service.
 It said that, at the very least, the Board should have advised the second respondent, when it became aware of her 'imminent invalidity retirement, of the effect that her retirement date would have on the amount of her benefit' (see [76] of the Review Determination and Reasons). 65 The Tribunal continued by expressing its concern that the Australian Crime Commission had provided the second respondent with personal financial advice in relation to her superannuation benefit without considering her alternative retirement dates (see [77] of the Review Determination and Reasons). 66 These observations of the Tribunal proceeded, in my opinion, on a complete misunderstanding in relation to the selection of a date for the second respondent's 'imminent invalidity retirement'.
