 I had also previously, on 13 May 2008, declined to make any order on the applicants' motion of 29 April 2008 for an interlocutory order restraining the second respondent from further evacuating the upstream and downstream ends of the McArthur River diversion channel and associated orders (the applicants' motion): Lansen v Commonwealth Minister for Environment and Heritage (No 2) [2008] FCA 909.
 I reserved the costs of the applicants' motion. 2 As the applicants wished to consider the reasons for judgment published on 13 June 2008, I set a timetable for the exchange of submissions as to the costs of the proceeding. 3 The disputes as to costs are now as follows: 1.
 The first respondent (the Minister) seeks an order for costs of the proceeding against the applicants, save for the costs of the applicants' motion which did not directly concern the second respondent. (The Minister was represented by counsel at the hearing of the applicants' motion but does not seek costs for that attendance. ) 3.
 The second respondent (MRM): (a) agrees that there should be no costs in relation to the applicants' motion, but otherwise (b) seeks costs, or alternatively 80 per cent of its costs, of the proceeding against the Lansen applicants, and also (c) seeks costs, or alternatively 80 per cent of its costs, of the proceeding jointly against the Northern Land Council (the NLC) as well as the Lansen applicants. 4.
 Even if the cases were confined to ejectment proceedings (and clearly they are not), the principle lying behind the ejectment cases is that the real litigant rather than the nominal party may be made liable for costs. 8 It was recognised by the Full Court of this Court (O'Loughlin, Whitlam and Marshall JJ) in Gore at 437, [23] that, in applying the principles discussed in Knight , the circumstances in which costs might be awarded against a non-party have not been exhaustively defined.
 The NLC did not itself stand to gain directly from a successful outcome of the proceedings; cf Gore at 452 [64]. 16 In FPM Constructions in the New South Wales Court of Appeal at [210], and in Applicant NAGM in the Full Court of this Court at 500-501, [66]-[68], some circumstances were identified in which a non-party order for costs may be made.
 In Applicant NAGM , the Court (Sackville, Allsop and Jacobson JJ) at 501, [68] emphasised that an order for the payment of costs by a non-party is exceptional and any application for such an order "should be treated with considerable caution". 17 I have carefully considered the matters put by MRM.
 However, I have come to the firm view, for the reasons I have given, that it is not appropriate to order the NLC to pay costs of the proceedings to MRM, assuming I make an order for costs of the proceedings in its favour against the Lansen applicants.
 The claims for costs against the applicants 18 Ordinarily, costs follow the event so that a successful litigant receives its costs, unless there are features of the case which justify some other order: Cummings v Lewis (1993) 41 FCR 559 at 600; Ruddock v Vardarlis (No 2) (2001) 115 FCR 229 at 234-235, [11] ( Ruddock ).
 The Full Court (Branson, Tamberlin and Finn JJ) made costs orders in that case to reflect the fact that the principal issues determined on the appeal concerned the proper construction of the Act, and were issues of critical importance to the Minister in performing responsibilities for the administration of the Act.
 There was a real issue as to whether the process by which the Territory Minister then came to provide information generally of the character sought by the Minister by the provision of Assessment Report 54, which itself was developed from a Public Environment Report under the Environment Assessment Act 1982 (NT) in the course of which MRM provided further information generally on the matters raised by the Minister, was a process authorised by the Act under the Bilateral Agreement.
 In my view, it is appropriate to reflect that ultimately acknowledged outcome on that contested issue (to the commencement of the trial, or just before it) in the costs order. 45 If it were standing alone, I would not reduce the costs of the Minister or of MRM by reason of the Lansen applicants having succeeded on the issue concerning the Minister's contravention of s 134(4)(a).
