 As counsel for the applicants submitted, Teletech arranged an opportunity for the employee applicants to participate in a recruitment process undertaken by Telstra. 17 Ms Louise Power is the senior organisational development specialist employed by Telstra.
 Counsel for the applicants submits, and I agree, that the employees' positions and duties are identified in the AWAs and are so central to the employment that they are terms and conditions of employment.
 This approach is consistent with considering discretionary company policies as terms and conditions of the employment, at least for the purposes of this exercise. 24 The exercise of comparing the wages, terms and conditions of the Teletech employment and Telstra employment depends in part on the purpose of the particular provision in question.
 The Attachment 17 AWA for Supplementary Workers contains significant differences from the other Telstra AWAs. 31 Not all positions that applicant employees were employed in at Teletech had equivalent positions at Telstra.
 Telstra may also offer a Supplementary Worker work outside of the employee's nominated span and days to make up the employee's 500 hours but the employee is not obliged to accept the work. 38 A number of full time Teletech employees were employed at Telstra as Supplementary Workers.
 Applicant Ordinary hours at Teletech Minimum Hours at Telstra Applicant 2 30 Approximately 10 Applicant 21 25 Approximately 10 Applicant 41 25 Approximately 10 Applicant 55 30 Approximately 10 40 Other applicant employees working hours increased.
 During that probationary period Telstra had the right to dismiss the employees without notice. 50 It was submitted by counsel for Teletech that most new employments involve a period of probation and that, in fact, the applicant employees had been subject to a probationary period on commencement at Teletech.
 Both these applicant employees were employed by Telstra in positions that amounted to a demotion from their employment as Team Leaders at Teletech and both suffered a diminution in their wages. 53 I am not satisfied that employment by Telstra as a Sales Consultant is comparable to the employment by Teletech as a customer service Team Leader.
 Both applicant employees' annual incomes of $42,000 (superannuation excluded) at Teletech dropped to $37,753 (superannuation excluded) at Telstra. 55 I am not satisfied that the third and thirty-third applicant employees' employment at Telstra is sufficiently comparable to their employment at Teletech.
 All applicant employees other than Applicant 3, Applicant 33 and Supplementary Workers 57 I am satisfied that on a global assessment of the wages, terms and conditions of employment of these applicant employees that the alternative employment at Telstra is comparable to their employment at Teletech.
