 Neither the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) nor any NSW legislation gave the governors of the respective prisons any lawful authority to detain him, and there was no other lawful authority for them to do so; the Commonwealth is said to be vicariously liable in damages for such false imprisonment by the governors. 2.
 The primary judge similarly dismissed the applicant's cause of action for the tort of "unconstitutional detention". 5 It is necessary to focus on the applicant's primary cause of action (unlawful detention) in a little more detail given that the primary judge's rejection of this cause of action is centrally relevant to the appeal the applicant seeks to prosecute.
 It mattered not, according to the primary judge, that the person actually detaining the applicant in Silverwater Prison, the prison governor, was not a migration officer (as defined in s 5 of the Act) provided that a migration officer requested that the applicant be detained in this way.
 As the primary judge put it (at [85]): It is in this setting that the intention to be imputed to the Parliament by its adoption of the phrase "in a prison or remand centre of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory" falls for determination.
 If the phrase is interpreted to mean only that an officer may arrange that a detainee be held within, and in that sense "in", the physical boundaries of a place that is a prison or remand centre, but that the phrase was not intended to confer authority on the officer to have the detainee made subject to the control of the ordinary prison etc authorities, then the applicant's argument would succeed.
 The primary judge, however, rejected the applicant's submission that, based on the High Court's decision in Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Bhardwaj (2002) 209 CLR 597 , the decision to transfer him to Silverwater Prison was a nullity, thereby rendering his subsequent detention in Silverwater Prison unlawful.
 Even if it were the case that invalidity of the transfer decision rendered the subsequent detention unlawful (and the primary judge seemed to be of the view that it was not), the primary judge appeared to proceed on the basis it would be necessary for him to make a declaration to effect before the applicant could obtain damages for unlawful detention.
 I would, in my discretion, decline to make such a declaration notwithstanding that, if the applicant be correct, it would have some utility in enabling him to mount a claim for damages on what might be the consequent invalidity of the Nicholls decision and the Symons request.
 Having said this, it is necessary for the Court to canvass at some level the case the applicant seeks to put in determining whether an order for security should be made. 15 The applicant's draft notice of appeal is in the following terms: I.
 It presently appears to me that at all times the applicant remained validly in "immigration detention" for the purposes of s 196 of the Act, given that "immigration detention" encompasses circumstances where an unlawful non-citizen is held "in a prison or remand centre of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory "(s 5). 18 The decision to move him did not involve the exercise of an express statutory power which conditioned the detention.
 The fact that the conditions in those last mentioned institutions were different to those in Villawood almost certainly could not bear upon the legality of the detention: Behrooz v Secretary of Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs (2004) 219 CLR 48. 19 In short, I consider that the applicant has little prospect of persuading a Full Court that the denial of procedural fairness, which attended the decision to transfer him to Silverwater Prison, rendered his subsequent detention in that prison, or otherwise in a state correctional institution, unlawful.
 I accept there is a public interest element in this litigation, involving as it does the detention of an unlawful non-citizen in state correctional institutions established for the incarceration of criminals in circumstances where the applicant had neither been charged with nor convicted of criminal offences.
