 It is this exercise of federal jurisdiction that the Applicant apparently relied upon both in respect to his contention that he was entitled to a trial by jury and his contention as to the District Court being " improperly constituted ". 5 The " grievances " to which he previously referred are understood to be contentions that the Respondent had been improperly giving " multinational companies " tax breaks.
 A " Schedule of Questions of Fact and/or of Mixed Law and Fact " had been prepared on behalf of the Applicant and included questions as to whether representations were made that " the Applicant's small business was an exempt entity ", whether the representations were " binding on the DCT ", and "[w] hether the Applicant relied on the representations ".
 As became apparent from submissions subsequently filed by the Applicant on 11 September 2008, some of the questions of fact as formulated in the Schedule were " not pressed ". 11 The Schedule as provided by the Applicant, it should be noted, is no substitute for compliance with O 31 r 1 of the Federal Court Rules .
 It is this assertion which was the springboard for the contention that s 80 guaranteed the Applicant a right to trial by jury. 21 Section 80 , it may readily be accepted, " lays down ... a fundamental law of the Commonwealth ": R v Snow [1915] HCA 90 ; (1915) 20 CLR 315 at 323 per Griffith CJ.
 Reference was also made to ss 39 and 40 of the Federal Court of Australia Act -- but those provisions, it was contended by the Applicant, were " qualified or not determinative of jury usage to decide factual questions in bankruptcy cases ". 27 This Court unquestionably has a discretionary power to direct that a trial be by jury.
 BANKRUPTCY ACT 48 The manner in which provisions such as ss 39 and 40 of the Federal Court of Australia Act have been interpreted and applied was, presumably, the reason why the Applicant placed greater -- if not exclusive -- reliance upon ss 30(3) and 31 of the Bankruptcy Act . 49 Section 30(3) employs the language of this Court being empowered to " direct the trial " of a question of fact " if it thinks fit ".
 Section 30(3), it was submitted, is the more specific test to be applied by this Court when considering an application for trial by jury in bankruptcy proceedings. 50 Whether or not s 30(3) does in fact place any such " gloss " upon the statutory test as formulated in s 40 may also be left to one side.
 If there are said to be " questions of fact " which it is appropriate for a jury to determine, it is assumed that there is a public importance in having those questions exposed in " open Court ". 53 The Bankruptcy Act , it must nevertheless be accepted, confers no entitlement to trial by jury: Hubner v Australia and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd [1999] FCA 385 , 88 FCR 445.
 Even in the more confined context of bankruptcy proceedings, it has thus been accepted that " special reason " must be shown if a jury is sought. 56 The Applicant's Outline of Submissions dated 8 August 2008 contends that " Justices in civil cases especially bankruptcy cases should not approach applications for a jury with diffidence, or with an inclination to refuse such an order, or to feel somehow diminished or limited by an application for the trial of a civil matter by a jury ".
 To the extent that the written submissions seem to advocate a different approach, they are rejected. 57 Confining attention to the language of s 30(3) of the Bankruptcy Act , the present proceeding is not one in respect to which it is considered " fit " to " direct the trial " of such questions of fact as now remain in the Applicant's Schedule .
 In the context of the former Act, it has been said that there must be some " special reason " to direct a trial with a jury; in the context of the 1976 Act, it has been said that there must be some " substantial reason " to order a trial with a jury.
