 The application was to set aside the decision to issue a notice of intention to cancel Mr Fernando's permanent residency visa under the provisions of s 501 of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) (the Act), and to restrain the respondent from cancelling his permanent residency visa. 2 During the period May 2007 to October 2007, Mr Fernando also filed three other applications in this Court all of which, in essence, claimed the same relief, namely, compensation in respect of what he alleged was false imprisonment in migration detention by the respondent and the Commonwealth. 3 On 18 December 2007, the Court appointed Mr John Robert Broderick Ley as tutor to act on behalf of Mr Fernando in this proceeding and in respect of the three other proceedings which he had commenced. 4 After the appointment of Mr Ley as tutor for Mr Fernando, the originating application was amended.
 On 13 August 2008, I dismissed the application on the basis that the Federal Court did not have jurisdiction to hear and determine the application ( Fernando v Minister for Immigration and Citizenship (No 2) [2008] FCA 1216).
 I said that I would hear the parties on costs. 5 The respondent contended that the usual rule in relation to costs should apply and that the Court should order that the applicant pay the costs of the respondent.
 I also recognise that one of the reasons why a next friend is appointed to conduct litigation on behalf of a person lacking capacity to conduct the litigation on his or her own behalf, is that there should be a person who is ultimately liable for the costs of the successful party. 8 Secondly, I take into account the circumstances of the appointment of Mr Ley to act as tutor for Mr Fernando.
 Dr Cameron accepted appointment as pro bono counsel. 9 It was at the instance of Dr Cameron that the Court was asked to appoint a tutor on the grounds of Mr Fernando's mental incapacity to conduct the various proceedings which were then before the Court. 10 The tutor is not a family member of Mr Fernando.
 The importance of the role of the legal profession in assisting the Court and the community by providing representation on a pro bono basis, in appropriate cases, to those persons who are indigent was commented upon by French J (as he then was) in the case of Ruddock v Vadarlis [2001] FCA 1329 ; (2001) 110 FCR 491 at 548-549, at [216] in the following terms: The counsel and solicitors acting in the interests of the rescuees in this case have evidently done so pro bono.
 In so doing, even if ultimately unsuccessful in the litigation they have served the rule of law and so the whole community. 11 There are, therefore, important policy considerations in favour of ensuring that persons who provide their services to assist the Court and the community voluntarily are, save in exceptional circumstances, not subjected to personal costs orders.
 In Jaffari v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs [2001] FCA 985 ; (2001) 113 FCR 10 , French J permitted a proceeding to be brought by two unaccompanied minors who were asylum seekers, without the appointment of a tutor, on the basis that they were represented in the proceeding by a legal representative.
 I am prepared to make an order to secure that result. 12 Thirdly, in my view, it cannot be said that Mr Ley acted unreasonably in continuing to prosecute this application after his appointment as a tutor of Mr Fernando.
 However, it was only when the respondent filed his submissions close to the hearing date, that he revealed, and then only impliedly, that it was not his present intention to personally make the decision whether or not to cancel Mr Fernando's visa but to delegate the making of that decision.
 It was the injunction to restrain the cancellation of Mr Fernando's visa which was the immediate focus of the relief sought by the tutor on behalf of the applicant at the hearing. 13 In balancing these factors, in my view, the second and third factors outweigh, in this particular case, the first factor.
