 The respondent contends, by notice of motion, that the appeal is incompetent on the basis that the orders from which the appeal is brought are interlocutory in nature, and as a result, the appeal is incompetent in the absence of a grant of leave by the Court: s 24(1A) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth). 2 The circumstances giving rise to the respondent's application are as follows.
 The issues of compensation and reinstatement had not been resolved when the notice of appeal was filed and have only comparatively recently been determined by the Federal Magistrate: Barhoum v All Districts Coating Pty Ltd Anor (No 2) [2008] FMCA 924. 4 The usual test for determining whether an order is final or interlocutory is whether the order, as made, finally determines the rights of the parties: Bienstein v Bienstein [2003] HCA 7 ; (2003) 195 ALR 225 at [25] ; Licul v Corney ; [1976] HCA 6 ; (1976) 180 CLR 213 at 225.
 Guidance on the issue was provided by Taylor J in Hall v Nominal Defendant where his Honour said (at 423): ...an order made in the course of an action or suit which does not conclude the rights of the parties inter se, although it may, of course, conclude the fate of the particular application in which it is made, is interlocutory only. 5 The issue of whether particular orders were interlocutory, in a case similar to the present, was considered recently by Branson J in Citigroup Pty Ltd v Mason [2008] FCA 389 ; (2008) 167 FCR 217.
 Nevertheless, the appellant appealed under s 853 of the WR Act to the Federal Court in respect of the District Court's judgment ordering payment of respondent's unpaid annual leave entitlements. 6 Although it was not strictly necessary for her Honour to reach a conclusion on the matter, her Honour indicated that she was strongly disposed to the view that the orders from which the appeal was brought were interlocutory in nature.
 After reviewing a number of the relevant authorities, Branson J concluded that a final order is one that finally disposes (subject only to appeal) of an action or an existing dispute between the parties, and reasoned as follows (at [31]): The action initiated by the filing of the Statement of Claim was not disposed of by the making of an order requiring Citigroup to pay Mr Mason an amount by way of annual leave entitlements plus interest.
 Although dealing with a summary judgment, it is tolerably clear from the analysis of both Rares J (at [71]) and Gordon J (at [172] to [191]) that an order or judgment which does not finally dispose of all issues between the parties in an application or action is an interlocutory order or judgment. 8 The orders made by the Federal Magistrate on 28 March 2008, against which the appeal was lodged, were interlocutory.
 Filing an application for leave to appeal is a step that is very often taken as a precautionary measure by parties wishing to appeal an order where there is some doubt in their minds or those of their legal advisers about whether the order is interlocutory or final. 9 The respondent has sought an order that his costs be paid from 8 May 2008.
 However, as noted earlier, the appellants did not take the precautionary step of applying for leave (and applying to extend time in which to seek leave), but instead took the approach of resisting the respondent's motion to dismiss the appeal as incompetent and, indeed, in doing so seeking an order that their costs be paid.
