 The second respondent (the Tribunal) committed jurisdictional error by failing to disclose and invite evidence on the following issues that arose in relation to the decision under review, as required by s 425 of the Migration Act . ..... (c) Whether the applicant, as "assistant manager (front of office)" in a hotel in Kathmandu, would have been responsible for making decisions about terminating the employment of staff during a period of union activism. 2.
 The Tribunal misinterpreted the word, "systematic" in s 91R(1)(c) of the Migration Act in connection with the harm that Christians in Nepal may face from Hindu fundamentalists. 7 In relation to the first ground, the appellant pointed to the following aspect of the Tribunal's reasons: Whilst some Hindu converts to Christianity reportedly can face social ostracism and occasionally face isolated incidents of hostility and discrimination from Hindu extremist groups this prejudice is not systematic, although at times it has been vehement and occasionally violent. 8 The appellant contended that this passage demonstrated that the Tribunal had misconceived the requirement in s 91R(1)(c) that the persecution involves " systematic and discriminatory conduct ".
 The appellant contended that whereas VSAI v Minister for Immigration Multicultural Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCA 1602 at [53] required only that conduct be " deliberate or pre-meditated, that is motivated " for the purposes of s 91R(1)(c) , the Tribunal had required that the conduct be "premeditated, motivated, deliberate and habitual". 9 The Federal Magistrate did not accept the appellant's contention and concluded that the appellant had misconceived the Tribunal's use of the term "systematic" in the context in which it arose.
 The fact that the Tribunal then went on to say later in that paragraph, as quoted above at, that the conduct in question was not systematic, in the sense of not habitual, does not mean that the test was misapplied.
 Any harassment coming from the unionists will be a breach of the peace agreement. 11 The appellant contended that by contrast, the Tribunal found that it did not believe the appellant's claim that he would have been in a position to terminate the employment of the union members.
 The appellant contended that there was nothing in the delegate's decision that would have put the appellant on notice of this state of disbelief. 12 In this context, his Honour noted the following passage of the delegate's decision: According to the applicant's application form, he and his family left Nepal on 11 October 2006.
 This behaviour does not appear to be consistent with that of a person who is concerned for his safety because of fear of being harmed by the Maoists and the government agents. 13 His Honour was satisfied that it was clear from this passage of the delegate's decision " that he had problems believing the applicant in relation to his claim that he feared being persecuted by Maoists in his workplace " (at [28]).
 CONSIDERATION 14 As noted earlier, the grounds of appeal repeat, in substance, the grounds before the Federal Magistrate. 15 The first ground addressed in the oral submissions of the appellant concerned the Tribunal's alleged misconstruction or misunderstanding of the word "systematic" in s 91R(1)(c) , which was said to be apparent from the passage in the Tribunal's decision when it referred to the prejudice arising from the conduct of Hindu extremist groups was not "systematic".
 I also agree with the Federal Magistrate that the Tribunal's reasons, read without an eye attuned to error, disclosed that it concluded that there was no real chance the appellant would suffer harm on his return to Nepal by reason of his religion.
 The first ground of the appeal is not made out. 16 The other ground advanced in the oral submissions concerns the alleged failure of the Tribunal to raise with the appellant an issue of importance to its decision if it was not apparent that it was a dispositive issue having regard to the approach that had been adopted by the delegate, a matter addressed by the High Court in SZBEL v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] HCA 63 ; (2006) 228 CLR 152 especially at [35], [36] and [47].
 As is apparent from the consideration of this argument by the Federal Magistrate, the "issue" or the "aspect of [the appellant's] account" was whether there was a real risk the appellant would, as he contended, suffer harm as a result of his interaction with union members associated with Maoists.
 It is true that the delegate reached that conclusion because of the peace agreement that had been reached in November 2006 and the Tribunal reached a similar conclusion, in part, because it did not accept that the appellant had been responsible for making decisions about terminations, which was a conclusion not reached by the delegate.
 However, the appellant was on notice, having regard to the delegate's decision, that his claim, based on a risk of persecution because of what he had done in his position with the hotel, might not be accepted by the Tribunal.
