 At the conclusion of the oral hearing, the Court reserved its decision in relation to the Amended Notice of Motion. 5 While judgment on that Amended Notice of Motion was reserved, there were negotiations between the parties and on 6 June 2008, Harwood Andrews Lawyers, the solicitors on behalf of the applicant and the moving party seeking orders for committal for contempt, wrote to the District Registrar saying, amongst other things: We confirm the parties entered into a deed of settlement on 2 May 2008 relating to the above proceeding.
 However, the parties have not agreed to discontinue the proceeding given there are various tasks to complete and accordingly the applicant will not be filing and serving a notice of discontinuance. 6 Subsequent to the above correspondence by the parties with Deputy District Registrar Belcher of the Queensland Registry, the Court wrote to the solicitors for the parties seeking clarification of their position in relation to the Amended Notice of Motion. 7 In particular, each of the solicitors for the parties was asked: Specifically, I would appreciate if the parties could tell me whether the settlement negates the need for Justice Spender to decide the Notice of Motion; that is, whether or not this dispute has been settled and is now moot in light of the broader settlement. 8 The solicitor for the respondents to the Amended Notice of Motion wrote informing the Court: Yes, the settlement negates the need for Justice Spender to decide the Notice of Motion. 9 However, the solicitor for the applicant responded indicating: Our clear understanding is that proceeding QUD 60 of 2005 has been settled.
 However, the parties acknowledged in the settlement that they could not finally resolve the contempt Notice of Motion as it was a matter within the discretion of the Federal Court and they also acknowledged the Federal Court may still give judgment on the contempt Notice of Motion. 10 The solicitor for the respondents later reaffirmed his view that " the settlement between the parties negates the need for Justice Spender to decide the Notice of Motion. " The solicitor indicated, however, that: ... if his Honour still wishes to do so, then, of course, he may do so as it is a matter within the discretion of the Court. 11 The solicitor for the respondents further indicated: However, the matter is settled as between the parties and all the terms of that settlement are recorded in a Settlement Deed that is binding on the parties. 12 Having regard to the above communications, in my view, there is no utility in proceeding to determine a matter which has been overtaken by the further negotiations and agreements reached between the parties.
 The Amended Notice of Motion, in addition to orders of committal, sought consequential orders concerning the proceeds of cattle sales and the restitution of funds obtained by the grant of the Davis mortgage, matters which, I infer from the correspondence, are caught by the settlement agreement. 13 For these reasons, it is not appropriate to make any order on the Amended Notice of Motion.
