 The issue now before me is that of costs. 2 Dromana seeks that Mr Gryst pay its costs of the proceedings on either an indemnity basis or a solicitor and client basis instead of, as is the usual case, on a party and party basis: on which see Re Wilcox; Ex parte Venture Industries Pty Ltd (No 2) (1996) 72 FCR 151 at 156-157.
 Alternatively, it is said that a departure from the ordinary practice of the court is warranted because Mr Gryst persisted in what should on proper consideration have been seen to be a hopeless case: see J-Corp Pty Ltd v Australian Builders Labourers Federated Union of Workers --- WA Branch (No 2) (1993) 46 IR 301 at 303. 3 As is apparent from my reasons in the principal proceedings there does appear to have been a genuine dispute between the parties arising out of Mr Gryst's employment with Dromana.
 Nonetheless, Mr Gryst proceeded with the matter and it met its inevitable fate. 7 While the above is simply a skeletal account of the circumstances leading up to the hearing, I am prepared to accept that, while Mr Gryst's conduct in the face of what had been pointed out to him provides grounds for suggesting that a departure from party and party costs might be warranted from a relatively early date, I consider that the appropriate point at which Mr Gryst's conduct can be said to have constituted persistence in a hopeless case was reached when Registrar Christie made plain what would have been its fate if heard by her, and did so by reference to Tixana indicating that it was not the only case relevant to the question. 8 While there are aspects of this matter about which Mr Gryst may feel some grievance --- and in particular the sequence of events which led to the statutory demand becoming stale --- those are not matters which in any way could justify his persistence in pursuing the winding up application in the face of what over time must have been obvious to him.
 He needlessly put Dromana to expense and this must be reflected in the costs order made. 9 Accordingly, I will order that Mr Gryst pay Dromana its costs on a party and party basis up to and including 16 July 2008 and thereafter on a solicitor and client basis. 10 A question has been raised before me about whether it was appropriate that Dromana be represented in the matter by senior counsel.
