 1 This is an appeal against a judgment of a Federal Magistrate delivered on 12 November 2007 dismissing an application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ("the Tribunal") dated 28 February 2007: see [2007] FMCA 1832. 2 The appellant is a citizen of Georgia who arrived in Australia on 27 June 1999.
 However, the Tribunal found that the appellant was not a person to whom Australia owed protection obligations under the Refugees Convention. 5 In arriving at this conclusion, the Tribunal found that the White Eagles were not in a position to exert any political influence which would attract adverse political attention, as they had limited resources and a limited ability to advertise.
 THE FEDERAL MAGISTRATE'S DECISION 6 On 10 April 2007 the appellant sought judicial review in the Federal Magistrates Court claiming that the Tribunal failed to comply with s 424A(1) of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ("the Act ") by not providing the appellant with an opportunity to comment on a number of findings concerning the White Eagles.
 Although the Applicant claimed to be a leader of the group in Hashuri, nonetheless this was plainly information about a class of persons and not information solely limited to the Applicant himself. " 8 In rejecting the claim that the Tribunal's findings were illogical, his Honour stated that the Tribunal's findings were open to it and not illogical.
 The matters were identified as: "(a) The White Eagle political grouping had a limited ability to engage in political action. (b) It lacked monetary resources and the ability to advertise. (c) It had no particular process to engage in recruitment. " The appellant advised the Court that the question which he wishes to raise was "whether the Tribunal was obliged to give to me these issues for comments. " He contended that the Federal Magistrate had erred by holding that this "information" was "an assessment of the [appellant's] evidence and a thought process" and that the findings were general findings not related to the appellant personally but to a class of persons.
 As the Federal Magistrate observed, the Tribunal specifically raised these issues with the appellant and indicated that they cast doubt on the eligibility of the appellant to obtain a protection visa. 16 The appellant's application to the Tribunal predated the introduction of s 422B to the Act .
