 WNCI commenced an identical application for winding-up on the grounds of insolvency in the Supreme Court of New South Wales by originating process filed on 22 January 2008. 3 Although the WCNI application was first in point of time of filing, it was last in point of time as to its return date.
 The WCNI has, therefore, taken the step of coming to this court as a supporting creditor. 4 WNCI seeks to have its costs as supporting creditor paid out of the winding-up of the defendant company, but it wishes to have these costs include the costs of the application which was made in the Supreme Court of New South Wales. 5 Coincidentally, both the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation and WCNI's solicitors, sought to have the same firm of accountants, Messrs Simms Partners, or more accurately a person from that firm, appointed as the liquidator of the company.
 His Honour's remarks were made in a different context, but I consider that they are applicable to the present application. 9 It seems to me that what is necessary for the exercise of the power is to find some connection between the Supreme Court proceeding and the proceeding in this Court, in order to justify the order for payment of the supporting creditor's costs, including the costs of commencing in the Supreme Court, out of the process of the winding-up. 10 The course which has been followed by WCNI, in coming to this Court as the supporting creditor, is the cheapest and most expedient course which could have been followed.
 It follows that I propose to accede to the application made to me by Mr Davis of counsel for WCNI. 13 Mr Davis's instructing solicitor is in Court and he has informed me that when the Supreme Court proceedings are returnable on 6 March, an order will be sought that the proceedings be dismissed, with no order as to costs.
 Plainly, the Supreme Court could not now entertain the application to wind-up the company, because I will make a winding-up order this afternoon and in light of the course proposed today, the obvious approach in the Supreme Court is that there be no order as to costs sought in that matter.
 Mr Davis's instructing solicitor has undertaken to the Court to seek those orders in the Supreme Court on 6 March 2008. 14 Accordingly, the orders that I will make this afternoon are as set out in [1] to [3] of the originating process filed by the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation on 24 January 2008.
 I will also order that the costs of WCNI, as supporting creditor, be paid out of the assets of the defendant, and in particular that those costs include the costs of WCNI of and incidental to proceedings No. 1199 of 2008 in the Supreme Court of New South Wales, Equity Division.
