 Each Contracting State shall recognize an agreement in writing under which the parties undertake to submit to arbitration all or any differences which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not, concerning a subject matter capable of settlement by arbitration. 2.
 The term "agreement in writing" shall include an arbitral clause in a contract or an arbitration agreement, signed by the parties or contained in an exchange of letters or telegrams. 16 The definition of "arbitration agreement" incorporates Art II of the Convention thus requiring an undertaking or commitment by the parties by agreement to submit "all or any differences ... concerning a subject matter capable of settlement by arbitration".
 That was the outcome in Elders CED Ltd v Dravo Corporation (1984) 59 ALR 206. 20 I shall shortly return to the question whether, by cl 20 of the Agreement, the parties agreed to submit such a dispute as the present to arbitration.
 This is not a case where the applicant is seeking interlocutory relief, but I note that Art 9 of the UNICTRAL Model Law in Sch 2 to the IA Act addresses that circumstance, as well as Art 17. 34 I do not regard cl 25 of the Agreement as helpful in informing the meaning and application of cl 20 of the Agreement.
 I think that point is significant when determining the scope of the arbitration agreement in cl 20 of the Agreement. 36 The analysis of the structure and wording of cl 20 of the Agreement has indicated that the preserved entitlement of a party under cl 20.3 (in circumstances in which applies) is not one which is confined to seeking declaratory or injunctive relief from an arbitrator in an arbitration.
 However, as I noted earlier, in construing a clause of an agreement such as cl 20, I should adopt a robust and commonsense view in determining what the parties have agreed, or more explicitly the extent to which they have agreed to submit their disputes to arbitration.
 It also imposes a secondary obligation on the applicant if suitable insurance cannot be obtained during those years of the term: to agree on other ways of "protecting payments" with the respondent; and both the applicant and the respondent must act in good faith in doing so.
 It does not oblige the applicant to secure credit insurance for the respondent at all, although in respect of the second and third years of the term the applicant must satisfy the requirements of a credit insurance provider. 51 Clause 7.5 addresses the way in which credit insurance in respect of the second and third years of the term is to be obtained.
 It does not provide for termination of the Agreement if, for some reason, credit insurance satisfactory to the respondent lapses during the first year of the term. 52 Clause 19 dealing with the term and termination also does not provide for termination of the Agreement if the credit insurance in place at the commencement of the term (and said to be for "year 1") for some reason lapses.
 It argued only that the Agreement, including cl 4.3 and cl 7.1 and cl 7.4, on its proper construction does not oblige it to accept and meet the applicant's purchase orders during the first year of the term because, for some unidentified reason, the credit insurance it had in place for the first year of the term has been withdrawn or partly withdrawn.
 Pursuant to an Exclusive Distribution Agreement entered into between the applicant and the respondent on 15 May 2007, in the first year of the term of that Agreement, the respondent's obligation: 1.1 to provide credit to the applicant pursuant to cl 7.1 of the Agreement; and 1.2 to accept all purchase orders submitted by the applicant pursuant to cl 4.3 of the Agreement is not conditional upon or otherwise circumscribed by the amount of credit insurance that the respondent has in place. 2.
