 1 These reasons deal with the question of the costs of various notices of motion issued in this proceeding. 2 On 10 August 2007 I made the following orders on a notice of motion issued by the applicants on 24 November 2006: 1.
 Landmark Operations Limited, Mr Michael Gargan, Selected Seeds Pty Ltd and Top End Rural Supplies Pty Ltd be jointly and severally liable to pay the applicants' costs of and incidental to the notice of motion to be taxed in default of agreement. 2.
 On Selected Seeds Pty Ltd's notice of motion dated 29 March 2007 the costs of the notice of motion be reserved save and except that there be no order as to the costs of the hearing on 13 July 2007.
 Similar orders to those to be made on Selected Seeds' notice of motion dated 29 March 2007 will be made on the notices of motion of Top End Rural Supplies and Mr Michael Gargan, respectively. 6 My reasons for making these orders follow.
 Between 24 November 2006 and 18 January 2007, defences to various cross-claims were filed and further cross-claims were issued in February and March 2007. 18 Landmark, Mr Michael Gargan, Selected Seeds and Top End Rural Supplies each opposed the application for separate trials.
 The additional order sought by the applicants was as follows: The cross-claimants and respondents to those cross-claims be bound as between themselves by the judgment, and findings of law and material fact in the applicants' claim. 20 Before I delivered a ruling on the application, Selected Seeds, Mr Michael Gargan and Top End Rural Supplies each sought leave to defend the applicants' claim against Landmark and each filed a draft defence in respect of which they sought leave.
 Selected Seeds' application should be granted in preference to that of Mr Michael Gargan because its application was the first in time and, more importantly, its proposed defence does not contain a plea as to the proportionate liability provisions which I have concluded is not arguable.
 On hearing that Selected Seeds had been given leave to defend, Top End Rural Supplies withdrew its application for leave to defend and was content with an order that it have leave to appear at the hearing of the applicants' claim against Landmark. 75.
 The effect of the proportionate liability provisions on Landmark's liability to the applicants on the basis Michael Gargan, State of Queensland, Simon Gargan and Kate Gargan, Selected Seeds, Seed Testing Laboratory and Top End Rural Supplies and each of them is liable to the applicants. 76.
 On the other hand, I think it is correct to say that although the applicants' approach on 13 July 2007 to the applications for leave to defend was measured and not one of outright opposition, they did not concede the application and Selected Seeds has been successful in its application to defend the applicants' claim on a number of grounds including those I identified in [75] of my earlier reasons (see [22] above).
 Having regard to these circumstances, the appropriate order in relation to the hearing on 13 July 2007 is that there be no order as to costs. 29 The other costs of Selected Seeds' application for leave to defend should be reserved.
