 The order in para 1 above have effect nunc pro tunc so that: 1.7 the reference to " 8 January 2008 " in paragraph 3 of the Orders be taken to refer, and always to have referred, to" 9 January 2008 "; and 1.8 the words " as at the close of business on 7 January 2008 " be taken to be included in paragraph 3 of the Orders, and always to have been included, after the words " plaintiff's members ". 3.
 Its registered office is at 340 Findon Road, Kidman Park, SA, Australia 5025. (b) Hostworks is admitted to the official list of ASX and the Hostworks Shares are officially quoted on the financial market conducted by ASX. (c) As at the date of the Scheme Booklet, there are 163,625,550 Hostworks Shares on issue. (d) The Register contains the name and registered address of the Hostworks Shareholders. (e) BA is a proprietary company limited by shares, incorporated in Australia and registered in New South Wales.
 Its registered office is at Level 10, Tower A, 799 Pacific Highway, Chatswood, NSW, Australia 2067. (f) Hostworks and BA agreed, by executing the Implementation Agreement, to propose and implement the terms of, and to perform their respective obligations under, this Scheme. (g) BA has executed a Deed Poll pursuant to which BA has covenanted in favour of each Scheme Participant (being the holders of Hostworks Shares other than BA and any person holding Hostworks Shares solely on behalf of BA at the Record Date) to carry out the obligations to be performed by it under this Scheme. 1.
 Dealings in Hostworks Shares (a) For the purpose of establishing the persons who are Scheme Participants, dealings in Hostworks Shares will only be recognised if: (i) in the case of dealings of the type to be effected using CHESS, the transferee is registered in the Register as the holder of the relevant Hostworks Shares as at the Record Date; and (ii) in all other cases, registrable transfers or transmission applications in respect of those dealings are received at the Registry as at the Record Date. (b) Hostworks must register registrable transmission applications or transfers of the kind referred to in clause 4(a)(ii) by, or as soon as practicable after, the Record Date.
