 I do not need to say more about them at this stage. 7 The applicants have deposed that the Heritage Plates which they hold are extremely valuable and I have affidavit evidence before me that confirms that at least one of the Heritage Plates (not one held by either of the applicants) has a potential commercial sale value in excess of one million dollars.
 I note that the size and shape do vary depending upon the number of digits that are used, but they are all considerably smaller plates than the standard number plate, examples of which have been provided to me for observation.
 The second difference is the fact that the black V on white appears and that, of course, does not appear on the Heritage Plates. 11 I should note that, from the plates that I have been provided with, there is a further difference.
 On the Heritage Plates they appear on the left-hand side and read down from the V at the top to a C at the bottom, whereas in the V-Series plates, they appear above the number and read left to right. 12 There is in evidence a booklet which contains details of an earlier auction and lots offered at that auction in 1984 in which the predecessor of the present respondent arranged for a commercial auctioneer to auction various Heritage Plates.
 The phrase "may be confused with an existing combination" is not, and was not when it appeared on the website, limited in that or any other way and accordingly I consider that the applicants are entitled to rely on it as part of their attempt to establish causes of action in the present proceeding.
 It was submitted before me by counsel for the respondent that the court had no jurisdiction to entertain the application on the ground that the Trade Practices Act did not apply to the respondent and that accordingly the only federal element to the claim fell away and that the matter could not proceed further in this Court.
 In that regard, I note by way of example that in 2005, one of the applicants, Mr Ansell, signed a VicRoads document entitled "Registration Licensing --- Business Rules Relinquishing old style contract rights form --- Transfer Of Number Plate Display Rights".
 He went on to acknowledge that he was aware of the terms and conditions associated with newly purchased customised plates. 23 When I raised with counsel during argument the question of what the relevant terms and conditions which related to Heritage Plates were prior to and after the 2005 relinquishment of contract rights, I was referred simply to some provisions in the regulations made under the Transport Act .
 They may or may not be supportive of the claims made by the applicants, but that will be a matter for trial. 24 The respondent argues that there is not sufficient similarity between the plates that constitute part of the V-Series and the Heritage Plates.
 I note that, in the auction catalogue that I have already referred to which is concerned with the auction tomorrow night, although the other plates that constitute lots in the auction have a guiding monetary range adjacent to them, the V-Series plates do not.
 The two applicants have indicated a willingness to give undertakings as to damages, such that if the other plates, the V-Series plates, are not offered for auction tomorrow night, and damage to the respondent ensues they will be responsible for the payment of compensation.
