 As I explained in my earlier judgment of 8 February 2008, I suggested this course for several reasons (at [6]): First, I doubted, as I indicated to the parties, that further additional evidence would be necessary to enable the resolution of the issues on a final basis.
 Order that on and from 19 December 2007 the Respondent use its best endeavours to remove the sticker containing the words "Lasts As Long As Energizer Duracell" or oversticker that sticker on all Current Varta High Energy Packaging located in retail stores and in any event ensure that by no later than 29 January 2008 all such stickers on such stock are removed or overstickered. 12.
 The discussion was also complicated by a suggestion made at one stage (either by me, counsel for Remington or both) that future events which might arise once orders were made could be accommodated by the provision of liberty to apply.
 Having regard to that evidence, I am satisfied that the programme of overstickering (being undertaken by Alliance Marketing Corporation Pty Ltd on behalf of Remington) does not have, as an objective, ensuring that all battery packets with the misleading sticker would be overstickered as soon as possible.
 One difficulty in being precise about the number is that there is, in a sense, a probably unquantifiable circulation to and within retail organisations of batteries packaged with the old sticker, batteries packaged with the old sticker which has been overstickered in the retail outlets and batteries in packages overstickered by Remington before distribution.
 I should note that it was part of Remington's case, in resisting the making of the supplemental order, that when I declined to make order 11 on 14 December 2007, there was evidence before the court (from Energizer) that it could take more than six months, and in some cases up to a year after launch, for old stock to be sold through at retail outlets. 15 It is necessary to refer to the approach adopted by Remington in informing retailers about the orders.
 The clear implication of the orders made on 14 December 2007, as ultimately articulated in the reasons published on 8 February 2008, was that the dissemination to the public of the packaging containing the old sticker involved misleading or deceptive conduct proscribed by the Act.
 However, it is inconceivable, in my opinion, that Remington did not understand (doubtless with the benefit of legal advice) from the orders (as well as from the discussion at the hearing on 14 December 2007) that a finding to this effect had been made.
 It is true that no order was made expressly requiring Remington to do anything about its packaging in relation to packets of batteries already in retail stores (and putting to one side an argument advanced by Energizer in contempt proceedings about the legal effect of one of the orders made on 14 December 2007) and that the retail stores were not themselves parties to those proceedings.
 The letter noted the legal action by Energizer, as well as the order requiring the fixing of a new sticker on all stock leaving Remington's warehouse as of 23 January 2008 and then stated: The Court did not make any orders restraining any retailer (including Coles) from selling Varta HIGH ENERGY batteries that have the old sticker on them.
 It is not necessary, in my opinion, to construe order 5 to determine whether a supplemental order should be made. 21 I should note that I did not make the several orders on 14 December 2007 and then a further order that Energizer's application "otherwise be dismissed".
