 Thus s 31A(2) provides that the court may give judgment for one party against another in relation to the whole or any part of a proceeding if: (a) the first party is defending the proceeding or that part of the proceeding; (b) the court is satisfied that the other party has no reasonable prospect of successfully prosecuting the proceeding or that part of the proceeding. 12 Subsection (3) then provides that, for the purposes of s 31A , a defence or a proceeding or part of a proceeding need not be: (a) hopeless; or (b) bound to fail for it to have no reasonable prospect of success. 13 It is in s 31A(3) that one finds the express Parliamentary modification of the position which had hitherto prevailed in principle as highlighted in the two High Court cases that I have just mentioned.
 Note: Only non-privative clause decisions can be taken to the Federal Court under subsection 44(3) of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (see section 483). (2) Where the Federal Court has jurisdiction in relation to a migration decision under paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c), that jurisdiction is the same as the jurisdiction of the High Court under paragraph 75(v) of the Constitution . 19 Paragraph 75(v) of the Constitution provides: Original jurisdiction of High Court In all matters: (i) ... (ii) ... (v) in which a writ of mandamus or prohibition or an injunction is sought against an officer of the Commonwealth; the High Court shall have original jurisdiction. 20 In transferring the case to this Court, the learned Federal Magistrate found that the Federal Magistrates Court did not have jurisdiction to review the decision identified in the substantive application by Ms Ogawa.
 His Honour held that the decision by the Minister not to consider the exercise of his powers under s 351 of the Migration Act was a privative clause decision within the meaning of s 474(2) of the Migration Act because it was conduct preparatory to the making of a decision, as referred to in s 474(3)(h) of the Migration Act . 21 The respondents submit that such decisions are not reviewable by this Court having regard to the following sections of the Migration Act and para 75(v) of the Constitution : (a) section 474(2), the decision is a privative clause decision as defined by that section, and (b) section 474(3)(h), the decision was conduct preparatory to the making of a decision by the Minister, and (c) section 474(7)(a), a decision under s 351 is a privative clause decision, and (d) section 476A(1)(a), the Federal Court has original jurisdiction in matters transferred from the Federal Magistrates Court, and (e) section 476A(2), being a migration matter referred from the Federal Magistrates Court.
