 1 These reasons relate to orders sought in a Notice of Motion filed by the applicant ("Jarra Creek") on 6 February 2008 seeking leave for the parties and their respective solicitors and counsel to disclose and use for any purpose related to this proceeding any documents and/or information created, disclosed or obtained in two other proceedings before the Court concerning related issues, namely, Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Visy Industries Holdings Pty Limited (VID 1650 of 2005) ("the ACCC proceeding") and Cadbury Schweppes Pty Limited v Amcor Limited (VID 1377 of 2006) ("the Cadbury proceeding").
 The first to third respondents ("the Amcor parties") do not object to the orders sought, nor does Cadbury Schweppes Pty Limited, which is not a party to this proceeding. 3 The ACCC's position (and the reason it claims its interests are affected by the orders sought) is that to allow disclosure of proofs of evidence and other materials served on the Visy parties in the ACCC proceeding is premature because the implied undertaking which applies to those proofs of evidence are presently the subject of a reserved decision by Gordon J in the Cadbury proceeding.
 These submissions have been filed with the Court, but to date there has been no ruling by her Honour. 5 In these circumstances, I consider that I should await the ruling of her Honour in relation to the documents referred to by the ACCC rather than make a ruling without the benefit of her Honour's reasons in circumstances where there are common legal and factual issues. 7 In relation to the first question it is settled law that where documents are required to be produced under compulsion of a court order, an implied undertaking arises that the party who secures access will not make the contents of the documents public, communicate them to any stranger to the litigation, or use them for any purposes other than those related to the litigation in the course and for the purposes of which they were disclosed.
 Such an undertaking, however, must give way to any inconsistent statutory provision and to orders of a court in other proceedings for discovery and inspection: see Esso Australia Resources Ltd v Plowman [1995] HCA 19 ; (1995) 183 CLR 10 at 32-33 (per Mason CJ). 8 In this case I have made orders for discovery, but the relevance of an implied undertaking arising out of other proceedings was not raised or considered in the making of those orders.
 In the present case, it seems clear that it is possible that non-parties to the proceeding may be adversely affected by disclosure of documents which they have been ordered to produce under a compulsory court process in other proceedings. 16 The Visy parties submit that there should be no blanket release from the implied undertaking in this case, and that an opportunity should be provided to non-parties to the litigation whose documents may be disclosed to make submissions as to why any such documents should not be released on discovery in this proceeding.
 This, it is said, will provide the Court with a chance to consider both the relevant documents and any submissions of non-parties, and then determine whether any prejudice or detriment may accrue to the person providing the information: see the remarks of Wilcox J in Springfield 38 FCR at 225. 17 The Visy parties also refer to s 155AAA(1) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ("the Act ") which prohibits an official of the ACCC from disclosing "protected information".
 These provisions, it is said, justify the expectation of a person producing documents in either the ACCC proceeding or the Cadbury proceeding that the information will not be disclosed in this proceeding, a matter which is said to be a relevant consideration for the Court in its exercise of discretion whether to grant the release. 18 On this point relating to the provisions of the Act , the ACCC also refers to the public interest in enforcement of the Act , the need for transparency in the Act 's application and the interests of judicial decisions being fully informed in the light of all relevant material. 19 In respect of the s 155AAA submission, Jarra Creek responds by referring to the exception to the prohibition on officials of the ACCC disclosing protected information contained in s 155AAA(b)(i).
 Jarra Creek says that an order of this Court is properly described as a law of the Commonwealth, and therefore the officials of the ACCC are not prohibited from disclosing the information the subject of the implied undertaking. 20 Having regard to the formulation of the relevant considerations by Wilcox J in Springfield 38 FCR at 225, in this case it appears that it is necessary to consider granting the release in respect of particular documents, rather than simply granting release in respect of a broad class of documents.
 While I agree that a release from the implied undertaking should not be granted until the issue of prejudice has been canvassed, in my view, all other documents which will not either appear on the list prepared by the Visy parties or be the subject of claims for privilege or confidentiality, should be disclosed immediately so that the matter may progress. 22 An opportunity might be given, if appropriate and necessary, to non-parties who may be affected to submit to the Court what prejudice, if any, might arise if a release from the implied undertaking is granted.
 In this way, the discovery process can move forward. 23 Accordingly, I do not consider that, at this stage, there should be an unqualified release of the implied undertaking which affects the Visy parties until the list of the documents which may give rise to any prejudice to non-parties has been compiled and consideration given to whether any such claims for prejudice can be substantiated.
 Otherwise, the documents other than those of the ACCC, those contained in the list to be prepared by the Visy parties and those which are the subject of claims for privilege or confidentiality should be immediately disclosed. 24 In my view, for the above reasons this application, insofar as it seeks release from the implied undertaking, should be stood over pending determination of issues relating to privilege and confidentiality. 25 Insofar as this application is concerned, I reserve the question of costs.
