 The Applicant contends that for the purposes of the Act that: (i) he is not an " extraditable person " within ss 6 and 16 ; (ii) the offence in respect of which extradition is sought is not an " extradition offence " within ss 5 and 16 ; and (iii) he is not an " eligible person " within s 22.
 I enclose a copy of the warrant under subsection 18(2)(b)(i) that I signed today. 9 On 5 July 2007 the Applicant was advised that the Minister had determined under s 22 that the Applicant was to be surrendered to Germany and that a warrant had been issued for his surrender.
 Moreover, the request for extradition, being a document also before the Minister when giving the notice, also proceeds upon the assumption that the warrant issued in September 2003 remained in force when the request was being made in April 2006. 19 The approach urged upon the Court by Mr Karsten, namely an invitation to go behind the face of both the request and (more importantly) the warrant itself is an invitation which should be rejected.
 AN EXTRADITION OFFENCE: "NOT LESS THAN 12 MONTHS"? 25 The Applicant further seeks to focus attention upon the requirement that an " extradition offence " is relevantly an offence for which the maximum penalty was " imprisonment, or other deprivation of liberty, for a period of not less than 12 months ".
 Given the terms of the warrant, the conclusion may readily be reached that the offence for which the warrant against the Applicant was issued was an offence for which the maximum penalty was " imprisonment, or other deprivation of liberty, for a period of not less than 12 months " within the meaning of the definition of an " extradition offence " in s 5 of the Extradition Act .
 It is considered that the " opinion " formed on 24 October 2006 was one open to be reached by the Minister on the materials before him and one which should be accepted for the purposes of the present Motion . 29 Albeit subsequent to the point in time when the s 16 notice was issued on 24 October 2006, it may further be noted that there was no later reason to revisit that conclusion.
 On 20/12/06 Magistrate Madden did not conduct or suggest any proceedings under s 19. 34 The contention of the Applicant is simply that s 22(1)(a) refers to an " order of a magistrate made under section 18 " and that there was no such order because the order as made was made in circumstances where the consent of the Applicant had not been given voluntarily.
 An order lawfully made under s 18 , upon such a contention, is a condition precedent to the making of a lawful determination pursuant to s 22. 35 There are a number of reasons why this contention of the Applicant must fail. 36 First, by its terms, s 22(1)(a) requires there to be an " order of a magistrate made under section 18 ".
 That subsection relevantly applies where a person " informs the magistrate that he or she so consents" and clothes the magistrate with power " unless the magistrate has reason to believe that the consent was not given voluntarily ". 37 In the present proceedings there is not understood to be any dispute as to Mr Karsten in fact informing the magistrate that he did consent.
 But the power or authority conferred on the magistrate in the present proceedings is a power or authority to make an " order " where a person has " inform [ed]" the magistrate that he consents and where the magistrate has no " reason to believe that the consent was not given voluntarily ".
 The potential inconvenience consequent upon construing s 18 in such a manner may be a telling reason to conclude that such matters are not " jurisdictional ": cf Brock v United States of America [2007] FCAFC 3 at [30] per Black CJ, [2007] FCAFC 3 ; 157 FCR 121. 43 An absence of consent (if established) -- it was accepted by the Respondent Minister in the present proceedings -- was, however, a consideration relevant to the exercise of discretion conferred by s 22(3)(f).
 In such circumstances it is considered that the requirements of s 22 had been met, namely that there was a lawful " order of a magistrate made under section 18 ", and that any condition precedent to the exercise of the power conferred by s 22 had been satisfied. 48 Even if the construction of s 22 which has been given to that section be incorrect, it is considered that it would be an abuse of process to now permit the Applicant to advance such a contention.
 In the present proceedings, it is considered an abuse of process for the Applicant to now again seek to agitate the validity of the order made under s 18 and to thereby attempt to vitiate the subsequent s 22 determination. 50 The separate and discrete administrative steps set forth in the 1988 Act may each be the subject of applications for judicial review.
