 1 On 12 March 2008 the Court accepted an undertaking given by the first defendant, Norman Carey, along with undertakings by the second defendant, Mr Rundle, the fifth defendant, Richstar Enterprises Pty Ltd (Richstar), the ninth defendant, Keypoint Developments Pty Ltd (Keypoint) and the tenth defendant, Silkchime Pty Ltd (Silkchime).
 One of those orders was in the following terms: The weekly allowance for ordinary living expenses fixed in respect of paragraph 7 of the undertaking proffered by the First Defendant be fixed at $4000 per week until 26 March, and thereafter at such rate as is fixed by the Court after consideration of affidavit evidence in relation to the appropriate rate, to be provided along with written submissions by 19 March 2008. 3 Paragraph 7 of Mr Carey's undertaking was in the following terms: I am also permitted to withdraw from My Accounts and, pay, ordinary living expenses of a weekly allowance as fixed by the Court from time to time. 4 Mr Carey filed an affidavit on 20 March 2008.
 The letter annexed a further 140 pages with invoices and receipts verifying the payments in accordance with Mr McMaster's request. 7 Mr Carey said that since the review to which his letter referred, which was undertaken in April/May 2007, his living expenses have increased.
 Mr Carey exhibited to his affidavit a letter dated 16 June 2007 from the Child Support Agency indicating the relevant increase. 8 The schedule of living expenses which Mr Carey sent to the receiver's solicitors in April 2007 showed expenses in excess of $4,000 per week.
 The actual expenditure on food and household provisions was $598.20 and on gym and trainer was $173.08. 9 Mr Carey argued in his affidavit that if he were to make up all of the actual expense incurred on a weekly basis as at April 2007, which totalled $4,683.09, together with the increases that have occurred since then, he would need to expend $5,062.
 He said he has found it increasingly difficult to live within the $4,000 allowance with the widely reported increase in the cost of living. 10 Mr Carey says that if his living allowance were reduced from $4,000 per week the impact upon him and his family would be catastrophic.
 This, it was submitted, is particularly true where the restrictions have been in place for an extended period and without the benefit of final positive findings of wrong doing. 15 It was submitted that the question of the amount of the allowance turns to a large extent on the propriety and reasonableness of what is being sought.
 The Court, acting under s 1323 , must therefore keep in mind the need to maintain an appropriate balance between those legitimate and competing interests in circumstances in which the evidence before the Court is necessarily incomplete. 19 It is not the function of the Court to punish Mr Carey because there may be a case that he has contravened the Act or because he may be held responsible for losses suffered by investors.
 I do not consider that it is at such a level. 21 While it may be possible to go through the various expenses claimed by Mr Carey and to trim or reduce some items in the exercise of a judgment of what seems reasonable, this would largely be a cosmetic exercise with no real impact on the practical operation of the undertaking so far as it relates to the protection of assets.
 In coming to that conclusion I bear in mind that the allowance has been in place for a considerable period of time, that it was negotiated with the receivers and that there is only a short period of time remaining for the operation of the restrictions.
