 The first display home was built and opened at a display village located at 47 Scenic Drive, Beaconsfield in January 2000. 25 The Seattle design proved to be popular and sold very well. 26 Subsequently Barrett developed the Memphis, which was a 33 square variation of the Seattle, and in about 2003 the Aberdeen, which involved changes for energy requirements. 27 In cross-examination Mr Stutterd did not accept that the Seattle was "strikingly similar" to the Rochester.
 Mr Pye said in evidence that he was not aware of the Rochester prior to 1999 and Mr Stutterd did not say to him that he (Stutterd) wanted a plan similar to the Rochester.
 I am satisfied that the applicant came to the design of the Seattle in the way it says. 33 Counsel for Carlisle pointed to the acceptance in cross-examination by Mr Stutterd of what counsel said were a number of significant similarities between the Seattle and the Rochester.
 Choosing a particular solution which happens to be cheap and effective does not bespeak lack of originality, indeed the opposite. 36 I conclude that the al fresco quadrant part of Barrett's Seattle design, and the Memphis and Aberdeen derivations, were original and that copyright in them subsists in Barrett.
 The Aberdeen was built at a display village in Ridgemont Drive, Berwick and open for public inspection in or about December 2003. 38 The director of Carlisle principally responsible for the design of the Provence was Mr John Doulgeridis.
 As to the al fresco feature Mr Doulgeridis was asked: And you will have observed the al fresco feature and the surrounding rooms from the Seattle and Memphis, didn't you? ---I knew that a key feature of the home was the al fresco itself.
 I think that you would open any brochure and it would state that, you know, the houses included al frescos. 41 Mr Doulgeridis knew in June 2003, before he left Henley, that the Memphis had been a successful product.
 HIS HONOUR: Which plans are you talking about now? ---The Aberdeen plan, the Rochester plan and the Carlisle plan, being the Provence. 56 In examination-in-chief Mr Taylor said that there had been comment about their previous employer Henley.
 The examination continued: And what was the nature of that comment?---Peter Hayes was mentioned as being responsible for developing the plans for Henley Properties and there was also a comment about, given our past, the development of our plans surrounding the Rochester.
 The brief included the suggestion that he meet with representatives of Carlisle who would provide him with further details about each of the Seattle, Memphis, Aberdeen and Provence houses including the design and construction of the Provence house.
 Again he thought the al fresco and surrounding living areas including the indoor/outdoor connection and the al fresco space itself was a "highly significant" feature of both houses. 102 In comparing the Aberdeen plan to the Provence plan Dr Cooke considered the Aberdeen plan a close version of the Memphis plan, mirror reversed.
 His comments on the comparisons between the Memphis plan and the Provence plan generally applied to the Aberdeen plan. 103 In conclusion, Dr Cooke noted that Barrett and Carlisle sell project homes in competition with each other and it was to be expected that houses of comparable size would contain very similar accommodation.
