 The amended versions of the pleadings are attached as annexures to the notice of motion. 2 In respect to the applications to file amended defences I have indicated in the course of argument that I am disposed to grant that leave provided that certain amendments are made which will take account of the timing and content of alleged undertakings and the terms of certain proffered injunctions that are referred to in those proposed amended defences.
 The proposed amended cross-claim raises more complex issues. 4 Although counsel for the first and second respondents have disavowed any intention of pleading the amended cross-claim in a way that would raise the efficacy of what occurred in the course of curial proceedings in another matter that intention is not reflected in the proposed pleading and at a number of places reliance is placed on things said and done in the course of that other proceeding.
 In addition the proposed amended cross-claim seeks the dissolution of certain injunctions made in that other proceeding on the basis that the court was not in that other proceeding sufficiently informed by the applicants of the potential for the interests of the relevant respondents to be prejudiced by the making of the orders. 5 As I have indicated in argument the allegation that a party seeking an injunction has failed in its duty of disclosure to the court is a serious one.
 The proper course is for an application to be made in the earlier proceeding if it is desired to have the injunctions that were granted varied or dissolved as a result of the alleged failure of the applicants to inform the court of matters which should have been placed before it at the time at which the injunctions were sought. 6 It is to be borne in mind that the respondents in that other proceeding are not respondents to the present proceeding and their interests must also be taken into account and an opportunity afforded them to be heard before any attempt is made to dissolve or vary the terms of the injunctions earlier granted.
 If the respondents or some of them desire to raise this issue in the earlier proceeding then there are proper processes whereby that may be achieved and given that the issue has been raised at this stage the parties are free to take such steps as they are advised to protect their position, and in particular the first and second respondents may, if so advised, file and serve a notice of motion in the other proceeding designed to achieve the end that is sought. 7 But I note that counsel for the respondents have indicated that if those instructions are received and a notice of motion is filed they will not see to prosecute it until such time as the hearing and determination of the present proceeding.
 There are other allegations made in the draft amended cross-claim which it is asserted do not rely on in court conduct or statements, and I use that term to cover the ground that is covered by the immunity that is enjoyed by counsel and solicitors in relation to curial proceedings, that can found a cause of action under the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) for misleading statements and misrepresentations under the Trademarks Act 1995 (Cth).
