 It is contained in a registered lease and it is necessary to note the effect of s 117 of the Real Property Act 1886 (SA) ("RPA"). 14 Section 117 of RPA is in the following terms: Every such lease shall, for description of the land intended to be dealt with, refer to the certificate of the land, or shall give such other description as may be necessary to identify the land, and a right for or covenant by the lessee to purchase the land therein described may be stipulated in such lease, and shall be binding . 15 The significance of the fact that an option to purchase is in a registered instrument was considered by the High Court in Mercantile Credits Ltd v Shell Co of Australia Ltd [1976] HCA 9 ; (1976) 136 CLR 326 (" Mercantile Credits ").
 His Honour saw the question in the following terms (at 343): If the right of renewal created by the covenant can rightly be said to be part of the estate or interest specified in the lease, or if it is a right whose registration is authorized by the Act, it will take priority over the mortgage which was subsequently registered, but otherwise it will not, unless, in either case, the Act contains a particular indication of intention to the contrary. 20 Gibbs J found that a right of renewal was in effect part of the estate or interest specified in the lease, and on registration was entitled to the same priority as the term itself.
 As to that argument, Gibbs J said (at 346-347) (footnotes omitted): On behalf of the appellant, reliance was placed on the express provision in s 117 of the Act that a right to purchase contained in a lease shall be binding, and it was submitted that this implies that it was intended that a right to renew should not be binding.
 Such an option is of its nature unrelated to the tenant's estate or interest under the lease; it has no closer connexion with that estate or interest than that the parties to it happen also to be in the relationship of lessor and lessee of the subject land.
 With it may be contrasted a right of renewal, which is intimately concerned with the existing relationship between lessor and lessee and which, as Finlay J. said in Pearson v Aotea District Maori Land Board , "is, in a sense, definitive of the term of a lease ... is adjectival in relation to the term granted".
 Section 116 permits of the registration of short term leases and if such a lease be registered both a right of renewal and an option to purchase contained in it will be "valid as against" those who subsequently deal with the registered proprietor. 23 His Honour concluded by saying that conferring indefeasibility upon rights of renewal did violence neither to the general scheme of the RPA, nor to the objects which it seeks to attain. 24 The effect of Mercantile Credits is that, in addition to being a prior equitable interest, the option or right to purchase, being in a registered instrument, has the benefits of indefeasibility or priority as against the Gunabee Lease.
 Clause 15 deals with the respective obligations of the vendor and purchaser in the event that there are lease or tenancy agreements. 31 The terms set out in the option to purchase (clause (e) A-F inclusive) are detailed and contain the main terms to be included in the standard form contract.
 The respondents referred to the fact that the previous option to purchase (that is, the option to purchase in the original lease between the owner of the property and Gunabee which had in fact expired) referred to the transfer, upon the option being exercised, of an unencumbered estate in fee simple.
 For its part the applicant submitted that if the respondents are right the first respondent could enter into a totally uncommercial lease in terms of the rent to be paid thereunder (and they suggested that the Gunabee Lease was uncommercial in this sense) and yet the applicant, if he exercised the option, was required to purchase the property at the price fixed in the option to purchase.
 For their part, the respondents referred to the fact that the option to purchase could (if the right of renewal were not exercised) extend beyond the term of the lease and if the applicant were right the first respondent would be required to hold the property for a time without being able to lease it other than on a very short-term basis or, alternatively, to lease it subject to a term that could defeat the interest.
 The option to purchase in this case was exercised before the term referred to in the lease and it does not seem to me that the respondents' submission is a reason not to give effect to the conclusion I have reached. 33 Both questions should be answered in the affirmative.
