 I also, yesterday, made an order restraining the first, second and third respondents from engaging in particular conduct identified by the order, until 4 pm on 1 April 2008. 2 There is no utility in making any further interlocutory order restraining those respondents in terms of paragraph 2 of clause BA of the notice of motion as a restraining order in those terms was made yesterday.
 That affidavit bears the date 18 March 2008, but in fact it was sworn today, 19 March, and deposes to events which occurred in the course of giving effect to the search order made yesterday. 3 In summary, there was some difficulty in securing access to the premises of Mr Michael Young, the first respondent, at 4 Parry Street, Moonee Ponds.
 In the course of conducting an inspection of the premises, as a result of ultimately obtaining access around 9am Australian Eastern Time, information became apparent that there was material on the premises, in the form of an envelope bearing an address, "Care of Synergy, 3 The Causeway, Melbourne".
 I am informed by Mr Brown that the officer described as Peter Young, is the brother of the first respondent, Michael Young. 5 The affidavit material also deposes to information concerning a conversation with Mr Luke Fox, the applicant's general counsel.
 Mr Fox was, at 8am Brisbane time, standing outside the premises at Synergy Hair store, at 3 The Causeway, Melbourne, and had just at that time attended another site described as Shop 17, The Block Arcade, Melbourne.
 And the order will be amended to delete from schedule A the premises described as (i) 4 Parry Street, Moonee Ponds in the State of Victoria, with a result that the order is confined to the two additional premises I have described. 8 The further orders will be that the notice of motion filed by leave will be returnable before the court at 10.15am on Tuesday, 1 April 2008; the costs of and incidental to the application today are reserved; and service of the notice of motion and the affidavits in support of this order, together with the order and search order, shall be served by delivering facsimile copies of each document to the first, second and third respondents.
