 SRSC's damages were assessed by Studdert J, the trial Judge, by reference to the profits SRSC lost in consequence of the defamatory publications. 2 The specific question is whether the damages of $812,726.00 actually received by SRSC (' the Sum '), after allowing for $31,898 in costs incurred by SRSC, was ' income according to ordinary concepts ', for the purposes of s 6-5 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) (' ITAA ').
 Studdert J recognised that SRSC might be liable to capital gains tax on the award of damages, but thought that justice could be done by reserving leave to SRSC: 'to apply for additional damages referable to capital gains tax considerations should [SRSC] be found liable to pay such tax'.
 Otherwise SRSC would be over-compensated for its loss. 33 Studdert J then addressed a submission made on behalf of SRSC that the payment of damages would be treated as a ' capital gain ', thereby attracting liability to income tax pursuant to s 102-5 of the ITAA .
 Where a corporation claims that the defamatory publications have injured its reputation so as to affect its trade or business adversely, the damages award encompasses that form of harm. 40 In this case, so Mr Smark argued, SRSC complained of injury to its credit and reputation and sought damages for defamation, loss of business and economic loss.
 His Lordship explained (at 261-262) the rationale for the decision in Gourley as follows : 'As damages are not subject to tax, [the plaintiff] would have recovered far more than his real loss, if he had recovered the gross amount [of his loss of income] and accordingly it was held that he was only entitled to receive [the after-tax amount] in respect of his loss of income as this was sufficient to compensate him fully for the income which he had lost by the fault of the defendants. ' Lord Reid continued as follows (at 262): 'There can be no difference in principle between loss of income caused by negligence and loss of income caused by a libel.
 Barwick CJ in Atlas Tiles Ltd v Briers [1978] HCA 37 ; (1978) 144 CLR 202 , for example, considered (at 212) that liability to income tax was irrelevant to assessing damages for loss of earning capacity and that it was a matter for the legislature to determine whether and, if so, to what extent damages awarded for personal injuries should be included in assessable income. 56 Thirdly, the House of Lords in Rubber Improvements was concerned with undifferentiated lump sum jury awards that, as Lord Reid noted, were not necessarily confined to compensation for loss of income by the plaintiff corporation.
 Although it is usual and convenient in an action for damages for personal injuries to say that an amount is awarded for loss of wages or other earnings, the damages are really awarded for the impairment of the plaintiff's earning capacity that has resulted from his injuries.
 Subject to limited exceptions, the Gourley principle applies where the lost income would have been taxable if received by the plaintiff and the damages award is not assessable income in the hands of the plaintiff: Groves v United Pacific Transport , per Gibbs J; Atlas Tiles , per Gibbs J.
