 He was then released and returned to Australia. 2 He claims to have been wrongfully arrested and falsely imprisoned by the Pakistani, US and presumably Egyptian governments and to have been assaulted and tortured, in a number of ways.
 In the course of interlocutory proceedings related to such procedural attempt by the Commonwealth, Mr Habib first made the allegation that he had actually been in the Australian High Commission to the knowledge of at least one Commonwealth officer, Mr Adams.
 Further, the circumstances alleged by Mr Habib as to how he came to believe and to assert late in the piece that he had been at the High Commission, viewed in the light of the bad treatment he says that he received in Pakistan, Egypt and at a US military base, made it unlikely that to decide the issue I would need to cast any reflection on Mr Habib's truthfulness or even general reliability, such as might prejudice or embarrass a manifestly unbiased trial of the other factual issues in the case.
 Mr Briskey's information was that Mr Habib was never at the High Commission. 16 Mr Briskey was present at interviews with Mr Habib on 26 and 29 October 2001, attended also by an ASIO officer, not Adams.
 There was nothing to indicate that the safe houses were owned by Australia. 17 The High Commissioner Mr Brown, Alastar Adams who was the Consul, Paul Stokes and Mr Briskey were involved in the decision that Stokes should meet Mr Habib and perform consular functions. 18 Mr Habib said at interview he had been kidnapped and beaten and had been subjected to a number of incidents of mistreatment. 19 In general, Mr Briskey was not permitted an operational role in the investigation of crimes in Australia, not even to interview Australian suspects present in Pakistan.
 He said that there were about four to five Australians then at the High Commission and about 20 Pakistanis. 21 There were several entrances to the High Commission complex. 22 Mr Alastar Adams gave evidence that he was a long-serving officer of the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade (DFAT) on the verge of retirement.
 Mr Briskey but not Mr Stokes would have had a key to the building. 32 Mr Brown , now the Australian Ambassador to Sweden was the head of the Australian Mission as High Commissioner in Islamabad in October 2001, and a foreign affairs officer of over 30 years' experience. 33 The contingent of Australians in the Mission was reduced from about 13 to five after 9/11.
 Now, after 39 years in the foreign service, he knew of no occasion when an Australian citizen had been brought to Australian diplomatic premises by officials of the host country for interview and intended return to detention in that country. 34 Mr Brown generally confirmed the evidence of Mr Adams and Mr Briskey as to Mr Stokes' and Mr Briskey's, but not Mr Adams' involvement at meetings with Mr Habib.
 At the first interview Mr Stokes handed to Mr Habib written material which Mr Adams had given him, including a card with Adams' name on it. 39 On 24 October he did not respond to requests by Mr Habib for assistance.
 Although Mr Adams was then wearing a balaclava, Mr Habib recognised Mr Adams' tie. 42 Although he had claimed in the original Statement of Claim that Mr Adams had visited him while he was imprisoned, he said, for the first time in the proceedings, that he had initially told his lawyers that his gaolers had indicated he would be taken to the Australian High Commission.
 I make no such assumption. 50 However, it is clear that the DFAT officers concerned were very keen to afford, or (even if one should view the matter cynically) to be seen to afford Mr Habib due, traditional consular services.
 The possible effects of his condition and then recent history and of his subsequent history could well account for what I think is his mistaken belief, apparently prompted by Mr Khan, that he was taken to the Australian High Commission.
