 BUCHANAN J: DISMISSAL OF THE APPLICANT'S APPEAL 1 On 12 December 2007 I dismissed the applicant's appeal against a judgment of the Federal Magistrates Court of Australia ('the FMCA') ( SZGET v Minister for Immigration Citizenship [2007] FCA 1994 , see also SZGET v Minister for Immigration Citizenship and Anor [2007] FMCA 836).
 The RRT decision had affirmed a decision of a delegate of the Minister for Immigration and Citizenship ('the Minister') on 26 November 2004 to refuse the applicant's application for a protection (Class XA) visa. 2 I explained in my judgment of 12 December 2007 that the appeal had been listed for hearing on three occasions.
 NOTICE OF MOTION 3 Under O 35 r 7 of the Federal Court Rules the Court has power to set aside a judgment or order, even after entry, where it has been made in the absence of a party, whether or not the absent party is in default of appearance or is otherwise in default.
 By notice of motion filed on 22 January 2008 the applicant asked for the exercise of this discretion so that his appeal may be restored to the list and heard.
 These are those reasons. 5 By affidavit filed with the notice of motion the applicant stated that a week or so before the hearing on 12 December 2007 his niece 'had contacted the Court to seek extension'.
 There is no record in the Court file of any such communication and the suggestion is not consistent with the matters referred to hereunder. 6 The applicant also said in his affidavit that he made arrangements with a Mr Hamid 'to attend final hearing regardless of whether I made it to the hearing or not on 12 December 2007'.
 The RRT said: 'In consideration of the evidence as a whole and for reasons explained below, the Tribunal is satisfied that the applicant is not a credible witness and that he has fabricated the substance of his claims in order to support his application for a protection visa.
 As the FMCA correctly found, no jurisdictional error in the RRT decision was identified. 13 The application for judicial review of the decision of the RRT was dismissed on 1 June 2007 ( SZGET v Minister for Immigration and Citizenship Anor [2007] FMCA 836).
 Particulars The Tribunal states (RRT decision 11.9 / GB 115.9) that "the Tribunal awaited another two weeks to finalise its decision in order to enable provision of a response and any documents in support. " The Appellant contents [sic] that the Tribunal failed to communicate to the Appellant that it was open to the Appellant to make further submissions having indicated that it would be futile to provide the documents. 2.
 The Tribunal proceeded to make the decision without giving the consideration of the Rajalingam principles alleged to have taken place instead choosing to apply ordinary civil standards of assessment of evidence; b.
 The Tribunal proceeded to make reject the evidence in relation to the harm alleged by the applicant. ' 18 The precise content of this ground is elusive but there is no substance in the suggestion that the RRT erred by not following the principles referred to.
