 It would, however, retain only a proportion of its commission so as to achieve, from the student's point of view, a discounted tuition fee. 2 From about July 2004 Kokos and IAE and other participants in the market made and gave effect to agreements under which they would desist from offering or accepting discounted tuition fees from students.
 The corporate respondents and Ms Jung are said to have been remunerated by commissions paid by the institutions. 6 The corporate respondents and Ms Jung are said to have made oral and written agreements in 2004 and 2005 under which they agreed not to offer or accept discounted tuition fees.
 The services consisted of: (a) Providing information about available courses of study in Perth including information regarding fees. (b) Providing advice as to which of the available courses might be suitable for a prospective student's requirements. (c) Providing informal translation of promotional materials and course information published in English by the Schools. (d) Facilitating application to, and enrolment in, courses of study at Schools; and (e) Facilitating payment of fees by students or prospective students to Schools.
 The commission was calculated as a percentage of the tuition fee and was paid in one or other of the following ways: (a) The School paid a commission to Kokos upon receipt of the full tuition fee; or (b) The School permitted Kokos to deduct its commission from the tuition fee and remit the balance to the School.
 Like Kokos, IAE from time to time offered or agreed to accept discounted tuition fees for courses of study offered by Schools and, in the same way as Kokos, recovered a commission less the discount which it offered. 25 IAE entered the Perth market for education consulting services in early or mid July 2004 and through Mr Pae participated in the meetings which led to the formation of the Oral Agreement and the Written Agreement.
 The agreed statement of facts qualifies that statement by the statement that between July 2004 and November 2004 IAE gave effect to the agreements for limited periods of time and for those periods ceased the practice of offering or agreeing to accept a discounted tuition fee.
 A contravention of s 45(2)(b)(ii) of the Act by refraining from engaging in the practice of offering or agreeing to accept a discounted tuition fee for a total period of approximately four weeks and thereby giving effect to the Oral Agreement and the Written Agreement. 5.
 A contravention of s 45(2)(b)(ii) of the Act by sending to Jobbok a table containing information in relation to the terms and conditions, including incentives and benefits agreed between Kokos and a number of Schools pursuant to the provisions of the Oral Agreement or the Written Agreement or both and for the purpose of assisting Jobbok to determine whether Kokos was adhering to the provisions of the Oral Agreement, or the Written Agreement, or both and thereby giving effect to the Oral Agreement and the Written Agreement.
 Kokos has also accepted for its part an attempt to contravene the Act arising out of the email to Mr Woo. 44 In their joint submissions to the Court the ACCC, IAE and Mr Pae identified the following contraventions of the Act by IAE: 1.
 A contravention of s 45(2)(b)(ii) by IAE refraining from engaging in the practice of offering or agreeing to accept a discounted tuition fee from approximately July 2004 to November 2004 and thereby giving effect to the Oral Agreement and the Written Agreement. 4.
 A contravention of s 45(2)(b)(ii) by IAE's conduct in sending to Jobbok a table containing information in relation to the terms and conditions, including incentives and benefits agreed between IAE and a number of Schools pursuant to the provisions of the Oral Agreement or the Written Agreement or both and for the purpose of assisting Jobbok to determine whether IAE was adhering to the provisions of the Oral Agreement or the Written Agreement, or both, and thereby giving effect to the Oral Agreement and the Written Agreement. 45 The ACCC and IAE have thereby jointly identified four contraventions of s 45 of the Act.
 The evidence of early cooperation with the ACCC and the agreement that has been made are indicative of the low level of risk of reoffending in this case. 57 The conduct in which Kokos engaged was, in effect, that of its senior manager, Mr Chad Kim.
 There is also a requirement of general deterrence to demonstrate to the public and the business community that such conduct by corporations and individuals is unacceptable and should not be tolerated. 60 In response, Kokos and Mr Chad Kim submit that the penalties sought by the ACCC are excessive.
