 The question whether the material raises a reasonable hypothesis of that kind does not involve the finding of any facts relating to the veteran's service or relating to any connection between that service and the relevant injury or disease. (2) If the material does raise such a reasonable hypothesis, the decision-maker proceeds to the question posed by subs 120(1) --- namely, is the decision-maker satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the facts required to connect the veteran's injury or disease with his service were not present or were displaced by other facts.
 It noted that the contention made on behalf of the applicant, about not wanting to consult doctors in Vietnam about his knees for fear of being labelled an 'ops-dodger', necessarily relies on a finding that the condition arose as a result of the 1965 injury. 37 At [52] the Tribunal concluded: 'I have already found that the clinical onset of Mr Riley's chondromalacia patellae was not until some time after his operational service, and not before his discharge from the Army.
 The Second Ground: Paragraph 4(ii) of the Supplementary Notice of Appeal 43 The second ground alleges error in that the Tribunal proceeded on the basis that it was entitled, and required, to resolve possible conflicts in the evidence and make a finding as to the time when the applicant experienced clinical onset of his CP. 44 The applicant's complaint appears to be with the Tribunal's use of the expression 'determine' in [36] of its reasons.
 Doctors were available; and on some occasions he was prepared to, and in fact did, seek medical assistance for other conditions. 53 I do not think the third ground is made out. 54 The fourth ground alleges error in that the Tribunal, in deciding whether an hypothesis was raised by the material that was upheld by factors 5(h) and 6 of the SoP, proceeded on the basis that it was entitled, and required, to resolve possible conflicts in the evidence and make findings of fact. 55 I am unable to identify in [47] --- [52] of the Tribunal's reasons any impermissible resolution of possible conflicts in the evidence or impermissible findings of fact, which I take to mean findings outside the process of forming an opinion on the material before it as to whether there is an hypothesis which is reasonable in the relevant sense, that is, of meeting the template for factor 5(h) (as qualified by cl 6 of the SoP). 56 The appeal must be dismissed with costs.
