 Its directors from the date of its incorporation were Stiven Marin Jakovich and Vjeko Nikola Jakovich. 2 On 11 April 2007 the directors of the company signed a circulating resolution pursuant to s 436A of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) appointing Dino Travaglini as voluntary administrator of the company under Pt 5.3A of the Corporations Act .
 The resolution of the directors incorporated their opinion that the company was likely to become insolvent at some future time or was already insolvent at that time. 3 On 12 June 2007, at a meeting of creditors of the company, a resolution was passed for it to be wound up and Mr Travaglini be appointed as its liquidator.
 According to his initial review of the company's affairs in his role as administrator, and later as liquidator, he had formed the view that the company should have sufficient funds to discharge its liabilities. 4 According to Mr Travaglini, Mr Jakovich was previously married to one Loretta Jakovich.
 The orders were made pursuant to an application brought by Loretta Jakovich against Stiven Jakovich and Vjeko Jakovich concerning the division of marital assets following their divorce. 5 The orders made by consent included an injunction restraining Stiven and Vjeko Jakovich from dealing with assets of the company in its own right or in its capacity as trustee for the S V Jakovich Family Trust. 6 On 8 May 2007 the second meeting of the creditors of the company agreed to adjourn the meeting to allow Mr Travaglini to progress matters relating to the administration of the company including but not limited to varying the Family Court orders to authorise him to exercise his powers under the Corporations Act . 7 In late May 2007 Mr Travaglini sought advice about the effect of the orders upon his powers as administrator and later as liquidator.
 The appointment, as noted, does not appear from the Australian Securities and Investments Commission records. 9 Mr Travaglini said that in light of the failure of Stiven Jakovich to sign the consent orders he instructed Price Sierakowski to make an application seeking orders to ratify his appointment as liquidator and to vary the Family Court orders so that as liquidator he was duly authorised to exercise all powers without restraint to deal with the assets of the company and the creditors' claims pursuant to Pt 5.4B through to Pt 5.9 of the Corporations Act in respect of the winding up. 10 Loretta Jakovich and Vjeko Jakovich were represented on the application when it came before the Court for first directions.
 There has been no contact with the Court by Mr Jakovich. 11 In an affidavit of Loretta Jakovich sworn 10 April 2008, she said that she had signed the written consent after taking legal advice to the appointment of an administrator to the company.
 She would not oppose the winding up of the company and swore the affidavit in support of the orders sought in the application. 12 Section 511 of the Corporations Act provides, inter alia: The liquidator, or any contributory or creditor, may apply to the court: (a) to determine any question arising in the winding up of a company; or (b) to exercise all or any of the powers that the Court might exercise if the company were being wound up by the Court. ... (2) The Court, if satisfied that the determination of the question or the exercise of power will be just and beneficial, may accede wholly or partially to any such application on such terms and conditions as it thinks fit or may make such other order on the application as it thinks just. 13 In his originating process Mr Travaglini sought a declaration from the Court that he is authorised to deal with the assets of the company without restraint and is authorised to exercise all of the powers conferred on him pursuant to the relevant provisions of the Corporations Act .
 He also sought an order that the orders of the Family Court be varied by incorporating in them an authorisation for him to deal with the property of the company pursuant to his powers as liquidator. 14 Clearly this Court is not in a position to vary the orders made by the Family Court.
