 Relevantly for present purposes, s 9(4) does not require the making available of a s 9(1) document containing "exempt matter" (the term "exempt document" to which this refers is defined in s 4(1)), though it does require, where practicable, the making available of a redacted version excluding that matter.
 Rather the relief sought is the provision of a statement of reasons in relation variously to a decision that the FOI manual was not one to which s 9 applied and/or a decision to prepare a s 9(2)(b) statement which did not list all documents of the types enumerated in s 9(1).
 He subsequently indicated that he regarded the likely cost as prohibitive. (iv) He later made a request to have his personal records amended, that request in turn drawing attention to the fact that the FOI Manual had not been made available for inspection and purchase by the public under s 9 of the FOI Act.
 That request was refused, but was allowed on internal review, the review officer also indicating by letter of 21 July 2006 that pursuant to guidelines under s 9 of the Act, he would be able to inspect and purchase the FOI Manual.
 Accordingly --- "... in accordance with s.13(1) of the ADJR Act , I request that you 'furnish a statement in writing setting out the findings on material questions of fact, referring to the evidence or other material on which those findings were based and giving the reasons for the decision' by the 'principal officer of an agency' not to make Centrelink's FOI Manual available for inspection by 'members of the public' . " (Emphasis in original. ) (vi) On 1 August 2006 Centrelink published a statement, as required by s 9(2)(b) of the FOI Act, of publications it had made available under s 9 for inspection and purchase by members of the public.
 I did not give close consideration to the need to include manuals and like materials in making decisions under the FOI Act and overlooked Centrelink's FOI manual which was not included. " The 1 August 2006 statement equally did not specify where copies of documents in the s 9 statement could be inspected and purchased.
 I refer below to the different procedure adopted in respect of the 2007 statement. (vii) Centrelink provided Mr Duncan with a full hard copy of the manual on 8 August 2006 and waived all fees in respect of it. (viii) On 7 September 2006, Mr Duncan wrote to the CEO raising the issue of the non-inclusion of the FOI Manual in the 1 August 2006 s 9 statement.
 I am, in consequence, prepared to assume that he could have been "a person aggrieved" if, for the purposes of s 5(1) of the AD(JR) Act, the CEO had taken a "decision" to which s 5 applied: see Mark v Australian Broadcasting Tribunal [1991] FCA 570 ; (1991) 32 FCR 476 at 477.
 I do not consider that Mr Duncan has, throughout, been acting simply as "an effective and faithful representative of the public interest in due administration of the [FOI Act]": Right to Life Association (NSW) Inc v Secretary, Department of Human Services and Health (1995) 56 FCR 50 at 84; notwithstanding that he has made comments suggesting this in his affidavits.
 Secondly, I am prepared to assume (a) that, subject to the s 9(4) exempt matter question, the FOI Manual was of such character that it ought to have been made available to the public and to have been specified in the 2006 statement as Centrelink, through Ms Terry's evidence, seems to accept; and (b) that its non-inclusion in the documents made available could found an application under s 5(1) of the AD(JR) Act by an aggrieved person, if such resulted from a decision of an administrative character made under an enactment.
 For the reasons I will shortly give, I am satisfied that, in discharge of the s 9 obligations, a decision making process was adopted for which the CEO was responsible and that a decision of a type that was amenable to AD(JR) Act review was taken by Ms Terry for the CEO which resulted both in the omission of the FOI Manual from the documents made publicly available and in no reference being made to it in the statement.
