 The " Defendants " included members of the Parliament of New South Wales, the President of the New South Wales Guardianship Tribunal, the Protective Commissioner, the New South Wales Public Guardian and the Public Guardian Regional Officer. 3 The " Prosecutor " alleged that acts by some or all of the " Defendants " perverted the course of justice and constituted offences under s 43(1) of the Crimes Act 1914 (Cth).
 That subsection provides as follows: (1) Any person who attempts, in any way not specially defined in this Act, to obstruct, prevent, pervert, or defeat, the course of justice in relation to the judicial power of the Commonwealth, shall be guilty of an offence. 4 The trial judge dismissed the proceedings for want of jurisdiction. 5 The application presently before the Court is a Notice of Motion seeking leave to appeal and was filed on 14 April 2008.
 Whatever other rights the present Applicant may have as against the " Defendants " remain and are not affected by the decision now in issue. 6 The discretion conferred by s 24(1A) is an " unfettered discretion " and is in " unqualified terms ": Decor Corporation Pty Ltd v Dart Industries Inc [1991] FCA 655 ; (1991) 33 FCR 397 at 399.
 The proceedings sought to be pursued by the " Prosecutor " clearly fell within the concluding words of s 39B(1A)(c). 8 It should further be noted that an Affidavit filed in support of the application asserts ( inter alia ) that "[t] he Judge has displayed a continual legacy of Bias " and an assertion that " The Judge has opted out of Judicial accountability by passing out risponsabilty [sic] to the fact that he refused to hear the proceedings before him in order to further pervert the course of Justice ".
 The Summons as filed refers to what is identified as the " Kable Principle " and further refers to "[p] erverting the Course of Justice by making representations not specifically defined in the Crimes Act 1914 (Cth) in respect of the Judicial Power of the Commonwealth ". 10 It is not considered that s 78B(1) imposes any constraint upon this Court now determining the application for leave to appeal.
 The section " does not impose a duty on the Court not to proceed pending the issue of notices to the Attorneys-General in every case in which the Constitution is mentioned " or in which a principle arising under the Constitution is asserted by a party: Deputy Commissioner of Taxation v Warrick (No 2) [2004] FCA 918 at [103] , [2004] FCA 918 ; 56 ATR 371 at 396, [2004] ATC 4779 per French J.
 Any Constitutional issue sought to be raised by the Applicant is not considered to be a " live issue " in the proceedings. 11 The application to adjourn the proceedings to enable a notice to be given pursuant to s 78B was thus refused. 12 Reliance was also placed on behalf of the Respondents upon the application for leave having been filed out of time.
