 Even though such duty was not fulfilled and the immediate consequence of that was his imprisonment in Silverwater and Long Bay, such imprisonment does not, at least in the circumstances of this case, give rise to an action for false imprisonment.
 These factors could include the inability of management and the detainee to resolve the unacceptable behaviour, harassment of, or threats towards other detainees, criminal activity particularly if it involves violence, escape or attempted escape, or evidence that the person is suffering from a psychiatric illness. 3.4 All decisions to transfer a detainee must be fully documented to ensure that the transfer process is transparent and accountable.
 He said he was "sick of detention and should never have been transferred", and that he "was not a troublemaker and always attended muster". 44 A visit to Mr Soh on 26 August was summarised thus: he said that he did not understand why he was transferred from the VIDC.
 He was hostile and spoke aggressively during the visit ... 45 Departmental officers reported this to Mr Nicholls and said: Management at VIDC are not prepared to have Mr Soh return there in view of recent escapes, and other events, as he is considered to be a risk for the good management of the VIDC.
 The following then occurred: On 13 December 1999 Mr Soh wrote a letter to [Mr Nicholls] asking for an explanation of the allegations that he was a trouble maker, a security risk, of bad behaviour and tried to escape when he was at the VIDC ...
 Mr Soh's solicitor has lodged a further submission dated 25 February 2000 on Mr Soh's behalf which reiterates that "he will not engage in any conduct which is inconsistent with the good order and management of the Immigration Detention Centre at Villawood and any previous conduct which had enlivened concern is regretted and will not be repeated"... . (Emphasis in original. ) Mr Soh's account 58 Such were the views from the vantage points of the authorities.
 He was then taken in a van to Silverwater. 66 He began the hunger strike on 14 December because he had done nothing wrong and should not be in prison, and he ceased it on either 18 or 28 January 2000 when he had a paper saying he would be transferred back to Villawood.
 It is not to be thought that the Parliament intended that officers placed under a duty to detain people in immigration detention should lack the power, when bona fide thought necessary, to arrange for a person not initially detained in a prison later to be so detained. 84 Prisons in Australia are established and operated under the auspices of the States and Territories and laws made by them.
 Further, "if imprisonment goes beyond what is reasonably necessary to achieve the non-punitive object [of deportation], it will be regarded as punitive in character", per McHugh J at 71. 107 The argument proceeds that confinement in a prison and subjection to prison discipline therein, "the entire regime of prison discipline, coercion and penal administration", among "the general criminal population" is not reasonably necessary to effect the deportation of a person.
 His behaviour in this latest incident makes him unsuitable for the low security environment of the VIDC and he poses a risk to the good order and management of the VIDC. 112 There was no suggestion that a purpose of putting Mr Soh in prison would be to make him suffer, to deter others, or simply to vindicate the law.
