 The demand did not refer to the fact that Mr Armenti had already, without Ms Arnold's authority, changed the register. 6 No instruction was issued by Ms Arnold to Mr Armenti, in response to the demand of Ms Richards. 7 On 29 February 2008, Ms Richards commenced an originating application in this Court under s 175 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) to correct the register of members to reflect that Ms Richards held a 95% shareholding, and Ms Arnold held a 5% shareholding in the company. 8 On 13 March 2008, Ms Arnold filed a notice of motion applying for the originating application to be dismissed.
 He said: Ms Arnold instructs me that there was no meeting held or resolution passed to sanction that allocation. 20 In my view, there is nothing in the correspondence from Ms Arnold's solicitor up to 29 February 2008 which indicates that Ms Arnold accepted that she was not entitled to be registered as the sole shareholder, and that the entry in the register to that effect was in error. 21 To the contrary, in his letter of 31 January 2008, Ms Arnold's solicitor stated that Ms Arnold was the sole shareholder of the company.
 Further, even after Ms Arnold received the notice of demand dated 6 February 2008, Ms Arnold did not instruct Mr Armenti to amend the register to reflect her shareholding as comprising 5% of the issued shares, nor did she protest that the legal proceedings threatened in the notice of demand were not necessary as there was no issue between the parties on this point. 22 Even when Ms Arnold's solicitor was advised by Ms Richards' solicitors letter dated 7 February 2008 that the Federal Court proceeding would be issued unless she responded by 12 February 2008, Ms Arnold did not advise that she did not contest the claim made by Ms Richards that she was only entitled to a 5% shareholding, and that any entry in the register showing that she was the sole shareholder was an error.
 The first indication that Ms Arnold did not challenge the claim that she was entitled to no more than a 5% shareholding, is in her affidavit of 13 March 2008. 23 It is the case, as contended by Ms Arnold, that the correspondence sent by Ms Richards' solicitors before the commencement of the Federal Court proceeding, does not disclose that Mr Armenti had on 29 January 2008 already made an amendment to the register, as he put it, in "anticipation of Ms Shelley Arnold agreeing" to the amendment, so that the register showed that Ms Richards held a 95% shareholding and Ms Arnold held a 5% shareholding.
