 The remarks of Whitford J are instructive: "It is, I think, a matter of great concern in relation to confidential information cases that actions should not be brought which are no more than speculative in character.
 He says he does not know why Mr Kowalewski would have returned the diskettes to Mr Taylor given that Mr Taylor's employment with Ferguson Corporation had ceased in September 2006 and the information contained on the diskettes belonged to Ferguson Corporation not to Mr Taylor.
 The process culminated in Alfresco Kitchens developing a standardised product list of barbeque and associated components which were manufactured by Ferguson Corporation for sale by Alfresco Kitchens. 31 In or about early September 2006, Mr Piil had placed an order with Ferguson Corporation for the manufacture and supply of some barbeque components.
 During this conversation he said, in effect, that Mr Piil should put a 'drop dead date' on the order for the end of September so that if Ferguson Corporation could not deliver then he could cancel the order.
 In fact, Mr Piil did not do that. 32 On 11 or 12 September, Mr Kowalewski telephoned Mr Piil and told him that he had resigned from Ferguson Corporation saying that he was talking to some other people and that he would contact him when it happened.
 On 1 or 2 November 2006, Mr Kowalewski telephoned Mr Piil again saying in effect that he had a new business and he wanted Mr Piil to and come have a look at the business and his new premises so that Mr Kowalewski could give Mr Piil a pricelist for the components used by Alfresco Kitchens.
 He says as far as he knows, no such products were manufactured or marketed by Ferguson Corporation at the time that he and Mr Kowalewski joined Alfresco and no such products were manufactured or marketed or even contemplated by Ferguson Corporation at that time.
 As to the quotations referred to at par 5.1 of the further re-amended statement of claim, he confirmed that he did receive those on his Ferguson Corporation email address while still in the employ of Ferguson Corporation.
 The Ferguson Corporation defence to the cross-claim refers to an oral agreement reached on 19 April 2004 with Mr Kowalewski by which Ferguson Corporation agreed to buy on ongoing basis the business including the intellectual property and good will for an amount of $40,000.
 Ferguson Corporation alleged that it was an express term of the purchase agreement that the purchase consideration would be paid by offsetting the amount owed by Mr Kowalewski to Ferguson Corporation at the time of the formation of the purchase agreement.
 The first qualification is that the discovery should not include any product which does not bear a close resemblance to a product sold by Ferguson Corporation --- the 'kegerator' is an obvious example but there may well be others.
