 It is contended that: It was implied in the mutual assistance request that two persons, who were identified in that document as being subject to criminal investigation, were at relevant times Australian residents for taxation purposes when this was, in fact, not the case.
 The passages in the mutual assistance request on which the applicant relies to found the implied statement that H and C falsely stated to be Australian residents at relevant times are the following: "7.
 Australian authorities are investigating a number of Australian residents for using companies, trusts and bank accounts administered by Strachans S.A., an accountancy services firm in Switzerland, to disguise their involvement in tax fraud schemes and money laundering.
 The ACC believes the services provided by Strachans enables Australian residents to: (a) accumulate substantial assets overseas in companies and trusts hidden behind an impenetrable veil of incorporation (b) create misleading documents which assist in defrauding the Commonwealth of Australia, and (c) access their funds administered by Strachans from anywhere in the world by the use of debit or credit cards linked to bank accounts opened and operated for them by Strachans outside Australia, including at Corner Banca, SA in Lugarno, Switzerland.
 Based on the information obtained from Egglishaw, the ACC commenced criminal investigations into suspected fraud and money laundering by a number of Australian residents who have utilised the services provided by Strachans and Corner Banca. ...
 A schedule that was recovered from Egglishaw listing the Australian clients and the intermediaries provides a key link that identifies the offshore companies and trusts that Strachans operates on behalf of individual clients.
 Each of these clients and their respective entities are discussed in detail below. " Between paragraphs 69 and 83, the mutual assistance request detailed various allegations against TS (an accountant and financial adviser), H and C.
 The implication is said to arise from the distinction drawn, in paragraph 70, between E and S on the one hand and H and C on the other, suggesting that H and C are Australian residents because the overseas residency status of E and S is expressly referred to.
 Notwithstanding him being a non resident for a number of years he was still an Australian taxpayer and lodged income tax returns for each of the years 1995 to 2004 as non residents of Australia are subject to tax on income sourced in Australia.
 For the reasons given in Dunn I do not consider that the Commonwealth Attorney-General was under an obligation to disclose to the Swiss authorities the residential status of H and C when making the request.
