 The first appellant claimed that some time later a group of men attended the family home, threatened him and ordered him not to report them to the police again.
 The Tribunal found it difficult to accept that the appellants had been targeted due to the first appellant's political activities or at all, given the extent of his activities and the cessation of his participation in the MF after the alleged incidents.
 The Tribunal found the first appellant's evidence of several of the incidents to be confused and found that there was no evidence that the South African authorities had tolerated or condoned the alleged persecution.
 The Tribunal outlined that even if it did accept as plausible that the family were threatened, the police acted appropriately by taking the August 1996 incident seriously and doing whatever they could in relation to various other incidents.
 The Tribunal was not satisfied that the first appellant's involvement in MF or the Indian ethnicity of the family were the essential and significant reasons for any harm suffered.
 The Tribunal noted that persecution by private individuals or groups did not bring a person within the Convention unless the State either encouraged it or appeared to be powerless to prevent that private persecution.
 The Tribunal accepted as being plausible that the family had experienced incidents that would amount to serious harm, albeit by non-State agents but for which they received appropriate State assistance.
 The Tribunal noted that the first appellant had not continued his activities with MF and was satisfied that he would be able to continue his involvement in MF if he so chose.
 The Tribunal committed jurisdictional error by not dealing with an integer of the applicant husband's claim and/or making findings of fact that were not open to it.
 The Tribunal's use of the word "speculative" was not intended, on a fair reading of the Tribunal's decision, to erect a test for a claim for a well-founded fear of persecution other than that contained in the Refugees Convention.
 The Tribunal said that the fundamental question for it "is whether there is a real chance of Convention-related harm occurring to the applicants in the reasonably (sic) future. " It then addressed the second and third appellants' fear of being raped in South Africa.
