 Introduction 1 This is an appeal against an order of a Federal Magistrate made on 15 October 2007 dismissing an application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal (the Tribunal) made on 13 February 2007 and handed down on 22 February 2007.
 The Tribunal found, on the evidence before it, that the Maoists were primarily attacking and extorting money from rich people, and it was not satisfied the threats and attack against the appellant were essentially and significantly motivated by the appellant's political opinion or activities. 20 The Tribunal noted that the appellant had successfully relocated to Kathmandu in 2001.
 The Tribunal found the appellant's explanations far-fetched and unpersuasive, and noted that the appellant's explanation and evidence of a police conspiracy surrounding this event not only cast doubt on the credibility of the appellant's explanations in relation to this event, but also cast serious doubt on his assertion that he was assaulted by Maoists in 2004.
 The Tribunal held that the appellant's evidence regarding the arrest of his tenant for the reasons he provided was a concoction designed to strengthen his case. 21 The Tribunal did not accept the appellant's tenant was arrested because he was a Maoist leader or that the police led the appellant to believe that this person was Rajendra Dhakal.
 The issue on appeal is whether the Federal Magistrate erred in not identifying a want of procedural fairness on the part of the Tribunal. 32 The appellant also submitted that the Tribunal "asked more irrelevant question (sic) connected with the real issue.
 The real issue is that whether he has fear from the Maoists or not? " The appellant states "the Tribunal member ignored the cumulative effects of fear and made decision without assessing the well-founded fear from the Maoists. " 33 Finally, in terms of the appellant's written submissions, the appellant appears to assert bias when he submits "the Tribunal made a jurisdictional error when he made up his mind before the hearing and designed the questions to discredit all the evidence presented by the Appellant. " First Respondent's Submissions 34 The first respondent submits that neither of the grounds of appeal were grounds for review before the Federal Magistrate.
 That being the case, the appellant could not satisfy the test of well-founded fear of persecution as determined by the authorities. 44 Insofar as it is submitted that the Tribunal was in error in determining the absence of fear on the part of the appellant, that was a matter for the Tribunal and not for this Court.
 In those circumstances, I would not grant leave to the appellant to raise those matters on this appeal. 47 Although the appellant did not address the issue that was before the Federal Magistrates Court, the first respondent did so for the purpose of demonstrating that the Federal Magistrate had not erred.
 The Federal Magistrate was right to find that the Tribunal had complied with its obligations under s 424A and s 425. 48 I raised with counsel for the first respondent a matter not raised by the appellant either before the Federal Magistrate or on appeal.
 It is tolerably clear from the appellant's claims and the Tribunal's reasons that apart from claiming a fear of persecution because of his political opinion, the appellant also claimed a fear of persecution by reason of his membership of a particular social group as a businessman who was targeted by Maoists for donations.
 In particular, it found: The Tribunal accepts that as a consequence he was threatened by the Maoists and on one occasion his house was attacked whereby the family's possessions were robbed and the house was padlocked. 50 Later, it found that whilst the appellant's house was robbed in June 2006 it was not satisfied that the house was robbed by Maoists or for the reasons of the appellant's political opinion or for any other Convention reason.
