 The Migration Act 1958 gives you the opportunity to comment on this possible ground for cancellation and to give a written answer why your visa should not be cancelled. 20 The appellant's attention was drawn to reg 2.41 of the Regulations and ss 101 , 108 , 109 , 111 and 112 .
 In answer to the contention that s 99 had no application to the interview in September 2001 because s 99 only applied in circumstances where an answer was given to the Minister or an officer or person or Tribunal reviewing a decision under the Act, the Tribunal said: 96.
 The review applicant has confirmed that when he was interviewed by the Australian Consulate on 17 September 2001 in relation to the visa application that he told an officer of the Department that he did not have any children.
 It determined that that was a matter for the Federal Magistrates Court and the Refugee Review Tribunal if it became charged with an obligation to further review that application. 52 It found that the appellant's claims did not raise any humanitarian grounds which would have impacted upon the exercise of its discretion. 53 The Tribunal said in relation to the exercise of its discretion: 147.
 The Tribunal has found that the review applicant knowingly provided incorrect information to the Department in September 2001 and that he did so in order to meet the requirements for a visa for which he would otherwise not have been entitled.
 The Tribunal has also found that since that time, the review applicant was aware that false documentation was provided to the Department in relation to his sponsorship of Ms Lu for a spouse visa and that this was done so that his Subclass 104 visa would be unaffected.
 The Court erred in finding that the second respondent complied with s 359A Migration Act 1958 (Cth) by failing to take give the requisite notice in relation to Q61 and Q67 of Form 47 completed by the Appellant. 3.
 The Minister or the Minister's delegate must consider that there has actually been non-compliance before either one is entitled to give the notice. 75 However, that does not mean that the notice must contain an assertion to that effect.
 Section 107 does not require that the notice include a statement to the effect that the Minister or the delegate considers that the visa holder has not complied with the sections or subsection mentioned in s 107(1).
 I therefore reject the contention that the notice does not comply with s 107(1) because the notice does not assert that the Minister had the statutory state of mind. 76 However, that does not mean that the notice could be given.
 When the Minister or the delegate is considering a visa holder's response the Minister or the delegate must first consider whether s 107 was ever engaged. 77 It appears from the notice that the Department had concluded that the appellant may not have complied with s 101.
 Because particulars of the non-compliance were not given, it meant that the appellant could not give a written response to the notice disputing there was non-compliance and showing there was compliance as provided for in s 107(1)(b).
