 The Tribunal invited all three witnesses to give any evidence about those and any other matters in writing. 7 Following the hearing, the Tribunal received written evidence (in the form of letters) from the three witnesses (including Mr Arounsavat) and more information from the appellant husband.
 There is no doubt that the Tribunal at the specific request of the appellants obtained evidence from the witnesses and, as is apparent from the extracts of the Tribunal's reasons which I set out later, treated the letters as evidence before it.
 THE DECISION OF THE TRIBUNAL 8 The Tribunal concluded that three witnesses who gave evidence to the Tribunal following the actual hearing went beyond giving evidence about matters in relation to which they had knowledge, and speculated as to what they thought might happen to the appellants if they returned to Laos.
 The Tribunal found that as the appellants did not make claims about the matters of speculation raised by the witnesses, the matters raised by the witnesses did not require consideration by the Tribunal. 9 In addition, the Tribunal found that the appellant husband was not a credible witness.
 Failure to comply with s 441A 20 The appellants sought to rely upon a fresh ground of appeal - namely that the Tribunal did not comply with s 441A in that it did not invite the appellants' witnesses to give evidence in the prescribed manner.
 Effectively, the Tribunal, after being asked by the appellants to receive evidence of the three witnesses to be called on their behalf, accepted such a request but subject to certain constraints or conditions. 35 It is clear that the appellants notified the Tribunal under s 426(2) that they wanted the Tribunal to obtain oral evidence from two witnesses.
 This was not in the circumstances of the case the Tribunal inviting a person to give additional information, but was the Tribunal exercising its power to receive specific evidence and in a particular form from Mr Arounsavat, a witness nominated by the appellants. 37 Therefore, the obtaining of the evidence from the three witnesses was, in my view, clearly not by inviting persons to give additional information as contemplated by s 424(2).
 It was argued that the relationship was clearly made out by the appellants having requested the witnesses give evidence before the Tribunal and by the content of the witnesses' evidence, and that that evidence contained information specific to the appellants and made specific claims about the consequences the appellants faced if they were made to return to Laos.
 As such, it was submitted, the learned Federal Magistrate erred in finding that the Tribunal had not failed to conduct a review as required by s 414 when it did not consider all the claims that clearly arose on the material before it. 46 It seems clear to me that whether or not it was obliged to do so, it is apparent from the Tribunal's decision that it did have regard to the evidence supplied by the three witnesses.
 In the relevant passage the Tribunal notes that the witnesses' statements were directed to the likely consequences to the appellants of a return to Laos and concludes that the witnesses 'went beyond giving evidence about matters they had knowledge about and speculated about what they thought would happen to the applicants in Laos'.
 Accordingly, pursuant to s 91R(3) the Tribunal must disregard the first named applicant's conduct in Australia in assessing his claim to be a refugee. (own emphasis added) 50 I do note that the Tribunal did observe that as the appellants did not make claims about certain matters raised by the three witnesses, 'they do not require consideration by the Tribunal'.
