 At the time she had little knowledge about AWAs or awards and presumed that her pay rates were correct. 7 Ms Wills did not receive any additional money for working on weekends or in the evenings.
 Shifts reduced --- 23 August 2006 23 On 23 August Ms Wills was told by her fellow employee Ms Bianca Herlihy that the new roster did not include her (Ms Wills') usual weekend shifts.
 Mr Hibberd raised the question of customer service training at the Tavern in mid-2006 and the failure of Ms Wills to complete the twelve hour session. 32 Mr Hibberd also raised some claims about her performance.
 She said this because she was fed up with the topic. 54 On 18 October Mr Hibberd approached Ms Wills and asked her whether it was worth giving her an AWA to sign.
 However, his Honour found it more probable than not that the intervention in Ms Wills' working routine arose directly out of her opposition, as it would have appeared to Mr Hibberd and Ms Berechree, to the AWA.
 His Honour was entitled to consider the relative age and power positions of the parties and the way in which Mr Hibberd exploited that position, for example by denying that Ms Wills had a pattern of weekend work.
 The picture of Mr Hibberd emerging from the evidence of Ms Wills, whom his Honour found to be "impressive" and "a young woman of some fortitude" (at [186]), was of a man behaving in an overbearing way to a vulnerable employee. 79 Not established that Mr Hibberd intentionally applied duress to Ms Wills in connection with an AWA .
 The conduct of Mr Hibberd and Ms Berechree, especially in their directions to Mr Taylor regarding the roster, was intentional conduct, plainly meant to apply pressure to Ms Wills in connection with an AWA.
 Ms Wills' note, which disclosed at the very least that she was not about to sign the AWA and accept whatever Mr Hibberd was pleased to give her, was followed the next day by his directions.
 This was a finding well open in the light of Ms Wills' conduct at the meetings of 7 and 27 August and Mr Hibberd's suggesting at the latter meeting that Ms Wills was acting as a bargaining agent.
 Having regard to the different dates on which they were made, they were substantially consistent with the evidence Ms Wills gave to the Court. 84 Finding of duress could not be made against Ms Berechree on the basis of one conversation .
