 On 26 August 2003, the appellant's migration agent made submissions to the Tribunal and, relevant for present purposes, are submissions made concerning the possibility of the appellant relocating to a district within Bangladesh where a fear of oppression or persecution may not arise.
 Paragraphs 13 and 14 of those submissions deal with that question. 6 A hearing was conducted before the Tribunal on 22 August 2003. 7 The reasons for decision of the Tribunal record aspects of the oral evidence of the appellant.
 While there is considerable evidence of widespread arrests by the government, the Tribunal finds no evidence before it as to why the applicant, who has been absent from Bangladesh for over six years, would be targeted by the caretaker government.
 In reaching its conclusion, the Tribunal relied upon information contained in a 2006 United Kingdom Home Office Guidance Note for Bangladesh which gave emphasis to the right of free movement of individuals within Bangladesh as a matter of constitutional guarantee and thus the appellant would be entitled to and could move or relocate to a place within Bangladesh where persecution for a Convention reason would not occur.
 In the exercise of its fact-finding role, the Tribunal chose to rely on the information contained in the UK Home Office guidance note and the fact that the applicant had been absent from Bangladesh for over six years to conclude that it was still practical for him to relocate within Bangladesh.
 As a result, no jurisdictional error has been demonstrated. 18 Accordingly, Federal Magistrate Cameron concluded: that the Tribunal was well aware of the advent of the caretaker government; that the applicant would not be 'targeted' by the caretaker government; that the reasons disclose the Tribunal considered the 'general situation in Bangladesh' having regard to the UK Home Office Guidance Note; and that the appellant would not be pursued outside his local area.
 Federal Magistrate Cameron concluded that because the Tribunal had concluded that the appellant would not be 'targeted' by the caretaker government, that phrase must be understood to mean that the change of government would have no impact on the appellant's ability to relocate within Bangladesh.
 In the result, Federal Magistrate Cameron concluded that in weighing the UK Home Office Guidance Note against the background of the evidence generally and the appellant's absence from Bangladesh for over six years in deciding whether it was practical for the appellant to relocate within Bangladesh, the Tribunal was discharging its central and fundamental fact-finding role.
 In doing so, the Tribunal had considered the change of government to the caretaker government and the implications of that change for the appellant specifically. 19 In the notice of appeal to this Court filed on 28 December 2007 the appellant contends for four errors on the part of the Federal Magistrate and they are these: 1.
 The very function of the Tribunal was to assess the appellants' claims, both as to their inherent credibility and as to their consistency with other information known to the Tribunal about circumstances in the appellants' country of origin. 13.
 There was no obligation upon the Tribunal to put the particular country information to the appellant as it was not specifically about him and the information fell within the exception to s 424A(1) by reason of s 424A(3)(a).
