 PASSING OFF AND MISLEADING CONDUCT CLAIM 4 Ricegrowers alleges that there is a substantial similarity between the two flavoured rice cakes and one flavoured corn cakes products it sells and three flavoured corn cakes products Real Foods sells.
 Ricegrowers alleges that by selling its range of corn cakes, Real Foods has made false representations in trade or commerce, namely that: (1) Real Foods' flavoured corn cakes are products of Ricegrowers; (2) Real Foods' flavoured corn cakes are sold with the licence, endorsement, consent or approval of Ricegrowers; (3) Real Foods' flavoured corn cakes are a range of the products sold by Ricegrowers; (4) Ricegrowers was selling a range of corn products either alone or in tandem with its rice cake products.
 FALSE INGREDIENT CLAIM 6 Ricegrowers also alleges that Real Foods' unflavoured thin corn cake, sold under the name "CORN THINS - original", displayed on its packaging a list of ingredients including "maize (corn) 99%".
 Ricegrowers asserts that since about April 2007 Real Foods promoted its new range of flavoured corn thins and the packaging of the flavoured corn thins displayed a list of ingredients including "maize (corn) 54%, rice (35%) ..." 7 Ricegrowers alleges that by selling its flavoured "CORN THINS" range, Real Foods made two representations to the effect, first, that the new range had identical ingredients with the "CORN THINS --- original" product and secondly, that the new range contained 99% maize.
 It was this get-up in which SunRice's sour cream and chives rice cakes appeared at the time at which Real Foods introduced its competing range of flavoured thin corn cakes. 15 In about September 2007 Ricegrowers again changed the wrapping of the sour cream and chives rice cakes to a foil flow pack.
 However, I am satisfied that as presented to the ordinary reasonable consumer in a supermarket, Corn Thins were clearly seen as a distinct family of goods from those in the shelves above or below, which were clearly different and recognisable as SunRice's family of products.
 Both Ricegrowers and Real Foods had input in the process of how their goods were to be displayed for sale in, what they saw, as an appropriate way. 91 The likelihood of the ordinary reasonable consumer being misled by Real Foods' packaging or get-up for its flavoured "Corn Thins" can be tested in another way.
 Ricegrowers began marketing a SunRice sundried tomato and basil flavoured rice cake in a similar get-up to the original thin sour cream and chives rice cake get-up, except that the packaging was predominantly two tones of red.
 I do not accept Mr Young's qualifications based on his assertions of consumers' reaction. 96 I accept Ms Anderson's evidence as to her state of mind in introducing the packaging for Real Foods' three flavoured corn cakes.
 And, it introduced this new tomato flavoured corn cake after it commenced these proceedings, claiming its competitor was confusing the market. 97 Likewise, Mr Young expected the new enhancement to SunRice's rice cake packaging by the addition of the rice representation and words "MADE WITH WHOLEGRAIN RICE" to emphasise potential health benefits to consumers on its various rice cake products.
 While, of course, SunRice would still sell either its tomato salsa flavoured thin corn cake, or its sundried tomato and basil one, I am satisfied that Ricegrowers took sensible and appropriate precautions in designing the packagings for the two tomato products in order to prevent such confusion occurring.
 I am satisfied that there was no real possibility of the ordinary reasonable consumer being mislead or deceived or being confused by the get-up or packaging of the cheese flavoured and salt and vinegar flavoured "Corn Thins" products.
 When one of the "Corn Thins" flavoured corn cakes varieties was placed within the SunRice product display, as is shown in some photographs in evidence, they look noticeably out of place on the shelves and in the wrong "family" or group.
