 The precise amount of additional tax was $606,250.00, none of which has been remitted by the Commissioner in accordance with s 227(3) of the Assessment Act. 13 The Commissioner contends that he addressed the discretion conferred upon him by s 227(3) of the Assessment Act and made a decision not to remit any part of the additional tax payable by the applicant, prior to the issue of the Notice of Amended Assessment on 29 July 2004.
 The Part consisted of five Divisions which bore the headings: Division 1 --- Introduction Division 2 --- Interpretative Provisions Division 3 --- Taxation Objections Division 4 --- AAT Review of Objection Decisions and Extension of Time Refusal Decisions Division 5 --- Federal Court Appeals Against Objection Decisions 27 Section 14ZL(1) of the Administration Act provided a connection between Part IVC of the Administration Act and s 175A of the Assessment Act.
 It relevantly provided: '14ZL(1) This Part applies if a provision of an Act ... provides that a person who is dissatisfied with an assessment, determination, notice or decision may object against it in the manner set out in this Part. ' Part IVC proceeded to provide for the review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal of decisions by the Commissioner in relation to certain taxation objections and requests for extension of time and for appeals to this Court against decisions by the Commissioner in relation to certain taxation objections. 28 Haritopoulos Pty Ltd v Deputy Commissioner of Taxation [2007] FCA 394 ('Haritopoulos') was a decision of Besanko J on an application for summary dismissal of an application filed by Haritopoulos Pty limited on 30 March 2006 seeking relief under s 39B of the Judiciary Act in relation to an assessment and penalty assessment made by the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation.
 The applicant claims that the respondent's failure to consider the package of information constitutes an arguable case of bad faith or an arguable case of a breach of s 166 of the [Assessment] Act or an arguable case of a breach of the rules of procedural fairness and, in particular, the hearing rule. ' 29 At [32] Besanko J said: ' ...
 The central element of the legislative regime is the making of an assessment by the Commissioner which ascertains the taxpayer's liability to tax and the reference to the Tribunal or the appeal to the Federal Court, in which the taxpayer is entitled to dispute his or her substantial liability to tax. ' 31 Mason CJ said of s 175 of the Assessment Act at 187: '...
 The reference to "due making" of the assessment in s 177(1) reflects the content of s 175. ' 32 Mason CJ observed at 187 that the paramount purpose of the Act was to ascertain the liability of taxpayers to tax and that the Act, with that object in view, set up a legislative regime whereby the Commissioner assessed the taxpayer to tax, the taxpayer being liable to pay the amount stated in the notice of assessment, subject to a reference to the Administrative Appeals Tribunals or an appeal under Pt IVC to the Federal Court.
 I will file a Notice of Discontinuance tomorrow. ' 65 Whilst a discontinuance under Order 22 of the Federal Court Rules may not constitute a defence to a proceeding for the same or substantially the same cause of action, it is difficult to see how a discontinuance of an appeal to the Federal Court against an appealable objection decision could be seen as anything other than an abandonment of the appeal given that s 14ZZN of the Administration Act allowed for appeals to be lodged with the Court within 60 days after the person appealing was served with notice of the relevant decision of the Commissioner.
 I'm satisfied from our records that the applicant was notified of the hearing today, of this directions hearing, and it was made abundantly clear last time and in the letters that were sent from the Court that this is likely to happen and therefore I'll order that the application be dismissed with costs. ' 66 On 21 March 2006 orders were duly entered in proceedings NSD 117 of 2005 as follows: '1.
 That amount was $606,250.00; (d) in fulfilment of his duty under s 227(1) of the Assessment Act to do so, the Commissioner made an assessment of the additional tax payable by the applicant under s 226K; (e) as required by s 174 of the Assessment Act, the Commissioner served the Notice of Amended Assessment issued on 29 July 2004 upon the applicant which Notice included notice of the assessment of the additional tax under s 227(1), as authorised by s 227(2). 115 Whether and when the Commissioner addressed his discretion to remit the whole or any part of the additional tax payable by the applicant is a matter of some conjecture.
 However there is no evidence to support that contention and no evidence to indicate that the applicant was ever informed of that fact, if it was the case. 117 In the foregoing circumstances, it remains open to the applicant to challenge any decision of the Commissioner under s 227(3) in proceedings under s 39B of the Judiciary Act in reliance on one or other of the Hickman provisos, as the applicant has indicated he wishes to do.
 No 'Anshun' estoppel precludes the applicant from making those claims in the present proceedings. 118 Whether any wider basis for a challenge to a s 227(3) decision by the Commissioner is available to the applicant need not be determined in the applications presently before the Court. 119 One thing that is clear is that the present proceedings cannot be used to revive the appeals to this Court against the Commissioner's objection decisions which were the subject of proceedings NSD 117 of 2005.
