 Prosecution history of Shape Mark 10 In her first report dated 28 April 2004 the Trade Mark Examiner objected to the Shape Mark on the ground that: [The] trade mark consists of the shape of a shoe.
 On this basis Diesel contended that the Kato and Gamon shoes were one and the same, and in particular that the sole of a Kato shoe was the same as that of a Gamon shoe.
 In other words I was invited to treat myself, when viewing the sole of a Kato shoe, as in effect viewing that of a Gamon shoe. 41 There is no evidence that YD sold Gamon shoes in the same packaging and manner as the retailers from whom Mr Speers made his purchases of the Kato shoes.
 The issues in suit were whether a three-dimensional shape - namely confectionary - could be used as a mark to denote the origin of goods, and whether such use infringed the appellant's registered two-dimensional trade mark.
 At [16]-[17] Burchett J said: It does not follow that a shape can never be registered as a trade mark if it is the shape of the whole or a part of the relevant goods, so long as the goods remain distinct from the mark.
 His Honour said at [60]-[62]: ... has the respondent used, as a trade mark, the three dimensional sign in relation to goods by importation, sale and promotion of articles, embodying the shape, to distinguish those goods in the course of trade from the goods of others?
 Summary of principles 61 The principles relevant to use of shape as a trade mark are now set out. (a) A special shape which is the whole or part of goods may serve as a badge of origin.
 The Photon has a flat sole and three such panels; (h) each shoe has one large rubber panel coming from the inner side of the sole to the upper of the shoe; (i) each shoe has a facing; (j) each shoe has a padded collar.
 Common features are like descriptive words. 73 In my view the non-functional and non-descriptive features referred to in [71] overwhelm the functional features and common features referred to in [72] and give the Cube and Photon shoes a trade mark purpose. 74 This case is not as clear cut as Kenman Kandy on the one hand (use) or Mayne and Remington on the other (no use).
 These include the circumstances in which the marks will be used, the circumstances in which the goods or services will be bought and sold and the character of the probable acquirers of the goods and services.
 In my view, the Photon sole pattern is not deceptively similar to the Sole Mark. 104 Cube sole pattern : on YD's own submission, the "visual impression" of the Photon shoe is closer to the Sole Mark than are the Cube and Gamon shoes.
 The use of the mark arises from the sales in Australia of Wish/Evelyn and Kort/Kortnay shoes by World Brands Management Pty Ltd as distributor for Global Brand Marketing Inc which in turn was licensed by Diesel Spa to use the mark.
