 THE INSURANCE ACT AND SECTION 17F 7 The " main object " of the Insurance Act 1973 (Cth) is set forth as follows in s 2A(1): The main object of this Act is to protect the interests of policyholders and prospective policyholders under insurance policies (issued by general insurers and Lloyd's underwriters) in ways that are consistent with the continued development of a viable, competitive and innovative insurance industry. 8 Part III of the Act concerns the need to apply to the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority for an authorisation to carry on insurance business in Australia and further provides for those circumstances in which an authorisation may be revoked. 9 Part III, Division 3A provides for the transfer and amalgamation of an insurance business.
 Of particular importance is s 17B which relevantly provides: Transfer or amalgamation of insurance business (1) No part of the insurance business of a general insurer may be: (a) transferred to another general insurer; or (b) amalgamated with the business of another general insurer; except under a scheme confirmed by the Federal Court. ... (3) A scheme must set out: (a) the terms of the agreement or deed under which the proposed transfer or amalgamation is carried out; and (b) particulars of any other arrangements necessary to give effect to the scheme. 10 Section 17C sets out those steps which must be undertaken before an application may be " made " for confirmation.
 A " critical consideration " is " whether affected policyholders will be detrimentally affected by the implementation of the scheme ": PMI Indemnity Limited (No 2) [2005] FCA 1842 at [24] per Lindgren J. 14 Section 32 of the 1973 Act, it should further be noted, provides that the Authority may also determine " prudential standards " that must be complied with.
 Of immediate relevance to the present proceedings are three such standards, namely: (i) Prudential Standard GPS 110 -- which deals with " Capital Adequacy " and aims to ensure that the security of policy holder obligations of all insurers is established at an appropriate level by requiring that each general insurer maintain at least a minimum amount of capital; (ii) Prudential Standard GPS 310 -- which deals with audit and actuarial reporting and outlines the roles and responsibilities of a general insurer's Approved Actuary; and (iii) Prudential Standard GPS 410 -- which deals with the transfer and amalgamation of the insurance business of a general insurer.
 THE SCHEME 15 The " Summary of the Scheme " in the present proceedings was approved by the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority and sets out the effect of the Scheme as follows: Summary of scheme The following is a summary of the scheme: (a) All of the rights, liabilities and obligations of BIC under policies issued or underwritten by BIC in the conduct of BIC's Australian insurance business will be transferred to AG and become rights, liabilities and obligations of AG.
 Claims under such policies are to be made to AG, instead of BIC. (e) BIC will bear the costs and expenses relating to the transfer and the scheme. (f) The transfer will take effect on the first business day after the date on which the scheme is confirmed by the Court. 16 The Transfer Agreement executed as between the two Applicant insurers is expressed to be subject to two conditions precedent, namely: (i) the need for confirmation by this Court; and (ii) the making of a " go-ahead " decision pursuant to the Insurance Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1991 (Cth).
 The Standard also requires that a copy of the scheme be available for inspection. 38 In accordance with that Standard , the Authority has approved the Notice of Intention , the list of newspapers in which the Notice has been published, and the locations in each of the States and Territories where copies of the Scheme have been made available for inspection.
 Associate: Dated: 9 May 2008 Counsel for the Applicants: R Hollo Solicitor for the Applicants: D Garnsey Solicitor for the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority: R Claxton Date of Hearing: 5 May 2008 Date of Judgment: 9 May 2008 Annexure A Insurance Act 1973 Part III , Division 3A Scheme for the transfer and amalgamation of the Australian insurance business of Budget Insurance Company Limited to Auto General Insurance Company Limited 1.
 Both companies are subsidiaries of Budget Holdings Limited (a Guernsey corporation). 1.3 BIC has not issued any new contracts of insurance in Australia since 31 August 2005 and wishes to be relieved of its liabilities and obligations under and in respect of all contracts of insurance that it has issued and underwritten in the course of carrying on its Australian general insurance business thereby enabling it to apply to have its authorisation to carry on general insurance business under the Insurance Act revoked. 1.4 This Scheme has been prepared in accordance with Part III , Division 3A of the Insurance Act to give effect to the terms of an agreement between BIC and AG for the transfer and amalgamation of the Australian insurance business of BIC to AG. 1.5 This Scheme is based on an actuarial report dated 17 January 2008 of Finity Consulting Pty Limited. 2.
 Effective Date The assumption of the Assumed Liabilities by AG and the transfer of the BIC Policies to AG in accordance with this Scheme will take effect on the Effective Date and BIC will account to AG and AG will be entitled to the benefits and rights in respect of BIC Policies and will assume all of the obligations in respect of the Assumed Liabilities on and from the Effective Date. 8.
