 The parties 2 When the proceedings were commenced on 7 August 2007 the only parties were the first plaintiffs, Anthony McGrath and Christopher Honey as the joint liquidators of HIH Insurance Limited (In Liquidation) ACN 008 636 575 ('the Liquidators'), the second plaintiff, HIH Insurance Limited (In Liquidation) ACN 008 636 575 ('HIH Insurance') and the first defendant, Perpetual Trustee Company Limited ACN 000 001 007 ('Perpetual'). 3 By an order made 8 February 2008 NZ was added as a second defendant.
 A declaration that the liquidator of HIH [Insurance] [the first plaintiffs] is entitled to allot shares in HIH [Insurance] , in respect of the Converting Notes, in accordance with the Conditions of Issue. ...' 6 On 17 March 2008 Perpetual and LM Nominees, as trustee for the 'Martin Unit Trust' filed an 'INTERLOCUTORY PROCESS (CROSS CLAIM)' in which NZ and HIH Insurance were named as the cross-defendants.
 Rather, 'conversion' when effected involved NZ applying the principal under each note by way of subscription for fully paid ordinary shares and/or X Class Convertible Notes in HIH Insurance, which it was then for HIH Insurance to deal with. 34 Mr Fabian Gleeson SC did not submit that the Notes converted into shares at midnight on 12 June 2003.
 By returning this Application Form I/We make an offer to apply for that number of Converting Notes calculated in accordance with section A of this Application Form...and hereby authorise HIH Holdings (N.Z.) Limited to complete and execute any documents necessary to issue Converting Notes to me/us and agree to be bound by the HIH Holdings (N.Z.) Limited Converting Note 1998 Trust Deed, as amended from time to time. ...' Clause 3 of the Trust Deed contemplated the issue by NZ of Note Certificates generally in accordance with schedule 3 to the Trust Deed within two months from the date when the Principal Moneys represented by the Notes were subscribed.
 THIS IS TO CERTIFY that: 1. on this day, of was/were registered the holder(s) of of Notes under a Trust Deed dated in October 1998 (' Terms and Conditions of Issue ') between HIH Holdings (N.Z.) Limited (' Company ') and Perpetual Trustee Company Limited(' Trustee ') and HIH Insurance Limited 2. the Notes: (a) are issued by the Company on and subject to the Terms and Conditions contained in the Deed, including the Conditions of Issue forming Schedule 1 to that Deed; and (b) convert into fully paid ordinary shares in HIH Insurance Limited (' HIH ') in accordance with and pursuant to the Deed Poll dated in October 1998 by HIH (' Terms of Conversion, Guarantee and Subordination of Guarantee '). 3.
 The Terms and Conditions of Issue and the Terms of Conversion, Guarantee and Subordination of Guarantee are incorporated in and form part of this Certificate. ...' 27 January 1999 NZ issued an allotment certificate to LM Nominees 'Martin Unit A/C' certifying that it was the registered holder of 200,000 7.535% per annum unsecured converting notes [ with a face value, at $5 per note, of $1 million ] issued upon and subject to the terms and conditions contained in the Trust Deed.
 The said Notes had a face value of $A213,100,000. 27 August 2001 HIH Insurance wound up. 12 June 2003 End of the Conversion Period in respect of the converting Notes issued by NZ under the Trust Deed. 15 November 2007 Notice of Termination of HIH NZ Converting Notes Contracts served by Perpetual on NZ with a copy to HIH Insurance.
 DISCHARGE AND RELEASE By force of this clause, the Company will immediately be discharged and released from its liabilities, obligations and covenants under this Deed in respect of any Note on the first to occur of the date on which: (a) that Note and interest on that Note is redeemed or satisfied; and (b) that Note is converted. ...' 43 The Conditions of Issue of the 1998 Notes as set out in Schedule 1 to the Trust Deed are of particular importance.
 GENERAL TERMS OF ISSUE 2.1 Each of the Notes will: (a) have a principal amount ( Face Value ) of $5.00, and be issued at the Issue Price [as determined by the Directors of NZ from time to time] ; (b) be convertible in the manner and at the times provided by Condition 4 and, subject to Conditions 7 and 12 below, into the number of Ordinary Shares [in HIH Insurance] determined in accordance with Condition 6.5 ; and ... ... 4.
 GENERAL RIGHTS OF CONVERSION 4.1 Notes are convertible: (a) on a Conversion Date during the Conversion Period into the number of Ordinary Shares [in HIH Insurance] determined in accordance with Condition 6.5 by a Noteholder delivering to the Company ...: (i) a Conversion Notice requiring the Company to convert the Notes ... on the next Conversion Date; and (ii) the Note Certificate ...; or (b) in the circumstances and in the manner provided for in Conditions 9 or 12. ... ... 6.
 On the expiry of the 20 Business Day period, the Company must redeem all Notes that have not been the subject of a Conversion Notice under Condition 9.1(g) for cash at their Face Value plus 5% of such value by way of additional interest payable on those Notes. 12.2 If the Company decides that it wishes to redeem all ... of the Notes for cash, then the Company must give not less than 20 Business Days notice in writing to the Noteholders expiring no later than the End of the Conversion Period of its intention to redeem all Notes for cash in accordance with this Condition 12.2 .
