 On 25 July 2006 the Tribunal handed down its decision affirming the decision of the delegate to refuse to grant a protection visa to the appellant. 3 On 21 August 2006 the appellant lodged an application for judicial review in the Federal Magistrates Court. 4 The application contained four grounds.
 The grounds were a failure by the Tribunal to comply with s 424A of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ("the Act "); a failure by the Tribunal to consider the application in accordance with s 91R of the Act ; a failure by the Tribunal to consider the claims; and a failure by the Tribunal to make a rational and logical decision. 5 The appellant did not claim in either the original application or the amended application that he had had difficulty comprehending the hearing before the Tribunal because he did not have an interpreter who could speak the Fujian dialect.
 In this case, the appellant asked for advice under the scheme and in October 2006 a legal practitioner, Mr M Urquijo, was sent a copy of the Court book and a copy of the tape recording of the Tribunal hearing. 12 At the hearing of his application for judicial review the appellant claimed that the Tribunal had committed a jurisdictional error because he, the appellant, did not have an interpreter who spoke the Fujian dialect at the Tribunal hearing and therefore he did not have a competent interpreter and, as a result, he did not comprehend or fully comprehend what transpired during the hearing.
 No doubt when the applicant makes his inevitable appeal against this decision there will be an opportunity for him to bring evidence to the Full Bench that the scheme lawyer did not act in accordance with his mandate, did not contact the applicant, did not provide the applicant with advice and did not listen to the tape.
 It seems to me that in the circumstances before him the Federal Magistrate had the choice of granting the appellant an adjournment so that he could obtain the tape recording of the Tribunal hearing or, upon a proper exercise of the discretion, refusing an adjournment and proceeding to hear the application for judicial review.
 However, it seems, from his reasons at least, that the Federal Magistrate was saying that evidence from the appellant as to what transpired at the hearing would not be evidence in support of his claim, or could not be, or could not be accepted in the absence of corroboration.
 It is true that ultimately, the appellant's claim that he did not have a competent interpreter at the Tribunal hearing may be unsuccessful and indeed at one point during the hearing of the appeal the appellant seemed to say that he does not know whether he had a competent interpreter at the Tribunal hearing.
 The orders made by the Federal Magistrate on 5 November 2007 must be set aside and the application for judicial review should be remitted to the Federal Magistrates Court for rehearing by that Court. 18 I would add only that the grounds in the notice of appeal largely reflected the grounds in the application for judicial review as summarised in [4] above.
