 It simply was no part of the function of that Court to assess the merits of the claims being advanced; that was the task of the Tribunal, not the Federal Magistrates Court. 9 It is important for those who apply to the Federal Magistrates Court seeking review of decisions of the Refugee Review Tribunal, and who subsequently seek to appeal to this Court, to understand that it is the Tribunal that resolves questions of fact.
 Those reasons also record that no further documents were in fact provided. 12 The Tribunal thereafter made its findings, including the following: The applicant claims he fears persecution in Pakistan because in 1997 while he was Secretary General of the Imamia Students Organisation he advocated for further unity between Shia and Sunni Muslims and was blamed for the ensuing trouble between the two sects of Islam on 21 March 1997. ...
 As the Tribunal does not accept that the event on 21 March 1997 took place, it follows that it does not accept that the applicant was targeted or will be targeted for his involvement in it, as he claims. ... 13 Those findings of the Tribunal were open to it on the evidence.
 During the course of the hearing of the appeal, the Appellant confirmed that claims of persecution to which he referred in his Notice of Appeal were those set forth in his statement attached to the protection visa application and summarised by the Tribunal in its decision. 21 A reading of the account by the Tribunal of the evidence before it and of the Tribunal's findings discloses no reviewable error.
 It is clearly laid down in the above literature that the human rights in the Pakistan is one of the worst, moreover , the religious intolerance in Pakistan is on its peak , there are gross human rights violations in Pakistan as far as the Shia Muslims are concerned .
 To the extent that content can be given to the third Ground of Appeal, it is understood to be essentially a contention that the Tribunal should have made different findings of fact and that the findings it did make were not consistent with other evidence. 25 The third Ground of Appeal must be dismissed as an impermissible attempt to review the findings of fact made by the Tribunal and the merits of its decision. 26 The written submissions filed by the Appellant also contend that the " ministers delegate did not appl [y] his mind to the ...
 Counsel for the Minister referred the Court to the fact that these two grounds had a disturbing correspondence with those grounds advanced in SZLAH v Minister for Immigration Citizenship [2007] FCA 1807 and SZINJ v Minister for Immigration Citizenship [2007] FCA 1742.
 That the Appellants submitted the evidence to the effect the amount of the persecution which has been committed to the applicant, the RRT did not give any consideration, instead the appearance of the applicant was made the issue before the RRT, which in accordance with the law is not required.
 The real threat to the life of the Appellant was not considered in the instant case. 32 It is the correspondence between the grounds that is potentially disturbing and was (in part) the subject-matter of the further submissions filed on 19 May 2008 by Counsel for the Respondent Minister. 33 In circumstances where a litigant is unrepresented, it is not considered that any impediment should be placed in the path of such a litigant obtaining the assistance of those upon whom he may properly place reliance.
 The success of a particular argument in the circumstances of a particular case obviously does not mean that the same argument will always prevail and does not mean that the argument is even appropriate to be advanced in other proceedings. 36 It may well be understandable that an unrepresented litigant may wish to call upon all possible arguments and that an unrepresented litigant may well lack the ability to discern whether an otherwise successful argument is even relevant to his own circumstances.
 The estimate as to costs did not include such additional costs as would necessarily be incurred by reason of the Court seeking the further assistance of Counsel for the Minister on a number of issues raised during the course of the hearing.
