 The sale in Canberra, which was confined to manchester products (at least so far as the alleged contravening conduct is concerned) took place in July 2005. 7 Terania and ARE conducted the sales in Darwin, involving both rugs and manchester products, by promoting them in a series of television advertisements which comprised one or more of three groups of representations.
 There were further advertisements relating to that sale published on television on 6 March 2005 (five advertisements) and on 9 March 2005 (nine advertisements) --- there were two different forms of advertisement --- which asserted by the first block of five that the sale would end by 6 pm on Wednesday, 9 March 2005 and that Terania and ARE would sell or otherwise dispose of their entire stock of rugs by that time, and by the second block of nine that the sale would end by 6 pm on Friday, 11 March 2005 and that Terania and ARE would sell or otherwise dispose of their entire stock of carpets by that time.
 By further advertisements on 10 and 11 March 2005 (eight advertisements), 11 and 12 March 2005 (13 advertisements) and 12 and 13 March 2005 (12 advertisements) Terania and ARE represented by three different forms of advertisement that they would sell or otherwise dispose of their entire stock of carpets by the completion of the sale by 6 pm on Sunday, 13 March 2005.
 Consequently, in respect of those extensive representations also, I find that they engaged in misleading or deceptive conduct in contravention of s 52 of the Act by making each of the 76 duration and clearance representations in relation to the October 2005 sale in Darwin. 13 A further sale was conducted in Darwin by Terania and ARE in February-March 2006.
 During that sale, on 27 and 28 February 2006, they also caused to be published a television advertisement which asserted that the sale would end by 6 pm on Friday, 11 March 2006 and that they would sell or otherwise dispose of their entire stock of rugs at or by the completion of that sale.
 There were 76 duration and clearance representations in relation to the February-March 2006 sale in Darwin. 14 A further sale took place in Darwin in August and September 2006 in respect of which Terania and ARE caused to be published television advertisements on 16 and 17 September 2006 asserting that the sale, which was to end at 6 pm on Sunday, 17 September 2006, would be completed with them selling or otherwise disposing of their entire stock of carpets.
 That other conduct also was engaged in in respect of the sale which took place in Canberra in July 2005. 16 I find that each of Terania and ARE at each of those four sales in Darwin and the July 2005 sale in Canberra, offered for sale certain manchester products with two distinct stickers, one of which stated the price at which the labelled goods were to be offered for sale (the sale price) and the other which stated a higher price (the was price).
 They also accept that the manchester labelled with the was price had not previously been offered for sale at the was price by them or by any other retailer from which they had acquired those manchester products, and that the was price had not been affixed by a previous retailer but was affixed by them at the same time as the sale price sticker was affixed to the various manchester products, that is shortly prior to each of the sales.
 Terania and ARE, whether by themselves, their servants, agents or otherwise be restrained from offering for sale or promotion to the public rugs or manchester products, having marked those products with one ticket at which the goods are to be offered for sale (the sale price) and another ticket stating a higher price (the was price) unless those products have previously been offered for sale by the respondents or another retailer at the was price. 3.
 Terania and ARE shall, at their own expense, within 4 months of commencing trading activities, cause to be produced and provided to the ACCC copies of each of the documents constituting the Compliance Programme, together with a letter confirming that the Compliance Programme has been implemented in accordance with the requirements of the order in paragraph 4. 4.
 Terania and ARE shall implement promptly and with due diligence the recommendations which the reviewer may make that are reasonably necessary to ensure that Terania and/or ARE maintains and continues to implement the Compliance Programme in accordance with the requirements of the order in paragraph 4. 6.
