 The draft Notice of Appeal was filed on that day and was accordingly filed 21 days after the expiry of the time limit prescribed by O 52, r15(1) for the filing of the Notice of Appeal.
 Mr Prince sets out in his affidavit an explanation the effect of which is that his failure to attend to the preparation of the Notice of Appeal was due to inadvertence and an extremely busy workload. 4 The leading authority on the question of the meaning of the term "special reasons" is Jess v Scott (1986) 12 FCR 187.
 The relevant passage of the judgment of the Full Court is set out at 195 and it has been cited on many occasions; it is not necessary for me to quote from the passage. 5 The proposed Notice of Appeal raises four grounds of appeal to which I will refer later.
 The characterisation of "special reasons"...is a matter which is both discretionary and fact specific. 9 In Roda Kabail the application for an extension of time was made by the Minister, and his Honour observed that a significant difference between that case and the other ealier authorities that were referred to was that the applicant in the proceedings was held in detention with her three children.
 Their Honours went on to say that: So, for example, where the delay is short and no injustice will be occasioned to the respondent, justice will usually be done if the extension of time is granted. 11 Here the delay is comparatively short and there is, in my view, an acceptable explanation for it.
 Again, I will return to that issue later. 13 The reason why I consider Mr Prince's explanation to be acceptable is that Mr Prince appeared as pro bono counsel and, as I have said, the delay was fairly short.
 Mr Prince remains willing to appear at the hearing if an extension of time is granted. 14 As Mr Bozic pointed out, applicants for refugee status rely heavily on pro bono counsel for assistance in conducting proceedings.
 The authorities to which Mr Bozic referred in his written submissions are to the effect that the Court will generally only exercise its discretion against granting leave if the appeal is so devoid of merit that it would be futile to extend time.
 Other authorities to similar effect were set out in Mr Bozic's written submissions. 17 The Minister's solicitor submitted in her helpful written submissions that the four grounds of appeal appear to be hopeless and that no point would be served in granting an application for an extension of time.
 She observed that each of the four grounds appears to face difficulties of a number of authorities which would point against the success of the appeal. 18 Notwithstanding this, and bearing in mind that the delay is relatively short and has been explained in a way which I consider to be satisfactory, I think that there are special reasons.
 I do not consider that there would be no point in granting the extension of time to argue those points on appeal. 19 One of the factors which must be taken into account is the applicant's personal circumstances.
 They include claims that the applicant was beaten, sexually assaulted and humiliated. 20 It is plain in those circumstances that if I were to decline to exercise my discretion the applicant would be deprived of the ability to put before the Court arguments which are at least available to be run.
