 The second is whether, on the basis that the respondent owned the copyright in the updated program, her Honour erred in concluding that while it was an implied term of the relationship between the parties that the appellant had a licence to use the "application", the licence did not extend to the right to access and use the source code.
 The appellant contended that it was whether the Magistrate had failed to deal with the question whether, if "version 3" of the program was an adaptation of "version 2", so that the respondent was not the owner of the copyright in "version 3", he was obliged to deliver up the source code regardless of who was the owner.
 The respondent said the question was whether, having found that the appellant was not the owner of the copyright in "version 2", the Magistrate was correct in concluding that the respondent was not obliged to deliver up the source code.
 At [20] she said: The first argument put by the applicant is that the respondent must have been an employee because the consequences of the respondent owning the copyright in the program to the exclusion of the applicant and the Salvation Army were so great as to negate any suggestion that the parties intended the respondent to be an independent contractor.
 The applicant relies on the officious bystander test and says that, if it had been suggested that the respondent would own the copyright in The Program, the parties would have said, "of course not" and therefore the respondent must be an employee. 34 Her Honour rejected this argument at [21].
 In order to learn how a computer program in object code form works without access to the version in source code form, it is necessary to employ a process called 'decompilation', which involves the production of a copy of the program.
 Of the terms implied in particular contracts, Chitty says: In many cases, however, one or both of the parties will seek to imply a term from the wording of a particular contract and the facts and circumstances surrounding it.
 Section 47AB provides that in Division 4A computer program includes any literary work that is: (i) incorporated in, or associated with, a computer program; and (ii) essential to the effective operation of a function of that computer program.
 The necessary action may comprise any combination of direct modification of the source code, if the user has access to it, direct modification of the object code or the creation of an extra program or programs which are used in conjunction with the original program to avoid the situation which causes the behaviour.
 Another implied term? 68 As part of its implied term case the appellant submitted that regardless of whether the respondent was its employee or an independent contractor, the purchase of a computer program includes, ipso facto, the source code.
 The argument was put in this somewhat open ended, inconclusive fashion: Her Honour does not address the question --- If version 3 was an adaptation of version 2, and thus Riedle was not the owner of the copyright in version 3, regardless of who was the copyright owner, should Riedle have rendered up the source code upon request?
