 1 On 20 March 2008 I found in favour of the applicant Barrett Property Group Pty Ltd in its claim for copyright infringement: Barrett Property Group Pty Ltd v Carlisle Homes Pty Ltd [2008] FCA 375.
 For that purpose, consequent on earlier orders I have made, Mr David Taylor, a director of Carlisle, has sworn an affidavit which exhibits as confidential exhibit "DJT-2" a report which includes estimates of sums received and receivable, costs, overheads and profits attributable to the 65 "Provence" houses found to have infringed Barrett's copyright. 2 Carlisle does not object to making the confidential report available to Barrett's solicitors and counsel, and to Mr Darren Goodwin, who is the Chief Financial Officer of Barrett, upon appropriate confidentiality undertakings being given. 3 The contentious issue is whether the confidential report should also be made available to Mr Anthony Roberts.
 It is said on behalf of Barrett that Mr Roberts wishes to review the confidential report himself to review the claimed expenditure figures and methodology used to calculate the profit figures to ...benchmark them against his industry experience, and consider if there may be any anomalies.
 Mr Roberts is the person who will make the final decision on behalf of Barrett as to the election. 4 This sort of question has arisen before, and in particular is the subject of a decision of the Court of Appeal of Victoria, Mobil Oil Australia Ltd v Guina Developments Pty Ltd [1996] 2 VR 34.
 Knowledge to a competitor of costings and margins would be very valuable for the purpose of setting prices. 6 I do not think Barrett are seriously disadvantaged for the purpose of making its election because, as already mentioned, their Chief Financial Officer will have access to the report.
 If they wish, they could also retain some independent expert with knowledge of this particular industry. 7 I note in particular that Mr Roberts is a person who is involved in the day-to-day operations of the business, and so the more likely to be in a position to take advantage of the information.
