 The Maintenance and Support Agreement provided for the payment of maintenance fees each quarter, being the lower of 5% of gross revenues (excluding taxes) derived by the applicant from the sale of licence agreements in that quarter or [sterling]30,600.
 The last quarterly maintenance fee was paid on 14 April 2008 for the period January to March 2008. 14 Under the Licence Agreement the applicant was granted an exclusive licence to use and market the software in the United Kingdom and the Republic of Ireland.
 The software which was the subject of the Licence Agreement included 'the object code (but not the source code) of the current edition' of the first respondent's Campaign Master software, including various modules and developments.
 The applicant was permitted, at its own cost, to enhance or modify the software but it was prohibited from creating or recreating the source code or reverse engineering, decompiling or disassembling the whole or any part of the software.
 An order pursuant to section 80 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 requiring the First Respondent to forthwith provide to the Applicant, at the First Respondent's expense, all necessary assistance and support services to enable the Applicant to relocate the servers on which it relies for the provision of Campaign Master software services to its clients, such services and support including: (i) backing up the data on the servers; (ii) advising on necessary procedures prior to shutting down the servers; (iii) reconfiguring the servers with the necessary settings to enable the servers to function to provide Campaign Master software services to the Applicant's clients. 2.
 An order pursuant to section 80 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 restraining the First Respondent and the Second Respondent from imposing restrictions on the provision of services for maintenance and support set out in the email from Sean Newell of the First Respondent to Gurjeet Dhillon of the Applicant dated 29 May 2008. 3.
 An order pursuant to section 80 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 requiring the first respondent to: (a) execute within 7 days an escrow agreement within the meaning of clause 4.6 of the Licence Agreement dated 21 May 2007; (b) make available to the applicant, within 10 days or such other time as the Court orders, through the mechanism of the escrow agreement, the source code for the Campaign Master software the subject of the Licence Agreement for the purposes of clause 4.3 of the Licence Agreement. 4.
 An order pursuant to section 80 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 requiring the First Respondent to comply with its obligations to maintain and support the Campaign Master software pursuant to sections 3 and 4 of the Maintenance and Support Agreement between the Applicant and First Respondent dated 21 May 2007 until further order. 5.
 That undertaking was in the following form 'Without admissions the first respondent undertakes to the Court until further order in respect of the first respondent's computer software known as "Campaign Master" ("Software") that it will use its best endeavours: 1.
 The first reason is that the legal foundation for any proposition that there was a contractual obligation contemplated whereby the source code would be provided to the applicant in circumstances such as the present is too weak.
 It might equally reflect an agreed position. 31 So far as the matter can be assessed by reference to the documents before the Court compulsory provision of the source code would be a major departure from the arrangements which were agreed.
