 The Ross Affidavit also disclosed the source of the documents and, so far as was relevant, what the documents disclosed. 5 On reading the Ross Affidavit and after speaking to an officer at the ACC, on 9 April 2008, Telstra's solicitors wrote to the ACC providing some background about these proceedings and foreshadowing a possible request for documents from the ACC ("the Request Letter").
 The subpoena also closes with a catch-all request for "[c]opies of all other documents which may be relevant to the Telstra / Sensis proceedings as referred to in the ACC Letter [in [7] above]. " ANALYSIS 9 The applicants submitted that the requested documents are potentially relevant to the issues in dispute between the parties including, without limitation, the issues raised by pars 7, 9, 11, 17, 18, 23, 26, 28, 29, 30 and 31-34 of the Further Amended Statement of Claim.
 Finally, the evidence of consumer confusion is obviously relevant to passing off, trade mark, and the misleading or deceptive conduct allegations. 10 The respondents nevertheless submitted that leave should be denied because the proposed subpoena "calls for production of a very wide range of documents and is unnecessarily broad, vague and far too wide in scope. " They object that there are no date limitations; that the documents regarding copying may prove to be irrelevant if the respondents end up making concessions regarding how the data was compiled; that the subpoena effectively amounts to a second go at discovery in absence of any basis for the assertion that the respondents failed to make adequate discovery; that some documents may go to quantum which is not yet in issue; that some documents may be privileged; that the subpoena is premature because the pleadings have not yet closed; and that the scope of the subpoena is such that both the parties and the ACC will likely incur significant costs in relation to the subpoena.
 Accordingly, the application for leave to issue the subpoena as currently drafted must stand or fall on the validity of the catch-all category. 12 Ordinarily, that sort of request contained in the catch-all would be set aside, given the well-settled rule that the court will not ask a stranger to the proceedings "to go to trouble and perhaps to expense in ransacking his records and endeavouring to form a judgment as to whether any of his papers throw light on a dispute which is to be litigated upon issues of which he is presumably ignorant. " P Dawson (2007) 64 ACSR 53 at [24]. 13 However, the applicants submit that the form of the subpoena is, in this case, justified by the prior correspondence with the ACC.
