 1 The first defendant Oxford Investments (Tasmania) Pty Ltd, by its sole director, the second defendant Mr Steven Moore, carried on a business of providing instruction in a computer system for trading futures contracts on the Sydney Futures Exchange.
 He was the sole director of Oxford from 17 November 2004. 5 During the relevant period Oxford carried on a business of providing instruction or training, conducted by Mr Moore, in a system of trading futures contracts based on the published works of W D Gann and other authors on the subject of market analysis and strategy.
 The relevant legislation 12 Section 911A of the Corporations Act , subject to presently immaterial exceptions, provides that a person who carries on a financial services business in this jurisdiction must hold an Australian financial services licence covering the provision of the financial services. 13 Section 911B provides: A person (the provider) must only provide a financial service in this jurisdiction on behalf of another person (the principal) who carries on a financial services business if one or more of the following paragraphs apply...
 The following paragraphs require that either the principal or the provider holds an Australian financial services licence covering the provision of the services, or the principal is exempt under s 911A(2). 14 "Financial services business" is defined in s 761A of the Corporations Act as "a business of providing financial services".
 This term is defined in s 766B as follows: financial product advice means a recommendation or a statement of opinion, or a report of either of those things, that: (a) is intended to influence a person or persons in making a decision in relation to a particular financial product or class of financial products, or an interest in a particular financial product or class of financial products; or (b) could reasonably be regarded as being intended to have such an influence. 15 "Financial product" is extensively defined in Div 3 of Pt 7.1 of the Corporations Act .
 If that training involved the provision of financial product advice, then it must follow that Oxford was carrying on a financial services business. 17 The business which Oxford and Mr Moore carried on involved a recommendation or statement of opinion.
 It is sufficient that their system would "influence" such a decision, in the sense of making available information, and a system of analysing that information, which would be seen by a recipient as relevant to the making of a decision. 18 A similar issue arose in Re Market Wizard Systems Ltd [1998] 2 BCLC 282.
 The signals showed the customer whether they should be neutral, long or short on a given day, and whether they should buy, sell or hold. 19 On behalf of the company it was argued that the system was simply a matter of calculation based on historical data and the updates put in by the customer and was no more than a "sophisticated and technologically based 'calculator'".
 As already mentioned, "financial product advice" as defined in s 766B is not limited to recommendations or opinions directed towards any particular transaction or any particular course of action the recipient might have in mind. 22 In the present case there has been, first, an expression of opinion that, in specified circumstances arising from a particular kind of market analysis, trading in a particular way is likely to be profitable.
 The combined effect is the provision of financial product advice within the meaning of the statute. 23 As to the intent element of "financial product advice", there could be no doubt, and the defendants admit, that the statements and conduct of Oxford and Mr Moore could reasonably be regarded as being intended to have the relevant influence; that is to say the objective test of par (b) of the definition is satisfied. 24 I find therefore that Oxford and Mr Moore have contravened ss 911A and 911B of the Corporations Act .
 Misleading or deceptive conduct 25 Section 12DA(1) of the ASIC Act prohibits conduct in trade and commerce in relation to financial services that is misleading and deceptive or likely to mislead and deceive. 26 The representations detailed in [6] above were clearly made in trade or commerce.
 In addition, the ASIC Act picks up the definitions in s 761A of the Corporations Act of expressions which are not defined in the ASIC Act (for example, the definition of "derivative"): ASIC Act, s 5(2). 28 A derivative is specifically included in the expression "financial product" by s 12BAA(7)(c) of the ASIC Act and the definitions of "financial service" and "financial product advice" in s 12BAB are relevantly the same as in the Corporations Act .
