 The case did not concern s 45 of the Act . 7 The following condition is printed on each ticket for the Perth Test ("the Ticket Condition"): Sale of this ticket creates a contract between the ARU and the purchaser which gives the purchaser a transferable but conditional licence for admission to the specified match.
 The ARU has the right to deny admission if the licence has terminated. 8 The Ticket Condition prohibits the resale of the ticket at a premium, that is, at a price higher than the amount for which it was sold by the ARU, as well as use of the ticket for commercial purposes, without the prior written permission of the ARU.
 The use of tickets for commercial purposes without such permission constitutes a breach of the Ticket Condition. 10 The written evidence of Mr Eddie Moore, Head of ARU's Operations, as to the justification for the Ticket Condition and its enforcement by the ARU, is to the following effect.
 This meant that the SFC would not be able to provide tickets to the CSA pursuant to their contract of November 2007 and that, in turn, CSA would not be able to provide any corporate packages for the Perth Test or tests in 2009-2010. 24 The SFC, by letter dated 7 February 2008 informed the ARU that it had written to CSA in terms which included the following: "... wish to inform you that SFC has written to Corporate Sports Australia (CSA) advising that SFC is unable to have any dealings with CSA in respect to ARU games at Subiaco Oval... ...
 I take it that in its pleading CSA intended to refer to s 45(2)(a)(i) of the Act . 28 They plead further and in the alternative that if ARU gives effect to the Re-sale Condition it will give effect to an exclusionary provision for the purposes of s 45(b)(i) of the Act .
 I take it that this provision pleaded at [35] is meant to refer to s 45(2)(b)(i) of the Act . 29 It is then pleaded that the Re-sale Condition is a restrictive trade practice for the purposes of s 45(a)(ii) of the Act in that it has the purpose of substantially lessening competition in the Perth market.
 It pleads that if the ARU were to do this it would be engaging in restrictive trade practices for the purposes of s 45(2)(b)(ii) as the ARU would be giving effect to the provision of the contract and that provision has or is likely to have the effect of substantially lessening competition.
 By virtue of s 45(3) "competition" for the purposes relevantly of s 45 means competition in a "market". 37 CSA alleges that the market for the purposes of the operation of the Act , is and was, in respect of the Perth Test, the market in which the respondent supplies or is likely to supply Rugby Union test match tickets for re-sale in conjunction with corporate hospitality packages.
 The correspondence to which I have referred between the WAFC and the SFC and between the SFC and the ARU speaks in terms of the "providing" or "issuing" of tickets by the ARU to the SFC for sale to its members.
 These are the tickets which CSA has contracted to acquire from the SFC. 53 However, CSA contends that the ARU and the SFC are in competition with each other not only in respect of tickets but also in the supply of hospitality packages and that the SFC Contract Condition relates in a derivative sense to hospitality packages.
