 They add that SFC's conduct in seeking an order from the AIRC was an unconscionable exercise of legal rights that had to be restrained to prevent an abuse of the Court's processes and, for that reason, was unreasonable. 11 AIMPE contends that SFC's interlocutory application against it was hopeless from the outset because s 494(1) of the WR Act, under which SFC took action, operates only in relation to a collective agreement the nominal expiry date of which has not passed.
 SFC 12 SFC does not oppose an order for the payment of costs in favour of the second respondents in respect of SFC's application for interlocutory relief heard on 28 May 2008. 13 SFC also does not oppose an order for costs in favour of AIMPE in respect of SFC's application for interlocutory relief for the period between 6.25 pm on 26 May 2008 and 5.00 pm on 27 May 2008.
 The temporal limitation seems to be put on the basis that SFC, having served AIMPE with the application for interlocutory relief in this Court at 6.25 pm on 26 May 2008, obtained orders from the AIRC against AIMPE at 4.00 pm on 27 May 2008 and, through its solicitor, left a voicemail message for the Federal Vice President of AIMPE at 5.00 pm on 27 May 2008, informing him that AIMPE's attendance in Court the following day was not required. 14 However, SFC opposes any order for costs in favour of AMOU in connection with SFC's application for interlocutory relief.
 SFC relies on s 4(5) of the WR Act to support its contention that it had made out a prima facie case for relief against AMOU. (This provision states that a reference to engaging in conduct includes a reference to being concerned in the conduct. ) SFC accepts that I was not referred to s 4(5) of the WR Act at the hearing, but maintains that the evidence adduced was sufficient to establish, to the standard appropriate to an application for an interim injunction, that AMOU was concerned in conduct constituting a contravention of s 494 of the WR Act.
 SFC contends that the purpose of s 824(2) is to make a party liable for costs 'in respect of an unreasonable act or omission in connection with the proceeding instituted in the Court. ' By approaching the AIRC for orders pursuant to s 496 of the WR Act , so SFC argues, it was not acting in connection with the relevant proceeding in this Court, namely its application for interpretation of the Enterprise Agreements.
 However, if the application is ' misconceived ' the position is very likely to be different: Standish v University of Tasmania (1989) 28 IR 129, at 139, per Lockhart J. 17 As I have recorded, SFC does not oppose an order for costs in favour of the second respondents in respect of SFC's application for interlocutory relief.
 And, as the Explanatory Memorandum suggests, the power conferred by s 824(2) can be exercised irrespective of the outcome of the particular application in question, and of the proceedings as a whole. ' 22 SFC's submissions assume that Young J was intending to limit the operation of s 824(2) of the WR Act to an unreasonable act or omission ' in connection with ' the relevant proceeding.
 It is to be remembered that the statutory criterion is whether a party to a proceeding has, by an unreasonable act (or omission), caused another party in the proceeding to incur costs in connection with the proceeding. 23 SFC's submissions also appear to assume that the relevant ' proceeding ' is SFC's application for a declaration as to the proper construction of the Enterprise Agreements.
 However, the authorities ([6] above) demonstrate that ' a proceeding ... in a matter ' includes an interlocutory application, such as a motion for an anti-suit injunction. 24 The question posed by the statutory language is whether SFC's unreasonable act (in commencing proceedings in the AIRC while the proceedings in this Court were on foot) caused AMOU and the second respondents to incur costs in connection with their application for an anti-suit injunction.
 In any event, SFC had sought injunctions in this Court and had pressed for interlocutory orders until it withdrew its application late in the hearing of 28 May 2000. 26 The principal reason that I granted the anti-suit injunction was because SFC's application to the AIRC required that body to address precisely the issue that was argued before this Court on SFC's application for interlocutory relief: SFC v AMOU (No 1), at [26].
 I held that to allow SFC to take this course would impair the integrity of the processes of this Court, that SFC itself chose to invoke (at [29]). 27 In these circumstances, it seems to me that SFC's unreasonable act is aptly characterised as having been taken ' in connection ' with the proceedings in this Court by which SFC sought declarations as to the construction of the Enterprise Agreements.
