 The ACCC alleges that Australian Dreamtime Creations Pty Ltd (ADC) engaged in misleading or deceptive conduct, and the making of allegedly false or misleading representations, in contravention of ss 52 and 53 (eb) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) (the TP Act).
 They were either already painted and did not require further painting prior to sale or supply on consignment by ADC, or they were unpainted and did not require painting prior to sale or supply on consignment by ADC, or they were unpainted and required painting prior to sale or supply on consignment by ADC.
 THE REPRESENTATIONS It is convenient to briefly describe the representations that the ACCC alleges constitute misleading and deceptive conduct or false and misleading statements, contrary to ss 52 and 53(eb) of the TP Act.
 There are six separate representations alleged, all of which are said to be false and misleading: that since at least 1996, ADC has promoted, sold and supplied on consignment, artworks which have the words "Ubanoo Brown" written on the back or part of the artwork, which were in fact painted by Mr Goodridge (the artist representations).
 The ACCC says that the artist representations give rise to the express representation that Ubanoo Brown was the artist who painted the artworks, and that such representation is untrue, because the artworks were painted by Mr Goodridge or a person or persons unknown who were not known as, nor identified as, "Ubanoo Brown".
 I have also found that the paintings were painted either by Mr Goodridge or by other persons who were not of Aboriginal descent and by persons who did not identify themselves and were not known as Ubanoo Brown.
 I note that, in the defence, ADC and Mr Antoniou claim that the paintings the subject of the certificate of authenticity representations were souvenirs and not fine art or investment artworks.
 ADC and Mr Antoniou assert that the text of the stamps do not convey the representation that those artworks were painted by a person of Aboriginal descent, but simply that they were hand-painted in an Aboriginal design.
 The website representations as to artist were false because those artworks were not painted by a person of Aboriginal descent, and not by a person who identified as Ubanoo Brown who was a person of Aboriginal descent.
 The carved wooden bird was listed on eBay in the Aboriginal art category, and was described by the text "Aboriginal Art Brolga", and was accompanied by a description saying that ADC had been supplying "Aboriginal fine art and craft work" since 1991.
 A declaration that ADC, from at least 2005, represented in trade or commerce by the supply of documents entitled "certificates of authenticity" that paintings sold or supplied on consignment by ADC were painted by: 2.1 a person of Aboriginal descent; and 2.2 Ubanoo Brown, when the paintings were not, and thereby engaged in conduct that is misleading or deceptive in contravention of section 52 of the TP Act.
 A declaration that ADC, in September 2008, represented in trade or commerce, on the eBay online auction website that a carved wooden bird promoted and sold by ADC on eBay was carved and painted by a person of Aboriginal descent, when it as not, and thereby engaged in conduct that is misleading or deceptive in contravention of section 52 of the Act.
