 Euroceania is the disponent owner of two ships, " JBU Onyx " and " JBU Opal ", that it timechartered to WAM Singapore Pte Ltd ( WAMS ), a subsidiary of West Asia.
 Euroceania contended that the arrest and the proceedings in rem were brought against the " Gem of Safaga " as a surrogate ship for the " JBU Onyx " and " JBU Opal ".
 Euroceania claimed damages in the writ based on a general maritime claim under s 4(3)(f) of the Admiralty Act 1988 (Cth) for the failure of West Asia to pay the hire for the two ships.
 This was because it asserted that West Asia was the "charterer" or "in ... control of" each of the " JBU Onyx " and " JBU Opal " for the purposes of s 19(a) of the Act.
 On 2 February 2007 Tedross and West Asia, through Mr Joshi, signed a memorandum of agreement using the BIMCO Saleform 1993 for the purchase of the ship at a price of USD13,600,000.
 Euroceania also relied on West Asia being registered as sole owner of the ship by The Britannia Steam Ship Insurance Association Limited in the protection and indemnity section of that PI Club's register.
 West Asia argued that it did not have the sole power to dispose of the " Gem of Safaga " because of Four M's registration of its one share and s 25(d) of the Indian Act.
 Relevantly, ss 3(23)(a) and 25 of the Indian Act provides: "3 ( 23 ) "owner" means - ( a ) in relation to a ship, the person to whom the ship or a share in the ship belongs; 25.
 This provision does not apply to claims in respect of ownership or possession of a ship. " Mr Mitter had not found any Indian judicial interpretation of s 25(c) and (d) of the Indian Act.
 Mr Mitter expressed the opinion that neither West Asia nor Four M could sell separately the respective nine shares or one share that they held, no doubt because of s 25(d) of the Indian Act.
 But he said that the effect of s 3(23) was that under Indian law West Asia was the owner of the " Gem of Safaga " and it could be arrested in India as security for maritime claims that had arisen against West Asia irrespective of the fact that West Asia jointly owned the ship with Four M.
 It contended that only the joint owners, under Indian law, together, not simply either one of them separately, could sell or dispose of the ship and that, since no maritime claim was asserted against Four M, the action in rem was not authorised by s 19.
 The form of voyage instructions to the masters of the " JBU Opal " and " JBU Onyx " was usually an email Mr Mahesh sent from India and with his Indian telephone numbers.
