 The penalties must also, in my opinion, be such as to express on behalf of our society an utter revulsion in respect of conduct of the kind employed by Winning Bid or, as the case may be, Mobilegate.
 The particular premium short code numbers which were operated by IMP, Winning Bid and Mobilegate, and the particular periods over which these were operated and in which Jobspy took part, are detailed in the Authority's submissions.
 What is clear is that in terms of the holding of office, Mr Moles was involved at the highest level in each of the corporations I have mentioned, ie, Jobspy, Winning Bid and Mobilegate, for most of the period of involvement in contraventions of each of those corporations.
 I dealt, in the ACMA v Mobilegate (No 4) judgment, with questions of the utility of the outcome in Clarity1 for present sentencing purposes, and I do not propose to repeat what is there stated.
 It is pertinent, though, to recall particularly the penalties that were imposed by me on 23 October 2009, and to try and achieve relativity as between those penalties and the ones to be imposed in respect of Jobspy and Mr Moles.
 Again, though, in my opinion, the penalty on Mr Moles as an individual must bear relativity with the penalties which I imposed on 23 October 2009 on other individuals, namely, Messrs Owen, Salcedo and Maughan.
 Mr Maughan, on whom I imposed a penalty of $1.25 million, had a lower level of responsibility in directing contravening conduct than Mr Owen or Mr Salcedo, upon each of whom I imposed a penalty of $3 million.
 The formal orders, then, apart from the penalties that I have imposed, will be in terms of those made on 23 October 2009, and I direct the Authority to bring in minutes of orders to incorporate the same.
 The costs orders, again, I do not see any particular reason why the costs should not be orders which follow the event, and those orders, again, ought to be in the same terms which I made on 23 October 2009.
 A declaration that the Sixth Respondent: 2.1 aided and abetted; and 2.2 was knowingly concerned in and party to: each of the First and Second Respondents' contraventions of s 16(1) of the Spam Act 2003 (Cth) (Spam Act) set out in paragraphs 1 to 8 of the declarations made by the Court in these proceedings on 14 August 2009, and thereby engaged in conduct in contravention of s 16(9) of the Spam Act .
 A declaration that the Third Respondent, by creating and registering the dating website profiles on behalf of the First and Second Respondents, and further, by writing the messages sent to dating website members via the dating websites on behalf of those respondents which represented that they were from the dating website profiles, has aided and abetted each of the First and Second Respondents' contraventions of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) (Trade Practices Act) set out in paragraph 11 of the declarations made by the Court in these proceedings on 14 August 2009.
 A declaration that the Third Respondent, by writing the content of the SMS messages sent or caused to be sent by each of the First and Second Respondents, in trade or commerce, to Australian mobile telephone numbers which represented that they written by a dating website member has aided and abetted each of the First and Second Respondents' contravention of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act set out in paragraphs 12, 13 and 14 of the declarations made by the Court in these proceedings on 14 August 2009.
 A declaration that the Sixth Respondent: 6.1 aided and abetted; and 6.2 was knowingly concerned in and party to: each of the First and Second Respondents' contraventions of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act set out in paragraphs 11, 12, 13 and 14 of the declarations made by the court in these proceedings on 14 August 2009. 7.
