 In the present case, there was no contradictor to argue that Mr Condon and Mr Watson were not both validly in office in respect of each estate. 23 Section 156A contains no provision comparable to s 158 of the Bankruptcy Act which expressly empowers the creditors, if they think fit, to appoint two or more registered trustees jointly, or jointly and severally, to the office of trustee.
 I cannot think of any sensible purpose that would have been intended to be served by this narrower construction. 34 The power of the Court to remove a trustee given by s 179 of the Bankruptcy Act is available only following an inquiry into the conduct of a trustee in relation to the bankruptcy and is inappropriate in the present circumstances.
 That section provides: If at any time there is no registered trustee who is the trustee of the estate of a bankrupt, the Official Trustee shall, by force of this section, be the trustee of the estate. 36 The resolution of the issue before the Court is to be found in the Court's power under s 180 to accept Mr Watson's resignation "subject to such terms and conditions as it thinks just" (see [19] above).
 In fact, Mr Condon had so consented, thereby satisfying in advance the hypothetical contemplated condition. 37 Since the hypothetical contemplated condition had already been satisfied, I considered it appropriate to give a direction pursuant to s 134(4) of the Bankruptcy Act that from the time of the Court's acceptance of Mr Watson's resignation, Mr Condon would be sole trustee of each estate and would be entitled and obliged to act as such.
 Section 134(4) provides: The trustee may at any time apply to the Court for directions in respect of a matter arising in connection with the administration of the estate. 38 I also made an order pursuant to O 1 r 8 of the Federal Court Rules that compliance with the requirements of rule 8.02(1) and (2) of the Federal Court (Bankruptcy) Rule be dispensed with. 2.
 In the case of the remaining company, Furnetec Pty Ltd, delivery took place on 10 December 2008. 50 In relation to each of the five companies Mr Condon had signed a form of consent to act as liquidator pursuant to s 532(9) of the Corporations Act and r 5.5(2) of the FC Corporations Rules. 51 Section 499(5) of the Corporations Act , to which I referred above, provides that "the creditors" may fill the vacancy caused by the resignation.
 In the result, whatever be the correct meaning of the word "must" in s 473(7) , there is only a vacancy in the office of a liquidator for the purposes of that subsection where a sole liquidator or all co-liquidators have ceased to hold office. 63 Accordingly, I gave a direction pursuant to s 479(3) of the Corporations Act that from the time of the resignations, Mr Condon had continued to be liquidator and had been, and continued to be, entitled and obliged to act as such. 5.
 In relation to each of the eight companies the subject of creditors' windings up identified in Schedule 5 to the Orders (of which Mr Condon and Mr Watson were liquidators) 64 During Mr Watson's time at Condon Associates he and Mr Condon were appointed as liquidators of the eight companies listed in Schedule 5 to the Orders, which are the subject of creditors' windings up. 65 In seven of the eight cases, the evidence showed that the resolutions appointing Messrs Condon and Watson appointed them as joint and several liquidators.
 In the eighth case, that of PLM Distributors Pty Ltd, the resolution simply referred to their appointment "as Liquidator to act for the purposes of winding up the company". 66 As noted at [49] above, s 499(5) of the Corporations Act assumes that a liquidator other than one appointed by the direction of the Court, may resign his or her office.
 In my opinion that provision applies to one of two or more liquidators as well as it does to a sole liquidator: see my observations at [33] above, which apply mutatis mutandis . 67 Mr Watson's written resignation of office was served on the relevant company and was received, in each case, by Mr Condon at the office of Condon Associates, being the office of the liquidator (see s 109X(1)(c) of the Corporations Act ). 68 Uninstructed by authority, I would have assumed that where one of two liquidators ceases to hold office, the other succeeds to the office.
 I would not appoint a replacement for the reasons given at [15] above. 98 Accordingly, I gave a direction pursuant to s 447D of the Corporations Act that from the time of Mr Watson's resignation, Mr Condon had continued to be administrator of each of the eleven DOCAs and had been, and continued to be, entitled and obliged to act as such.
 COSTS 99 Counsel for Mr Condon submitted that there should be an order that Mr Condon's costs be paid out of the assets of the bankrupt estates referred to in Schedule 1, the assets of the corporations in liquidation referred to in Schedules 2, 3, 4 and 5, the assets available to the administrator of the company (Hiafargo Pty Ltd) referred to in Schedule 6, and the assets available to the DOCA administrator in respect of each of the companies referred to in Schedule 7.
