 Where, as in the present case, a claim relates to operational service, the standard of proof on whether an injury or disease is war-caused is prescribed by s 120(1) and (3).
 The question posed by s 120(3) is whether "the whole of the material" before the decision-maker raises a reasonable hypothesis connecting the injury or disease with the circumstances of the veteran's service.
 The first, as rendered by the Magistrate, was that "the Tribunal's failure to take into consideration the fact that [he] was perfectly well until his service began and that his seasickness and depression therefore arose from his service constitutes an error of law".
 Having first said that the hypothesis relied on by the appellant of depression arising from seasickness was reasonable, the Tribunal said that the next question was "whether the Tribunal can be satisfied that the seasickness was not attributable to operational service".
 After noting that the appellant had experienced the onset of seasickness on his two voyages prior to operational service, the Tribunal said that his "constitutional predisposition was the cause of the seasickness and the subsequent depression".
 The references to seasickness "not attributable to operational service" and to the constitutional predisposition being "the cause" of the seasickness and subsequent depression, were said to show the Tribunal's advertence to s 169(14).
 I am unable to see why the pre-operational severe seasickness should foreclose the possibility that a later occurrence of seasickness on operational service would be a stressor that was related to service within s 196B.
 At [30] his Honour said: the definition of severe psychosocial stressor concerns an occurrence that, objectively, is an occurrence the nature of which is such as to evoke feelings of a particular kind in a person exposed to that occurrence and which, subjectively, evokes feelings of substantial distress in the particular person concerned.
 The Magistrate found that Dr Strauss' report evinced or was at least open to the interpretation that "he regarded these matters both objectively and as they affected Mr Cunningham individually".
 From Dr Strauss' description of the appellant's distress --- "a severe psychosocial stressor", "a significant stressor for this man", causing him "significant or substantial distress", it is clear that he regarded the seasickness as "severe and debilitating" within his general description of seasickness as a medical condition.
