 The third respondent has applied to the Court for an order that these proceedings be transferred to the Supreme Court of Queensland or, in the alternative, to the Queensland District Registry of this Court.
 During argument, Counsel for the third respondent frankly conceded that the basis upon which he sought to have the matter transferred to the Supreme Court of Queensland did not justify the making of that order.
 In essence, the ground relied upon was that there are proceedings in the Supreme Court of Queensland brought by a company unrelated to the present applicant but against the third and fourth respondents in these proceedings and others which, to some extent, raise questions of fact which are also raised by the applicant in these proceedings.
 In support of that order Counsel emphasised the following matters: It seems to me that the most important factor which is to be taken into account in the present case is the cost and inconvenience that will be visited upon the third and fourth respondents if the proceedings remain in the New South Wales District Registry of the Court.
 In addition to the considerations which I have already mentioned, the third and fourth respondents are entitled to point to the other proceedings in the Supreme Court of Queensland, to which I have already referred, in aid of a submission that the existence of those proceedings, running in tandem, as they do, with these proceedings, is another factor relevant to cost and convenience which is in their favour.
 I am conscious of the fact that, at the present time, the Supreme Court of Queensland has entered judgment by default against the third respondent although the fourth respondent has filed a Defence and Cross-Claim.
 Section 48 of the Act is in the following terms: 48 Change of venue The Court or a Judge may, at any stage of a proceeding in the Court, direct that the proceeding or a part of the proceeding be conducted or continued at a place specified in the order, subject to such conditions (if any) as the Court or Judge imposes.
 In National Mutual Holdings Pty Limited v Sentry Corporation (1988) 19 FCR 155 , a Full Court of this Court held that the power conferred on the Court or a judge by s 48 was unfettered and should be exercised flexibly having regard to the circumstances of the particular case.
 The Court went on to say (19 FCR at 162): Ultimately the test is: where can the case be conducted or continued most suitably bearing in mind the interests of all the parties, the ends of justice in the determination of the issues between them, and the most efficient administration of the Court.
 There are, on the other side of things, substantial reasons based upon the cost and inconvenience to individual litigants which would justify a transfer to the Queensland District Registry of this Court and I propose to make an order accordingly.
 COSTS It seems to me that the applicant was entitled to resist the application in the form in which it was pressed because the primary order sought was an order that the proceedings be transferred to the Supreme Court of Queensland.
