 Alternatively the application be dismissed as an abuse of the process as the Applicant seeks to re-agitate issues which have already been heard and determined by this Honourable Court. " On 4 September 2009 there was a directions hearing before Tracey J in which he gave the directions referred to in par [1] above in order to enable the hearing of the respondent's notice of motion.
 Order 52 rule 10 provides: "(1) An application for leave to appeal from an interlocutory judgment of the Court may be made orally to the Judge who has pronounced the judgment at the time of its pronouncement. (2) If an application has not been made in accordance with subrule (1), an application may be made by motion on notice ...." Section 25(2) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) provides: "Applications: (a) for leave or special leave to appeal to the Court; or (b) ... may be heard and determined by a single Judge or by a Full Court. " It has been well established that an applicant for leave to appeal has no election available to decide who shall hear the application, either a single judge or a Full Court.
 It is then for the judge or the Full Court before whom the matter is listed to consider whether the matter is more appropriately dealt with in the manner suggested by the applicant. ..." In Kristoffersen v Department of Employment, Workplace Relations and Small Business [2002] FCAFC 269 Drummond J (with whom Cooper and Dowsett JJ agreed) quoted this passage and went on to say: " That, in my opinion, is a clear statement that there is in truth no election available to a litigant to determine which is the forum in which an application of the present kind will be held.
 But it is for the Court to determine, having regard to considerations such as the importance of the issue raised and the efficient deployment of judicial resources and other matters, which forum will in fact be constituted to deal with the application. " See also Minister for Immigration Multicultural Indigenous Affairs v WAKX [2005] FCA 227 at [25] - [33] .
