 The background to the claim for the first six categories is to be found in two judgments of Tamberlin J, Jarra Creek Central Packaging Shed Pty Ltd v Amcor Ltd [2007] FCA 1559 ; Jarra Creek Central Packaging Shed Pty Ltd v Amcor Limited [2009] FCA 60.
 The essence of what was ordered by Tamberlin J was the discovery of sales/price, costs of production and production data for corrugated fibreboard packaging (CFP) and pulp paper products (PPP), which are physical inputs in the manufacture of CFP.
 The existence of the cartel is said to have been publicly exposed when the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission issued a press release on 21 December 2005, the same day on which it commenced proceedings against Visy Industries Holdings Pty Ltd in this Court.
 The purpose of discovery of documents covering the period before and after the existence of the cartel is to enable Professor Rubinfeld to have documents covering a "clean period" before and after the cartel so that economic evidence may be given as to the "but for" hypothesis.
 The period for which documents were to be discovered was determined as long ago as Tamberlin J's first judgment on the question in October 2007.
 He said at [14] of that judgment that he was not satisfied "at this stage" that documents outside of the eight year period were "appropriate or necessary" for the purpose of ascertaining a benchmark.
 The applicants now rely on evidence of certain deficiencies in the material produced, and on further evidence from Professor Rubinfeld to support the widening of the period.
 Although Professor Rubinfeld accepts that it is preferable to analyse data for the period prior to the formation of the cartel, he says that in the absence of such data, post-cartel material takes on an even greater importance.
 I am satisfied that I ought to make orders for discovery of the documents covering categories 1 to 6 in the Amended Notice of Motion.
 To do so would fail to take into account the date on which the existence of the cartel is said to have been exposed, the potential lingering effects of the cartel on the market, and the inadequacy of pre-cartel data.
 Nor are they "directly relevant" to the proceeding: Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Advanced Medical Institute Pty Ltd [2005] FCA 366 at [21] --- [23] per Lindgren J.
