 In this appeal the appellants seek to set aside orders of the Federal Magistrates Court dismissing their application challenging the validity of a decision of the Migration Review Tribunal ( the Tribunal ).
 The Minister contends that in any event, the remittal of the matter to the Tribunal would be futile because of a change in circumstances after the initial Tribunal hearing undermining the first appellant's capacity to satisfy the statutory criteria.
 The appellants' counsel acknowledged that, on the basis of the material the Tribunal had before it, the Tribunal could not have found that the first appellant had an "ownership interest" in a "main business" at the time of its decision about the visa application as the statutory criteria required.
 Another answer is that, without the Tribunal making any findings at all, it would be difficult (if not impossible) in most cases to determine whether the decision was the only one open on the material or not.
 Having accepted that the Tribunal could not have found the appellants satisfied the statutory criteria on the material available to it during the hearing, the appellants cannot identify any material error by the Tribunal.
 The material before the Tribunal was capable of establishing the following: (1) The appellants applied for visas on 8 October 2004. (2) The first appellant, as a sole trader, ran a business known as REI Construction since 27 March 2001.
 This was a building and construction business. (3) The first appellant was the 100% shareholder of a corporation incorporated on 13 September 2004 known as REI Construction Pty Ltd ( REI ).
 The Tribunal did not do so because it inferred that there must have been a benefit to the first appellant in winding up REI and setting up Multi as a "new business" (that is, avoiding adverse personal consequences by reason of laws regulating corporations).
 The Tribunal also considered it relevant that the first appellant had been the sole shareholder in REI but was not a shareholder in Multi (all of the shares in Multi being owned by the second appellant).
 Having found that REI and Multi were not the same business and thus not "the business" for the purpose of applying the definition of "main business" the Tribunal was entitled in its summary concluding paragraph in [46] of its reasons to revisit the ownership interest question in the terms it did (that is, by reference to each of REI and Multi and not to them together).
 A finding that the business of each REI and Multi was "very similar" does not mean that it was not reasonably open to the Tribunal to conclude that the business was not the same.
