 Section 436B(2) of the Act provides that a liquidator of a company must not appoint himself or herself, or any of his or her partners, as an administrator of the company in question unless at a meeting of the company's creditors, the creditors pass a resolution approving the appointment or the appointment is made with the leave of the Court.
 I say "arguably" because it must be hypothesised that by that time the plaintiffs will have become administrators of the company, their functions and powers as liquidators will have been suspended (see s 437C(1) of the Act); and s 444A(2) of the Act provides that where creditors resolve that the company execute a DOCA, the administrator of the company "is to be" the administrator of the DOCA unless the creditors appoint someone else to that office.
 On the same day, St George appointed Messrs D Winterbottom and M Brereton of Korda Mentha (Receivers) as receivers and managers of DCL and of the other 18 companies within the Destra Group in respect of which St George held security.
 On 3 December 2008 the plaintiffs obtained orders in this Court pursuant to s 439A(6) of the Act extending the time for the convening of the second meeting of creditors until and including 12 February 2009 (in proceeding NSD 1867/2008).
 As at the time of the appointment of the plaintiffs as administrators, the Destra Group owed St George in excess of $29 million, and 23 September 2009 the Destra Group still owes approximately $21 million to St George.
 However, the DOCA proposal was conditional upon the plaintiffs, St George and the companies in the Destra Group executing full releases in favour of Prime, the Destra Group and the directors and associates of the members of the Destra Group.
 At subsequent creditors' meetings, creditors of a majority of the companies within the Destra Group resolved that DOCAs should be executed in terms reflecting Prime's DOCA proposal, while the creditors of other companies within the Destra Group resolved on 24 April 2009 that those companies should be placed into liquidation.
 One of these was that St George agree to execute releases and covenants not to sue in favour of Prime, all former, present and future directors and associates of Prime, the companies in the Destra Group, and all former, present and future directors and associates of those companies.
 The plaintiffs are of the opinion that it will be in the interests of the unsecured creditors to agree to the new DOCA proposal because they will stand to receive a dividend of 0.05 cents in the dollar as opposed to no dividend at all should the DOCA not be accepted and the Destra Group companies remain in liquidation.
 As I noted in Palmer and Collis and Terraplanet Limited (in liquidation), in the matter of Terraplanet Limited (in liquidation) [2007] FCA 2092 at [22] , a liquidator is at liberty under s 436B(1) of the Act to appoint another person as administrator without the necessity of leave.
