 Mr Young contends, however, that in the exercise of its discretion the Court should not make a sequestration order because of a claim that he makes against ICM which is the subject of pending litigation (see below).
 THE HEARING ON 31 JULY 2009 At the hearing on 31 July 2009 there was in evidence a copy of an "Assignment Deed" dated 30 July 2009 between AAC, NSW DPI and GRDC by which NSW DPI and GRDC assigned to AAC their respective rights, title and interest in the chickpea line G846-2-5, identified as "Bumper Kabulis" and any cause of action held by them respectively under the PBR Act in relation to the sale of that product by ICM.
 A declaration that AAC has validly and effectively assigned to the first applicant (" Young ") the Rights, including to commence and continue an action for infringement under section 53(1) of the PBR Act.
 A declaration that by engaging in all or part of the ICM Conduct, ICM: (a) converted to its own use and benefit the Bumper Chickpea Crop; (b) is required to pay damages in the Sale Amount, alternatively, some other amount to be determined.
 A declaration that by engaging in all or part of the ICM Conduct, ICM had and received the Sale Amount to AAC's own use and benefit and that ICM is required to account for or pay by way of restitution the Sale Amount, alternatively some other amount to be determined.
 The result of the first and second matters noted is that this Court is now seized of the claims made by Mr Young and AAC against ICM in the 2007 DC Proceeding as well as in the proceeding that they have recently commenced in this Court.
 On about 19 August 2009 Young and AAC served a draft Further Amended Statement of Claim to be the subject of the Motion of 8 July 2009 in the District Court proceeding 5792 of 2007 (now transferred to the Federal Court) and that document be received into evidence for the limited purpose of showing what the proposed amendments are.
 In substance the position is that since Mr Svehla's involvement on or just before 15 July 2009, or perhaps since the Supplementary Deed of Assignment dated 12 June 2009, Mr Young has shaped a new and complex case against ICM.
 By this document AAC purported to assign to Mr Young the benefit of, and the right to enforce, any judgment or order (including any order for costs) in favour of AAC in the 2007 DC Proceeding (including if that proceeding was transferred to another Court).
 Clause 1.1 provided that except where inconsistent with the Deed of Assignment of Fruits of the Action itself, terms defined in the Supplementary Deed of Assignment or the Further Supplementary Deed of Assignment had the same meanings where used in the Deed of Assignment of Fruits of the Action.
