 The parties were agreed, and the Court approved, that in the first instance the hearing should be concerned with questions of primary liability, and relief directly connected thereto, rather than questions of pecuniary relief.
 In answer to these allegations Goodman Fielder said that the representation actually made was that: "according to a Research Survey carried out in 2007 and 2008, Logicol was the No 1 recommended plant sterol spread for dietary change".
 As the case was argued by Goodman Fielder, there was no tension between the representation said actually to have been made and the factual admissions set out in (d) and (e) above.
 That was because the research surveys referred to were not directed, in terms, to any question or judgment about greater efficacy or effectiveness of the kind referred to in either (d) or (e).
 Taken at the highest for Goodman Fielder, and assuming I accepted that the new logo made the representation Goodman Fielder suggested, it would at least be necessary that it faithfully reflect the actual result of the surveys.
 Section 52 Principles to be applied Section 52(1) of the Act provides as follows: (1) A corporation shall not, in trade or commerce, engage in conduct that is misleading or deceptive or is likely to mislead or deceive.
 It simply invites the question: "No 1 for what? " In my view it is inescapable that one representation, at least, was that Logicol was recommended No 1 for lowering cholesterol absorption.
 Counsel for Goodman Fielder, however, suggested, on the basis of the research surveys, that Logicol could be fairly represented as No 1 because it was, at the least, an equal No 1 with Pro-Activ in recommendations made by doctors about what brand of table spread to use to assist in lowering cholesterol.
 An order permanently restraining the Respondents, whether by themselves, their servants or agents, in trade or commerce, from making, or causing to be made, the Performance Claim in respect of Logicol in its current or a materially similar formulation at any time that Flora pro-activ in its current or a materially similar formulation is available for purchase by consumers from retail stores in Australia.
 The first and third respondents have, in trade or commerce, between 14 June 2009 and 10 August 2009 in connexion with the supply or possible supply of Logicol, and in connexion with the promotion of the supply or use of Logicol, falsely represented that Logicol was of a particular standard or quality, in contravention of s 53(a) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) by distributing, or causing to be distributed, packets of Logicol bearing a logo including the terms "#1 RECOMMENDED".
