 In a similar vein, the basis upon which the bonuses, rebates and other supplier and carrier payments made to Allphones are to be shared between Allphones and its franchisees and the quantum of those payments in respect of a period of some years prior to 2008 are also significant issues in the proceedings.
 In a letter from Corrs to Phillips Fox dated 2 October 2008, Corrs catalogued a list of concerns which the ACCC had with the way in which Allphones was negotiating with its franchisees.
 In the covering letter, Phillips Fox said: These documents are provided to the ACCC on the same basis as to Confidentiality and Without Prejudice status as Allphones provided its Supplementary Statement of Position and Supporting Materials dated 16 October 2008.
 Namely: Confidentiality That the ACCC treat the Second BDO Report and Allphones' Second Supplementary Statement of Position as confidential on the terms set out at numbered paragraph 1 of your letter to us dated 23 October 2008.
 Without Prejudice Allphones maintains that the Second BDO Report and Allphones' Second Supplementary Statement of Position have been produced for the sole purpose of the dispute resolution process currently being carried out pursuant to the terms of the Franchising Code of Conduct and its agreements with eligible franchisees.
 Allphones considers, in that context, that it was implicit in its Undertaking dated 9 October 2008 that it would provide the Second BDO Report and Allphones' Second Supplementary Statement of Position to the ACCC on terms which did not waive or otherwise affect the without prejudice nature of those documents.
 For clarity, Allphones acknowledges that: 13.1 acceptance of the Supporting Material on the above basis by the ACCC does not constitute an admission by the ACCC that the Supporting Material (or any part of it) is, in fact, without prejudice.
 The contents of the Phillips Fox letter concerning the alleged without prejudice privilege repeated the substance of the Phillips Fox letter dated 27 October 2008 written in respect of the Supporting Calculations Document.
 The First BDO Report It is clear from the ACCC's submissions that it seeks a ruling in respect of the copy of the first BDO report sent to it on 26 September 2008 (not the original).
 In those circumstances, I think that the implied undertaking would extend to allowing the second BDO report and the Supporting Calculations Document to be used for the purposes of all three sets of proceedings.
