 THE DISMISSAL MOTION By motion brought by the Goldfields Land and Sea Council ("the GLSC"), on behalf of the Ngadju applicants, the Court is requested to order that the Narnoobinya application be dismissed pursuant to O 35A r 3(1)(a) and/or O 20 r 4(2) of the Federal Court Rules .
 The Narnoobinya applicants filed their application on 4 June 1997 but have not taken any steps to file evidentiary material or points of claim or in any other way sought to progress their claim in the Court, although they have been involved in mediation conducted in the Native Title Tribunal.
 The Narnoobinya applicants were joined to the Ngadju application in September 2000 but took no action to file any evidence in the Ngadju application or to call any witnesses during the hearing of preservation evidence or to question any Ngadju witnesses.
 The Narnoobinya applicants ceased to be party to the Ngadju application in November 2006 as result of failure to comply with an order of the Court in the Ngadju proceeding that they file an address for service.
 Whilst the Narnoobinya applicants have had some involvement in mediation in the Native Title Tribunal in the Ngadju matter, the only action taken by them since November 2006 in the Court is to seek to restore their position as having party status in the Ngadju claim.
 In an affidavit filed in support of the Narnoobinya applicants' application to be restored as a party in the Ngadju claim, Ms Normae Bennett (the sister of the applicant, Ms Dorothy Ann Tucker) says, on information from Ms Tucker, that no address for service was filed in 2006 on account of Ms Tucker's illness and the lack of legal representation.
 Capacity of GLSC to bring the dismissal motion The Narnoobinya applicants in their written submissions submit that the GLSC has no standing to bring the motion on behalf of the Ngadju applicants because the Ngadju applicants are not party to the Narnoobinya application.
 Merits of the dismissal application The only formal step taken by the Narnoobinya applicants in their own proceeding is to contest the dismissal application in the course of seeking rejoinder to the Ngadju application.
 On the other hand, the Ngadju applicants fear that the State will not be interested in progressing settlement discussions if there is the likelihood of the Narnoobinya claim being actively prosecuted in the Court.
 THE JOINDER MOTION If the Narnoobinya applicants show little interest in pursuing their own application with appropriate diligence, little point will be served in allowing them to be rejoined to the Ngadju application or be made a respondent to it.
 Associate: Dated: 8 December 2009 In WAD 6170 of 1998 Counsel for the Applicants: Mr S Wright Solicitor for the Applicants: Wright Barristers Solicitors Pty Ltd Counsel for the Goldfields Land Sea Council: Mr V Hughston SC with Ms T Jowett Solicitor for the Goldfields Land Sea Council: Goldfields Land Sea Council There were no appearances by the other respondents.
