 This states that: "It is policy that decision-makers should not be satisfied that the applicant has an established reputation unless the applicant or sponsor provides a letter of endorsement from the national sporting body..." The Tribunal was not satisfied that the appellant had an established reputation in his field of sport as required by subclause 421.222(4)(c)(iii).
 The Tribunal accorded some weight to the sponsor's claim that the appellant was responsible for the success of its junior players, but without medical evidence it could not give much weight to the appellant's claim that he expected to resume his international career in early 2008.
 The Tribunal concluded that: "Having regard to Badminton Australia's opinion, the visa applicant's competition results since 2004, and his inability to play since April 2007, the Tribunal is not satisfied that the visa applicant has an established reputation in the field of sport at the time of the Tribunal's decision.
 The Tribunal was aware of the fact that the applicant held a 421 visa at the time of the application for the current visa as it used the phrase "continue to satisfy"... and referred to his subclass 421 (sport) visa. " His Honour noted that the correct criteria in relation to "established reputation" was applied both as a matter of policy, namely whether there was an endorsement from a national body, and independently from policy, which was an unimpeachable finding of fact.
 In summary, they are that his Honour erred in not finding that the Tribunal: failed to apply the correct time of decision criterion and applied the wrong test by applying subclause 421.222(4)(c)(iii) and asking whether it was satisfied at the time of the decision that the appellant had an established reputation in the field of sport; failed to apply clause 421.230 correctly by not finding that the appellant only had to satisfy the Tribunal that there was no reason to believe he did not continue to satisfy the primary criteria set out in clauses 421.221 to 421.229; erred in applying subclause 421.222(4)(c)(iii) as "an anterior step" to finding it was not satisfied there was no reason to believe the appellant did not continue to satisfy the primary criteria; and failed to ask itself the correct question, which his Honour accepted was whether the appellant continued to have an established reputation; and went beyond the Regulations in applying the policy that there be an endorsement from a national body.
 The appellant developed these grounds by submitting that in relation to the time of decision criteria within clause 421.222, there are two distinct types of visa requiring the satisfaction of separate primary criteria and that the Tribunal and the Federal Magistrate had fundamentally misunderstood this distinction.
 One type of sports visa applied to a person who was not the holder of a sports visa at the time of the application; the other type of sports visa applied to a person who was the holder of a sports visa at the time of the application for a further sports visa.
 The appellant submitted that despite referring to clause 421.230 at various points in its decision, the Tribunal had erroneously asked itself an anterior question in its inquiry, whether the appellant had an established reputation in the field of sport. (I interpolate for later reference that what the Tribunal said (in par [55]) was "The Tribunal is not satisfied that the visa applicant has an established reputation in the field of sport at the time of the Tribunal's decision").
 The respondent submitted that the proper construction of clause 421.230 required the decision-maker, at the time of making the decision to have regard to the primary criteria for the grant of a visa in order to consider whether or not there is or is not any reason to believe that the applicant does not continue to satisfy them.
 To this extent, the respondent submitted that the Tribunal's application of clause 421.230 did not disclose any error in misconstruing or misapplying the provision, particularly as it was entitled to consider whether the appellant satisfied the primary criteria for the grant of a subclass 421 visa at the time the decision was made.
