 Mr Murdoch SC on behalf of QTAC gave an undertaking during the hearing that no action would be taken by QTAC in respect of Ms Jones' employment until delivery of my decision in relation to the interlocutory relief she has sought.
 Relief Sought Pursuant to her application Ms Jones seeks relief for adverse action taken against her, and/or proposed to be taken against her, by QTAC because of her role in negotiations for an Enterprise Agreement, and for breach of her contract of employment.
 On 30 October 2009 Professor Terry wrote to Cooper Grace Ward listing further new allegations and enclosing a schedule of relevant entries from the diary notes of Walter Williams, the company secretary of QTAC, which entries referred to Ms Jones.
 On 11 November 2009 Cooper Grace Ward provided a further written response to QTAC on behalf of Ms Jones containing very detailed comments, including with respect to allegations made in the Carol Watson report and the involvement of the ASU in the process.
 In my view, placing to one side for the moment whether the commencement of the investigation constituted adverse action against Ms Jones, there is little evidence at this stage to support any claim by Ms Jones that the Carol Watson report was commissioned by QTAC other than in good faith.
 In this case Ms Jones has established at least a sufficient likelihood of success in claiming that the commencement of the investigation by QTAC and the subsequent conduct of the investigation were prejudicial or disadvantageous to her position as an employee.
 As is clear from the affidavit of Professor Terry sworn 18 November 2009 (paras 23-25), a meeting of the members of QTAC was proposed to make a decision concerning Ms Jones' employment based on the Carol Watson report and Ms Jones' responses to that report.
 In my view Ms Jones has established a prima facie case that this correspondence, and the proposed meeting, constituted threats to terminate Ms Jones' employment, which in itself is adverse action pursuant to s 342(2) of the FW Act. 6.
 Third, as Mr Murdoch SC correctly submitted, the relevant terms and conditions permit termination by QTAC of Ms Jones' employment by three months written notice at any time, for any reason whatsoever or for no reason whatsoever .
 I agree with the submissions of QTAC that Ms Jones' terms and conditions of employment constitute a comprehensive and considered document, and that this is not a case where the parties have left substantial terms to be determined by implication. 5.
 On such evidence as is before me at this stage, it appears that QTAC has been at pains to ensure that Ms Jones has been provided with every opportunity to communicate with the QTAC in respect of the investigators report.
 In relation to this issue, Ms Jones submitted in summary that: In response QTAC submitted that the balance of convenience is strongly in favour of denying the interlocutory relief sought because, in summary: The QTAC submissions are, again, well-argued and persuasive.
 I accept Mr Spry's submission that Ms Jones has a potential remedy now under this legislation, and that remedy would be lost if the interlocutory injunction were not granted and a decision made by QTAC to discipline Ms Jones, or terminate her employment. 2.
