 The issue is whether the Federal Magistrate erred in not being satisfied that that there was "other sufficient cause" so that a sequestration order ought not to be made within the meaning of s 52(2)(b) of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth).
 He submits that, if the Court is not satisfied that the litigation has sufficient prospects of success, he at least has real claims which would justify a lengthy adjournment of the petition until their prospects become clearer.
 It also seeks the same relief as is sought in the Supreme Court, setting aside the Jenolan Deed and the transfer, notwithstanding that it does not join any agency of NSW nor explain the duplication of claims, though this might appear oppressive to the Bank.
 It also seeks damages for Mr Field from the Bank and the Receivers, apparently for their conduct in relation to JCR during 2005 and 2006. [ 16 ] In effect, the Federal Court proceeding attempts better to present the facts and claims which were raised in the amended response before McDougall J.
 The Federal Magistrate's summary description of the Federal Court proceeding being equivalent to the Supreme Court proceeding in [16] was correct. (3) The complaint about the Federal Magistrate's reference to the obscurity of the statement of claim and the lack of a clear pleading, as reasoned at [21] above, is also unfounded.
 The Federal Magistrate dealt with this suggestion and rightly concluded that it was unlikely and of dubious utility given the essential issue of liability under a guarantee which contains waivers of the type in the guarantee in question.
 McDougall J, at [17] and [20] in St George Bank Limited v Archer Phillip Field [2007] NSWSC 902 , said: [ 17 ] Against that background, it is therefore necessary to consider the issues that might be raised.
 Ground 7 alleges error in the Federal Magistrate failing to find or consider that Mr Field could not have raised the same matters in the Supreme Court proceedings as now raised in the Federal Court proceeding.
 Insofar as it alleges that the Federal Magistrate should not or could not have taken into account McDougall J's conclusions that the waiver provisions in the guarantee presented insuperable difficulties for Mr Field in the Supreme Court proceedings, I disagree.
 The Federal Magistrate was entitled to have regard to the fact that, in the Supreme Court proceedings, Mr Field also claimed a discharge from any liability under the guarantee but was unable to formulate an arguable defence in support of that claim.
 The Federal Magistrate, at [27], said that "[o]ne of the difficulties is, as was pointed out by counsel for the Bank, that even if the Jenolan Deed was held to be void of legal effect, it is not apparent that this would allow the return to JCR of any valuable rights of a lessee under the 99 year lease.
