 On 23 July 2009, Mansfield J made orders allowing the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation to inspect documents seized by the Australian Federal Police and the Australian Tax Office from Mr Nicholls, at the time of execution of a search warrant on 6 May 2008.
 Mr Nicholls appealed from those orders and that was the appeal which came before the Full Court of the Federal Court and which was the reason why the stay order was made by his Honour on 23 July 2009.
 The grounds of the application are to enable the respondent to file a notice of appeal from the orders of 23 July 2009, and for leave to file a notice of appeal out of time in relation to those orders.
 Earlier today I heard the application for an extension of time within which to file and serve a notice of appeal from the orders made by Mansfield J and, for reasons given, dismissed that application.
 However, he has not relied upon the fact of that application as a ground for a stay of the orders of 23 July 2009, nor could he in my opinion have done so, because he could not, I think, on any understanding identify a special leave point which would allow for the stay to be granted.
 That application was accompanied by an affidavit in which he exhibited an application which he had made to the Federal Magistrates Court on or about 20 August 2009 seeking a further review of a number of decisions, including the decisions which were the subject matter of the proceeding before Mansfield J on 15 January 2009.
 However in my opinion, the issue of that proceeding does not support the application for a stay, because the proceeding in the Federal Magistrates Court purports to have the Court review the decisions of the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation and the Commissioner of Police which were the subject matter of the proceeding before Mansfield J and disposed of by him on 15 January 2009.
 In my opinion, it would not be appropriate to stay the orders of 23 July 2009 made by Mansfield J, on the basis that the applicant wished to re-agitate in the Federal Magistrates Court the same issues which his Honour had disposed of on 15 January 2009.
 Mr Nicholls said that the evidence which would support the application for a review of the decisions, which had been impugned in the proceedings before Mansfield J was different than that which had been adduced before his Honour in the proceeding disposed of on 15 January 2009.
 The time for Mr Nicholls to adduce evidence in relation to the decisions in which he complained was in the proceeding brought before Mansfield J which was disposed of in his orders of 15 January 2009.
