 THE NATURE OF THE PROCEEDING The respondents, the Australian Federal Police (the AFP) and the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation (the DCT) have applied to have this proceeding summarily dismissed, and have also filed a Notice of Objection to Competency of 23 September 2008.
 It conflated the decision of the Magistrate to issue the search warrant with the actions or decisions of one or other of the respondents to apply for it, and their actions or decisions in executing it.
 On 27 November 2008, the respondents filed an Outline of Submissions on their Notice of Objection to Competency and gave notice of their application for an order dismissing the proceeding, having regard to the persistent failure of Mr Nicholls to comply with the orders of the Court and of the Federal Magistrates Court.
 No other attack upon the decision to issue the search warrant is identified. (c) The execution of the search warrant The amended application attacks the decisions to execute the search warrant and to seize the materials which were seized.
 The Outline of Contentions focuses upon the decisions of those involved in executing the search warrant when the Australian Taxation Office had already exercised coercive powers to acquire information from Mr Nicholls or had used such information to support the application for the search warrant, and so (it is said) the decision to execute the search warrant was not authorised by law and was an improper exercise of power, and was illegal or an abuse of power.
 Thus, in this regard, ss 5(1)(d) and (e) of the ADJR Act were invoked. (d) General In oral submissions, counsel for Mr Nicholls confined the attack to the decision to apply for the search warrant, asserting reviewable error because it had not been disclosed to the Magistrate that the ATO (which I assume includes the DCT) had previously obtained information from Mr Nicholls by use of the coercive power of s 65 of the TAA.
 The propositions contended for are that: information obtained by the ATO in the exercise of its coercive powers may not be used for the purposes of a prosecution; such information cannot be used for the purposes of investigation of criminal offences, including in support of an application for a search warrant; and Mr Nicholls had a right to natural justice in respect of the disclosure of such information by the officer applying for the search warrant to the Magistrate for the purpose of the application for the search warrant.
 The circumstances, at least at that level of generality, appear to be the same as those applicable to the decision of the fifth "respondent" (and of the AFP and the DCT, as alleged in paras 9.8 and 9.9 of the amended application).
 His Honour decided that the decision to swear the affidavit in support of the application for the search warrant and to apply for it were not decisions of an administrative character made under an enactment: see s 3(1) of the ADJR Act.
 His Honour's focus then was upon whether the applicants in that case had demonstrated an arguable case that in swearing the affidavit in support of the application for, and in applying for, the search warrant the person seeking the search warrant had misrepresented material facts going to the exercise of the power by the Magistrate to issue the warrant.
 Here, the complaint is that certain information about the information presented in support of the application for the search warrant was not disclosed, namely that it included information coercively acquired from Mr Nicholls and which for that reason could not be relied upon by the issuing officer.
 Neither could prove on the balance of probabilities that the material submitted to the Magistrate in support of the application for the search warrant included information provided coercively by Mr Nicholls or by the two banks, or that the Magistrate was misinformed by omission into believing he could rely on the information submitted to him.
