 I think that the Deputy Commissioner is not entitled to judgment on alternative assessments at the one time but that he is entitled to proceed to judgment on his assessment of the defendant without releasing the other person assessed; however he cannot proceed to judgment on the other assessment unless he repays any tax recovered under the judgment in this case. ...' The fourth respondent relies heavily upon this passage from his Honour's reasons for judgment.
 In Held it had been contended by senior counsel for the defendant that the Deputy Commissioner had issued inconsistent assessments in respect of the same tax in respect of the 1981 tax year and that he was not entitled to proceed to judgment on one assessment without withdrawing the other.
 At all material times s 166 of the 1936 Act has made provision for the Commissioner to make assessments of the amount of the taxable income of a taxpayer and of the tax payable thereon and s 174 has made provision for the Commissioner to serve notices of assessment in writing upon persons liable to pay the tax the subject of the assessments.
 Section 175 of the 1936 Act provided: '175 The validity of any assessment shall not be affected by reason that any of the provisions of this Act have not been complied with. ' Section 177(1) of the 1936 Act provided for notices of assessment to have a conclusive evidentiary character both in respect of the due making of the assessment and that the amount and all the particulars of the assessment were correct.
 It relevantly provided: '14ZL(1) This Part applies if a provision of an Act ... provides that a person who is dissatisfied with an assessment, determination, notice or decision ... may object against it in the manner set out in this Part. ' Part IVC proceeded to provide for the review by the Administrative Appeals Tribunal of decisions by the Commissioner in relation to certain taxation objections and requests for extension of time and for appeals to this Court against decisions by the Commissioner in relation to certain taxation objections.
 In McAndrew v Federal Commissioner of Taxation [1956] HCA 62 ; (1956) 98 CLR 263 ('McAndrew') at 280-282 Taylor J said of s 177(1): 'The purpose of that sub-section [s 177(1)] , is, subject to an important qualification, to make the production of a notice of assessment in judicial proceedings conclusive evidence of the due making of the assessment and that the amount and all the particulars of the assessment are correct.
 It will be appreciated that Part IVC of the Administration Act gives the taxpayer the option to seek review of reviewable objection decisions, as defined in s 14ZQ, in the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, or to appeal to the Federal Court against an appealable objection decision, as defined in that section (see s 14ZZ of the Administration Act).
 His Honour said at 188: 'Section 177 gives effect to the substantive provisions of the Act, in particular s 175, the effect of which is to ensure that the validity of an assessment does not depend upon compliance with any of the particular provisions of the [1936] Act or considerations of purpose.
 On 5 October 2009 a Deputy Commissioner of Taxation of the Commonwealth of Australia issued a certificate under s 255-45 of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act certifying that notice of the several assessments were or were taken to have been served on the fourth respondent as trustee for Webtel Management Super Fund under a taxation law and that as at 5 October 2009 the sum of $25,561,078.93 was a debt due and payable to the Commonwealth by the fourth respondent as trustee for Webtel Management Super Fund in relation to the tax related liability referred to in the certificate.
 It would appear that on 27 April 2009 the Deputy Commissioner served a garnishee notice on Westpac Banking Corporation under s 260-5 of Schedule 1 to the Administration Act requiring the payment of money owed by the Bank to the first respondent, to the Commissioner of Taxation.
 In my opinion the right of the Commissioner to recover the tax the subject of the notices of assessment or notices of amended assessment referred to in the certificates directed to the fourth respondent are not founded upon the same right or cause of action that entitled the applicant to obtain judgment against the first respondent.
 In my opinion the fourth respondent has no reasonable prospect of successfully defending that part of the proceeding which records the claim of the applicant upon the fourth respondent as found in paragraph 6 of the Amended Notice of Motion filed 6 October 2009 or, indeed, the updated claim which takes into account interest up to 22 November 2009.
