 I was also informed that they had found out recently Michael LOHSE had been speaking to their fourteen year old daughter on the computer site facebook. ' Tuesday 4 December 2007 Selection of the first respondent, Ian Arthur to determine whether or not Mr Lohse breached the APS Code of Conduct.
 I sent a text message from my work mobile phone to Ms BARCLAY's work mobile phone which read "have you put puss to bed"[. ] I state that I did send her a text message containing that wording. ... it was sent in reference only to Mr HISLOP and his apparent and visible heavy intoxication at the time [he left the Jetty Hotel with Ms Barclay]. ...
 On the balance of probabilities, Mr Arthur determined on the evidence before him that you did fail to treat Ms Barclay with respect and courtesy and failed to behave at all times in a way that upholds the APS Values and the integrity and good reputation of the APS.
 I contend that I have been denied natural justice by not being given the opportunity to promptly respond to or to refresh my memory while said alleged incidents were fresh in my mind and that that lengthy and inordinate time gap has allowed the alleged "victim" and alleged "witnesses" a considerable and disproportionate advantage over me.
 The investigation has not been conducted objectively, the investigator has simply set out to substantiate the allegations that were made and has not explored all other available avenues of investigation and has taken into account irrelevant considerations and has also failed to taken into account relevant considerations. ..
 The procedures, dated 5 December 1999 were set out under 10 separate headings including 'Application of Procedures', 'Selection of Decision Maker', 'Formal Hearing not required', 'Information to be given to employee before Determination is made', 'Determination process to be informal', 'Person making Determination to be independent and unbiased', 'Action that may be taken if breach found to have occurred' and 'Record of Determination'.
 Under the heading 'Determination to be informal' the procedures established by the Agency Head for determining whether an APS employee had breached the Code of Conduct required that they be carried out 'with as little formality and as much expedition as a proper consideration of the matter allows'.
 In circumstances where no formal hearing was held in relation to the suspected breaches by Mr Lohse of the Code of Conduct and he was without an opportunity to test evidence provided to the decision-maker by others, it was essential, in my opinion, that he knew what was being put to the decision-maker, by, in particular, the complainant Ms Barclay, against himself.
 Given that a contravention of s 13(3) of the Code of Conduct required a finding that an 'APS employee, when acting in the course of APS employment , must treat everyone with respect and courtesy' it may be said that Mr Arthur's suggestion and subsequent confirmation of the purpose of the gathering at the Jetty Hotel demonstrated a prejudgment on a material issue before Mr Lohse was even informed of the allegations against him on 22 January 2008.
 Other matters arose during Mr Arthur's interview of Ms Barclay on 21 December 2007 which supported an inference that, by the time Mr Lohse first had notice of the investigation into his alleged breach of the APS Code of Conduct, Mr Arthur had a closed mind which was not open to persuasion one way or the other.
