 The Tribunal found that the intensity or level of the applicant's activities for the period from 1 July 2001 to 31 December 2005 was such that he was not "unemployed" within the meaning of that term in s 593(1) of the Act.
 The notice of motion and affidavit of the applicant did not expressly articulate the questions of law that the applicant wished to raise in addition to those in his notice of appeal.
 The Tribunal explained its reasons for doing so in the following passage: "However, I do not accept the estimates of time in exhibit R2, or Mr Skarzynski's evidence as to his estimates of the time spent on the sale, repair and purchase of vehicles.
 The Tribunal said that, in the absence of credible evidence of the time actually spent on the relevant activities, the number of vehicles purchased, repaired and sold (subject to the matters identified in [23]-[24] above), and the activities normally associated therewith provided "an appropriate basis for assessing the intensity of his business activities".
 The Tribunal examined the number of purchases and sales and probable purchases and sales during the period from 24 July 1998 to 4 May 2006 and reached the following conclusions: "I find that in the period from 1 July 2001 to 31 December 2005, the intensity of his activities was such that he was not unemployed within the meaning of s 593(1) of the SS Act.
 The Tribunal then said: "I referred above to a number of other matters on which the Secretary relied in support of its contention that Mr Skarzynski was not unemployed during the relevant period.
 In particular, he explained his reasons for obtaining an Australian Business Number and registering for GST, for registering the business name ' Autocare Port Adelaide ', for listing that name in the telephone directory, for obtaining a telephone connection for premises at Aberdeen Street, Port Adelaide, for using those premises after he had purchased certain damaged vehicles, and for arranging for electricity to be provided to the premises.
 Ground one The first ground relates to the Tribunal's findings as to the applicant's evidence regarding the time he spent on the activities associated with the vehicles the Tribunal identified ("the vehicle-related activities").
 The Tribunal found that the applicant's evidence was unconvincing and unreliable and that, in his evidence and exhibit R2, he significantly under-estimated the time he spent on the vehicle-related activities.
 I do not think there is any doubt the Tribunal set out in its reasons its findings on material questions of fact relevant to the applicant's evidence of the time and effort he expended on vehicle-related activities.
 The Tribunal was entitled to rely on what it called a propensity "to act dishonestly in order to achieve a financial advantage or to avoid a detriment" and the fact that it did so does not indicate bias or prejudgment on its part.
 He accepted that it was not an error for the Tribunal to take into account some of his activities in connection with vehicles purchased for personal use, but that it was an error for it to take into account other activities.
