 It relevantly provided: '120(6) Nothing in the provisions of this section, or in any other provision of this Act, shall be taken to impose on: (a) a claimant ... for a pension ... under this Act; or (b) the Commonwealth, the Department or any other person in relation to such a claim ... any onus of proving any matter that is, or might be, relevant to the determination of the claim ... . ' Under s 120(1), the Repatriation Commission was required to determine that the death of a veteran was 'war-caused' unless it was satisfied, beyond reasonable doubt, that there was no sufficient ground for making that determination, where a claim was made for a pension in respect of the death of the veteran and it related to the operational service rendered by the veteran.
 Basis for determining the factors On the sound medical-scientific evidence available, the Repatriation Medical Authority is of the view that it is more probable than not that malignant neoplasm of the lung and death from malignant neoplasm of the lung can be related to relevant service rendered by veterans ...
 Critically, the Tribunal did not make a finding of fact that Mr Milbourn smoked during the period of his army service, that his smoking, if any, was related to, connected with, attributable to or arose out of his service and that his smoking, if any, satisfied the requirements of factor 6(a)(ii) of the Statement of Principles.
 Insofar as s 43(2B) of the AAT Act requires the Tribunal to include in its reasons for decision references to 'the evidence or other material' on which findings of fact, adjudged by it to be material, were based, it seems to me that the expression 'other material' was intended to contemplate matters such as an agreement as to relevant facts, other material to which the Tribunal may have had regard which did not constitute 'evidence' and material such as policy statements.
 By the same section, s 43(2) was amended to provide: '43(2) Subject to this section and to sections 35, 36 and 36A, the Tribunal shall give reasons either orally or in writing for its decision. ' The Explanatory Memoranda circulated by authority of the Minister for Industrial Relations in the House of Representatives and of the Attorney-General in the Senate, in respect of the Bill which became Act No. 26 of 1982, are not particularly enlightening in relation to the amendment of s 43(2) and the insertion of the new subsection 43(2B).
 New sub-section 43(2B) provides that, where the Tribunal gives written reasons for decision, those reasons are to include its findings on material questions of fact and a reference to the evidence or other material on which those findings were based - this is the same form in which written reasons are now required to be given. ...' The Explanatory Memorandum circulated in the Senate was, relevantly, expressed in the same terms.
 If it does not then give written reasons, it must do so if requested to do so by a party to the proceedings. ...' Section 430(1) of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) which deals with decisions on review by the Refugee Review Tribunal, is substantially similar to s 43(2) and (2B) of the AAT Act.
 It provided: '430(1) Where the Tribunal [the Refugee Review Tribunal] makes its decision on a review, the Tribunal must prepare a written statement that: (a) sets out the decision of the Tribunal on the review; and (b) sets out the reasons for the decision; and (c) sets out the findings on any material questions of fact; and (d) refers to the evidence or any other material on which the findings of fact were based. ' It will be appreciated that s 43(2B) does not include the word 'any' before the words 'material questions of fact'.
 In the circumstances, the observations of the members of the High Court in relation to s 430(1) of the Migration Act in Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Yusuf [2001] HCA 30 ; (2001) 206 CLR 323 ('Yusuf') provide assistance in relation to the requirements imposed upon the Tribunal by s 43(2B) of the AAT Act.
 If it does not set out a finding on some question of fact, that will indicate that it made no finding on that matter; and that, in turn, may indicate that the Tribunal did not consider the matter to be material. ' Later, at [9], the Chief Justice said: '[9] The major difficulty ... lies in the language of s 430.
 The question is attributability. ' Tribunal Member: 'So really all we are interested in is really the smoking history prior to his service and during the time of his service. ' Counsel for the applicant: 'That is so. ' Counsel for the respondent: 'Yes. ' ...] [5] Mrs Milbourn told us that she did not know her late husband until after his period of service but that he had told her he smoked when he was 18 and stopped for a time, aged 21, before he resumed smoking in the army.
 Eventually he stopped in 1977 about 10 years before he died of lung cancer. [emphasis added] ... [7] The condition bringing about death in the present case is not disputed ... [9] In the present case, we have no direct evidence ; we have only a reference to smoking included in a failed claim Mr Milbourn made in 1983 for acceptance as service related the disability of bronchiectasis, and Mrs Milbourn's recollections of what Mr Milbourn told her of his smoking during army service.
