 In the initial Statement of Claim, the applicants claimed declarations, injunctions, delivery up of infringing copies, damages and additional damages pursuant to s 115(4) of the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) ( the Act ).
 In that pleading, the applicants also claimed relief pursuant to ss 52 , 53 (g) and 82 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ( the Trade Practices Act ).
 On 27 March 2008, by their Amended Statement of Claim, the first and second applicants joined the fourth respondent ( CSC ), a Taiwanese company, as an additional respondent in the proceedings.
 At the same time, they added causes of action for infringement of copyright and the authorisation of infringement of copyright in a second television drama series entitled " Once Upon a Time in Shanghai ".
 Those orders were made as a result of and in conformity with Terms of Settlement agreed between the applicants, on the one hand, and the first and third respondents, on the other hand.
 The applicants allege that: TVB Australia (the third applicant); or alternatively TVBI (the second applicant) is the exclusive licensee in Australia of: (i) The right to communicate to the public (except by the internet) the Twin of Brothers series; and (ii) The right to authorise, including by way of sub-licence, the right to communicate the Twin of Brothers series to the public (except by the internet).
 In the Consolidated Defence, the second and fourth respondents admit that each episode of the series Twin of Brothers is a separate cinematograph film within the meaning of s 10(1) of the Act.
 The applicants go on to allege that, from at least 28 January 2007, CSC has, in Australia, without the licence of the applicants, communicated the whole or a substantial part of each episode of the Twin of Brothers series and thus infringed the applicants' copyright in each episode of that series.
 The second respondent is said to have directed and procured and authorised the first respondent's and CSC's infringement of the applicants' copyright in the Twin of Brothers series and also to have participated in a common design with the first respondent, the third respondent and CSC to infringe TVBO's copyright in each film comprising the Twin of Brothers series.
 In light of the above matters, I find that copyright subsists in each film that makes up the series Twin of Brothers and that TVBO is the owner of that copyright in Australia.
 THE TRANSMISSION OF EPISODE 5 OF "TWIN OF BROTHERS" The evidence establishes that, on 28 January 2007, the fourth respondent transmitted Episode 5 of Twin of Brothers to subscribers of the first respondent's pay television service in Australia.
