 It is common ground that Mr Mautner does not satisfy the residential requirements for Australian citizenship laid down in Item 7(8)(1) of Sch 3 to the Australian Citizenship (Transitionals and Consequentials) Act 2007 (Cth).
 The Tribunal declined to exercise the discretion conferred by Item 7(8)(4) as it was not satisfied that in the five year period prior to making his application for citizenship, that is from 15 February 2002 to 16 February 2007, Mr Mautner was engaged in activity beneficial to Australia.
 These instructions stated that the discretion should only be exercised in favour of an applicant who was self-employed and whose "frequent travel abroad was essential to the successful operation of their business, whether for an extended period or on a regular short-term basis".
 Mr Mautner's evidence was that it was necessary for him to reside in Thailand in order to develop and carry out his business but that he intended to return to Australia permanently once the business had reached a sustainable level.
 Mr Mautner's evidence emphasised that his organic coconut milk product is unique because it is sourced from a company, Merit Food Products Co Ltd, which is accredited by Australian Certified Organic Pty Ltd.
 The appellant complains that in not advising him that his evidence would be disbelieved without corroboration, the Tribunal denied him procedural fairness and breached the rule in Browne v Dunn (1894) 6 R 67.
 However, while the rules of evidence may not apply, the Tribunal is specifically enjoined to ensure that every party to a proceeding before it "is given a reasonable opportunity to present his or her case"; s 39(1).
 Thus, as his Honour said: Where the Tribunal makes a finding contrary to the evidence of a witness in the circumstances where the matter found was not put to the witness, this will generally involve a denial of procedural fairness and would be a denial of natural justice on the part of the tribunal to do so.
 Counsel for Mr Mautner interpreted the Tribunal's rejection of Mr Mautner's evidence as raising the implication that the evidence was fabricated and that Mr Mautner was not regarded as a truthful witness.
 In the former case it would generally not be necessary for the Tribunal to advise the claimant that the evidence is not sufficient and, expressly or by implication, invite him or her to provide additional evidence.
