 As a consequence, Ms Stoddart has now sought: (1) A declaration in this Court that the common law privilege or immunity against spousal incrimination has not been abrogated by the Australian Crime Commission Act 2002 (Cth); and (2) An injunction restraining the Examiner of the Australian Crime Commission from questioning her in relation to matters concerning Ewan Alisdair James Stoddart.
 Jacobson J noted the uncertainty surrounding the notions of compellability and privilege raised by Kiefel J (at [93]) but respectfully disagreed with her Honour as to what flowed from the proposition that a wife was not compellable as a witness: see at [98].
 Jacobsen J reviewed various authorities ( S at [140] to [156]), including the Full Court decision in A v Boulton [2004] FCAFC 101 ; (2004) 136 FCR 420 (" A ") (particularly the decision of Kenny J) and the decision of Dowsett J in Stoten .
 For his part, Greenwood J agreed generally with the reasons of Jacobsen J ( S at [170]) and concluded ( S at [173]) that s 30 of the Act had the effect of excluding the operation of spousal privilege.
 As well, Mr Cooke QC relied upon Stoten where Dowsett J detailed the legislative history of s 30(2) of the Act (at [21] to [27]) and concluded (at [29]): It is quite clear from the Explanatory Memorandum and the Second Reading Speeches that, in deleting the concept of reasonable excuse and otherwise amending s 30, Parliament intended to establish a regime in which all questions posed by an examiner were to be answered, subject only the express provisions of s 30.
 Ms Martin attempted to deal with Stoten by submitting that Dowsett J had erred in that he had conceived of spousal privilege as an extension of the privilege against self-incrimination and concluded that, because the latter had been abrogated by the Act, spousal privilege had been too.
 What seemed to be at the heart of Ms Martin's submissions was that spousal privilege was a separate and distinct privilege from self-incrimination privilege and, consequently, on basic principle, the legislature could not abrogate the common law spousal privilege unless it did so by express provision or necessary implication.
 Furthermore, Ms Martin submitted that the express reference to self-incrimination privilege and the associated protections in s 30(4) and s 30(5) of the Act highlighted the fact that Parliament was only concerned to abrogate that type of privilege while leaving others untouched.
 If the person who is incriminated by the answer has no privilege, save the limited use immunity for which the Act proscribes, why should someone who is not incriminated be outside the reach of the otherwise general obligation to answer what you are asking?
 In particular, whether spousal privilege is derived from self-incrimination privilege, or is a separate and distinct type of privilege based, as Ms Martin submits, on the unity of the family, the ultimate purpose of both is to prevent the husband (in this case) being incriminated.
 If this is so, it would be perverse, in my view, for the legislature to abrogate the husband's privilege against self-incrimination in s 30 of the Act, such that he must answer and thereby incriminate himself directly by his own words, and yet, to keep in place his wife's privilege not to incriminate him (not herself) indirectly by her words.
