 The decisions which may be reviewed include a decision by the Authority under s 32 of the FM Act, that is to say, a decision to grant a fishing permit or a decision to impose a particular condition on a fishing permit.
 In any event, the Authority contended that, on a review of a decision mentioned in s 23(1) of the FM Act, it is not open to the first respondent to agitate a complaint about a condition attached to his fishing permit for the 2006 calendar year dealing with the quantity of shark he could take.
 The provisional grant followed a decision by the Authority that the first respondent satisfied the condition for registration as an eligible person for the grant of a quota fishing right and a determination as to his entitlement.
 The first respondent was advised of the total number of SFRs provisionally granted to each eligible person under the Management Plan and the composition of that number, including the shark quota SFRs granted to him.
 On 21 December 2006, the Authority published a notice in the Government Gazette to the effect that it intended to grant SFRs in relation to the Southern and Eastern Scalefish and Shark Fishery for shark species including school, gummy and saw shark, and it invited persons to apply to be registered as eligible persons.
 On 18 April 2007, the Authority wrote to the first respondent acknowledging his application for registration as an eligible person for the grant of SFRs for shark species in the Southern and Eastern Scalefish and Shark Fishery and advising him that he had been registered as an eligible person.
 The Panel noted that its function was to review the decisions mentioned in s 23(1) of the FM Act, being (relevantly) decisions made by the Authority as to the person or persons to whom the grant of a fishing right in a managed fishery is to be made (s 142).
 Section 27 of the Management Plan deals with the conditions which must be satisfied by a person in order for that person to qualify as an eligible person for registration for a grant of various types of quota statutory fishing rights.
 The Panel substitutes a decision as to the persons to whom a grant of SFRs is to be made under the Southern and Eastern Scalefish and Shark Fishery Management Plan 2003 in accordance with the Schedule attached and marked "Attachment A".
 He submits that the Panel had the power to make the decision it did by virtue of the power in s 32(8) of the FM Act to vary or revoke a condition attached to a fishing permit.
 The matter is put beyond any doubt by s 25 of the Management Plan which links the quota units which are to be translated directly to the units specified in the permit and registered in the Register.
 There is no reference to the question whether, in selecting the person to whom a grant is to be made available, it is open to the decision-maker to in effect exercise the power in s 32(8) of the FM Act before exercising the power of selection.
