 THE ISSUE The applicant seeks a declaration that the respondent by the examiner may not lawfully require the applicant to answer questions which directly relate to the matters the subject of the charge, notwithstanding that the questions so asked may be relevant to the special investigation.
 The contention of the applicant is that he is not obliged to answer such questions, and that the examiner is not entitled to ask such questions, because that would involve a real risk that the administration of justice would be interfered with.
 The examiner must give such a direction if the failure to do so might prejudice the safety or reputation of a person or prejudice the fair trial of a person who has been, or may be, charged with an offence.
 There are also provisions in the ACC Act dealing with the administrative structure of the ACC, and with the use to which certain information received by an examiner or in the course of a special examination may, or must, be put.
 That requires the CEO under s 46A(2A) to determine in writing the head of such an operation or investigation, and under s 46A(3) to specify the examiner or examiners to exercise the powers in relation to it.
 The examiner is obliged at the conclusion of an examination to give the head of the special ACC investigation or operation a record of the proceedings of the examination and any documents relating to it: s 25A(15).
 That is an obligation which, as a matter of construction, appears unqualified so that any order under s 25A(9) made by the examiner protecting the confidentiality of the examination would not and could not apply to it.
 I do not regard that as a relevant distinction because s 12(1) of the ACC Act contemplates the provision of certain information to the South Australia Police for the purposes of a prosecution.
 As was noted at [10] in that case, there was an undertaking from the examiner that the person being examined would not be questioned on matters directly relating to either of the criminal charges.
 In addition, steps were proposed to be taken to inhibit or prevent access to any information obtained (that is, information not directly relating to the outstanding criminal charges) from the prosecuting authorities.
 It is apparent from the position taken by the examiner in this matter, namely a determination to pursue questions directly related to the charge, and to pursue those questions from the applicant who is the person charged, that the inquiry includes the subject of the charge.
 Whilst there is some risk of further debate as to whether a particular question or questions may be directly relevant to the charge, it is to be noted that the present application arose only where a question which required, in answer, material directly relevant to the charge was raised.
