 The appellant appeals against a judgment of a Federal Magistrate on 26 September 2008: MZYAA v Minister for Immigration and Citizenship [2008] FMCA 1304 , dismissing an application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ("the Tribunal") on 22 February 2008.
 Once the Tribunal found that it did not believe the appellant in relation to these matters it was not illogical for the Tribunal to form the view that the entirety of the appellant's evidence about his conversion was untrue.
 Once the Tribunal decided that it did not believe the appellant, it was open to the Tribunal simply not to believe any of the rest of his evidence, applying the approach adopted in Re Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs, Ex parte Applicant S20/2002 [2003] HCA 30 ; (2003) 198 ALR 59 at par [49] and WADU v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCA 1252 at par [45].
 The Federal Magistrate was satisfied that the Tribunal member was listening attentively to the appellant and that the appellant's answers were coherent, to the point and showed no undue signs of stress with the exception of the last paragraph of his evidence which did suggest "a certain weariness and distress" on the part of the appellant.
 The Federal Magistrate found that the transcript and the audio recording did not reveal any improper conduct and that even if he accepted that the Tribunal member had turned her back on the appellant (and he made no such finding) that conduct was at worst an unfortunate discourtesy but did not give rise to a finding of bias.
 The appellant further submitted that the Federal Magistrate erred in holding that it was permissible for the Tribunal to fail to make findings on independent evidence if it decided it did not believe the appellant in one or more aspects of his claims, even if those aspects were concerned with peripheral issues.
 The respondent submitted that the Tribunal had not failed to consider the appellant's claim and that the Tribunal's decision rested on an adverse assessment of the appellant's credibility which finding was open to the Tribunal on the material put before it.
 Further, it was submitted by the respondent that credibility findings are uniquely within the jurisdiction of the Tribunal and not within the jurisdiction of the court and that the Tribunal rejected the appellant's fundamental claim that he had sought or would seek to convert from Islam to Christianity in Nigeria.
 I am satisfied that the Tribunal did not fall into jurisdictional error in the respects submitted by the appellant and that the Federal Magistrate did not err in deciding that the Tribunal had not so fallen into jurisdictional error.
 The key to the Tribunal's ultimate conclusion is found in the fact that the Tribunal did not accept or believe the appellant's evidence and claim that he had converted to Christianity in Nigeria and that he was a genuine Christian convert.
 The Federal Magistrate was given the opportunity by the appellant and his representative to listen to the audio recording of the hearing before the Tribunal and to read a written transcript of that hearing in addition to their affidavit evidence as to the conduct of the hearing.
