 It contends that it is entitled to the whole of the management fees that Huntley received for the year ended 30 June 2009 in Projects 1 and 2 and for the year ended 30 June 2008 in Projects 4, 5 and 6, including fees relating to the period after the changeover date, because it had an accrued entitlement prior to the changeover date to the fees for the whole year.
 Two Agreed Facts The parties have agreed that: (1) Costs (excluding harvesting costs - see [21] below) of the RE in performing its duties under the Grove Agreements referred to below are incurred unevenly throughout the year, and vary in relation to time of the year and conditions; and (2) Management fees for Project 4 were in fact charged in arrears by AOL.
 Save for the due date for fees in Projects 4 and 5, the material terms of the Grove Agreements for all Projects are mutuatis mutandis identical. (In Project 5 fees are payable six-monthly in arrears and in Project 4 they are payable on the rendering of an invoice (clause 6.3(c)) --- as noted earlier, the parties agree that the fees have in fact been invoiced in arrears. ) Clause 4.3 of the Project 1 Grove Agreement lists the ongoing management and harvesting duties that the RE must perform.
 Clause 5.3 of the Project 2 Grove Agreement, to which I refer as an example of the Grove Agreements for the other Projects, is, mutatis mutandis , identical to cl 6.3 of the Project 1 Grove Agreement set out above, except that: "Responsible Entity" is substituted for "Manager"; and instead of a reference to cl "4.3(l)", the reference is to cl "4.3(k)".
 Clause 21.2 of the Project 1 Grove Agreement and cl 19 of the Project 2 Grove Agreement provide that the obligations of the parties under the respective Grove Agreements are subject to the terms of the Trust Deed or Constitution as the case may be.
 Clause 24.1 of the Constitution (Trust Deed) provided, relevantly, that: The Project will be managed by the Manager and accordingly the Manager must: ... (b) establish and maintain Groves for the Members pursuant to the Grove Agreements, and (c) perform all its other functions and duties under this Deed. ...
 AOL would have been entitled, after giving the Member seven days' notice to make the payment and a failure by the Member to comply, to terminate the Grove Agreement under cl 12.3 of the Project 1 Grove Agreement or cl 11.3 of the Project 2 Grove Agreement.
