 The appellants applied to the Federal Magistrates Court for a review of the Tribunal's decision but that application was dismissed by the Federal Magistrates Court on 21 April 2008.
 Regulations require that, at the time of the visa application, an applicant has been nominated by an employer, in accordance with subregulation 5.19(2), for an appointment in the business of that employer.
 The criteria for approval include, amongst other things, that the employer nomination is made by an employer in respect of a need for a paid employee in a business actively and lawfully operating in Australia and operated by that employer.
 The information is relevant to your review as it indicates that Revetec is no longer actively and lawfully operating a business in Australia and that the appointment with Revetec does not continue to satisfy criteria for approval.
 Counsel expressed the further opinion that if the Tribunal affirmed the decision under review "there is a solid foundation for the existence of jurisdictional error if proceedings were taken in the Federal Magistrates Court to challenge the adverse decision".
 Regulation 5.19(2)(f) (sic) provides that an employee employed in such circumstances must be engaged in accordance with the standards for wages and working conditions provided under relevant Australian legislation and awards.
 To my mind, those words make clear that the reference is specific to the employer in respect of whom approval to nominate was granted, namely Revetec Limited and not Revetec Holdings Limited.
 The Tribunal's findings that the Applicant was therefore not employed by Revetec Limited in relation to an approved appointment at the time of its decision was open to it on the evidence and material before it and for the reasons it gave.
 Her Honour erred in finding that the First Appellant could not satisfy the requirements of cl 856.221 and 856.222 of the Migration Regulations 1994 solely for the reason that the company which had originally applied for approval of her appointment under reg 5.19 was no longer in existence having transferred the entirety of its business to another company.
 The appellant contended that she satisfied the criteria because she would be employed by Revetec Holdings Limited which had acquired the business of Revetec Limited and she would therefore be employed in the same business for which approval was given under reg 5.19.
 The Minister in those circumstances could not have been satisfied that Revetec Limited, which had secured the appointment, could provide the employment referred to in the relevant employer nomination.
 The appellant could only rely upon Revetec Holdings Limited in support of her application for a Subclass 856 visa if Revetec Holdings Limited had first been approved as an approved appointment under reg 5.19.
