 AAC (in each case the reference was to "the Licensor [AAC] or their Agent [Namoi]" and it was not in dispute that AAC was bound as principal) agreed to supply the seed to ICM "at the current licence fee value" (cl 1).
 ICM undertook not to release the seed or plant material to any person or company other than AAC, acknowledged that AAC had the exclusive right to market the seed, and undertook not to compete with AAC or its agent (Namoi) (cl 3).
 By cl 8, ICM undertook to deliver all of the seed and the product of the seed "to the nominated and advised receival centre" as AAC or its agent Namoi should direct from time to time.
 By cl 9, ICM undertook not to sell the seed or the product of the seed "to any other party" and acknowledged that it did not have title to either the seed or its product.
 The Commercial Crop Contract recited that Namoi would supply seed to ICM, that ICM would grow the crop, and that ICM agreed to deliver the proceeds of the crop to Namoi on the terms and conditions set out.
 In summary, the Grower's Licence and the Commercial Crop Contract when read together provided for the grant of a licence to use the seed by AAC through Namoi to ICM at a price payable by ICM to Namoi, and for Namoi to pay ICM for the growing and harvesting of the crop.
 Mr Young told Messrs Hoppe and Shears that Namoi would not be able to pay the Guaranteed Minimum Prices for the chickpeas by 30 June 2003 as cl 3(c) of the Commercial Crop Contract required.
 Mr Young stated in his letter that he had been thinking over that contract and communications between ICM and Namoi over the preceding six months and had taken into account the meeting at Wee Waa on 29 May 2003 and subsequent telephone conversations.
 The relief claimed by him was as follows: ICM actions of not delivering the seed and production under the Liscence (sic) Agreement signed on the 26 th June 2002 [the Grower's Licence] meant that AAC had no access to buy seed from it's agent to carry on its business.
 When cl 3 of the Grower's Licence provides that ICM is not to release the seed or plant material "to any other person or company whatsoever" it seems to mean any person or company other than AAC or its agent, Namoi, who were referred to in the immediately preceding clause in the expression "the Licensor or their Agent".
