 EBD is party to Federal Court proceedings WAD 73 of 2008, (the Distribution Proceedings) which is an application by Emu Brewery Mezzanine Ltd (EBM) for approval to make a distribution to its creditors.
 In the Distribution Proceedings, EBD claims that EBM is not entitled to make a distribution to its creditors, as proposed, because EBD is entitled to the money which is to be distributed.
 As it has no funding to pursue this claim it has applied to the Court for a pre-emptive costs order to be paid out of the money which would otherwise be distributed to EBM's creditors.
 Subject to obtaining directions from the Court in the present application, EBM and EBD have agreed to compromise the claim made by EBD for the sum of $1.5 million.
 The compromise has been reached in circumstances where EBD cannot predict the outcome of its application for pre-emptive funding in the Distribution Proceedings and where it has no other available funding.
 In these circumstances, unless a settlement were reached and approved prior to resolution of the application for a pre-emptive costs order, EBD may recover nothing if that application is unsuccessful as it is without the means to further pursue its claim against EBM.
 Jurisdiction EBD seeks orders pursuant to s 477(2A) and/or s 511 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) ("the Act") approving the compromise and directing that they are justified in entering the settlement deed.
 The Settlement Deed is of no effect until approval of EBD's liquidators entering into it is obtained from the Court pursuant to s 477(2A) and a direction is obtained under s 511 that they are justified in entering into the compromise.
 The plaintiffs submit that the orders sought in this case correspond with those made in a number of cases, including QBE Workers Compensation (NSW) Ltd v GJ Formwork Pty Ltd (2006) 56 ACSR 687 and Re HIH Insurance [2004] NSWSC 5.
 The plaintiffs submit that s 479 and s 511 perform similar functions citing Dean-Willcocks v Soluble Solution Hydroponics Pty Ltd (1997) 42 NSWLR 209 at 212.
 I am of the opinion, and if necessary direct, that the entry into the Settlement Deed by Mr Ian Charles Francis and Michael Joseph Ryan as joint liquidators of EBD is justified in all the circumstances.
 Discretion The Settlement Deed made the direction sought in the present application a condition of the Settlement Deed taking effect is a matter which militates in favour of the Court exercising its discretion to make the orders sought: Re One.Tel Networks Holdings Pty Ltd [2001] NSWSC 1065 ; (2001) 40 ACSR 83 at [42] .
