 It accepted that the threat of harm need not be the product of government policy and that it may be enough that the government has failed or is unable to protect the appellants from persecution.
 In consideration of the evidence as a whole, it was satisfied that the first appellant (and, it followed, the second appellant) would receive adequate state protection for any private harm that she may fear.
 His Honour erred in not finding that the Second Respondent made jurisdictional error in that the Second Respondent did not consider whether it was reasonable (in the sense of practicable) for the Appellants to relocate to Malaysia.
 They say that by this, the Tribunal accepted that there were "some issues" supporting the appellants' claim that they would be subject to differential treatment by the authorities but failed then to deal with those issues.
 Rather, the Tribunal was accepting that in Malaysia, there were some issues as to differential treatment based on religion but those were issues in the wider context as elaborated in the rest of [57].
 On the basis of the information available to it, the Tribunal at [58] expressed itself not satisfied that the first appellant would be denied adequate state protection for any Convention reason including religion.
 As his Honour noted, the Tribunal's discussion indicated that the matters which the Tribunal itself identified did not satisfy it that the appellants would, by reason of their religions, enjoy a lesser standard of state protection than ethnic Malays, who are all deemed to be Muslims.
 It is correct, as counsel for the appellants points out, that the broader discussion by the Tribunal at [57] of its reasons did not deal specifically with the appellants' allegations of differential treatment by the Malaysian authorities.
 However, in the absence of any evidence provided by the appellants of such differential treatment or otherwise available to the Tribunal, I see no error in the Tribunal considering the broader issue of differential treatment based on religion in Malaysia and forming the conclusions that it did regarding the availability of state protection to the appellants.
 Federal Magistrate Cameron could see no error in the Tribunal's approach and I see no error in his Honour's reasoning in concluding that there is no basis for the appellants' submission that the Tribunal did not give proper, genuine and realistic consideration to their claims.
 The appellants further submit that the Tribunal failed to deal with their claim that the Malaysian authorities were more inclined to accept bribes to take no action to protect non-Muslims.
 They say that this indicates that the Tribunal misdirected itself as to the test to be applied and failed to ascertain whether it was reasonable for the appellants to relocate in a practical sense.
