 Huntley replaced AOL as RE for Projects 5 and 6 on or about 28 March 2008 and for Project 4 on or about 29 April 2008 (30 April 2008 according to the plaintiff's submissions, but 29 April 2009 [sic] according to the defendant's submissions).
 There is no question of AOHL's attempting to enforce the CWSA against Huntley in respect of Project 1, 2 or 3 because, on any reckoning, AOL was still the RE of those MISs until 9 October 2008.
 AOHL alleges that by this conduct Huntley repudiated the CWSA, and that AOHL accepted that repudiation on 2 October 2008, when it elected to terminate the CWSA on and from 9 October 2008 (paras 20, 21).
 AOHL claims by way of unjust enrichment the "base fee" set out in cl 5.2 of the CWSA on a pro rata basis according to number of hectares utilised by the Projects, alternatively $500 per Grove (along with GST and indexed for inflation), as a reasonable sum for water and/or for the supply of water (paras 29-31).
 The other obligations were to maintain AOL's Pumping Equipment and the Reticulation Equipment at AOL's cost and to operate and maintain the Lagoon in a good and workmanlike manner in order to maintain the Lagoon and its water capacity and to improve reticulation.
 The fees referred to cl 4.2 were the subject of cl 5 which provided, relevantly: 5.1 Fees payable In consideration of the Water Owner supplying water under this Agreement the Manager must pay to the Water Owner a fee.
 Clause 5.4 provided that on and from 1 July 2002, AOL would pay the annual base fee to AOHL, free of any deductions, by equal monthly instalments in advance on the first day of each month with, if applicable, a proportional payment for any broken portion of a month at the termination of the CWSA.
 The Prospectus stated (p 10) that COGL had held an option, since expired, to acquire Lot 11 from AOHL, and that AOHL would negotiate with COGL for the sale of Lot 11 to COGL on commercial terms.
 The Prospectus stated (p 45) that under the Constitution AOL had a right of indemnity out of the Project Property in respect of liabilities incurred in performance of its duties and for all fees and costs recoverable by it under the Constitution (see below).
 There can be no doubt that AOL undertook in comprehensive terms to supply the Member with adequate water up to a maximum of 0.8 megalitres to irrigate the Member's Grove and in fact to irrigate that Grove: see cll 4.1(g) and (h) and 4.3(a) and (b) .
 Accordingly, so it submits, the CWSA cannot operate where the RE is not the RE of all of the Projects, and there is no mechanism in the CWSA for a new RE for one Project to become liable on a pro rata basis for water supplied for that Project.
 Second, there is the impracticability of different REs having access to Lot 11 and the Pumping Equipment and Reticulation Equipment on it (owned by AOL) to irrigate the different Projects for which they were hypothetically responsible.
 Fourth, I construe the CWSA as providing for supply from the Lagoon, yet the evidence shows that it is not physically possible for all of the Projects in the Groves to be supplied from the Lagoon in equal measure.
