 In developing that part of its business involving the sale of Protector, Webcot developed and implemented pricing strategies for the sale of Protector, developed a customer base for Protector and developed and implemented sales and marketing strategies for the sale of Protector.
 During the period of his employment and while a director of Webcot, Mr Jephcott was involved in the establishment and development of Webcot's business in so far as it related to its products, including Protector and, in doing so, Mr Jephcott obtained confidential information concerning Webcot, including Webcot's confidential information regarding Protector.
 In breach of the duties arising under the Corporations Act owed by Mr Jephcott to Webcot, both as employee and as a director, Mr Jephcott procured the sale of Protector to Bentz Jaz by FreeZone in February 2009 and procured sales opportunities for FreeZone in Indonesia.
 In the letter of 11 November 2008, Webcot's solicitors said that Webcot had reason to believe that Mr Jephcott had or proposed to enter into a relationship with either or both of Sorex and Brandenburg.
 On 14 November 2008, Webcot's solicitors wrote again to Mr Jephcott's solicitors asking for further information in relation to Agserv Pty Limited and Agnova Technologies Pty Limited, Univar Pty Limited and Xenex Associates Limited.
 The letter said that Mr Jephcott does not presently propose to enter into any type of relationship inconsistent with his duties to Webcot or engage in a business that is in competition with Webcot.
 Webcot's solicitors wrote again to Mr Jephcott's solicitors on 15 April 2009 asking a specific question about an approach by Mr Jephcott to Vernox and an approach by Mr Jephcott to PAKS.
 Mr Jephcott's solicitors replied on 4 May 2009 saying that he had not and would not breach his duties to Webcot and if Webcot felt that it had a case, the case should be brought forward.
 It is clear enough from the material presently available to Webcot that Mr Jephcott is the chief executive officer of FreeZone and that FreeZone is engaged in a business that is in competition with that of Webcot.
 It is asserted that those " strategies " constitute confidential information of Webcot and that, in his capacity as an employee and director of Webcot, Mr Jephcott obtained that confidential information.
 It is difficult to conclude that such strategies and customer base constitute confidential information that was obtained by Mr Jephcott during the course of his employment and directorship of Webcot.
 In the absence of specific evidence in that regard, I am not persuaded that there is reasonable cause to believe that Mr Jephcott has made any use of or taken any advantage from strategies or customer bases that constitute confidential information.
