 The first and second respondents must ensure that the advertisement is (d) of a size not less than 12cm wide by 15cm deep; (e) in a text which is a type not less than 10 point; and (f) within the first 10 pages of each newspaper. (7) The respondents to pay the applicant's costs of and incidental to the proceedings, fixed at $20,000.
 The Phase 2 Product consists of: (A) an invitation to attend a four day conference in Panama; and (B) presentations from guest speakers and lecturers on subjects including money, investing, banking, corporate and income tax, the psychology of money, trusts, real estate, currencies, trading, global investment strategies and international financial affairs. (iii) The 'Millionaires Club' conference which is sold to consumers for US$14,995 (Phase 3 Product).
 The manner in which a Director becomes qualified in a particular product phase is explained below in [12(i)], [12(k)] and [12(m)]. (c) The Emerald Passport website promotes income earning opportunities for participants who have qualified as Directors. (d) To participate in the Emerald Passport Scheme, a participant must: (i) register online at the Emerald Passport website as an "Independent Distributor" (Distributor); (ii) agree to the terms and conditions on the Emerald Passport website; and (iii) pay an annual US$99 (Annual Fee) to Emerald Passport Inc (see Sch C (cl 17), and Sch D5). (e) A Distributor is provided with: (i) maintenance of a personal website; (ii) website hosting; (iii) access to live distributor support staff; (iv) back office training; (v) a business platform which allows Distributors to operate their distributorship and promote the Products to others; and (vi) the opportunity to earn commissions. (f) Once a participant has registered as a Distributor, they can only earn commissions by becoming a "Director" (see Sch C (cl 14)). (g) There are three levels of directorship which are available to participants and aligned with each phase of the Products.
 Section 64AAD(1) of the Act defines a "pyramid selling Scheme" to mean a Scheme with both the following characteristics: (a) to take part in this Scheme, some or all new participants must make a payment (participation payment) to another participant or participants in the Scheme; (b) the participation payments are entirely or substantially induced by the prospect held out to new participants that they will be entitled to a payment (recruitment payment) in relation to the introduction to the Scheme of further new participants.
