 Objection was taken to particular paragraphs identified in the course of submissions on behalf of the Wide Bay Conservation Council Inc (Conservation Council) to paragraphs of Dr Mallen-Cooper's affidavit on two bases: that he had not participated in a conference of experts, for which provision was made in pre-trial orders; and an alleged non-compliance with the Court's then prevailing practice direction in respect of guidelines for expert witnesses in proceedings in this court, being that given by the Chief Justice on 5 May 2008.
 I note further that it is not proposed to tender the contents of the first sentence and, really, it would seem to me that would go to other matters of engineering opinion in that paragraph, as proof of the contents.
 The paragraph, insofar as it does concern hearsay, does nothing more, in my opinion, than provide a foundation - an identified foundation - against which Dr Mallen-Cooper came to furnish particular advice.
 Insofar as the other objection is concerned, Dr Mallen-Cooper was an adviser whose input was provided in respect of the design of the upstream and downstream fishways in the form in which they ultimately came to take.
 It is true that some parts of his affidavit also go by way of what one might term later elaboration and further reflection of, and in respect of, advice which he gave at an anterior, preconstruction of fishway stage.
 Of substance, though, is that Dr Mallen-Cooper's statement was provided in early August, well prior to the time when Dr Kind and Mr Tait came to confer in accordance with the pre-trail direction.
 There does not seem, and there certainly has not been raised in evidence, to have been any disposition on the part of the Conservation Council to involve Dr Mallen-Cooper in the conference or any perception that he ought to have been involved.
 More particularly, it is as well to recall that the statement of claim was, to use a neutral term, an evolving document, and particular aspects of Dr Mallen-Coopers' evidence, insofar as it goes beyond reference to past input, are referrable to what one might term that evolution, in my opinion.
 There has been no evidence in reply, either by way of a supplementary report filed prior to the trial commencing, or, for that matter, the subject of an application for leave to lead further evidence at the commencement of the case.
 In other words, such procedural fairness aspects as might attend the reception of those parts of Dr Mallen-Cooper's affidavit that relate to more than just past events have, in my opinion, been observed.
