 On 14 August 2009, I made a number of declarations and granted orders in the nature of injunctions in respect of conduct in contravention of the Spam Act 2003 (Cth) (Spam Act) by: Mobilegate Ltd - the First Respondent (Mobilegate); Winning Bid Pty Ltd - the Second Respondent (Winning Bid); Mr Simon Anthony Owen - the Fourth Respondent (Mr Owen); Mr Tarek Andreas Salcedo - the Fifth Respondent (Mr Salcedo); and Glenn Christopher Maughan - the seventh respondent (Mr Maughan).
 It is further a consideration which, though not expressly articulated in s 76 of the Trade Practices Act , would be relevant to a penalty proceeding under that Act in particular circumstances.
 The corporate Respondents, Mobilegate and Winning Bid, and those of the individual Respondents with which I am concerned today, Messrs Owen, Salcedo and Maughan, might aptly be described as predators on the emotionally vulnerable for reward.
 Again, in terms of the theoretical maximum in respect of the contraventions, the subject of default judgment, the maximum penalty applicable in respect of Winning Bids conduct would be $40 million.
 So far as the Fourth, Fifth and Seventh Respondents, Messrs Owen, Salcedo and Maughan were concerned, their involvement, in terms of the judgment entered by default against them and in terms of the affidavit evidence, is extensive, knowing and persistent.
 It was responsible for sending and receipt of SMS messages via particular premium numbers, more particularly described in the statement of claim, from 15 November 2007 through to 29 October 2008.
 The contraventions occurred in circumstances where, by virtue of Winning Bid and Mobilegate's contracts with aggregators for the providing of premium short codes, the corporate respondents had expressly agreed to comply with the Spam Act .
 The corporate Respondents, Mobilegate and Winning Bid, had faced regular complaints from mobile telephone service providers and from the Telecommunications Industry Ombudsman, as well as some particular mobile phone users, about their conduct, yet it continued.
 So far as penalty is concerned, the Authority submits that penalties should fall within the following ranges: The Authority submits that, though these penalty ranges are substantial, they do not violate the totality principle.
 Next, as between individual Respondents, Messrs Owen and Salcedo had a higher level, and a significantly higher level, of authority in the management and control of the corporations than did Mr Maughan.
 In respect of the civil penalty hearing today I order that the First, Second, Fourth, Fifth and Seventh Respondents pay the Authority's costs, of and incidental to the penalty hearing, to be taxed.
