 Pivotel, accordingly, has contractual and other arrangements with Vodafone by which traffic to and from Pivotel numbers is transmitted by an originating carrier, be it Pivotel or another carrier, via Vodafone as the transit carrier.
 Vodafone (being the transit carrier) considers that Optus is obliged to pay nine cents per minute to Vodafone for all traffic to the Pivotel network.
 Ms Murray records (consistent with Mr Sakker's evidence) that Optus does not have a direct interconnection with Pivotel; indeed, there is no contractual relationship between Optus and Pivotel.
 The relevant contractual relationships appear to be between Optus and its customers, as well as Optus and Vodafone, and Pivotel and its customers, as well as Pivotel and Vodafone.
 According to Ms Murray since December 2008 Optus has withheld payments from Vodafone for calls to numbers that it considers to be "non-genuine traffic" numbers --- that is numbers associated with the two stage dialling process referred to above.
 While Optus disputes the claim by Vodafone for payment at the rate of nine cents per minute for this traffic, Optus also does not wish to become potentially liable to Vodafone for any future traffic which it considers to be non-genuine.
 Pivotel claims that, on the evidence as it currently stands, Optus has used its market power to withhold or prevent the provision of a service.
 On Pivotel's case (and as supported by its evidence) there is a national market for ordinary mobile telephony services and a national market for satellite mobile telephony services.
 Pivotel says it is apparent that if an Optus customer cannot ring a Pivotel mobile or satellite telephone then Pivotel customers will be discouraged from using the Pivotel satellite mobile telephony services.
 Pivotel acknowledges that s 46 requires it to establish that the use of the market power was for the proscribed purposes of either eliminating or substantially damaging a competitor or deterring or preventing a person from engaging in competitive conduct.
 As senior counsel for Pivotel submitted I do not know what proportion of Pivotel numbers has been allocated to the Mediatel interests but I do know that there are 8000 numbers associated with Pivotel satellite phones.
 Third, Optus took the action resulting in the blocking of access from its customers to the entire Pivotel network on 20 December 2009 without, apparently, any forewarning or notice to Pivotel that such action was proposed.
 The difficulty with this submission is that Pivotel has disclosed not only its financial position but the financial position of all of the members of Pivotel Group.
