 This is an application by notice of motion filed on 12 October 2009 by which the applicants seek the following orders, namely: Pursuant to section 33V(1) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 ("Federal Court Act") the Court approves the settlement of this proceeding in accordance with the Terms of Settlement and Further Terms of Settlement, copies of which are attached as Annexures 1 and 2 .
 Pursuant to s 33ZB(a) of the Federal Court Act the Court declares that the persons affected and bound by these orders are the applicants, the respondent, and the group members who are defined in the Further Amended Statement of Claim.
 In the principal proceeding, the application is brought by the applicants as a representative party on behalf of 102 group members although some of those group members represent more than one individual or corporation.
 Under the Terms of Settlement document of 19 June 2009 the parties agree to distribute a settlement fund of $5,976,426.00 in full satisfaction of the claims of the group members which would provide for a return of 62.5 cents in the dollar in respect of each claimant's investment.
 The applicants now seek the Court's approval pursuant to s 33V(1) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (the "Act") of the Terms of Settlement represented by the two Settlement Agreements.
 I also considered the principles identified by Jacobson J in Taylor v Telstra Corporation Ltd [2007] FCA 2008 at [56] to [66]; the observations of Goldberg J in Williams v FAI Homes Security Pty Ltd (No. 4) (2001) 180 ALR 459; Darwalla Milling Co Pty Ltd v F Hoffmann-Laroche Ltd (No. 2) (2007) 236 ALR 322 per Jessup J; and Vernon v Village Life Ltd [2009] FCA 516.
 The nine factor test described by Goldberg J in Williams v FAI Homes Security Pty Ltd (No. 4) as "helpful in the Australian jurisdiction" derives from a nine factor test adopted by the United States Court of Appeals for the third circuit in Re General Motors Corp Pick-Up Truck Fuel Tank Products Liability Litigation 55 F 3d 768 at 785.
 However, the essential question is whether the settlement is fair and reasonable having regard to the claims made by the group members who will be bound by the settlement in the context of the facts pleaded; the prospects of success in the principal proceeding; the likelihood of group members obtaining judgment for an amount significantly in excess of the settlement distribution; the likely duration and cost of proceedings; and the weaknesses, substantial or procedural, in the case advanced by the group members and whether the settlement sum falls within a realistic range of likely outcomes.
 The Court will also have regard to the terms of any advice received by group members from counsel as well as any expert advice in relation to the issues raised by the proceeding.
 The Court takes the advice into account in determining whether the settlement is fair and reasonable, that is to say, whether the agreed settlement falls within the range of fair and reasonable likely outcomes, taking everything into account.
 Having regard to the material read in support of the application and the joint advice which, by reason of its confidentiality, has remained sealed, I am satisfied that the settlement is a fair and reasonable settlement of the claims made by the group members who will be bound by the settlement.
