 This is an application for an extension of time to file and serve a notice of appeal pursuant to Order 52, r 15(2) of the Federal Court Rules .
 In his Honour's reasons for decision of 1 October 2008 the Federal Magistrate, after referring to the Tribunal's acceptance of the applicant's basic claims, recorded that it was unfortunate that the applicant did not have the benefit of legal assistance.
 The Federal Magistrate (at [10]) said that, assisted by counsel for the Minister for Immigration and Citizenship ( the Minister ), he had "endeavoured... to consider the arguments which could be presented on this issue on behalf of the applicant, if he had been legally represented".
 Apart from the applicant's submissions (which, as is not uncommon in these matters, the Federal Magistrate found to be of no real assistance), the Federal Magistrate identified two issues of concern in the Tribunal's reasons.
 First, the Federal Magistrate considered that it was arguable that the Tribunal had misapplied the "real chance" test, that is the test as to whether a protection visa applicant risks a real chance of persecution if he or she is to return to his or her homeland.
 In his very brief affidavit sworn on 14 August 2009 the applicant said that when the Federal Magistrate dismissed his appeal he wrote to the Minister requesting that the Minister's discretion to grant a visa be exercised in the applicant's favour.
 The Minister correctly identified that the information about the applicant's contact with a Departmental officer had not been put to the Federal Magistrates Court and was not supported by evidence, amounting to no more than submissions from the bar table.
 According to Vu v Minister for Immigration and Citizenship (2008) 101 ALD 211 ; [2008] FCAFC 59 at [29] delay due to a request to the Minister to exercise discretion in an applicant's favour is insufficient to amount to a "special reason".
 For a person in the applicant's position the delay between receiving the response and arranging for someone who could write English to complete his notice of motion and affidavit in support and to file those documents with the Court is not unreasonable.
 Although the Federal Magistrate considered this issue of the potential misapplication of the real chance test with great care, his Honour was also careful to record the difficulty he had in resolving it.
