 THE ISSUES The publishers have filed a motion seeking an order under s 40 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) that the issues in the proceedings, other than damages, be tried by a jury.
 Ms Ra opposes that order, but she argues that, if a jury is to be summoned, it should be a jury of 12, under s 20(2) of the Jury Act 1977 (NSW), rather than of 4 as provided under s 20(1) of that Act.
 The following issues arise on the application for a jury trial: (1) The nature of the Court's powers under ss 39 and 40 of the Federal Court Act . (2) What, if any, role ss 21 and 22 of the Defamation Act play in the exercise of the discretion to order a jury under the Federal Court Act . (3) Whether the power to order a jury ought be exercised. (4) If a jury is ordered, whether the circumstances justify making an order under s 20(2) of the Jury Act for a jury of 12.
 However, in exercising that discretion, it is appropriate to have regard to the provisions of the relevant State or Territory Defamation Act (and in particular, ss 21 and 22 of the New South Wales Act or their analogues, if any) where, one party has elected to seek a trial by jury as would have been its right were the matter wholly within State jurisdiction.
 THE PARTIES' SUBMISSIONS Ms Ra argued, frankly, that her purpose in commencing proceedings in this Court was to avoid the potential that proceedings in a New South Wales Court would be tried, in the ordinary course, by a jury.
 In McDermott v Collien [1953] HCA 44 ; (1953) 87 CLR 154 at 157 Fullagar J considered whether to exercise a discretion to order a trial by jury under provisions similar to ss 39 and 40 of the Federal Court Act .
 In Construction Industry Long Service Leave Board v Odco Pty Ltd (No 2) (1988) ATPR p40-887 at 49,604, Jenkinson J observed that this Court would be likely to grant an application for a trial by a jury in a matter where claims under the Trade Practices Act were "tenuous" and the real subject matter was a defamation action.
 Accordingly, I am satisfied that the ends of justice render it expedient to direct a trial by jury of all issues in the proceedings, other than damages and any other issue which, pursuant to the Defamation Act would not be left to the jury.
 This is because it is inextricably related to the meanings conveyed to ordinary reasonable readers by the matters complained of and whether Ms Ra has been injured in her reputation as an employer for the purposes of s 53B.
 CONCLUSION An order should be made under s 40 providing for a trial by a jury of 12 of all issues in the proceedings other than damages at common law or under any Act and any questions of law or questions that by an Act must not be decided by a jury.
 Thus, the jury will decide whether the publishers published each of the five alleged defamatory matters and made the representations alleged to contravene s 53B of the Trade Practices Act pleaded in the amended statement of claim about Ms Ra.
