 Between January and April 2006 based upon the value of its stock on hand, which Mr Bright considered was saleable and able to be realised within a short period of time, namely "a couple of months", he did not consider that the Company was insolvent at that time.
 Mr Carroll said that the stock was not exposed but was wrapped in hessian and was not in a deteriorated condition; some of it had been on hand for a considerable period of time, waiting to be kiln dried but its condition had not been affected.
 Mr Carroll said that the closing down of the mill and the liquidation of the Company had an immediate negative impact on the value of the stock and prevented the orderly sale of the timber by the Company.
 I am not disposed to accept Mr McLellan's evidence as to the value of stock on hand as at 31 December 2005 and as at 9 May 2006 where it conflicts with the evidence of Mr Carroll.
 Mr Carroll had twenty years experience in the timber industry whereas Mr McLellan had no experience with timber mill businesses prior to his appointment as administrator of the Company and this administration was his first timber mill business.
 I am satisfied that on 31 December 2005 and throughout the relevant period up to 10 May 2006 there were reasonable grounds for suspecting that the Company was insolvent or would so become insolvent.
 Mr Carroll relied upon a number of matters which he said, when taken into account with the fact that the Company was a fully operating going concern, demonstrated that there were not reasonable grounds for suspecting that the Company was insolvent.
 It was reasonable at that time to believe that it was possible for the Company to raise cash by the making of unsecured loans by Mr Carroll with which to satisfy the Company's debts as and when they fell due.
 It was not reasonable at that time to believe that it was possible for the Company to raise cash, by the making of unsecured loans by Mr Carroll with which to satisfy all the Company's debts as and when they fell due.
 Mr Carroll submitted that his acceptance that the Company was not in fact paying its debts as and when they fell due was not an admission that he was aware or suspected that the Company was insolvent.
 That is to say, I do not consider that Mr Bright was required to fulfil the role or did fulfil the role of a competent and reliable person who was responsible for providing to Mr Carroll adequate information about whether the Company was solvent.
 Having regard to Mr Bright's retainer and the work he carried out for the Company I am not satisfied that Mr Carroll had reasonable grounds to believe that Mr Bright had the role, or was fulfilling the role required by subpar (a) of s 588H(3).
