 The Tribunal failed to provide the appellant with a fair opportunity as neither the Department nor the Tribunal have provided the appellant with a copy of the recording of the interview with the delegate.
 At the hearing of this appeal on 15 May 2009, the appellant said: The first point I want to say is that the Federal Magistrates Court made other adverse findings [on] my application and actually is unfair. ...
 I had given different evidence to the delegate and to the tribunal but, in fact, I have provided the same evidence to both delegate and to the tribunal, but I have never been given the opportunity to prove that actually I did provide the same evidence to both the delegate and to the tribunal.
 I said, after hearing from both the appellant and Mr Johnson of counsel for the Minister: It seems to me that, truly, if in fact the tape shows that there was a request made during, or at the end of the interview, then I may have to hear some further evidence.
 If, on the other hand, the tape doesn't support the accusation that was made today ... then I will deal with the matter on the basis of the submissions that have been made today.
 It was submitted by counsel for the Minister that the tape does not contain any evidence supporting the appellant's statement to the Court that he requested a copy of the tape at the interview.
 Further, it was submitted by the first respondent that there was no evidence before the Federal Magistrate that the appellant did make such a request to the delegate for a copy of the tape, and if the tape had been in evidence before the Federal Magistrate, it would not have proved that any such request was made.
 His Honour rejected the contention of bias, finding that the Tribunal's reasoning was "rational", "open to it on the evidence", and showing "a genuine and proper attempt to perform the statutory duty of review given to the Tribunal".
 In the appeal to this Court, the claim that the appellant had been denied access to the tape of the interview with the delegate of the Minister, and that, as a consequence, was unable to make good grounds of attack in the reasoning process of the Tribunal, is not made out, having regard to the contents of that interview.
 Importantly, there is nothing in the tape which provides assistance to him in any of the grounds of appeal, either to the Federal Magistrates Court, or to this Court.
 Further consideration of the contents of the tape indicates to me that the appellant's contention that he requested a copy of the tape was not made out, and further, that the tape demonstrates that complaints later levelled by the appellant at the decision of the delegate are not supported by anything revealed in the taped interview.
