 The appeal listed to be heard before his Honour is from a sequestration order made by the learned Federal Magistrate on the petition of the respondent American Express Australia Ltd ("American Express").
 It is clear that a power of attorney as held by Mr Kerr from Ms Kerr does not provide a lawful basis for a non-lawyer to act for a party in litigation in a Federal Court (cf Slack v Bottoms English Solicitors [2003] FCA 1337).
 I understand that American Express has informed Deputy District Registrar Baldwin of the Queensland Registry of this Court that it would not appear either in respect of this notice of motion or in the appeal more generally having regard to the substantial costs already incurred by the company to date, and in light of the fact that Ms Kerr's estate has no funds.
 At my request Deputy District Registrar Belcher informed the appellant prior to today's hearing that I currently hold an American Express credit card, and inquired whether, from the appellant's perspective, this gave rise to any concerns as to perceived bias on my part.
 Attached to this affidavit is a letter from Mr Kerr to Deputy District Registrar Baldwin dated 16 October 2009 in which Mr Kerr sets out recent developments which he states have caused "major issues with the current timetable".
 These developments, which appear to be the grounds upon which Ms Kerr seeks an adjournment can be summarised as follows: Ms Kerr has a counterclaim for $900,000 in the District Court of Queensland against a plaintiff who was recently successful in obtaining an order for payment of $50,000 by Ms Kerr in that Court.
 Ms Kerr is appealing the decision of the District Court to the Court of Appeal of Queensland, although in his affidavit Mr Kerr deposed that the other party had applied for Ms Kerr's appeal to be summarily dismissed.
 Ms Kerr is dissatisfied with decisions taken by ITSA in the course of her bankruptcy, but understands that she would need to file an application in the Federal Magistrates Court to contest any decision of ITSA.
 The decision of a judge to adjourn a hearing is not only an interlocutory decision, it is a discretionary decision ( Aon Risk Services Australia Ltd v Australian National University [2009] HCA 27 ; (2009) 258 ALR 14 , Goldberg v Morrow [2004] FCA 1490 at [36] ).
 There is authority that the discretion in respect of ordering or refusing an adjournment miscarries where the refusal of an adjournment results in one of the parties being unable adequately to present his case ( Thornberry v R (1995) 69 ALJR 777).
 In this case the grounds upon which Ms Kerr seeks adjournment of the hearing of her notice of appeal are, with one exception, slim: Despite the paucity of compelling reasons advanced by Ms Kerr to adjourn the hearing of the appeal, in view of the absence of submissions by either American Express or the trustee it is difficult to identify how an adjournment of the hearing of the appeal would in any way prejudice either of those parties.
 For reasons I have already given, I do not consider it appropriate that the appeal should be adjourned until such time as either the outcome of Ms Kerr's appeal in the Queensland Court of Appeal is determined or until proceedings which may or may not be filed by Ms Kerr in the Federal Magistrates Court are heard.
