 The only question, therefore, is whether I ought to continue Order 3(a), which is in the following terms: 3. [The Court] Orders that up to 19 January 2009 or further order, the First Respondent is restrained by himself, his servants or agents or otherwise, from: (a)_being knowingly involved in the business of the Second Respondent or any other business involving the distribution or supply of AdBlue TM that uses money or finance offered, procured or made available by or with the assistance or co-operation of any member or participant in the venture known as "Carbon Alliance" or any associate of any such member or participant;...
 In 2004, Tennant commenced a business under the name of "Nonox AdBlue" (AdBlue business) which consisted in the marketing and distribution of: (a) a solution known as "AdBlue" which is used in vehicles which have included in them a pollution control technology called Selective Catalytic Reduction ( SCR ); (b) equipment to store AdBlue and dispense AdBlue into vehicles; and (c) business intelligence and payment systems used in connection with the storage and dispensing of AdBlue. 9.
 In or about August 2007, Tennant's managing director, Mr Wolfe, informed Mr Uhlen that Tennant's AdBlue business had the potential to become a global business, but that, if that were to occur, Tennant needed to bring in outside investors to fund an accelerated "rollout of our infrastructure".
 Shortly before 1 September 2008, Mr Wolfe instructed Mr Uhlen to update a financial model that Mr Uhlen helped to prepare in connection with Mr Wolfe's discussions with one potential joint venture party, and to prepare an information pack for prospective investors.
 That document set out background to the SCR technology and the Nonox AdBlue business, distribution channels for AdBlue, projected financial results for the period 2008-2013 (revenue, EBITDA, net cash flow, cumulative cash flow), assumptions underlying the financial projections, and the proposed strategy for achieving the projected financial results. 14.
 After Mr Uhlen's presentation, Mr O'Meara said that "we would be potentially interested in an investment in Nonox" and, after Mr Wolfe said that Nonox was looking "to sell 25% to 30% of the equity in Nonox for an investment of $10 million", Mr O'Meara said that that sounded reasonable. 15.
 Mr O'Meara stated, however, that he needed a "firm proposal from you", a list of the key assumptions behind Nonox's financial model, forecast financials, the detailed cashflow for the next two years, the rollout plan for infrastructure, and the proposed application of funds. 17.
 The "forecast assumptions" contained forecast SCR vehicle sales, market share, market growth rates, AdBlue consumption as a percentage of diesel consumption, fuel consumption per 100 kilometres, market segmentation of demand for Truck Stops and home depots, forecast bulk tank roll out, asset utilisation, capital costs of tanks, consolidated forecast profit and loss for 2009 to 2013, the net present value of forecast profit, and a two year cashflow. 18.
 Additionally, by no later than 13 November 2008, Mr Uhlen prepared a business plan and strategy for the establishment of a new entity "to become a supplier of the reducing agent AdBlueTM required for the operation of the SCR systems fitted to these new generation diesel engines in Australia".
 During December 2008, Mr Uhlen, acting on behalf of Denox and Carbon Alliance, and persons apparently associated with Carbon Alliance, approached actual and potential customers of Tennant and Nonox. (a) On 1 December 2008, Mr Uhlen sent an email to a Mr Ng, an officer of TCIM Singapore, a potential customer of Nonox, stating that he had started a new company for supplying AdBlue to Australia and Asian markets. (b) On 3 December 2008, a person by the name of Rob Dylan sent an email to Mr Ng introducing himself and a John Owens, and stating that " John and I work with Stig as part of the Carbon Alliance group of companies ". (c) On 11 December 2008, Mr Wolfe was informed by a customer that a "John Owen from Denox" and then Mr Uhlen had contacted Sunbus, a customer of Tennant. 23.
 Mr Uhlen signed a deed of employment with Denox dated 18 December 2008 under which Mr Uhlen is to be paid a base salary of $165,000 per annum together with 5% of the issued capital of Denox and a performance bonus of $100,000.
