 That by 10 April 2009 the Applicant file and serve: (a) the further and better particulars requested in the Respondent's solicitors' letter dated 24 February 2009; (b) a statement of the design of the fish transfer device which, by the grant of the injunction sought in paragraph 2 of the Application, the Respondent would be compelled to install and operate. 2.
 Paragraphs 6, 7 and 8 of the statement of claim make the following allegations: The respondent has engaged, engages and, unless restrained by the Court, proposes to engage in conduct consisting of an act or omission that constitutes an offence or other contravention of the EPBC Act by failing since the dam became operational to install and operate a fish transfer device suitable for lungfish in contravention of condition 3 of the approval for the dam.
 Condition 3 requires the fish transfer device to be "suitable for lungfish" to pass through it at all times and the operation of the downstream fishway does not satisfy this requirement. (c) The requirement for the upstream fishway to operate continuously is a matter of the proper construction of condition 3 of the approval for the dam. (d) The requirement for the downstream fishway to operate continuously is a matter of the proper construction of condition 3 of the approval for the dam. 5.
 Insofar as it is alleged that: "(g) Lungfish, particularly juveniles, are susceptible to predation while moving through the upstream fishway and the downstream fishway. " (a) The facts, matters, and circumstances relied upon in support of the allegation that lungfish, particularly juveniles, are susceptible to predation while moving through the upstream fishway include: (i) Species such as blue catfish and long-finned eel use the structure provided by vertical-slot fishways as shelter to ambush prey and lungfish, particularly hatchlings and juveniles, are susceptible to predation while moving through the fishway. (ii) Having entered the upstream fishway, including while in the caged container, small lungfish have little or no places to hide from predators and are, therefore, susceptible to predation. (b) The facts, matters, and circumstances relied upon in support of the allegation that lungfish, particularly juveniles, are susceptible to predation while moving through the downstream fishway include: (i) Species such as blue catfish and long-finned eel use the structure provided by vertical-slot fishways as shelter to ambush prey and lungfish, particularly hatchlings and juveniles, are susceptible to predation while moving through the fishway. (ii) Having entered the downstream fishway, including while in the trapping chamber, small lungfish have little or no places to hide from predators and are, therefore, susceptible to predation. 7.
