 His Honour refused an application for an extension of time to apply pursuant to s 75(v) of the Constitution for an order to show cause why a decision of a delegate of the Chief of Army made on 3 November 2004 should not be quashed and, for consequential orders.
 The matter was remitted to this Court by order of Crennan J on 4 May 2007, with the specific order that the time limits imposed by rr 25.06.1 and 25.07.2 of the High Court Rules 2004 would continue to apply to the application upon the remittal.
 Clearly, the application was made considerably beyond that time. 3 In his reasons for judgment, Ferdinands v Chief of Army [2008] FCA 1865 , Lander J refused to grant the extension of time sought because no proper explanation had been offered for the delay and because there was no prospect of Mr Ferdinands succeeding in obtaining an order setting aside the termination decision: at [41].
 That case involved an application for an extension of time to commence an action for damages in tort and for compensation for breach of fiduciary duty in relation to a series of sexual assaults upon that appellant against his guardian.
 The appeal from the dismissal of an application for an extension of time within which to have commenced those proceedings was dismissed, in essence because there was no real prospect of the claim succeeding.
 However, the Full Court (Miles, Lehane and Weinberg JJ) at 493 said that an order refusing an application to extend time to issue after the expiry of a limitation period may or may not be regarded as interlocutory since it may or may not finally determine the rights of the parties in respect of the subject matter of the action.
 It was necessary for him, even had he applied for such an order within time, to satisfy a Justice of the High Court (or if the matter were remitted to this Court, a judge of this Court) that it was appropriate for an order to show cause to be issued.
 Moreover, as McHugh ACJ, Gummow and Heydon JJ said in Re Luck [2003] HCA 70 ; (2003) 203 ALR 1 at [4] : the usual test for determining whether an order is final or interlocutory is whether the order, as made, finally determines the rights of the parties in a principal cause pending between them.
 In my view, Mr Ferdinands was unable to indicate any such error either in the description of the history relevant to consideration of that application, or in identifying the grounds advanced by Mr Ferdinands in support of it, or in his Honour's consideration of those grounds.
 Moreover, as Lander J pointed out at [38], the proposed proceeding is an attempt to quash the decision by a collateral attack upon the conviction by the Defence Force Magistrate. 14 Mr Ferdinands was convicted by a Defence Force Magistrate of one charge of assault upon an inferior officer on 4 November 1999.
