 The uncle deposed that he had had many conversations with Ms L to the effect that she wanted to join the appellant as soon as possible and for them and their daughter to live together as a family.
 The uncle said that he knew the appellant and Ms L very well and that he knew the appellant loved Ms L and was fully committed to living a life together with her and their daughter.
 THE DECISION OF THE TRIBUNAL The tribunal reasoned that the fact that the appellant had not been familiar with steps undertaken by Ms L to seek residence in Australia after her return to the Philippines indicated a lack of communication between him and her.
 The tribunal concluded that if the appellant were really in the relationship he claimed, he could reasonably have taken more steps to be reunited with Ms L and their child by travelling to the Philippines, making enquiries about that travel or taking steps for her and the child to travel to Australia.
 The tribunal found that the appellant had not appeared to have undertaken any of those steps and that while it accepted that there was "some form of relationship" between him, Ms L and the child "... as is evidenced by their continuous contact, financial support and opinions of third parties, the tribunal does not accept that the [appellant] and [Ms L] are in a spousal or de facto relationship or that they are in a familial relationship of a kind in which the parties are committed to living together as a family".
 The tribunal also found that the appellant's past conduct indicated to it that the parties did not intend to live together if he were to return to Bangladesh, and that Ms L and their daughter would not accompany him there.
 It pursued this issue in the context that the appellant had not seen or been with Ms L for over eight years, at the time of the hearing, and had never seen their daughter.
 The tribunal's reasoning, in effect, was that if he missed Ms L and their daughter so much, he might reasonably be expected to have made some attempt during over eight years of separation to be with them rather than doggedly pursuing his claim for a protection visa.
 The Minister supported the trial judge's finding that the information conveyed by Ms L at the hearing was not part of the reason for the tribunal's decision because it did not undermine the appellant's claim to be a refugee.
 In addition, his Honour held that Ms L's evidence was called at the request of the appellant, and was thus to be taken to have been given by him for the purposes of his application for review within the meaning of the exception in s 424A(3)(b).
