 The first in time is the applicants' application for leave nunc pro tunc to proceed against the first respondent (Opes Prime) (which is both in liquidation and has receivers and managers appointed) and also against the fourth respondent (Green Frog), a subsidiary of Opes Prime.
 The second application is the motion of the second and third respondents (ANZ) to transfer the proceeding to the Victoria District Registry of this Court pursuant to s 48 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) (the Act).
 STATUTORY FRAMEWORK Section 48 of the Act provides: The Court or a Judge may, at any stage of a proceeding in the Court, direct that the proceeding or a part of the proceeding be conducted or continued at a place specified in the order, subject to such conditions (if any) as the Court or Judge imposes.
 There are some differences in this application but those differences essentially are, as I perceive it, differences arising by reason of the proper legal characterisation of the relationships and circumstances arising on the evidence.
 Of course each applicant's position will differ to some extent but the extent to which there are common issues between not only the Beconwood proceedings and these proceedings but also proceedings in other States is very significant.
 ANZ contends that the adjournment of the Beconwood proceeding enhances its transfer argument as the gap between progress in the various cases will narrow, especially if a settlement can not be achieved.
 Submissions have also been received from the liquidators of Opes Prime in light of the events leading to the adjournment of Beconwood asking that the matter be stood over, save for the delivery of this decision.
 In New South Wales there are two proceedings pursued by Opes Prime customers - Melewar Steel Ventures Pty Ltd v ANZ Nominees Ltd and Terpu v ANZ Nominees Ltd.
 The real issue is how the proceeding can most efficiently be managed between now and trial (as well as at trial) given the substantial commonality of issues between this and other litigation presently and/or likely to be transferred to the Victoria District Registry.
 Both the applicants and ANZ have adduced evidence that they have significant numbers of documents relevant to the proceedings located in each of Western Australia and Victoria.
 As the applicants observed, however, there is no reason on the evidence as to why the parties to the proceeding cannot agree on an electronic discovery protocol in accordance with Practice Note No 17.
 In terms of all three main factors identified by the Full Court in National Mutual Holdings the existence and current status of such very similar proceedings in the Victoria Registry weigh, in my opinion, very heavily indeed in favour of transfer from Western Australia to Victoria.
 Case management considerations suggest that one judge should manage the interlocutory aspects of the case so as to achieve the most efficient and cost effective resolution of common issues.
