 The claim as presently constituted was based on the allegation, in particular, that the misleading conduct of Mr Heraghty and Mr McGrath amounted to a failure to disclose the arrangements after the sale date under a share sale agreement dated 25 August 2005, in which YRB acquired the remaining shares in The Communications Group Holdings Pty Limited which it did not then own.
 I do not consider that the amended claim would add to the length of the trial, but it will postpone the hearing date, and it will add to the cost and expense involved in getting the matter on for hearing.
 The approach which I ought to take in this application is, in my view, covered by what was said by Finkelstein J in Black Decker (Australasia) Pty Ltd v GMCA Pty Limited [2007] FCA 1623 at paragraphs 4 to 5.
 I have already referred to the reasons for delay which entail commercial considerations as to what is now thought to be, on the plaintiffs' part, the reason for departing from the decision to pursue the warranty insurer.
 A great deal of preparation had been undertaken and, when the matter was before me for directions on 26 February 2009, the parties should have been ready to take a hearing date.
 Nevertheless, against that I have to consider, as Mr Leopold submitted, that if I do not grant leave to join YRB there will be a multiplicity of proceedings.
 It is true that the matter will not get a hearing date this year, but I am of the view that the matter should be ready for hearing early next year.
 This object is the one to which Finkelstein J referred at paragraph 4 of his decision, namely that a commercial court should bring the litigant's dispute on for trial as soon as can reasonably and fairly be done.
 It seems to me that since this unsatisfactory state of affairs has come about because of the commercial considerations of the plaintiffs, stringent conditions ought to be imposed upon them for the grant of leave.
 Nevertheless, with some reluctance, I have come to the view that I ought to permit YRB to be joined and to permit Mr Leopold to amend his statement of claim accordingly.
 A commercial decision ought to have commercial consequences and these, in my view, include an order for the payment of wasted costs on an indemnity basis.
