 This scheme had its origins in the Building Industry Long Service Leave Act 1975 (Vic) which created a portable long service leave system in the building industry managed by a statutory corporation known as the Building Industry Long Service Leave Board.
 Section 40 of the former gave an entitlement to actual leave, whilst s 6 of the latter, it is contended, only gives an entitlement to be paid long service leave benefits out of the fund and does not compel the granting of actual leave.
 Rule 27.1 provides: Every worker is entitled to a Long Service Leave Benefit in respect of Continuous Service performing Construction Work for an Employer (whether before or after the commencement of the Trust Deed (or these Rules)).
 Rule 40.1 states: Any payment in respect of Long Service Leave or in lieu of Long Service Leave that accrues or is by these Rules deemed to have accrued under these Rules on or after 1 August 1983 shall be made from the Fund.
 This provision ensures that employers who have made long service leave charges in respect of an employee to whom that employer grants long service leave on ordinary pay, or payment in lieu, shall be reimbursed from the Fund any payments made into it in respect of that worker.
 In summary the State scheme has the following materially relevant features: It compels an employer who employs a worker in construction work to pay a long service leave charge to the respondent in respect of that worker.
 Where a worker qualifies for long service leave payments under the State scheme and the worker wishes to take actual leave from the employer, with the agreement of the employer, the worker can take leave from work and receive benefits from the Fund.
 Coinvest stresses that the industrial instruments provide inter se rights and obligations as between employee and employer while the obligations imposed under the State Act on employers are not obligations to employees and the rights conferred on employees are not rights against their employers.
 It is the contention of Coinvest that the fundamental differences in the mechanisms established by the State Act and those established by the industrial instruments reflect the different subject matters with which both sets of arrangements are concerned and the purposes which those arrangements serve.
 The contentions of the Jemena companies The applicants submit that the industrial instruments were intended, when made, to comprehensively state the applicants' and their predecessors' obligations to afford long service leave and make long service leave payments to their employees.
 In summary, the applicants say that to require them to comply with the scheme provided by the State Act would amount to the imposition of obligations in addition to and inconsistent with the scheme which the federal industrial instruments create and detract from that scheme.
 There is nothing in the industrial instruments which shows that they were intended to be a complete statement of rights and liabilities of persons bound by them, such that no room is left for the operation of a State Act which exists for a different purpose than that sought to be achieved by those instruments.
