 The nature and history of the proceeding The question that arises in this appeal is whether the Migration Review Tribunal ("the Tribunal"), the second respondent to the appeal, was wrong in holding that it did not have jurisdiction to deal with the appellant's application for review of a decision to cancel his visa.
 Having taken steps to advise the appellant that his application for waiver of the fee normally required in conjunction with an application for review had been refused, the Tribunal proceeded to dismiss the application for review on the basis that it had no jurisdiction.
 The learned federal magistrate dismissed an application by the appellant, seeking judicial review of the Tribunal's decision, which was signed on 7 November 2007 and forwarded to the appellant, with a statement of reasons and a letter dated 8 November 2007.
 On the same day, the Tribunal wrote to the appellant, advising him of this decision and asking that he pay the prescribed application fee within a reasonable period, specifically by 18 October 2007, or make other arrangements with the Tribunal about the payment of the fee.
 The stated reasons of the Tribunal were as follows: As the prescribed application fee was not paid to the Tribunal within the prescribed period or within a reasonable period after the fee waiver request was refused, the application for review is not a valid application and the Tribunal has no jurisdiction to review the delegate's decision.
 At [5] , his Honour concluded that the appellant was deemed to have received the letter of 25 September 2007, because of the cumulative effect of reg 4.10(1)(b) of the Migration Regulations and s 347 of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ("the Migration Act ").
 Relevant legislation Section 347(1) of the Migration Act provides, so far as relevant to the present case: An application for review of an MRT-reviewable decision must: (a) be made in the approved form; and (b) be given to the Tribunal within the prescribed period...and (c) be accompanied by the prescribed fee (if any).
 A letter from the Tribunal to an applicant, advising that a decision that the fee on an application for review by the Tribunal should not be paid has not been made is not a document that any provision of the Migration Act or the Migration Regulations requires or permits the Tribunal to give to a person, or states that the Tribunal must do so by one of the methods specified in s 379A.
 To make the provisions operate sensibly, the Full Court in Braganza held that, in such a case, the Tribunal was not deprived of jurisdiction to consider the application for review merely because the prescribed fee was not paid within the prescribed period, provided the fee was either eventually waived or paid within a reasonable time after the rejection of the request for a decision under reg 4.13(4).
 The appellant informed me in the course of the hearing of the appeal that he had been ready and able to pay the fee, if his application for a decision that the fee should not be paid were to be unsuccessful.
 It is likely that, in those circumstances, the Tribunal would have determined that a reasonable time had not elapsed, would have accepted the fee from the appellant, and would have proceeded to deal with his application for review of the decision of the Minister's delegate.
 If the Tribunal found that a reasonable time had not elapsed, it might also have considered that its earlier decision that it had no jurisdiction because the application fee had not been paid within a reasonable time was subject to jurisdictional error.
