 The conduct complained of by Mr Rose and Riva is that the Lenders wrongfully refused to permit redemption of mortgages given to the Lenders by Moruben Properties Pty Limited ( Moruben ).
 On 16 June 2004, in connection with the proposed development and resale of the Moruben Road Property, Moruben entered into a development facility agreement with Sakkara Properties ( the Moruben Equity Agreement ).
 Moruben's obligations under the Moruben Mezzanine Agreement were to be secured by a registered mortgage over the Moruben Road Property, as well as fixed and floating charges over all of the assets of Moruben.
 Mr Batiste's letter of 17 October 2006 suggested that the " imminent sell down " of the Moruben Road Property offered the most sensible avenue by which to resolve the issues " in a timely fashion ".
 The letter also proposed that the various facilities be " cross collateralised " and that all of the arrangements be formalised by way of a " multi partite deed '.
 Mr Rose said that, as a director of Riva, he was not in a position to allow Riva to incur additional debts and financial obligations without the means to repay them.
 It is significant that, at that stage, Mr Rose accepted the need for agreement between Sakkara Properties and Moruben as to the profit share, before finalisation of the Moruben Road Project.
 Mr Bevan's email of 23 November 2006 went on to note that the profit share was not ascertainable at that point in time and that it was necessary to make an estimate.
 The email said that the original documents relating to the Moruben Road Property, including the certificates of title, would be expected on settlement and asked for confirmation of " the payout figure for the loans ".
 Mr Bevan then observed that Mr Rose was maintaining that he would not permit cross-collateralisation to the Moruben Road Property for the possible shortfall from Riva and would not provide a personal guarantee.
 Mr Rose responded by email shortly afterwards, saying that he was planning to pay out the Moruben facilities on Wednesday 6 December 2006 and would need to agree on " the payout figure " forthwith.
