 On that date Fig Tree and SCV entered into the Assignment Agreement under which Fig Tree agreed either to assign or to transfer to SCV its rights under each of the WMSAs.
 Specifically in relation to the communications between 15 and 16 August 2007, there was no evidence that Fig Tree was aware of any of the content of the communications between Prime and SCV on those dates.
 Fig Tree contends that the effect of the agreement and the Assignment Agreement was that SCV would be obliged to continue to manage the villages in accordance with that system.
 Once again, Prime complains that it was unaware of this fact --- indeed it was inconsistent with the obligations under the draft assignment agreement to operate the villages in accordance with the Village Life System.
 Fig Tree says that Prime was informed of the involvement of SCV and the nature of that involvement particularly in relation to the division of management tasks and responsibilities allocated as between SCV and Fig Tree.
 Prime says that on any view, whether by effective assignment or by installing SCV as an agent manager, Fig Tree ceased to perform all or substantially all of the management functions at the villages.
 Prime argues Fig Tree manifested an intention to no longer perform its obligations under the WMSAs or at least, not in accordance with all the terms of the WMSAs and in particular the Village Life System.
 The Promise to Manage the Villages in Accordance with the Village Life System was an Important Intermediate Term As Fig Tree correctly points out, Prime has the onus of proof on the repudiation case.
 It is accepted that the two changes did not comply with the Village Life System but Fig Tree does not accept that those changes were sufficiently serious as to justify termination.
 Further, as it is entitled to do, Fig Tree argues, Fig Tree itself might determine that modifications to the Village Life System will improve the services it can offer Prime as manager.
 Prime's order proposes that Fig Tree not be permitted to modify the Village Life System to take into account any of those matters and remain fixed for the next 20 years in 2007.
