 In response to Mr Watts' communication, Registry staff informed him that he would need to make the application which he was seeking to make in the correspondence to which I have referred by way of formal Notice of Motion supported by an affidavit or affidavits.
 On 14 April 2009, Mr Watts filed a Notice of Motion in which he sought an order: To admit additional evidence as contained in the affidavit of Gambhir Watts sworn 14 April 2009 to the hearing before His Honour Justice Foster on 10 December 2008.
 Annexure 2A comprises a notice disputing the validity of a Bankruptcy Notice served upon Mr Watts and his wife in respect of the same debt which is the subject of the Creditor's Statutory Demand which is sought to be set aside in the present proceedings.
 The notice disputing the Bankruptcy Notice is dated 8 April 2009 and has attached to it a calculation which Mr Watts submits constitutes the correct calculation showing the present state of the account between the plaintiff and the first defendant in respect of the two loans made by the first defendant to the plaintiff in 2004.
 With the exception of the two paragraphs to which I have already referred and Annexure 2A to the affidavit, the annexures to Mr Watts' affidavit of 14 April 2009 comprise documents all of which could have been tendered at the hearing before me on 10 December 2008.
 The same observation may be made in respect of the text of the affidavit in the sense that much of what is said there has either already been said or could have been said at the hearing before me on 10 December 2008.
 In order to have the affidavit of Mr Watts sworn on 14 April 2009 (including the annexures to that affidavit) admitted into evidence, Mr Watts would need to show either that the evidentiary material set out in that affidavit comprised facts and matters which had arisen after the hearing or which were not known to him or could not have been ascertained by him by the exercise of reasonable diligence at the time the hearing took place on 10 December 2008 and that it is in the interests of justice that the material be admitted into evidence (see The Movie Network Channels Pty Ltd v Optus Vision Pty Ltd [2009] NSWSC 132 at [4] ---[8]; Inspector-General in Bankruptcy v Bradshaw [2006] FCA 22 at [24] ; and Australian Securities and Investments Commission v Rich [2006] NSWSC 826 ; (2006) 235 ALR 587 ; (2006) 58 ACSR 414 at [18] ).
 Given that most of the documents attached to Mr Watts' affidavit are already in evidence and that most of the assertions and contentions sought to be advanced in the affidavit have already been put, in my judgment the plaintiff has failed to establish that it should be permitted to re-open in the manner sought by it.
 Further, no explanation has been offered as to why the material set out in Mr Watts' latest affidavit was not presented in the way in which it has now been presented when the hearing before me took place on 10 December 2008.
 When asked in argument whether Annexure 2A and the paragraphs in the affidavit to which I have referred could be treated as a submission only and not as evidence, Mr Watts accepted that that material could be treated in that fashion and that, if the material was considered by me on that basis, he would be satisfied.
 Mr Watts told me that his main concern was to ensure that I had, in the one place and in a manner which was clear and coherent, his contentions concerning the correct way of calculating the amounts due under the loan agreements (if any).
