 The relevant consequence of the amendments was that if the Amended Claims in relation to PA 716550 were fairly based on matters disclosed in the specification of PA 64800/94 as filed, those claims would have the earlier priority date of PA 68090/94, which was filed on 20 June 1994 and which had a priority date of 18 November 1993.
 In the first decision of 25 January 2007, the delegate decided that the relevant amended claims were fairly based on matter disclosed in the earlier specification and therefore had the priority date of PA 64800/94, namely 18 November 1993.
 On 25 January 2007 the delegate decided that the amended claims were fairly based on matter disclosed in and entitled to the priority date based on PA 716550 of 18 November 1993, and that therefore the invention as claimed in PA 759725 was not anticipated by the alleged prior art and was novel.
 In summary, the evidence of Mr Rogers was given on the basis that the "substantially orthogonal" requirement was a limiting factor on the disclosure, and that the references to "substantially orthogonal" must be understood as a reference to "90 degrees within normal engineering tolerances as best as can be produced in the production process. " He considered that the expression "substantially orthogonal" would encompass angles which are within a few degrees only of ninety degrees, from around say 88 degrees to 92 degrees.
 Sunnyfield first submits that, having regard to the fact that the applications is for a "shielding device," there is no fair and reasonable disclosure in relation to the "Luminaire" reflector, which is the device the subject of the amended application.
 In my view, notwithstanding that the title of the application as filed related to a "shielding device" it was capable of providing sufficient disclosure, and it contained matter which was sufficient to constitute a substantial disclosure of the "Luminaire" reflector device claimed in the amendment.
 The description and numerous references to the adjustable reflector device used in conjunction with the shielding device, when considered in the light of Figures 3, 4 and 5, is a sufficient disclosure for the claim made in relation to the reflector device in the amended claim.
 Mr Roger's evidence was that the term meant that the reflector sheets were separated by "an angle. " Sunnyfield submits that it is necessary to have the sheets of resilient reflective skin disposed at an angle substantially orthogonal to each other so as to create a double or parabolic shape.
 In my view, for the reasons given earlier I do not consider that there is any limitation that the sheets should be disposed at an angle "substantially orthogonal," and that provided essential features are met so that the parabolic shape is formed the angle of the sheets flexing is not essential, and there is therefore a real and reasonably clear disclosure.
 When the earlier application refers to an adjustable reflector device it is drawing a distinction between devices such as a "Chinaman's hat" reflector and the reflector device which is the invention with a resilient reflective skin which can be flexed to form a double parabolic shape.
