 It did so in the following terms: The first question for consideration is whether the share of loss of the partnership of $250,000 claimed for the year ended 30 June 1999 is an allowable deduction.
 That is, was the expenditure incurred for the purpose of gaining or producing assessable income or necessarily incurred in carrying on a business for such purpose and not a loss or outgoing of capital or of a capital nature or private or domestic expenditure.
 It was submitted for the respondent that there was no loss or outgoing incurred or if there was, it was not incurred for the required purposes but in order to generate a tax deduction.
 Both before the Tribunal and in this court, the Commissioner contended that the obligation of Jolson Management to pay the production services and licence fee to Jolson Australia was an element of a scheme of the kind referred to in Part IVA of the 1936 Act.
 The applicants' other point was that they were not themselves parties to any scheme of a kind referred to in Part IVA, and that the existence of such a scheme should not, therefore, impact adversely upon their own claims for deductions under s 8-1 of the 1997 Act.
 The applicants say that the Tribunal proceeded to hear and determine their applications for review notwithstanding the absence from the witness box of Mr Brereton, in relation to whom the applicants had caused a summons to be issued under s 40(1A) of the AAT Act.
 In the absence of the ATO's consent, you would need to attend on 11 March 2008 so you could be sworn in to give evidence of your separate application being afoot and the adjournment application could then be made on the basis that the Tribunal ought not hear the same evidence twice.
 After referring to the significance of his own pending appeal in the Tribunal, Mr Brereton alleged that the summons left at his office was "invalid and illegal", and said that he would not be attending the Tribunal on behalf of the applicants on 11 March 2008 to give evidence and to produce documents.
 It seems that the applicants had not received Mr Brereton's letter of 7 March, and the Tribunal stood the matter down for 15 minutes so that they might read the copy of the letter which had been sent to the Tribunal, and make telephone contact, if possible, with Mr Brereton.
 The principle here is that "a failure to accede to a reasonable request for an adjournment can constitute procedural unfairness": Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Bhardwaj [2002] HCA 11 ; (2002) 209 CLR 597 , 611 [40].
 However, when the hearing resumed on 11 March, Mr Brereton was not present, but had sent a letter to the Tribunal contending that he had not been properly served with the applicants' summons.
