 The application for winding up is made on the basis of a failure on the part of WPS Motorsport to comply with the terms of a statutory demand and its consequential deemed insolvency.
 The only evidence as to the assets of WPS Motorsport is found in the report as to its affairs made on behalf of the company by a director, a Mr John Atkinson, on 30 April 2009.
 I note in passing, in respect of the list of unsecured creditors, that there is a debt of $377,794 of some unspecified nature to the Office of State Revenue, ie, the State of Queensland.
 Should the Company fail to pay into the Deed Fund the monies due to the DCA Fund, the Deed Administrator will convene a meeting of creditors with the intention of either varying the Deed or placing the Company into liquidation.
 He further confirms that it has come to his attention that WPS Motorsport was "looking for a buyer" and that he has had discussions with representatives of that company over the past few months.
 He states that he has made an initial offer to WPS Motorsport and that he is prepared to commit the sum of $200,000 for its purchase by either him or a company controlled by him.
 If I am satisfied that it is in the interests of the company's creditors for the company to continue under administration then I am obliged, as I have said, by s 440A(2) to adjourn the winding up application.
 The relevant consideration under that subsection is, as the subsection states, is it in the interests of the company's creditors for the company to continue under administration rather than be wound up?
 Nonetheless, the public interest is a relevant consideration in the event that I were not satisfied that it was in the interests of the company's creditors for the company to continue under administration rather than be wound up.
 The Judge in the present case was not satisfied that it was in the creditor's interests for the administration to continue and it is his decision to that effect that is challenged here.
 Nonetheless, it seems to me that there should at least be raised the existence of an asset which is the subject of the proposed transaction and there is just no evidence at all.
