 BACKGROUND In this notice of motion filed on 26 September 2008 the first and second respondents to the primary proceedings seek a number of orders including that their costs in the primary proceedings be paid by Mrs Adrienne Tracy, the wife of the second applicant to the primary proceedings.
 In detail, the first and second respondents by this notice of motion seek the following orders: Adrienne Elizabeth Tracy (Mrs Tracy), wife of the Second Applicant, pay the First and Second Respondent's costs of the proceedings, including all reserved costs on an indemnity basis.
 In summary, the applicants' argument is: Notwithstanding these submissions, I do not accept that the power of the Court to make orders as to non-party costs in these proceedings has been exhausted simply because costs orders have already been made and entered against the applicants.
 I note that the decision in Caboolture Park [1993] FCA 471 ; (1993) 45 FCR 224 is consistent with decisions in other jurisdictions, including Dymocks Franchise Systems (NSW) v Todd [2004] UKPC 39 ; [2004] 1 WLR 2807 , NSW Insurance Ministerial Corporation v Edkins (1998) 45 NSWLR 8 and UTSA Pty Ltd (In Liquidation) v Ultratune Australia Pty Ltd [1998] VSC 13 ; [1999] 1 VR 204.
 As was the case in Caboolture Park [1993] FCA 471 ; (1993) 45 FCR 224 (where the costs were originally ordered on a standard basis but the Court subsequently ordered non-party costs on an indemnity basis), the orders sought pursuant to the notice of motion currently before the Court do not in any way seek to vary or alter the costs orders already made against the applicants.
 Accordingly, I find that the submissions of the applicants on this issue are not substantiated, and that the jurisdiction of the Court to award non-party costs, (be they on an indemnity basis or otherwise) pursuant to s 43 of the Federal Court Act was not spent when previous costs orders were entered.
 LIABILITY OF MRS TRACY FOR NON-PARTY COSTS Submissions of the parties I turn now to the key issue in this case, namely whether Mrs Tracy is liable for non-party costs in respect of the costs of the first and second respondents in the primary proceedings.
 Submissions of the first and second respondents may be summarised as follows: In response, the applicants submitted in summary: There is no suggestion that the purpose of the advance by Mrs Tracy of $1.15 million to the first and third applicants in March 2005 to enable the first applicant to purchase land and business owned by the first respondent had any connection with these proceedings.
 Indeed as I found in the primary judgment, the second applicant was, at all material times, the directing mind and will of the first and third applicants ( Citrus Queensland Pty Ltd v Sunstate Orchards Pty Ltd (No 7) [2008] FCA 1364 at [9] ).
 That is not to say, of course, that non-party costs will not be awarded against a spouse or other family member should the circumstances warrant --- for example Thistleton v Hendricks (1992) 32 Con LR 123 , Locabail (UK) Ltd v Bayfield Properties Ltd [1999] 20 LS GazR 39.
 In light of the dominant role played by the second applicant in the affairs of all applicants and the clear professional and financial stake of the second applicant in the businesses of the first and third applicants particularly as director and shareholder, it is clear that the failure of the proceedings would have had a much greater impact on the fortunes of the second applicant than on those of Mrs Tracy.
 I consider that it is likely that any financial support provided by Mrs Tracy to the applicants' case was motivated by Mrs Tracy's natural affection for the second applicant (cf Jackson v Thakrar [2007] EWHC 626 ; [2008] 1 All ER 601 at 609) rather than any financial interest she may have had in the outcome of the proceedings.
 Second, while I note that the proceedings were actually initiated by Janling Pty Ltd following the purported assignment of the causes of action, I also note that costs were awarded to the first and second respondents after the applicants were substituted for Janling Pty Ltd by consent on 15 February 2006.
