 Whether, on its true construction, the alternative requirement in s 21(2)(g) of the Australian Citizenship Act 2007 that an applicant for Australian citizenship must, "... maintain a close and continuing association with Australia ...", may be met by having children who are Australian citizens and who are resident in Australia. (4).
 The Tribunal erroneously construed the words "maintain a close and continuing association with Australia ..." in s 21(2)(g) of the Australian Citizenship Act 2007 by requiring the physical presence in Australia of the applicant for Australian Citizenship.
 Under the Migration Act and therefore, for the purposes of the new Act, the visa granted to the applicant by the Minister on 19 April 2004 is a permanent visa (see s 5 and s 30(1) of the Migration Act ).
 Therefore, the phrase present in Australia as a permanent resident , when used in subs (1) of the transitional s 22, requires that the citizenship applicant be physically present in Australia throughout the relevant period or periods and that that person hold a permanent visa or be covered by a s 5(2) determination for the whole of that period or those periods.
 Second, the word period serves to direct attention to that span of time or those spans of time during which the citizenship applicant satisfied the residence requirement (ie was present in Australia as a permanent resident).
 The concept total period , as used in subpar (a) and subpar (b) of subs (1) of the transitional s 22, means the span of time or the aggregates of all spans of time during which the applicant continuously satisfied the residence requirement.
 In my judgment, bearing in mind the subject matter of and language used in the transitional s 22, a sensible minimum span of time which would satisfy the concept of period for the purposes of subpar (a) and subpar (b) of subs (1) of the transitional s 22 is one day.
 The effect of the Minister treating such a period or periods in this manner is to feed that period or periods of time into the calculations required to be carried out for the purposes of subs (1) of the transitional s 22.
 The provisions of subs (4) of the transitional s 22 are intended to govern and direct the quantification of that time spent out of Australia which is to be counted as time spent in Australia for the purposes of subs (1) of the transitional s 22.
 The time which is to count as time spent in Australia is that time during which the citizenship applicant met each and every one of the conditions specified in subpar (a) and subpar (b) of subs (4) of the transitional s 22.
 The whole exercise is directed to a quantification of intervals or spans of time for the purpose of bringing them to account in favour of the citizenship applicant for the purposes of subs (1) of the transitional s 22 and thus for the purposes of the eligibility criteria set out in s 21(2)(c).
