 On 9 April 2009 the Court dismissed an application brought by Lawyers for Forests Inc. ("LFF") in which it sought to impugn a decision of the Minister for the Environment, Heritage and the Arts ("the Minister") to grant conditional approval for the construction of a pulp mill by Gunns Limited ("Gunns") at Bell Bay in Tasmania: see Lawyers for Forests Inc v Minister for the Environment, Heritage and the Arts [2009] FCA 330.
 I ordered that, if LFF wished to contend that costs should not follow the event, it should file and serve written submissions and that, if it did so, the respondents should file and serve answering submissions.
 LFF filed written submissions in which it contended that no order for costs should be made or, alternatively, that it should be ordered to pay no more than 70% of the Minister's costs and 40% of Gunns' costs.
 Both the Minister and Gunns filed submissions in which they sought orders that LFF pay their costs of the proceeding on the basis that they were successful in resisting the application.
 The rationale for the "rule" was explained by McHugh J in Oshlack v Richmond River Council [1998] HCA 11 ; (1998) 193 CLR 72 at 97: "67 The expression the "usual order as to costs" embodies the important principle that, subject to certain limited exceptions, a successful party in litigation is entitled to an award of costs in its favour.
 As the terms "ordinary rule" and "usual order" imply they constitute guidelines to inform the exercise of a broad and unfettered judicial discretion: see Latoudis v Casey at 541 (Mason CJ), 557 (Dawson J).
 There is no general exception to the ordinary "rule" in cases in which environmental issues are raised or, more generally, "public interest" issues are involved: see Oshlack at 75 (Brennan CJ); 84, 91 (Gaudron and Gummow JJ), 91-2, 98-100 (McHugh J); South-West Forest Defence Foundation Inc v Executive Director of Department of Conservation and Land Management (No 2) (1998) 154 ALR 411 at 412 (Kirby J); Australian Conservation Foundation v Forestry Commission (1988) 81 ALR 166 at 171 (Burchett J).
 This consideration was said to be of sufficient importance to the community "for costs generally not to be ordered. " This consideration, it was suggested, weighed heavily where the community organisation confronted respondents who had greater financial and other resources which they are able to apply to litigation.
 The third strand directed attention to the issues which were raised in the application which were said to be "of significant public interest and concern. " Even when wound together these "public interest" strands lack strength.
 It was so held by Marshall J in the course of a preliminary hearing in which security for costs was sought: see Lawyers for Forests Inc v Minister for the Environment, Heritage and the Arts [2008] FCA 588 at [14] .
 There was no evidence before the Court as to LFF's present financial position or as to its capacity to raise funds to meet any costs order which the Court might be minded to make.
