 This is an application for an extension of time in which to file and serve a notice of appeal from judgments of the Federal Magistrates Court given on 22 February and 11 July 2008.
 In the written submissions on behalf of the respondent to the notice of motion, reference is made to the decision of Middleton J in Kuruwitage v Minister for Immigration and Citizenship [2007] FCA 795 at [9] .
 This description arises from the fact that there was an earlier decision of Moore J, being All Districts Coating Pty Ltd v Barhoum (2008) FCA 1757 (24 November 2008), in which his Honour dismissed an application for an extension of time.
 The respondent filed a motion to strike out that appeal on the ground that the appeal was incompetent because the decision of the Federal Magistrates Court was interlocutory, there still being outstanding issues in the proceedings before the Federal Magistrates Court.
 Although he recognised that a possibility would have been to file a further appeal immediately, in circumstances where that may be unnecessary because the first appeal may not be struck out, it appeared to be a waste of money.
 The second affidavit of Mr Mitry annexes certain documents that were before the Federal Magistrates Court but which were not before Moore J when he determined, on 24 November 2008, to refuse the application for the extension of time.
 According to the applicants, Mr Mitry's explanation of the delay in filing the notice of appeal after the final orders of the Federal Magistrates Court of 22 July 2008, in short, were not as unsatisfactory as Moore J appears to have concluded.
 The applicants also refer to Moore J's reasons at [18] to [22], in which his Honour described the fact that the Federal Magistrates Court made orders against all three of the applicants in circumstances where s 665 specifically refers to the making of orders against an employer.
 At [21] of his reasons, Moore J said: I presently do not see why whichever of the applicants is the employer should gain the benefit of this uncertainty, the resolution of which could ultimately operate to the benefit of the other two applicants.
 According to the applicants' submission, this paragraph involves a reversal of the onus of proof (which was on the respondent), but in any event the further affidavit that Mr Mitry swore on 23 January 2009 annexes documents which are said, unequivocally, to show that the relevant employer was the second applicant alone.
 Mr Mitry's affidavit says that these documents were before the Federal Magistrate but not before Moore J because Mr Mitry did not realise that they might be relevant to the consideration of the Court as to whether an extension of time ought to be granted.
