 The circumstance relevant to the present case is that the Court is satisfied that there is a genuine dispute between the company and the defendants about the existence of the debt to which the demand relates.
 In the same vein, in the earlier case of Eyota Pty Ltd v Hanave Pty Ltd (1994) 12 ACSR 785 , McLelland CJ in Eq said that the expression "genuine dispute" connotes "a plausible contention requiring investigation " (at 787 --- my emphasis).
 I accept that counsel for Lodge did raise a construction that was arguable, at least on the face of the provision, but the cases cited above show that this is not the end of the matter.
 The parties have argued this case on the issue of whether the proper construction of the agreement and the facts results in the plaintiff owing money to the defendant.
 In Eyota Pty Ltd v Hanave Pty Ltd (1994) 12 ACSR 785 ; 12 ACLC 669 , McLelland CJ in Eq said that the expression "genuine dispute" connotes a plausible contention requiring investigation.
 The Court referred to issues as to the admissibility of post-contract conduct of the parties and the question whether the heads of agreement represented a concluded contract at all.
 Counsel for the defendants submits that once ETC was properly described in May 2008 as "a new client introduced to [Lodge] by [Mr Pegum]" it continued to satisfy that description, with the consequence that the defendants were entitled to the Introduction Fee on each transaction entered into by Lodge and ETC --- not just the first such transaction.
 Secondly, he submits that the amount of the Introduction Fee was a minimum of 10% and that the third sentence relates only to anything over and above the 10%.
 The change from "the first" to "each" at Mr Pegum's request, agreed to by Lodge, clearly shows that the parties did not intend the word "each" to mean "the first".
 Sometimes cases of this kind are called "private dictionary" cases: the parties have agreed that a word or expression in the express terms of their contract is to have (or not to have) a certain meaning.
 The reasons that support the general rule excluding evidence of antecedent negotiations (see, for example, Prenn v Simmonds , above, at 1384-1385; and Carter, Peden and Tolhurst, Contract Law in Australia (5 th ed, 2007) at [12-11]) do not apply here.
