 The defendants, on the other hand, contend that they validly convened the meeting for 28 May and that the meeting convened by the directors has been invalidly convened or at least should not be allowed to proceed.
 Consistently with this provision, s 249E(1) provides that certain members may "call" and "arrange to hold" a general meeting if the directors "do not do so within 21 days after the request is given to the company".
 Section 249D(5) does not oblige the directors both to call and to arrange to hold the meeting within the 21 day period: it obliges them only to call it within that period.
 It is common ground that the directors did not on 17 April 2009 "call and arrange to hold" a general meeting of members because notices of the meeting were not sent out on that date.
 On this construction, which is not the plain meaning of "do not do so", a calling by the directors of a meeting within the 21 day period will, without more, prevent the shareholders' power under s 249E(1) from being enlivened.
 I need not decide the correct meaning of "do not do so" in s 249E(1) because in my opinion the directors did not even call the meeting within the 21 day period.
 The making of the distinction in such terms for that purpose does not, to my mind, indicate an underlying general assumption that notification does not form part of the calling of a meeting.
 Subsection (2) provided for the situation where it was for any reason "impracticable to call a meeting of a company in any manner in which meetings of that company may be called".
 According to the construction above, the directors did not on or before 17 April 2009, and therefore within the twenty one day period, "call" a general meeting pursuant to the requisition (let alone "call and arrange to hold" such meeting).
 It follows that the power conferred by s 249E(1) was enlivened and the defendants' notice given on Saturday 18 April 2009 validly called the meeting to be held on 28 May 2009. 3.
 In the present case, once the defendants issued their own notice of meeting on 18 April 2009, the directors ceased to be under a duty of any kind themselves to convene a competing meeting, notwithstanding their undoubted power to do so under cl 10.2.
 It has not been suggested that there was any good reason for the directors to exercise their cl 10.2 power to call, or complete the calling of, a meeting by sending out the notice of meeting on 27 April 2009.
