 Walmbaar is a registered native title body corporate in relation to the Hopevale determination, for the purposes of the Act (ss 253 and 193 (2)(e)) and is the prescribed body corporate and agent for the Dingaal People for the purposes of ss 57(2) and 57 (3) of the Act and the Hopevale determination.
 Walmbaar says in its application document that it is entitled to make the application as the prescribed body corporate and agent for the Dingaal People as contemplated by the Hopevale determination and is acting: ... pursuant to Section 58(c) and Section 61(1) of the Native Title Act 1993 and in accordance with its objects and rules.
 Since the common law holders sought and the Court determined that the native title rights and interests were to be so held, no determination was made that those rights be held on trust by a prescribed body corporate.
 Section 57(3) is in these terms: (3) After becoming a registered native title body corporate, the body must perform: (a) any function given to it as a registered native title body corporate under particular provisions of this Act; and (b) any function given to it under the regulations (see section 58).
 Cooper J concluded that the authority of Gordon Charlie and Jonathon Charlie to continue to act as applicants had been withdrawn by resolution of the meeting of the Dingaal clan and accordingly orders were made replacing Gordon Charlie and Jonathon Charlie with Gary Yoren, Ned Yoren and Elaine Baru.
 Regulation 8(2) of those regulations provides that Walmbaar must consult with and obtain the consent of the common law holders in accordance with the decision-making process agreed or adopted by them for making a "native title decision", as defined by Regulation 8(1).
 For the purposes of the Rules of the Corporation and the Hopevale determination, the Dingaal clan means all persons born of a Dingaal father or Aboriginal children adopted by a Dingaal father and a Dingaal father is a male person of patrilineal descent of the Baru, Yoren or Charlie families.
 Section 51(1) provides that subject to subsection (3) the entitlement to compensation under Division 2, 2A, 2B, 3 or 4 is an entitlement on just terms to compensate the native title holders for any loss, diminution, impairment or other effect of the act on their native title rights and interests .
 By Regulation 8(4), if there is a particular process of decision-making that, under the Aboriginal traditional laws and customs of the common law holders, must be followed in relation to the giving of consent in relation to a native title decision, the consent must be given in accordance with that process.
 If there is no such process, the consent must be given by the common law holders in accordance with the process of decision-making agreed to or adopted by them for the proposed native title decision or for decisions of the same kind as that decision (Regulation 8(5)).
 However, a decision to file a compensation application simply seeks a compensation entitlement under the Act in respect of acts which are said to have either extinguished or significantly impaired or otherwise affected native title rights and interests.
 Section 251B(a) provides that all persons in a compensation claim group authorise a person or persons to make a compensation application if, where there is a process of decision-making under the traditional laws and customs of the persons in the compensation claim group that must be complied with, the persons in the compensation claim group "authorise the person or persons to make the application and to deal with the matters in accordance with that process".
