 The amended list of documents adopts a format of identifying the number of pages and the date of a document with a description such as "Privilege: Email from Robert Bromwich counsel to Antonino Calcopietro Legal Services concerning IRC consideration in Gibson matter".
 The further amended statement of claim filed on 30 October 2007 alleges that the first and second applicants were subcontractors performing works for the respondents for a relatively lengthy period of time before 2002.
 In the further amended statement of claim, the applicants say that on 24 March 2004 the Principal's representative under the Willowdene Head Contract, for and on behalf of the first respondent, issued to Willowdene a notice purportedly given under clause 16 of that contract prohibiting Willowdene from using the second applicant in the performance of any works under that contract.
 The applicants also plead, in effect, that nobody informed them about, or provided them with any opportunity to respond to, allegations relating to alleged misconduct of a Departmental employee, and a pending investigation by the Department into any alleged association of the applicants with a Department employee.
 Further, the applicants claim that neither the Principal's representative (nor any other representative, employee or agent of the first respondent) at any time prior to the conduct pleaded, carried out any such investigations or provided the applicants with an opportunity to be heard about the proposed conduct.
 Finally, the applicants plead that the opinion held and expressed by the Principal's representative for and on behalf of the corporation on 24 March 2004, namely, that the second applicant was an unsuitable contractor, was unreasonable.
 The reference in the pleadings to the opinion held and expressed on 24 March 2004 is to the notice given by the first respondent to Willowdene under clause 16 of the general conditions of contract.
 That notice states that, in accordance with clause 16, the Principal's representative directs that the contractor is prohibited from using the persons and/or entities named in Schedule 1 in the performance of the works, as the Principal's representative reasonably regards them as unsuitable on account of the matters raised in Schedule 2.
 As to the claim for legal professional privilege generally, the applicants say it is for the respondents making the claim to establish the facts giving rise to the privilege ( Rich v Harrington (2007) 245 ALR 106 ; [2007] FCA 1987 at [7] ).
 According to the applicants, it is insufficient for a party on a global basis simply to assert that documents were brought into existence for the purpose of legal advice and/or in anticipation of litigation.
 Thus, say the applicants, it is inconsistent for the respondents to maintain the privilege in circumstances where their own notice directly puts in issue the existence of the relevant state of mind and its reasonableness.
 There are also documents over which privilege has been maintained which relate directly to the formation of the relevant opinion either before the opinion was formed, or refer to circumstances in existence before the opinion was formed, even though the documents themselves have been brought into existence after the opinion was formed.
