 THE RELEVANT STATUTORY PROVISIONS Section 347(1)(b)(i) of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) (the Act) provides that an application for review in the present circumstances has to be given to the Tribunal within the prescribed period being a period ending not later than 28 days after the notification of the decision.
 Section 66(1) of the Act provides: (1) When the Minister grants or refuses to grant a visa, he or she is to notify the applicant of the decision in the prescribed way.
 Section 494D allowed for the notification to be sent to an authorised recipient on behalf of an applicant and provided that notification given that way was taken to have been given to the applicant.
 Where the Minister gives notification in accordance with s 494B(4)(a) the person is taken to have received the document seven working days after the date of the document (s 494C(4)(a)).
 Ground 1 Ground 1, as reformulated, was that the Federal Magistrate erred in failing to hold that s 66(2)(d)(ii) required the letter of notification to state that the deemed notification referred to in s 494C(4)(a) is subject to the fulfilment by the Minister of the condition precedent stated in s 494B(4)(a).
 By failing, in particular, to make any reference to the requirement that the notification letter had to be dispatched within three working days of the date of the document as required by s 494B(4)(a) the form of the letter failed, so it was argued, to reflect the requirement of s 66(1).
 That section required that the mode of giving notice be set out in the letter because the section required the Minister to notify the applicant of the decision "in the prescribed way. " Counsel argued that s 494B(4) prescribed the way in which notice was given, and consequently its requirements had to be set out in the letter itself.
 Finally, it was argued that unless the precondition for the operation of the running of time was set out in the letter the section would have an unfair operation.
 Thus, if the letter in the present terms was not posted within three working days the recipient would not know the facts and might be misled into thinking that the time for lodging an application for review had expired when, in truth, time had not yet begun to run.
 It follows, so the appellant sought to argue, that the letter dated 6 October 2007 was incorrect in stating: If the applicant decides to lodge a review application, they must do so within 21 calendar days after you receive this letter.
 Mr Killalea sought to argue that the letter should have stated something like "if the applicant decides to lodge a review application they must do so within 21 calendar days after you have been taken to have received this letter. " The appellant argued that there is an apparent contradiction in the final two sentences of the third paragraph of the letter which is set out at [2] of these reasons.
 It qualifies the operation of the second sentence and makes clear that receipt of the letter for the purpose of the running of 21 days is the end of the seven days from the date of the letter.
