 By the first motion, the third respondent seeks an order that the further amended statement of claim delivered on 10 March 2009 be struck out and that the applicants in the proceeding pay the third respondent's costs of the motion assessed on a solicitor/client basis and that those costs be paid forthwith.
 The remaining paragraphs of the motion seek orders in terms of paragraphs of the earlier motion of 12 March 2009 and those paragraphs relate to costs in respect of other matters, predominantly reserved costs which are outstanding from some earlier applications in the matter.
 Order 4 is in these terms: That the applicants pay the third respondent's costs thrown away by reason of the amendment of the application and the further amendment of the amended statement of claim, assessed on a solicitor-client basis and those costs be payable forthwith.
 Order 5 is in these terms: That the applicants pay the third respondent's costs of and incidental to the notice of motion filed by the applicants on 28 November 2008, assessed on a solicitor-client basis, and payable forthwith.
 The final order (order 7) is: That the applicants pay the third respondent's costs of and incidental to the notice of motion filed by the respondents on 7 April 2009, assessed on a solicitor/client basis and payable forthwith.
 As to orders 4, 5 and 6, the ambit of the controversy is that the third respondent seeks those costs on a solicitor/client basis and the applicants contend that those costs ought to be ordered on the conventional party and party basis.
 As to the question of the controversy involving whether or not the costs the subject of orders 4, 5 and 6 ought to be on a solicitor/client basis, the determination of that question turns a little on two factors.
 However, in this particular case the difficulty seems to me to be that there was no real focus on the imperative of reducing the statement of claim to a concise and plainly coherent document in the way that Dowsett J had described.
 In relation to order 6, similarly, as I mentioned earlier, an order is sought by the third respondent that the applicants pay the costs of and incidental to the notice of motion filed on 12 March 2009 on a solicitor/client basis.
 That notice of motion is, I think, it is fair to say, a distillation of the concerns arising out of the procedural anomalies in the matter and it seems to me that those costs ought to be ordered on a solicitor/client basis.
