 Form of offer (1) An offer of compromise is made to a party by serving a notice of the offer on the party. (2) A notice of offer must: (a) be prepared in accordance with Order 41; and (b) bear a statement to the effect that the offer is made under this Order; and (c) be signed by the party making the offer or by the solicitor appearing for that party. (3) Until an offer has been accepted, notice of the offer must not be filed.
 Once the items in points 2 and 3 above have been supplied and installed and tested to our client' satisfaction, our client will then pay your client the sum of $112,169.98 (being 50% of the amount returned to your client as set out in point 1 above).
 Your client to provide a comprehensive release to our client from or in respect of any claims or obligations (present or future) in relation to the equipment supplied, including, but not limited to, oil yield, sustained oxygen level and process tonnage throughput.
 If your client declines or does not respond to our client's offer then our client will rely on this letter and the in-principle offer contained in it in relation to any issue of damages and mitigation to which it may be relevant.
 That is, if accepted, our client will be required to pay your client's costs in an amount as taxed or as agreed. " Olivaylle's submission : This was said to be an offer which but purported to comply with the Rules.
 Flottweg further submitted that, while it may not have been unreasonable or imprudent for Olivaylle to have instituted or, as the case may be, continued the litigation in the absence of one or more of the offers it made, at least one of those offers constituted a fair commercial compromise such that it was unreasonable or imprudent to institute or continue the litigation in the face of that offer.
 Though on the evidence Olivaylle had there the use of email facilities and the telephone, this was an offer and a client such that it is reasonable to apprehend that there would have been benefits in face to face discussion as between solicitor and client in relation to the offer.
