 It is convenient for me to refer to the parties as they are in the proceeding rather than on the notice of motion, and to the three claims in the proceeding as the invalidity claim, the infringement claim and the claim for pecuniary relief.
 The following statement is made in the patent specification: "The present invention relates to a transportable building and in particular to a transportable building including a chassis that can be engaged by a forklift to lift the building for either loading or unloading from a truck or for attaching wheeled axles to the chassis. " In his Amended Application, the applicant alleges that the respondent has infringed claims 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 12 and 13 of the patent.
 In those particulars, the respondent identifies 14 matters, which it alleges are part of common general knowledge, and 14 pieces of prior art information , including as the first piece of prior art information "[t]ransportable buildings made or marketed in Australia, particulars of which will be furnished after discovery".
 Category 3: Deleted Category 4: Documents that disclose, describe or note buildings and/or structures that have or had the following features: (i) at least two elongate spaced apart load-supporting I-beams disposed parallel to the longitudinal axis; (ii) each I-beam having a top flange and bottom flange connected by a web and respective front and rear ends; (iii) a plurality of elongate beams extending laterally across the top flange of both I-beams adapted to support a floor of the building or structure. (iv) a pair of spaced apart longitudinal channels extending through the web of each I-beam for engagement with forks of a forklift for lifting the building or structure.
 This request is limited to documents that fall within (a)(i) of the definition of 'prior art base' in Schedule 1 to the Patents Act 1995, i.e. documents publicly available before 28 April 2003, and documents that describe or disclose buildings and/or transportable structures that were made before 28 April 2003 and which fall within (a)(ii) of the said definition.
 Category 5: Inventors books, inventors notes, and all other documents created during the time of inventing and that relate to the invention claimed in AU2003227102 or PCT/AU2003/000947 Category 6: All documents that fall within (a)(i) of the definition of 'prior art base' in Schedule 1 to the Patents Act 1995, i.e. documents publicly available before 28 April 2003, and documents that describe or disclose buildings and/or transportable structures that were made before 28 April 2003 and which fall within (a)(ii) of the said definition listed or referred to in patent search reports pertaining to the applicant's invention claimed in AU2003227102, whether they be search reports of a Patent Office, or by a patent attorney firm or patent search company and all such reports which list or refer to matter falling within the definition of 'prior art base'.
 This category is limited to documents that disclose buildings or structures that have or had the following features: (i) a longitudinal chassis or frame including two elongate spaced apart load-supporting I-beams disposed parallel to the longitudinal axis; (ii) each I-beam having a top flange and bottom flange connected by a web and respective front and rear ends; (iii) a plurality of elongate beams extending laterally across the top flange of both I-beams adapted to support a floor of the building or structure.
 Relevant legislation, rules and principles The Patents Act 1990 (Cth) (" Patents Act ") provides that an invention is only a patentable invention if, inter alia, when it is compared with the prior art base as it existed before the priority date of the claim, it involves an inventive step: s 18(1).
 The expression, prior art base , is defined in the Dictionary which is Schedule 1 to the Act as follows, relevantly: " prior art base means: (a) in relation to deciding whether an invention does or does not involve an inventive step or an innovative step: (i) information in a document that is publicly available, whether in or out of the patent area; and (ii) information made publicly available through doing an act, whether in or out of the patent area. ..." Section 7(2) and (3) deal with when an invention is taken to involve an inventive step for the purposes of the Patents Act .
 The respondent submits that I should make an order in terms of the categories because: the determination of appropriate categories under O 15 r 3 is guided by the criteria in O 15 r 2(3) and two of the criteria in that sub-rule are satisfied in this case, namely, "documents that adversely affect the party's own case" ((b)), and "documents that support another party's case" ((d)); and the use of the word, "could" in s 7(3) of the Patents Act is significant because there may be documents which fall within s 7(3) even though an expert engaged by one of the parties for the purposes of the proceeding has not identified them.
