 Secondly, the Tribunal found the appellant did not make any claims in his protection visa about having suffered any harm between July 2006 and February 2008 and rejected as false his explanations that he forgot to include details of the persecution he suffered in this period in his application.
 The Tribunal is also satisfied the applicant was able to obtain work commensurate with his skills in Nepal (between July 2006 and February 2008) as a farmer and there is no evidence before it that has satisfied the Tribunal he would not again be able to do so should he return to Nepal.
 The above findings have formed part of the reason the Tribunal was ultimately satisfied the applicant does not have a prospective real chance of persecution in Nepal; though further discussion of this is set out below.
 The Tribunal was further satisfied that the appellant would not engage in the expression of his political opinion, but would voluntarily choose to focus on his business, career and family if he were now to return to his village in Nepal.
 His Honour also found that the appellant did not make a claim that he might be persecuted by reason of the imputation to him of a political opinion and that such a claim was not otherwise sufficiently apparent that the Tribunal was required to consider it.
 First, the Tribunal had difficulty in getting the appellant to provide a clear account of what he had been doing between 2006 (when he left the city and returned to his farm) and February 2008 (when he departed Nepal for Australia).
 That he did not do this has formed part of the reason the Tribunal is satisfied the applicant did not fear he had a real chance of persecution in his village between July 2006 and February 2008.
 The Tribunal is therefore satisfied that should the applicant return to Nepal, he would voluntarily choose to again focus on his business, career and family as he has done in the past, and not on his political opinion.
 Perhaps the Tribunal's finding in the end is intended to convey that the appellant, on the evidence, not only does not have any actual political opinions of his own, but also does not have any perceived or imputed political opinion for which he is likely to suffer persecution.
 In these circumstances, the Tribunal's finding at [66] that, to the extent the Tribunal has "not expressly rejected his material claims herein, I now find that none of the applicant's material claims ... are true", seems rather gratuitous.
 For that reason the Tribunal was not satisfied that the appellant had a real chance of being persecuted for a Convention-based reason should he return to his village and work as a farmer: [64] of the Tribunal's reasons.
 Accordingly, at [64] the Tribunal concluded that: However, based on its findings as to the applicant's capacity to safely reside in his village and work as a farmer between July 2006 and February 2008, the Tribunal is not satisfied he has a real chance of being persecuted for a Convention reason should he return to his village and work as a farmer.
