 But the argument for the Inspector-General was that the simple application of the ordinary meaning of the words in s 139L(1)(a)(vii) BA meant that the fees paid to the Company were still assessable income as determined by the Inspector-General.
 The Tribunal noted that the mere fact that a third party receives money as a consequence of work done or services performed by a bankrupt does not mean that it is 'income derived by the bankrupt' for the purpose of s 139W BA.
 The Tribunal said 'it would be absurd to suggest that the net income derived by the law firm from the efforts of its bankrupt employee was income to be included in any calculation of the contribution that the bankrupt is liable to pay under the Act'.
 The Tribunal's conclusion was that where work was carried out or services performed by a bankrupt as an employee, the entitlement to charge for those services and thereby derive income is that of the employer, not of the employee.
 But it was still necessary that there be undertaken a characterisation of those payments in order to determine whether or not they were 'income derived by the bankrupt' as distinct from income derived by a third party.
 Nothing in the BA changed the fact that the monies paid to an employer for work performed by an employee is income derived by the employer through its agent rather than the agent's income.
 GROUNDS OF APPEAL The 'question of law' for the 'appeal' is said to be: Whether the income of the Company during the CAP was income that is likely to be derived, or was derived, by Mr McGushin for the purposes of s 139W(1) BA.
 While I accept the submission of the Inspector-General that the ordinary meaning of the words in s 139L(1)(a)(vii) BA should be applied in construing what constitutes 'income' equally, there is nothing in the Act to suggest that the words 'derived or likely to be derived' in s 139W(1) BA should be disregarded.
 The existence of a definition of 'derived' in s 139K BA and the further expansion on that definition in s 139M BA suggests not only that those words are intended to have a clear meaning but that the meaning is to form an integral part in interpreting the effect of s 139W(1) BA.
 It followed, accordingly, by virtue of s 139M(1)(b) and (c) respectively that the Company's income as derived by Mr McGushin was his income for the purposes of assessment even though it was not received by him.
