 Counsel for Blaze particularly relies, for the orders sought, upon the power of the Court given by s 1322(4)(d) of the CA to make an order, either unconditionally or subject to such conditions as the Court imposes, extending the period for doing "any act, matter or thing" or in relation to a corporation, including an order extending a period, where the period concerned ended before the application for the order was made.
 Indeed Target itself issued a letter to all shareholders responding to the further extension of offer lodged by Blaze on 11 June 2009, extending the offer period to 17 July 2009, recommending that the offer be rejected and that shareholders do nothing.
 Counsel for Target contends that by contrast to both Re Centennial Coal and order 2, order 3 as sought by the plaintiff does not simply seek the validation of a defective step in the process of varying an offer.
 Contrary to Target's contention, Blaze contends the effect of proposed order 3 is to firstly extend the time for the service of the notice under s 650D extending the offer period and, secondly, to impose conditions on the grant of relief.
 It is the conditions which affect the form of the notice which will be given if an order is made, and make it different, in form, from that given on 11 June 2009, that is, the substance of the notice, extending the offer period, to 17 July 2009 will be the same.
 What Blaze now asks the Court to do is make an order permitting it to lodge a notice under s 650D(1) that would achieve, in substance, what the purported notice of variation lodged with ASIC on 11 June 2009 would have achieved if the SBS had been regularly lodged.
 The fact is that, without any valid Court order, any attempt by Blaze to lodge a notice along the lines of that it lodged on 11 June 2009, in consequence of an order in terms of para 2 of the current application, would be ineffectual.
 Once the Court makes an order extending the period for lodging notice of the SBS in accordance with order 2 of the application, as a matter of law, Blaze, if it wishes to lodge a further notice in order to vary by extending the offer period, is obliged to do so before the 14 day period during which the SBS remained effective, expired by force of s 624(2) CA.
 In response, counsel for Blaze points out that the CA empowers a takeover offeror to move defeating conditions under s 650F of the CA by notice given to the target company and lodged at ASIC or ASX (s 650F(1) and (3)).
 As discussed during our conversation of 16 June 2009, the notice of variation lodged with ASIC on 11 June 2009 would not have validly extended the bid to 17 July 2009 as it did not include the withdrawal rights noted in s650E.
 If this is the case, this time for payment would be affected by the remedial orders sought and, in ASIC's view, it would be preferable for Blaze to be required to offer withdrawal rights (or accelerated payment terms of equivalent effect) to those accepting shareholders affected, in addition to Blaze immediately declaring the bid unconditional.
