 The shape in respect of which the above registration subsists is as follows: 10 In the present proceedings, Sebel alleges that the respondent has infringed Sebel's trade mark by using the shape in respect of which Sebel's trade mark is registered as a trade mark upon or in relation to the Titan chair.
 THE ARGUMENTS OF THE PARTIES The Trade Mark Case 92 Senior Counsel for Sebel submitted that Sebel had established that in promoting for sale and in selling the Titan chair the respondent had used and was continuing to use as a trade mark a shape that is deceptively similar to the Sebel trade mark in relation to goods or services in respect of which the Sebel trade mark is registered.
 He pointed to the catalogue of differences between the Postura chair and the Titan chair set out in Mr Holmes' evidence as well as the labelling on the chair itself; (c) There was no foundation for any concern that the Titan chairs were being discounted or unfairly sold at a lower price; and (d) The typical consumer was a purchasing officer within an educational institution who was price conscious and who would pay special attention to the chairs when making his or her purchase decisions and thus would not be confused.
 For example, evidence that a shape was previously patented will weigh against a finding that the shape serves as a badge of origin: Remington at [12] and Mayne at [69]. (e) If a shape or a feature of a shape is either concocted compared to the inherent form of the shaped goods or incidental to the subject matter of a patent, it is unlikely to be a shape having any functional element.
 A shape cannot function as a trade mark if it is something that other traders may legitimately wish to use either because it is inherent to the particular goods (ie it is of their nature ) or because it provides some technical or functional benefit to the goods. 145 As I understand Sebel's case, there are features of the shape of the Titan chair which are said by Sebel to constitute the use of that shape as a trade mark in relation to goods (namely, sidechairs moulded from plastic materials).
 In the present case, the respondent is, at most, using or intending to use the Titan chair itself as the trade mark. 147 For these reasons, I am inclined to think that Sebel has failed to prove, even to a prima facie level, that the respondent has used a shape as a trade mark in relation to goods of the relevant class by reason of its promotion and sale of the Titan chair. 148 However, I am very conscious that I am presently dealing with an interlocutory application.
 To my observation, this difference also contributes to the impression that the Postura chair is a finer, more elegant chair than the heavier looking more bulky Titan chair; and (e) The Titan chair does not stack easily on top of or under the Postura chair. 160 In my judgment, having regard to the above factors, and on the assumption that the Postura chair is the embodiment of Sebel's trade mark, as the evidence stands at the moment, Sebel has failed to make out a prima facie case that the shape of the Titan chair as embodied in the Titan chair is deceptively similar to Sebel's trade mark.
 In any event, the basis for Ms Rasmussen's comments was not apparent from the email nor was it otherwise established in the evidence. 162 In my judgment, the respondent has probably not used a shape as a trade mark in relation to goods of the relevant class by promoting, advertising, distributing and selling the Titan chair.
 Further, I am of the opinion that, even if the respondent's activities do constitute the use of a shape as a trade mark in relation to goods, Sebel has failed to establish that it has a prima facie case or a serious question to be tried that the shape so used is deceptively similar to Sebel's trade mark.
 The Passing Off Claims 163 Sebel pleads its passing off case in pars 14, 15, 16, 26 and 27 of the Statement of Claim. 164 These claims fall into two broad categories, namely that by using the shape embodied in the Titan chair and by promoting, offering to supply and supplying Titan chairs, the respondent has led and will lead a substantial number of persons in Australia to believe that: (a) The Titan chair is one of the Postura chairs or a variant of the Postura chair or is a chair put out by Sebel or a chair that is supplied with Sebel's consent or approval or under some commercial arrangement involving Sebel; and/or (b) The respondent is an authorised supplier of Postura chairs or a variant thereof or has some trade association with Sebel. 165 The tort of passing off is notoriously difficult to define.
 The Balance of Convenience and the Balance of Justice 189 Because I have held that Sebel has failed to establish a prima facie case for relief in terms of par 1 of its claim for interlocutory relief, it is not necessary for me to consider the balance of convenience and the balance of justice in respect of that claim.
 That is to say, the respondent was aware of Sebel's trade mark, took advice as to whether or not the supply of the Titan chair in Australia would infringe that trade mark or any other of Sebel's intellectual property rights and decided to go ahead with its plans to import and sell the Titan chair and run the gauntlet.
