 In the context of the ground in s 5(1)(f) (the decision involved an error of law), the applicant referred to Bond at 355-358 per Mason CJ; The Federal Commissioner of Taxation v Broken Hill South Ltd [1941] HCA 33 ; (1941) 65 CLR 150 at 155 per Starke J, at 157 per McTiernan J, at 160-161 per Williams J; Rajamanikkam at 238-240 [49]-[53] per Gaudron and McHugh JJ.
 The applicant's proposition is this: by reason of s 25D of the Acts Interpretation Act , the examiner's reasons for the purposes of the obligation in s 28(1A) must include his findings on material questions of fact and a reference to the evidence or other material upon which those findings are based.
 The obligation in s 28(1A) to record in writing the reasons for the issue of a summons does not engage the obligation in s 25D of the Acts Interpretation Act to set out in an instrument giving the reasons the findings on material questions of fact and to refer to the evidence or other material on which those findings are based.
 Section 29A sets out the circumstances in which an examiner who issues a summons under section 28 is required to include in the summons a notation to the effect that the disclosure of information about the summons, or any official matters connected with it, is prohibited (except in circumstances specified in the notice).
 The applicant submits that a person otherwise given the summons within the terms of s 29A(3) includes a person given the summons, not only by the Commission or an examiner, but by a person served with the summons, or by a person who has been given the summons by a person who in turn has received the summons from the person served with the summons.
 The respondents submit that the Act creates two classes, namely, a class of persons served with a summons or otherwise given a summons by the Commission or an examiner, and a class of persons to whom disclosure is made by a person in the first class or by a person otherwise in the second class.
 Consideration of the opening words of the provisions of ss 29B(1) to (4) supports this distinction (that is, the fact that s 29B(1) uses the words "served, or otherwise given" whereas ss 29B(3) and (4) refer to persons to whom disclosure has been made or information disclosed).
 This distinction indicates that the Act establishes two classes of persons for the purpose of these provisions, namely: - (i) persons who are served or otherwise given a summons or notice, and (ii) persons who are the recipient of disclosure by a person served or otherwise given a summons or notice, but who have not themselves been served or otherwise given a summons.
 Under Part IV, Section 19(1) of the Australian Federal Police Act you are to exercise all the powers and perform all the functions and duties of the Commissioner, including disciplinary matters. [signed] M J Keelty" On 25 June 2008, the Board extended the 2005 Authorisation and Determination until 30 June 2009.
 In my opinion, the rule in s 20 of the Acts Interpretation Act applies, there is no contrary intention indicated in the ACC Act, and the extensions to the 2005 Authorisation and Determination did not involve a breach of, or failure to comply with, the ACC Act.
 The Act does not grant examiners the power to issue summonses to attend examinations that are oppressive in their scope. " The examiner is proposing to conduct an examination of the applicant for the purpose of a special ACC investigation (see s 24A of the ACC Act).
