 The maximum rate of benefit payable to Mrs Vranic was determined by Centrelink as at the date of her application for the benefit, to be that prescribed by clause 4B of Table B which provided, at the relevant date, that a person who is not a member of a couple, and who: (a) receives newstart allowance ...; and (b) has turned 60; and (c) has not been receiving one, or a combination, of social security pension, social security benefit or job search allowance or service pension or income support supplement for a continuous period of at least 9 months is $437.10 per fortnight. (Emphasis added).
 Since Mrs Vranic was a person who was receiving Newstart allowance on 21 April 2008 and who on that date was characterised by Centrelink as a person who "has not been receiving a social security benefit [relevantly here a Newstart allowance] for a continuous period of at least 9 months", Centrelink determined that the maximum rate of benefit payable to her was $437.10 per fortnight.
 Mrs Vranic received Newstart allowance at that rate for a period of nine months until 22 January 2009 when, by operation of clause 5 of Table B, she commenced being paid the allowance at the higher rate of benefit prescribed by clause 5 of Table B.
 Mrs Vranic's central contention is that on 21 April 2008 she was entitled to be paid Newstart allowance at the higher rate of $472.80 (with applicable increments) because she had, during the period 1 January 1998 to 17 October 2007, continuously received Newstart allowance.
 The break in continuity caused by Mrs Vranic's 185-day absence from Australia had the result that at the date of her fresh application for Newstart allowance on 21 April 2008, she had not been in receipt of a social security benefit for a continuous period of at least nine months prior to her application.
 The Tribunal further noted that s 38B of the Act addresses the circumstances in which a person is taken to have received a social security benefit in respect of a continuous period even though the person did not actually receive such a payment during a part or parts of the period.
 Section 38B(2) of the Act defines a continuous period in respect of the receipt of a social security benefit as a period that starts on a day of receipt of a benefit and ends on a day of receipt of a benefit.
 In other words, in determining a continuous period of receipt of payments, no period of non-receipt of payments forms part of a continuous period unless, the non-receipt period is taken to form part of a continuous period by operation of the sub-sections of s 38B of the Act.
 Those provisions led the Tribunal to conclude that since Mrs Vranic was not in receipt of a social security benefit for approximately six months prior to 21 April 2008, she was not, in fact, in receipt of a social security benefit for a continuous period of nine months and nor was she taken, as a matter of law, to be in receipt of a benefit for a continuous period of nine months by operation of s 38B of the Act.
 She contends that the Tribunal incorrectly applied clauses 4B and 5 of Table B of s 1068 -B1 because the Tribunal incorrectly concluded that Mrs Vranic was a person who had not been receiving a social security benefit for a continuous period of at least nine months.
 Similarly, by clause 5 of Table B, once Mrs Vranic has been receiving for a continuous period of at least nine months a social security benefit (or other entitlement identified in clause 5) she is entitled to then receive the higher rate of benefit.
