 These allegations are at odds with the history of who has carried on business under the name "Pakula Tackle Australia" selling "Pakula Lures" over the years either as deposed to by Mr Pakula or as evident from documents exhibited to his affidavits.
 These particular deficiencies of proof in relation to the ability of Pakula Tackle to maintain an action for passing off were not highlighted in the submissions made on behalf of Zacatak, although questions were raised on its behalf as to the ability of Pakula Tackle, as opposed to some other entity, to maintain proceedings for either trade mark or copyright infringements, even assuming that there was otherwise a serious question to be tried in respect of these alleged causes of action.
 That there was an agreement of sorts struck between Mr Pakula and Mr Mario Zacaropoulos in some capacity or another on the part of each of them at or about the time when Tailored Marine disposed of its business seems common ground but the terms of that agreement and who are the parties to it are presently opaque.
 He told Mr Mario Zacaropoulos that he wanted: (a) return of "my" capital equipment used to manufacture lures; (b) money owed for stock used and royalties; and (c) that "he" cease using any equipment, stock and intellectual property of "Pakula Tackle Australia".
 His present concern arises from what he perceives to be similarities between Zacatak's marketing and packaging of its Zacatak lures and website content and Pakula Tackle's marketing and packaging of Pakula Lures and its website content.
 In the course of submissions on behalf of Pakula Tackle attention was particularly focused upon registered trade mark number 753420 and an alleged infringement by "the respondents" of rights said to be enjoyed by Pakula Tackle in respect of that trade mark by the use of another registered trade mark which comprises the words "Zacatak Lures Australia".
 The oral and written submissions made on behalf of both Pakula Tackle and Zacatak in respect of trade mark law pertinent to whether there existed a serious case to be tried in respect of infringement were noteworthy for their generality.
 Section 120(1) of the Trade Marks Act provides that a person infringes a registered trade mark if the person "uses as a trade mark a sign that is substantially identical with, or deceptively similar to, the trade mark in relation to goods or services in respect of which the trade mark is registered".
 It is important to note how that claim is pleaded: The First, Second and Third Respondents carry on a business and in the course of that business have commenced to supply fishing equipment, apparatus and related accessories including fishing lures, flies, teasers and fish attractants and promote such goods under or by reference to the brand name "Zacatak Lures Australia" in Australia.
 The brand name of the Respondent is substantially identical with, or deceptively similar to, or is a colourable variation or limitation of the Applicant's Brand Name. [Pakula Lures Australia] By the use of their said brand name the Respondents have represented to members of the trade and to the public, in trade or commerce, and contrary to the fact, that the Respondents' goods are the Applicant's goods or that the Respondents' goods have some connection in trade with the Applicant or its business.
 In respect of the pleaded case, I doubt that Zacatak's use of the words "Zacatak Lures Australia" is in any way capable of misleading or deceiving members of the public that its business is that of Pakula Tackle or hitherto carried on by others under the name "Pakula Lures Australia".
