 On 24 July 2009 I made orders dismissing appeals brought by Citrus Queensland Pty Ltd (in liquidation), Mr Peter Tracy and Sunstate Citrus Pty Ltd (subject to a deed of company arrangement).
 In so far and as the appeals were brought by Citrus Queensland, I did so because the liquidator of the company had indicated it did not wish to participate further in the appeal proceedings and plainly, it did not intend to prosecute the appeal.
 Much of the relevant history of the litigation between the parties is recounted by Greenwood J in the judgment given on 6 May 2009 ordering the winding up of Citrus Queensland: [2009] FCA 452 at [3] - [10].
 The appellants failed to file and serve a draft appeal book index on or before 5 June 2009 as was required by the rules (8 June being a public holiday).
 At the request of the appellants on about 12 June 2009, the Court gave the appellants 14 days to determine whether the appeals were to proceed and, accordingly, the Court adjourned the settling of the appeal books.
 The gravamen of the argument of the respondents was that the appellants had not prosecuted the appeals, they had been put on notice that it would be necessary for the respondents to prepare for the hearing of the appeals and their conduct was, in all the circumstances, so unreasonable as to warrant an order for indemnity costs.
 Reference was made to Colgate-Palmolive Co v Cussons Pty Ltd [1993] FCA 536 ; (1993) 46 FCR 225 , Davidova v Murphy [2009] FCA 601 at [23] and Khera v Jones [2008] FCA 548 at [24] .
 The solicitor appearing for the second and third appellants submitted that the circumstances have to be viewed through the prism created by the liquidation of the first appellant on the application of the respondents.
 In relation to the first appellant, that is understandable because the appointment of a liquidator alters, obviously enough, the circumstances in which and the basis on which the company then might continue to prosecute litigation in which it was involved at the time it was wound up.
 In a case such as the present where the direct primary beneficiary of any successful appeal was likely to be the first appellant, the winding up of the company had an impact on the participation in the litigation of other parties whose interests are allied to impose of the company in liquidation.
