 The liquidator gave his consent under s 588R of the Corporations Act to the Commissioner, as a creditor of PAAN, beginning proceedings under s 588M in relation to PAAN's having incurred debts for payroll tax owed to the Commissioner.
 The letter noted that for the liquidator to take any independent steps to pursue the company's claims he would require funding from the Commissioner and that would involve a duplication of the analysis that the Commissioner had already undertaken.
 The liquidator was also satisfied that causes of action existed in respect of preferential payments made to some of PAAN's creditors and that there were causes of action relating to advice given by Mr Beames, associated with PAAN's exposure to its liability to payroll tax and the separation of the affairs of PAAN in its own right and PAAN as a trustee.
 The liquidator considered, at that time, that there might be a possible conflict for PAAN to be arguing in favour of the existence of a payroll tax liability and considered it preferable that the Commissioner take over the running of the proceedings to contend for that case, as the question went to the heart of most of the substantive causes of action giving rise to PAAN's claims for damages.
 They held that the Court had a responsibility to see that any action taken in the company's name under the Court's authority was not vexatious or merely oppressive, even where there would be no drain on the assets of the company.
 The Court had to consider whether the action proposed to be taken in the company's name had some arguable foundation; see also Christianos v Aloridge Pty Limited (1995) 59 FCR 273 at 281B-282B, 284A-B per Beaumont, Whitlam and Tamberlin JJ.
 The power conferred by these provisions is ample to ensure that, where a liquidator does not cause the company to bring proceedings, the Court can permit those proceedings to be brought so as to achieve the purposes discussed in the authorities to which I have referred.
 I am satisfied that the Commissioner has a sufficiently arguable claim of his being entitled to be subrogated to any right of indemnity PAAN may have as a trustee of the kind alleged in the draft statement of claim.
 The later joinder of a new party, or the exploration of significantly new material facts, outside the broad area for which the authorisation was sought, involve the assertion, in the company's name, of rights that the Court has not examined.
 The grant of leave to commence proceedings in the company's name is a specific authorisation for a particular purpose that has been established to the Court's satisfaction in accordance with the tests that I have discussed above.
 The conduct alleged by the Commissioner in the proposed proceedings has arguably directly affected the recovery of payroll tax penalties and interest owed by PAAN to him as the principal, and possibly only, creditor in the winding up.
