 In it Mr Wotton and his wife, Cecilia, sought, as their first claim, an order that the time for bringing the application be extended pursuant to s 46PO of the Act up to and including the time at which it was filed.
 The application asserted that the proceedings had been brought pursuant to s 46PO of the Act and Pt IVA of the Federal Court of Australia Act by Mr and Mrs Wotton on behalf of the aboriginal residents of Palm Island, Queensland, between 18 and 28 November 2004.
 The applicants conceded at the hearing that all the respondents other than the State should not have been joined as parties to the proceedings because they had not been identified as respondents to the terminated complaint.
 The issues for consideration are: What is the nature of the application currently before the Court, the subject of the notice of discontinuance, and does s 33V of the Federal Court of Australia Act apply to it?
 Conceptually, the requirement that the Court allow further time in which to file an application outside the 28 day period provided in s 46PO(2) has similarities with an application for leave or special leave to appeal.
 There is, of course, a distinction between an application for leave or special leave to appeal to a court and one to extend the time within which proceedings under s 46PO(2) might be brought.
 It is their claim that, first they are persons aggrieved by the termination of the complaint under s 46PO(1) , and secondly, in that personal capacity they should be allowed more time by the Court to make an application to it alleging unlawful discrimination by the respondents against them and group members.
 For these reasons, I am satisfied that the application to allow further time under s 46PO(2) is not a representative proceeding within the meaning or application of Pt IVA of the Federal Court of Australia Act .
 Thus, it is important to ensure that any order by which these proceedings are brought to an end (by discontinuance or dismissal) not have a substantive impact on group members or affect their rights.
 The Court must be careful to guard against any injustice that could be done to persons who are not represented in these proceedings and whose rights may be adversely affected by their outcome.
 Mr Levitt said that prior to the institution of the proceedings he had formed the view that the Palm Island Aboriginal Shire Council would support representative proceedings, or similar proceedings to those for which the applicants seek further time under s 46PO(2).
