 The first Tribunal said that it appeared that since that time Mr Aporo had made some progress and it found that Mr Aporo was a ' medium to high risk of re-offending '.
 The second Tribunal acknowledged that Dr Banks' report was positive about Mr Aporo's motivation for treatment and that he was a suitable candidate for treatment, which would likely decrease the possibility of recidivism.
 The second Tribunal referred to Mr Murdoch's assessment in May 2007 that Mr Aporo presented a high risk of re-offending but noted that Mr Aporo was looking at long-term residential rehabilitation services.
 The second Tribunal considered Dr Banks' report and his opinion that if Mr Aporo received treatment for substance abuse and anger management, the risk of recidivism would be reduced.
 In particular, the second Tribunal found that Mr Aporo had not met his daughter since she was a baby, had no telephone contact with her and had played no part in her upbringing.
 Mr Aporo contends that the Tribunal was obliged to go behind the Bail Report, the Record and the statement of facts as recorded by English DCJ to satisfy itself that the contents were correct.
 Dr Banks' report Mr Aporo emphasises Dr Banks' qualifications and experience and submits that the Tribunal erred in not giving sufficient weight to Dr Banks' report and in preferring the report of Mr Murdoch who was not similarly qualified.
 Mr Aporo submits that the circumstances warranted a further inquiry by the Tribunal and that it was incumbent on the Tribunal further to explore the assessment of Dr Banks who had offered further assistance, or to investigate the basis for Mr Murdoch's report.
 In those circumstances, the Tribunal was not obliged to make a case for Mr Aporo ( Minister for Immigration and Citizenship v Le [2007] FCA 1318 ; (2007) 164 FCR 151 at [60] ).
 Mr Aporo now criticises the Tribunal for accepting his statements in respect of the Villawood assessment and criticises the Tribunal for accepting the evidence from a witness, namely himself, who had a ' demonstrated propensity to fabricate evidence '.
 Mr Aporo says that there was insufficient material before either the delegate or the Tribunal to support a conclusion regarding the likelihood of recidivism adverse to Mr Aporo.
