 In an affidavit sworn on 18 July 2007 (but mistakenly dated 18 June 2007) Mr Windsor deposed that: (1) He acted on behalf of Dr Windsor 'during the formation of the contract' in 'conversations and meetings with Mr Tim Muldoon on or about 13 December 2000, 8 January 2001 and 9 January 2001' (para 4); (2) Mr Muldoon 'in the course of the conversations and meetings' stated that 'the Respondent's contract would be with the Applicant' (para 4(c)).
 The order in para 2, 'such further or other order as the Court sees fit', does not comply with that Rule and it is impossible to discern from para 2 that the 2007 notice of motion would encompass an application for summary judgment under s 31A of the Act or an order dismissing the proceedings under O 20 r 5 of the Rules. (2) Second, SMS conducted the 2007 notice of motion on the basis that the issues of concern were matters of pleading.
 By way of particulars, the statement of claim referred both to conversations between Mr Windsor and a representative of SMS and to documents, including a letter from InterNEOn to SMS signed by Mr Windsor and dated 9 January 2001. (3) Paragraph 5 of the amended statement of claim pleads, in terms relevantly indistinguishable from para 4 of the statement of claim, a contract referred to as the 'initial agreement', entered into on 8 January 2001.
 The tax returns and payment records tendered on the 2007 notice of motion (Ex. 1) clearly demonstrate that the contracting parties were InterNEOn and SMS. (6) The amended statement of claim seeks to avoid this difficulty by ignoring it. (7) The amended statement of claim pleads no fresh or significant fact or circumstance to counter the conclusion reached in the Judgment. (8) Dr Windsor has filed voluminous affidavits in answer to the current motion.
 I'm not going to deduct 50% of the pay like the tax department want us to do. ' It was submitted on behalf of Dr Windsor that it is inappropriate in a summary judgment application to determine the question of law whether post-contractual conduct or communications can be used to identify the parties to the contract for the provision of medical services entered into by SMS.
 Further, that there is evidence in support of the case pleaded in the amended statement of claim that the agreement was entered into by Dr Windsor, through the agency of her husband, Mr Neil Windsor, and Mr Muldoon of SMS on 8 January 2001; and there is no evidence by SMS as to the negotiations on 8 January 2001.
 It was submitted on behalf of Dr Windsor that there is no evidence from which an inference can be drawn unequivocally that in respect of the breaches of contract alleged in the amended statement of claim, Dr Windsor agreed to a variation of the agreement in respect of the matters which she alleges constitute a breach of the agreement.
 D, Tab 37); (3) in respect of the changes to shifts in early 2001 and the failure of SMS to allocate the agreed weekly shifts from March 2001 there is no evidence that Dr Windsor accepted the shifts offered as a variation to her entitlements under the agreement; (4) there is no evidence that Dr Windsor accepted the change in commissions retained by SMS from November 2001 as the conduct of SMS was to retain a greater amount for commissions; (5) there is no evidence that Dr Windsor accepted the change in payment dates which was imposed by SMS.
 I am also conscious that if Dr Windsor is ultimately successful in establishing that the relevant contract was between herself and SMS and not InterNEOn and SMS then this will give rise to significant adverse income tax consequences for her having regard to the way in which income was returned by herself and InterNEOn for the relevant years of income.
 In conclusion then, for the reasons alluded to, particularly at [52] above, and despite the obstacles I presently see in Dr Windsor's path, SMS has not satisfied me that Dr Windsor has no reasonable prospects of prosecuting the proceeding within s 31A(2) of the Act. (d) Whether the amended statement of claim should be struck out under Order 11 rule 16 on the basis that it does not disclose a reasonable cause of action or is otherwise an abuse of process?
 In Imobilari , Finkelstein J (at [4] --- [6]) observed that s 31A of the Act is concerned with the ability to make a claim, and a court must look at the evidence to see whether a cause of action is disclosed, whereas O 11 r 16 of the Rules, on the other hand, is concerned with the adequacy of pleadings as a matter of law and not with facts or evidence outside the pleadings.
 In these circumstances, it was submitted that the Court should find that SMS has not satisfied the onus of demonstrating that the amended statement of claim discloses no reasonable cause of action or is otherwise an abuse of process within O 11 r 16 of the Rules and, accordingly, refuse to strike out the amended statement of claim.
 Further, SMS has not satisfied the onus of demonstrating that Dr Windsor has no reasonable prospects of prosecuting the proceedings within s 31A(2) of the Act or demonstrated that the amended statement of claim fails to disclose a reasonable cause of action or is otherwise an abuse of process within O 11 r 16 of the Rules.
