 The 3 major basic conditions are: (a) a limit of $5,000,000 on the net value of assets that the business and related entities own; (b) the CGT asset must be an active asset; (c) if the asset is a share or interest in a trust, there must be a controlling individual just before the CGT event and the entity claiming the concession must be a CGT concession stakeholder in the company or trust.
 Section 152-10 contains Basic conditions for relief : (1) A capital gain ... you make may be reduced or disregarded under this division if the following basic conditions are satisfied for the gain: (a) a CGT event happens in relation to a CGT asset of yours in an income year; (b) the event would (apart from this Division) have resulted in the gain; (c) you satisfy the maximum asset value test (see section 152-15); (d) the CGT asset satisfies the active asset test (see section 152-35). (2) If the CGT asset is a share in a company or an interest in a trust, there are 2 additional basic conditions: (a) the company or trust satisfies the controlling individual test (see section 152-50); (b) you are a CGT concession stakeholder in the company or trust.
 Section 960-100, which is in Chapter 6 of the Act --- The Dictionary , defines "entity" as any of the following: (a) an individual; (b) a body corporate; (c) a body politic; (d) a partnership; (e) any other unincorporated association or body of persons; (f) a trust; (g) a superannuation fund.
 By reference to these provisions, the applicant submits that where a CGT asset of a partnership is disposed of: The one exception to the legislation's focus on the partners' personal interests in assets of a partnership, ignoring the partnership as an entity, is said to be s 152-15(b), set out at [8].
 It is said that the absence of any test for control of a partnership shows that Parliament did not intend partnerships to be included in the range of entities that can be connected with a taxpayer for the purposes of the maximum net asset value test.
 The applicant's proportionate share of the interest in the assets of the partnerships of which she was a member is brought to account in the maximum net asset value test under s 152-15(a)(i) as part of the "net value of the CGT assets of yours".
 For the reasons summarised above, the applicant submits that a contrary intention for the purposes of the definition of "entity" is shown to exist, so that that word does not include a partnership in relation to the maximum net asset value test in s 152-15.
 Assuming a partnership can be a connected entity, s 152-20(2)(a) could only exclude any residual equity styled interest in the partnership that is a separate and stand alone CGT asset of the partner (s 108-5(2)(d)) and is not otherwise a CGT asset of the partnership which is deemed to be a CGT asset of the partnership (s 108-5(2)(c)).
 An individual (one of the entities in s 960-100) is not an entity for the purposes of s 152-30(2)(a), though he or she would be for the purposes of s 106-60, which deals with enforcing a security held over an asset.
 In particular I do not accept that the fact that the Guide to s 106 identifies a partnership as an entity leads to the conclusion that a partnership is an entity for the purposes of s 152-15(a)(ii) and s 152-30.
