 On 20 February 2006 an officer of the Department of Immigration and Multicultural Affairs (Department) sent Mr Rinka a notice that cancellation of his visa was to be considered.
 This Court has the same jurisdiction in relation to the decision as the jurisdiction of the High Court under para 75(v) of the Constitution ; see s 476A(1)(c) and s 476A(2) of the Act.
 Section 501(2) provides that the Minister may cancel a visa that has been granted to a person if (a) the Minister reasonably suspects that the person does not pass the "character test", and (b) the person does not satisfy the Minister that the person does in fact pass the "character test".
 Subsection (6) of s 501 provides that for the purposes of s 501 a person does not pass the character test if, relevantly, the person has a "substantial criminal record", as defined by subsection (7).
 Therefore, the Minister's suspicion that Mr Rinka did not pass the character test was reasonable and there was no error in the Minister's not being satisfied by Mr Rinka that he did in fact pass the character test.
 Mr Rinka's submission is that jurisdictional error infected the Minister's decision because the Minister did not, in the exercise of her discretion, give proper, genuine and realistic consideration to the best interests of Mr Rinka's children.
 Quite apart from Teoh , the Direction provided a basis for a legitimate expectation that the Minister would treat the best interests of the child as a primary consideration when deciding whether to cancel Mr Rinka's visa.
 He submits that the Minister had before her the older son's letter saying that he misses his father and speaking of his exploits at soccer, yet she did not refer to this material in her statement of reasons.
 In para 83 of her statement of reasons the Minister accepted that the cancellation of Mr Rinka's visa would cause hardship to his two sons and said that she gave those considerations great weight in arriving at her decision.
 The effect of paras 81, 82 and 83 is that the Minister concluded that the best interests of the children required that they not accompany Mr Rinka to Kenya, and that his visa not be cancelled so that they might have the prospect of enjoying the benefits and avoiding the hardship described in para 81.
 An alternative ground for the Full Court's decision was that the conclusion was inescapable that the AAT had not treated the best interests of the child as "a primary consideration".
 Moreover, the Minister did say that she was treating the best interests of Mr Rinka's children as a primary consideration, and it is not shown that her statement to that effect should not be accepted.
