 Siam argued that Report 137 did not address the central question in s 269ZHF(2) , because it did not identify the requisite degree of likelihood of the threat of dumping and material injury that the anti-dumping measure was intended to prevent.
 Siam argued that Report 137 had not found that any injury had been caused to Qenos in the past and none had been found that would be caused more probably than not in the future by the factors it considered.
 Siam argued that in performing this task the Minister could take account only of such changes in circumstances, within the meaning of s 269TAE(2B) "as would make that injury foreseeable and imminent unless dumping ... measures were imposed".
 That requires that before recommending to the Minister to take steps to secure the continuation of anti-dumping measures currently in place, the CEO must be satisfied that their expiration would lead or be likely to lead to a continuation of or a recurrence of the dumping and the material injury that the measures were intended to prevent.
 The purpose of the measure under consideration by the CEO and the Minister in s 269ZHF(2) , relevantly here, is to impose an anti-dumping duty that will equate to the sum provided in s 8(6) of the Dumping Duty Act .
 Thus, s 269ZHF(2) addresses a number of possible scenarios including whether that expiration actually would lead, or alternatively would be likely to lead, to a continuation or recurrence of both the dumping and the material injury that the measures were intended to prevent.
 It would be incongruous for Pt 6A of Div XVB to be construed in such a way that if that threat persisted after 5 years of effective measures that had counteracted it, Pt 6A did not allow the Minister to continue the measures.
 I am of opinion that the respondents applied the wrong test and failed to ask themselves the correct question for the purposes of ss 269ZHF(2) and 269ZHG (1) in arriving at their finding in Report 137 that it was likely that dumped imports from Thailand, and Siam, would cause material injury to Qenos if the measures expired.
 Indeed, the additional words "or would or might have been caused" in the chapeau to s 269TAE(1) address the very situation that arises in a review of measures under either Div 5 or Div 6A of Pt XVB of the Act.
 But, Report 137 did not examine any correlation between the price cutting referred to in confidential appendix 7 and the particular circumstances of any case of price cutting or relate these to the likelihood of material injury to Qenos were the measures to expire.
 The Minister (and the CEO) did not identify any threat of material injury to Qenos that would be likely to be caused by Siam's dumping that was foreseeable and imminent, if the dumping measures were allowed to expire.
