 The Tribunal member said that Father Isshaq appeared to speak from "a safe or unaffected periphery to the claimed events" whereas on the appellant's evidence, he also was a central figure in the claimed controversy.
 The Tribunal member considered a claim by the appellant that he would be severely mistreated in Egypt for reasons of imputed "political opinion" by reason of the fact that he had sought asylum in Australia.
 The Tribunal member said that the idea of families being involved in rescuing relatives who were obliged to convert to Islam and about parishes welcoming Muslims who were curious about Christianity was "generally plausible".
 The Tribunal member appears to have accepted that the appellant's grandfather was involved in the conversion, or attempted conversion, of a Muslim boy and that the boy's family killed the appellant's grandfather.
 The appellant claimed that his uncle and his wife became involved in the "rescue" of a family member (his wife's niece) and that, as a result, they came into conflict with a Muslim family.
 The Tribunal member said that he was not satisfied on the evidence before him that the appellant's uncle died in 2001 of injuries inflicted on him either by the police or by other adversaries in relation to the conflict over the niece.
 He said that he did not accept that the appellant faced a real chance of persecution in Egypt, "even cumulatively" for reasons of being a Coptic Christian, notwithstanding that his grandfather and uncle died in, or as a result of, conflicts with Muslim families.
 The Tribunal member concluded that the appellant did not face a real chance of Convention-related persecution in Egypt and decided to affirm the delegate's decision not to grant a protection visa to him.
 The appellant's own claim that his problems did not begin until 2003-2004 meant either that his family was not a relevant particular social group or, in the circumstances, membership of it did not give rise to a well-founded fear of persecution.
 The second submission in relation to grounds three and four is that it is said that the Tribunal member's reasoning in the following passage is illogical: "The Tribunal accepts as genuine the death certificate pertaining to the Applicant's father.
 First, the appellant submitted that the conduct of the review and the findings made by the Tribunal member should lead to the conclusion that the Tribunal did not conduct the review required by the Act.
