 In the principal proceeding the applicant ("Uniline") sought a declaration that threats of patent infringement proceedings made by the respondent ("SBriggs") were unjustifiable; an injunction restraining SBriggs from making further threats of such proceedings; and damages arising out of those threats.
 THE COURT DECLARES THAT: The threat made by SBriggs Pty Ltd by a letter from its solicitors to Uniline Australia Ltd on 4 April 2007 of bringing infringement proceedings against Uniline Australia Ltd for infringement of claim 13 of Australian Patent No. 706458 is unjustifiable.
 The threat made by SBriggs Pty Ltd by a letter from its solicitors to Uniline Australia Ltd, by its patent attorneys, on 16 July 2007 of bringing infringement proceedings against Uniline Australia Ltd for infringement of claim 13 of Australian Patent No. 706458 is unjustifiable.
 THE COURT ORDERS THAT: SBriggs Pty Ltd be restrained by itself, its directors, employees or agents from making any further threats of patent infringement proceedings in respect of Australia Patent No. 706458 to Uniline Australia Ltd or any party acting on behalf of Uniline Australia Ltd.
 SBriggs's lawyers also sought to demonstrate that rejection of the offer was not in all the circumstances unreasonable and that the proposition put by Uniline that it would forego its claim for relief arising out of contended unjustified threats did not elevate the proposal to an offer of a "genuine compromise".
 As to the cross-claim for infringement, Uniline says costs should follow the event in relation to that claim and Uniline ought to obtain its costs on an indemnity basis for the whole of the costs of the cross-claim on the footing that SBriggs maintained that claim "in circumstances where SBriggs, if properly advised, should have known that it had no chance of establishing infringement".
 Although the cross-claim for invalidity was a "fall back" defence, the issues raised involved a conscious election by Uniline to put in controversy separate and discrete claims of invalidity by reference to particular grounds of invalidity thus raising particular issues of invalidity.
 As to the elements of the offer framed by the applicant as a respondent to the cross-claim by SBriggs and thus framed under Order 23, rule 11(6), SBriggs says that Order 23, rule 11(6) has no application as it was inserted in the Federal Court Rules by Schedule 1, s 2 of the Federal Court Amendment Rules 2008 (No. 1) (Select Legislative Instrument 2008 No. 159) made on 30 July 2008 which commenced on 2 August 2008.
 The offer further invited SBriggs to absorb its own costs incurred to the date of the offer and offered not to press SBriggs for costs recovery of Uniline's costs in dealing with the unjustified threats of infringement proceedings and in responding to the claim that it had infringed claim 13 of the patent.
 Uniline contends that because SBriggs ought to have known that it had no chance of establishing infringement, the costs incurred by Uniline in being put to protecting its position by bringing the threats proceeding and resisting the cross-claim for infringement ought to be the subject of an order for costs on an indemnity basis.
 It therefore seems to me to follow that the rejection of Uniline's offer by SBriggs occurred in circumstances where SBriggs has failed to demonstrate compelling and exceptional circumstances to relieve SBriggs from the natural consequences of Order 23, rule 11(4).
 The ground of challenge that relied upon a contended failure to fairly base each claim on matter disclosed in the specification was reliant upon a construction question based on a consideration of the specification and the claims.
