 SOG collapsed in August 2004, some four years after it became known to SOG that its then finance director had conducted extensive unauthorised derivative trading, which had substantially exposed the SOG group.
 The administration gave rise to the decision of the High Court in Sons of Gwalia Ltd v Margaretic [2007] HCA 1 ; (2007) 231 CLR 160 , in which it was held that shareholders are entitled to have their admitted claims against a relevant company rate pari passu for any distribution.
 In section 7 of the report, the administrators said that, assuming the conditions precedent referred to earlier were met or otherwise waived, the claims of shareholder claimants would not be adjudicated upon.
 Paragraph 5 of the statement of claim alleges positive and negative representations said to have been made by SOG to the applicant, as well as to members of the public and to other shareholders of SOG.
 The particulars also include a statement that the 1999 Annual Financial Report of SOG did not disclose relevant matters in relation to indexed put-option contracts and the United States dollar-call options.
 It is also alleged that SOG's 1999 Annual Financial Report did not reveal the relevant operating loss or contain an opinion to the effect that there was significant uncertainty as to whether SOG could continue as a going concern.
 It is also said that SOG did not make disclosures and that statements made in SOG's annual reports for the financial years ending 1999 and 2000 conveyed an inaccurate impression of SOG's true financial position.
 A summary of the heads of claim in the Auditor Action are as follows: Both the Auditor Action and the Shareholder Action are case-managed in the WA Supreme Court by Le Miere J.
 The solicitors for the administrators wrote to the Associate to his Honour on 15 January 2009 informing him of the transfer application and asking his Honour whether he would be prepared to hear the appeals made by the applicants in the present proceedings.
 Indeed, it would seem to me that there is a benefit to the applicants in these proceedings in having their matters heard by the court that is hearing the Shareholder Action and the Auditor Action.
 Although the applicants do not wish to be joined in, or party to, the Shareholder Action, another course which would be open would be for their proceedings to be heard after the Shareholder Action and the Auditor Action have been determined.
 This is because the administrators have stated unequivocally that no further dividend will be paid to creditors until after the determination of the Shareholder Action and the Auditor Action.
