 Paragraph 1 of the respondent's Notice of Motion dated 15 December 2008 be struck out or dismissed on the grounds that the Federal Court's jurisdiction has been enlivened by the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
 Paragraph 3 of the respondent's Notice of Motion dated 15 December 2008 be struck out or dismissed on the grounds that the applicant's claims against the respondent are not frivolous or vexatious or an abuse of the process of the Court, however, the Federal Court must not aid wrongdoers like the respondent in this case.
 Paragraph 4 of the respondent's Notice of Motion dated 15 December 2008 be struck out or dismissed on the grounds that the applicant's claims against the respondent disclose a very good cause of action against the respondent and the claims are not frivolous or vexatious or embarrassing, however, the Federal Court must not aid wrongdoers like the respondent in this case.
 The applicant claims that that is a further ground upon which I should disqualify myself in this proceeding because in dismissing his appeal in the proceeding involving the Repatriation Commission I have "fabricated [my] decision".
 On 27 October 1998 the plaintiff did not receive competent financial advice about the investment or use of the money that he and his wife was going to receive from the defendant as a consequences [sic] of entering into the Heads of Agreement.
 The first substantive allegation made by the applicant in the amended statement of claim is that under clause 3.4 of the Heads of Agreement, the respondent was required "to prepare and execute all documents necessary to bring into effect this agreement and to make such personal attendances as necessary at any Tribunal, Court or Commission".
 The document also contains substantively all of the information required by section 23(3) of the Act and therefore can be accepted as a notice to Medicare Australia's Chief Executive Officer pursuant to section 23 of the Act.
 Some time prior to 17 February 2009, Medicare Australia decided that it would take no further action against the respondent and it said that it took the view that that was a matter between it and the respondent.
 I will proceed on the basis that there is at least an arguable case that, in connection with the Heads of Agreement, the respondent failed to comply with s 23 of the Health and Other Services Act.
 The alleged breach by the respondent of clause 3.4 of the Heads of Agreement I include in my consideration of this claim not only an arguable failure to comply with s 23 of the Health and Other Services Act, but also an arguable failure to prepare and execute a Form 5 (see [23]).
