 The Learned Federal Magistrate was in error in not determining that the Second Respondent acted in a "manifestly unreasonable" manner towards the Applicant when dealing with the Applicant's claims because of it's failure to consider the claims in accordance with the Criteria in Article 1(A)(2) of the 1951 UN Convention relating to Status of Refugee. 3.
 Provision is made in O 43 of this Court's Rules for the appointment of " a tutor for a person under disability " for the purposes of conducting a proceeding in this Court.
 This failure is said to emerge from the statement of the Tribunal that it had " ' ... considered all of the evidence before it' whereas it made a contrary finding ".
 Black CJ, von Doussa and Carr JJ there observed: [25] ... although want of logic in drawing an inference will not of itself constitute error of law, it may sound a warning note to put one on inquiry whether there was indeed any basis for the inference drawn.
 The Tribunal considered the claims made by the Applicants' mother in her earlier unsuccessful application for a protection visa and relevantly concluded as follows: [97] The Tribunal is satisfied that the Applicants' father is competent to speak on behalf of the Applicants.
 If, subsequent to the hearing before the Tribunal and before the Tribunal gave its decision, it was considered appropriate on their part to advance further information in the form of the January 2008 letter, that remained a matter for them.
 The Tribunal notes that the SDL is the party formerly led in government by Qarase who was voted in after the Speight disruption was resolved, who proposed the Reconciliation Bill and who was ousted by the Bainimarama coup.
 The Tribunal gives no weight to the letter on this point as the Tribunal does not accept that the army developed any significant, negative imputations about the Applicants' father during the 2000 coup.
 The father had filed the Notice of Appeal ostensibly as " guardian " and sought to advance a case which, if successful, would have been of benefit to his children and perhaps himself.
 The Orders of the Court are: Pursuant to Order 43 r (2)(1) of the Federal Court Rules , the Appellants' father is appointed their tutor for the purposes of the present Appeal .
