 Other issues in these appeals have been raised, but it is apparent that if the Tribunal had breached s 39 of the AAT Act, each matter would need to be remitted to the Tribunal for re-hearing.
 This is for the reason that, as was pressed by the applicant in the submissions on s 39 of the AAT Act, there is a requirement to consider all the evidence as a whole, and then 'on balance' come to a decision.
 The question of whether s 39 has been breached arises out of the process of the Tribunal in using a particular interpreter for one of the important and material witnesses of the applicant.
 It was submitted that the process was made further unfair because the applicant (as known by the Tribunal) was not present at the time the translation was taking place, and so could not detect the faulty interpretation taking place.
 The objective facts do not seem to be in contention: It is also apparent from undisputed evidence before the Court that there were a number of problems with the translation of Ms Yu-Lin's evidence --- a mixing of Hokkien and Mandarin, failures to actually interpret, and certain omissions and distortions.
 The evidence pointing to beneficial ownership by Ms Eao or evidence indicating concern of acceptance of the above oral evidence included : (a) Notwithstanding that the ownership arrangements were made with legal advice, no documentary evidence existed prior to 2007 of any trust relationship.
 It is accepted that it is possible the funds were by way of loan with the rental payments in lieu of interest and the subsequent transfer of the property to Ms Yu-Lin in 2007 being consideration for repayment of the principal.
 In view of the failures of the translation process, the Tribunal could not make any proper assessment of the evidence, even allowing for the fact that the Tribunal was aware of the flaws in the process it had adopted.
 It was suggested that Mr Athanasiou, the solicitor representing the applicant before the Tribunal, should have been called before me on behalf of the applicant to give evidence as to the denial of the reasonable opportunity to present the applicant's case.
 Whilst I do not accept that the failure to call Mr Athanasiou would have been a matter which I would have taken into account in supporting the respondent's position, the evidence before me indicates a justifiable reason and sufficient explanation for the applicant not seeking to adduce evidence from Mr Athanasiou.
 In any event, on the material before me I have come to the clear view that the applicant was not given a reasonable opportunity to present her case in view of the inadequacies of the translation and the circumstances surrounding the giving of evidence of Ms Yu-Lin.
