 The appellant made an application for a protection visa on 17 May 2007 and lodged in support of that application a statement and other supporting information and documents.
 The Tribunal noted that the appellant's mother's passport, her father's passport, the appellant's birth certificate, and her father's birth certificate all show that the family's place of residence was 4/5 South Kallanpur Mirpur Dhaka, not the Geneva Camp.
 The Tribunal noted that documents submitted by the appellant's father to support his claim that he resided at the Geneva Camp did not impress the Tribunal as identity cards he presented dated 1978 and 1997 were printed on "pristine paper" and depicted contemporary photographs of the appellant's father.
 The Tribunal noted that independent information indicated that Biharis living in camps are deprived of education, yet, the appellant's mother and father both provided Higher School Certificates and Secondary School Certificates from schools outside of the camps.
 The Tribunal also noted that independent information indicated that Biharis living in camps are deprived of employment, yet the appellant's father lodged a visa application which recited that he was a cook and his passport recorded that his occupation was "private service".
 The appellant's father did not claim in that material that he was a Bihari living in a refugee camp or that he had been involved in political violence.
 The Tribunal also noted that in his second visa application, the appellant's father made a number of additional claims that were not in his first application.
 The Tribunal referred to independent information which indicated that Biharis speak the Urdu language, yet the appellant's father had requested a Bengali interpreter to be available at both Tribunal hearings and the appellant spoke to the interpreter in Bengali.
 The Tribunal found that if the appellant and her parents were Biharis, they would have communicated as between themselves in Urdu, notwithstanding other languages they had learnt in the course of schooling.
 Explanations of information contained in the Birth Certificate of the appellant suggested to the Tribunal that the appellant's father was willing to assemble and provide information regardless of its truth in order to strengthen claims.
 The Tribunal was of the view that the fact that the applicant's father worked as a cook in Bangladesh "indicates to the Tribunal that the applicant's claim that she and her parents are Biharis who lived in a refugee camp before they came to Australia is not true".
 The Tribunal advised that this information was relevant because the information "indicates that your claim that your mother is a Bihari who lived in a refugee camp is not true".
