 This is an appeal against a decision of the Federal Magistrates Court dismissing the appellant's application to set aside a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ( the RRT ) for jurisdictional error ( SZNCZ v Minister for Immigration Anor [2009] FMCA 466).
 The rule provides that: (1) If a party is absent when an appeal is called on for hearing, the Court may: ... (d) proceed with the hearing, either generally or in relation to any claim for relief in the appeal.
 The appellant's notice of appeal filed on 10 June 2009 identified one ground of appeal, namely, that the Federal Magistrates Court erred as it ought to have held on the evidence that it was open to the RRT to find that the appellant was a refugee.
 This ground is particularised as an allegation that the Federal Magistrates Court "failed to properly apply the consideration that applicants for refugee status ought to be given the benefit of the doubt in circumstances where the ...[RRT] entertained the possibility that the [appellant's] claims are plausible; which was the case here".
 Second, the Federal Magistrates Court (at [46]) acknowledged that "[w]here the [RRT's] finding as to a claim, or an aspect, or integer of a claim, is attendant with any real doubt, the [RRT] is required to consider the alternative, that is, that its finding may be incorrect, and then to determine whether an applicant may have a well-founded fear of persecution for a Convention reason in those circumstances" (citing Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs v Guo [1997] HCA 22 ; (1997) 191 CLR 559 , Abebe v The Commonwealth (1999) 197 CLR 510; [1999] HCA 14 and Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Rajalingam (1999) 93 FCR 220 ; [1999] FCA 719).
 The Full Court of the Federal Court, in Rajalingam , at [60]-[67], said: [ 60 ] It follows from the observations of the High Court in Wu Shan Liang and Guo that there are circumstances in which the RRT must take into account the possibility that alleged past events occurred even though it finds that those events probably did not occur.
 This result, perhaps surprising at first glance, comes about because the ultimate question before the RRT is whether it is satisfied that the applicant has a well-founded fear of future persecution, in the sense of having a "real substantial basis" for the fear.
 The RRT must not foreclose reasonable speculation about the chances of the hypothetical future event occurring. ... [ 67 ] ...the question of whether the RRT should have considered the possibility that its findings of fact might not have been correct is to be determined by reference to the RRT's own reasons.
 A "fair reading" of the reasons incorporates the principle that the RRT's reasons should receive a "beneficial construction" and should not be "construed minutely and finely with an eye keenly attuned to the perception of error": Wu Shan Liang , at 271-272 [ Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs v Wu Shan Liang [1996] HCA 6 ; (1996) 185 CLR 259] , quoting Collector of Customs v Pozzolanic Enterprises Pty Ltd [1993] FCA 456 ; (1993) 43 FCR 280 (FC), at 287.
 Only if a fair reading of the reasons allows the conclusion that the RRT had a real doubt that its findings on material questions of fact were correct, might error be revealed by the RRT's failure to take account of the possibility that the alleged events might have occurred (or the possibility that an event said not to have occurred did not in fact occur).
