 Secondly, s 564 of the Corporations Act as a matter of construction does not, it is said, confer a power to make an order for the distribution or payment of any part of the recovered property in priority to the costs and expenses of the liquidator as those costs and expenses are given priority by s 556(1) of the Corporations Act , although s 564 , properly construed, does confer a power to order a payment or distribution to a funding creditor in priority to other unsecured creditors .
 In other words, the recovery of the property of the company (and relevant expenses) did not arise solely out of the provision of indemnity by the Deputy Commissioner but by reason of other significant steps funded by the liquidator in addition to those steps funded by the Deputy Commissioner.
 Section 556(1) of the Corporations Act provides that subject to Division 6 of Part 5.6 of the Corporations Act , in the winding up of a company, the debts and claims described in paras (a) to (h) must be paid in priority to all other unsecured debts and claims, in the sequence or order for payment described in the section.
 By cl 13, the liquidator said that should an indemnity be provided by the Deputy Commissioner, the liquidator would make an application to the Court to give the Deputy Commissioner and any other indemnifying creditor priority under s 564 of the Corporations Act .
 The liquidator responded on 1 August 2006 and advised the Deputy Commissioner that the estimated costs would be $30,000.00; should the costs increase significantly a further indemnity would be sought; the only other creditors were trade creditors in an amount of $27,071.34; and the liquidator believed there to be a "high likelihood of success" arising out of the proposed actions.
 Mr Chesters was also advised that the liquidator would need to apply for a further indemnity in respect of any additional recovery work to be undertaken by the liquidator that might be the subject of any further invoices to the ATO.
 On 28 June 2007, Mr Chesters was advised by the ATO's representative that the Deputy Commissioner would wish to examine a transcript of the public examination of the directors and consider a further written application for an additional indemnity before any further indemnity would be granted by the Deputy Commissioner.
 The liquidator advised the ATO that the proposal of the directors to settle all claims in consideration of the payment of $100,000.00 subject to the Deputy Commissioner becoming a party to the proposed deed and providing a release, remained open for acceptance.
 In Jarbin Pty Ltd v Clutha Ltd (in liq) (supra) an order was made for distribution of the settlement sum on the assumption that allowance would be made for the payment of recovery expenses of the liquidator and his advisers.
 Applying that formula, the proportion of the $30,000.00 attributable to the solicitors would be $8,535.67 and the proportion of the $30,000.00 attributable to the Deputy Commissioner would be $7,800.11 (that is, $30,000.00 divided by $115,382.90 multiplied by $30,000.00).
 Accordingly, orders will be made for the payment to the Deputy Commissioner of an amount of $7,800.00 in priority to the claim of the liquidator and that the costs of the application are to be paid out of the monies recovered.
