 In the ACCC's Written Submission, Counsel for the ACCC made reference to several paragraphs in an affidavit filed in support of the ACCC's initial interlocutory application and to several documents exhibited to that affidavit.
 On 15 October 2008, Allphones became aware that a copy of the ACCC's Written Submission had been provided to two firms of solicitors, Birch Partners and Chew + Matthews, who, at that time, were both acting for various disaffected Allphones' franchisees.
 On or about 6 December 2007, that is to say, after the commencement of the Hoy Mobile proceedings but before the ACCC had commenced any proceedings of its own, the ACCC served the s 155 Notice upon Allphones.
 By sending the Notice of Dispute and embarking upon the dispute resolution process initiated by the sending of that Notice, Allphones was seeking to overcome the problems created for it by those two sets of proceedings.
 Our client requires the ACCC to undertake that: The ACCC will not disclose to any persons other than to Allphones and its advisers any "protected information" of Allphones except as permitted by section 155AAA.
 In mid-October 2008, in communications to franchisees, Birch Partners was making much of the large discrepancy between the total figure for rebates and bonuses disclosed in the ACCC's Written Submission and the total figure asserted by Allphones as being the correct figure for those rebates and bonuses.
 By letter dated 21 October 2008, the solicitors for Allphones again asserted that ACCC officials had breached s 155AAA of the Act and requested that the ACCC provide to them details of the identity of the official or officials who had disseminated the ACCC's Written Submission.
 It is by no means clear or beyond argument that the Act creates a private right in Allphones to sue for damages and other relief in the event that an ACCC official discloses information in breach of s 155AAA.
 There is much to be said for the view that no such right is created (see, in particular, the observations of McHugh and Gummow JJ in Byrne [1995] HCA 24 ; 185 CLR 410 at 458).
 The relevant information was contained in documents which were produced pursuant to compulsory powers invoked by the ACCC and in circumstances where it is at least arguable that the only source of any duty of confidence is s 155AAA itself.
