 The " applicable law " to which the Appellant refers in his Grounds of Appeal is not further identified, nor is there any further clarification of the " power " to which reference is also there made.
 The Tribunal thereafter set forth its " Findings and Reasons " including the following: [87] As I do not accept that he was a member of the Awami League I do not accept the applicant's claim that he was dismissed from his employment in 1990 because of his political associations.
 As set out above the political landscape has significantly changed since 1990; the applicant has worked in many jobs since that time and has also run a successful business in Bangladesh. ... [90] I do not accept that the applicant has been threatened, subject to extortion or attacked for reasons of political opinion.
 It has been assumed, however, that the reference to " findings " is a reference to each adverse finding made by the Tribunal and that the " information " is a reference to independent country information that was available to the Tribunal.
 In SZMNP v Minister for Immigration and Citizenship [2009] FCA 596 at [38] , Jacobson J referred to there being " some tension in the authorities as to what use, if any, can be made of the Tribunal's written reasons in determining whether s 424A(1)(a) was enlivened ".
 But whether there is " close attention to the reasons of the Tribunal " or whether attention is given to the criteria for making the decision, there is not thereby exposed any breach of s 424A in any of the three ways advanced by the Appellant.
 Although it is by no means certain, it would appear that the Tribunal rejected the claim being advanced by the now Appellant upon the basis that it did not accept the evidence and other materials provided by the Appellant himself.
 At another point, the Tribunal addressed the claim that " a false case of attempted murder was lodged against him " and stated: I put it to him that his evidence did not make much sense and was implausible ...
 Although no letter was forwarded to the now Appellant pursuant to s 424A, there has been no denial of any opportunity " to comment on or respond to " (s 424A(1)(c)) the information relied upon by the Tribunal in making its findings. " Clear particulars " of the information to be relied upon had been given to the now Appellant when attending before the Tribunal (s 424A(2A)).
 Section 424A(2A) relieves the Tribunal of the obligation to give particulars of information to an applicant or to invite him to comment on or respond to information " if the Tribunal gives clear particulars of the information to the applicant, and invites the applicant to comment on or respond to the information ...".
 Section 424A(3)(a) provides that s 424A does not apply to information " that is not specifically about the applicant or another person and is just about a class of persons of which the applicant or other person is a member ".
