 In the relevant decisions the Federal Magistrate refused applications made by the applicant (to which the respondent consented) to vacate prior orders of the Federal Magistrates Court and adjourn the substantive trial in the relevant proceedings, which trial was scheduled to commence yesterday.
 In refusing the application made by the Applicant to vacate prior orders and adjourn the trial, the learned Federal Magistrate erred as a matter of law by failing to take into account: that the Court had been appraised of the parties' non-compliance with the pre-trial directions orders on or by 4 August 2009; the severe and prejudicial consequences of the refusal for the Applicant and for the Respondent; the effect of the refusal on the likely length and cost of the trial.
 Background The background to these applications is set out in affidavits filed 25 August 2009 of Benjamin Green, solicitor for the applicant in these proceedings, and the affidavit filed 25 August 2009 of Andrew Farr solicitor for the respondent in these proceedings.
 Mr Green also informed the associate that the solicitors for the respondent were seeking instructions from their client about whether to consent to the applicant's proposed application, and that the reason that the application to vacate his Honour's orders had not been filed was because, if possible, the applicant preferred to seek orders to which both parties had indicated consent.
 On 19 August 2009 the applicant filed two identical applications and supporting affidavits (one in respect of each matter before the Court) seeking vacation of the trial date, and certain orders leading up to trial.
 On 20 August 2009 Mr Green attempted to contact the associate to the Federal Magistrate, and left a voicemail message referring to the applications filed 19 August 2009, and stating that further correspondence signed by both parties indicating consent to the orders sought in the application was to be faxed to the Federal Magistrates chambers.
 On 21 August 2009 Mr Farr rang Jarrett FM's associate to follow up on the status of the proposed consent orders and whether the orders could be made "on the papers".
 Both parties submitted before me that this was the first opportunity the parties had had to appear before his Honour in relation to the applications to vacate previous orders and seek new orders.
 The transcript of the hearing is not available for me to view, however Mr Green deposed in his affidavits of 25 August 2009 para 33 as to what had occurred at the hearing.
 It is clear that the applicant had endeavoured to communicate with his Honour's chambers several days before the hearing and inform his Honour of the intention to file applications to vacate the proceedings, and that such applications were indeed filed several days before the substantive trial was listed to commence.
