 The objective of this study is to undertake the task of assessment regarding initiative, utilization of ICT resources, its performance and impact in these higher educational institutions/universities.
 The impetus at the national level was set in motion by the Task Force Technology Information Forecasting and Assessment Council (TIFAC), for Technology Vision 2020.
 It strongly advocated the development of human resource cadre and the role of higher educational Institutions that will be the foundation of the technological advancement in the country.
 There has been another body, National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM), in the field of ICT, dealing with the ICT infrastructure, research & development and trade since 1988.
 It has also played a crucial role in the formulation of ICT policies which endeavors to narrow down the digital divide in the country and enables all citizens to enjoy the benefits of ICT.
 Initiatives to have an assessment of its utilization and overall performance and efficiency, of any higher educational institution, are quite essential, in identifying, planning and achieving the ICT strategies at the respective levels.
 The University Grants Commission (UGC), New Delhi, took steps to establish an autonomous institution, National Assessment and Accreditation Council (NAAC), for comprehensive assessment of various universities and to place them according to certain ranking.
 The support activities were linked with primary activities to improve the effectiveness/ efficiency and contain ICT vision, policies and standards, ICT infrastructure, ICT services.
 With these it should be possible to assess and judge the effectiveness, efficiency and impact of an institution in terms of ICT performance to have the possible projection to finally decide about the future strategies.
 These groups are E (LAN), I (Website and Information System), K (ICT Staff), P (ICT based Research) and Q (ICT training programs).
 The better performance always results in sound impact (Tier IV) at the national and international level in terms of outstanding research publications and actual placements.
 Our findings about the overall ICT status is on the basis of performance and impact do match with the reported ranking given to universities by NAAC and other agencies.
 This finding is quite interesting which proclaims that overall progress shown by any of the universities is mainly due to the respective progress through initiative, planning, infrastructure and performance in the field of ICT.
