 Create a network of health sensors and a Health Risk Observatory in order to follow, simulate and anticipate the spreading of diseases; create contingency plans (see Ref. [5]). 3.
 Restricting to empirical, experimental and analytical methods, but underusing the possibilities of modern and future information and communication technologies (ICT) would ignore a large number of powerful research tools.
 Again, a data driven model promises progress, but needs to be combined with empirical and experimental approaches (in the lab and Web).
 This would involve the above subjects, and also computer science (including programming, visualization, AI, robotics, etc.), mathematics, ecology, and biology (organization of social species, the immune and neural systems, 17 etc.).
 It is quite obvious that there is a lack of experts who would oversee all these areas and would be capable of an integrative systems design approach.
 Such experts overlooking a broad range of problems and methods would be very much needed in engineering, economics, and areas involving decision-making about complex issues (such as politics). 4.6 New ICT tools for integrative systems design In the past, it was impossible to experiment with our future.
 By informing all the stakeholders in a better way, it will be easier to assess di erent options and their often counter-intuitive feedback, cascading, and side e ects.
 In this way, it will also become more e cient to develop contingency plans and intelligent responses to emerging risks or opportunities, having the best of all knowledge at hand.
 The tight link between Integrative System Design Centers and Decision Arenas will also foster the development of concepts and institutional designs for a exible, adaptive, and resource-e cient real-time management of complex socio-economic systems and organizations.
 In such a way, new designs will be determined for smarter cities, transport, tra c and logistics, for intelligent energy production and consumption, or for a better social and economic participation.
