 Our study provides insights into three main aspects of the social-commercial relationship: informa- tion passing, the price of trust, and consumer choice prediction.
 We also contrast a variety of feature sets (both graph- based and product/seller metadata), and demonstrate that the social graph is the most important feature in predicting consumer choice.
 The pri- mary difference here is that we utilize the social networks of the buyers and sellers, along with product and user metadata, to per- form consumer choice prediction, whereas they consider only seller and product information.
 DYADIC RELATIONSHIPS To facilitate our goal of understanding how commercial transac- tions are embedded in the social networks of buyers and sellers, we rst examine dyadic relationships in Taobao.
 We graph trade volume versus message volume across pairs of users in Figure 1, and nd that there is a positive in- creasing relationship between message volume and trade volume.
 We begin our study of information passing by examining local neighborhoods in each edge type network (trade, message, contact) of a static endtime snapshot of Taobao.
 This implies that social proximity and trade likelihood are correlated, and are a signal that information passing and product recommendation may be present in the Taobao network.
 Perhaps the primary in uence upon the success of information passing is the amount of communication between the initial buyer, B1, and his messaging partner, B2.
 This implies that social product recommendation and in u- ence spreading is most effective when utilized immediately after initial product adoption or purchase.
 Although communication between B1 and B2 is a signi cant in- uence upon information passing, the characteristics of the product itself also affect the success of information passing.
 Similarly, if the con gura- tion contains a sale by X and no purchase, then we say that X has a seller role.
 Third, we use Taobao review data to demonstrate how high seller ratings are associated with product price premiums, and thus quantify a price for trust.
