 This paper deals with green cellular networks with the help of multi-layer overlaid hierarchical structure (macro / micro / pico / femto cells).
 Energy efficiency in cellular networks is a growing concern for cellular operators to not only maintain profitability, but also to reduce the overall environment effects.
 This emerging trend of achieving energy efficiency in cellular networks is motivating the standardization authorities and network operators to continuously explore future technologies in order to bring improvements in the entire network infrastructure [2].
 Fig 4: Hierarchical Cellular Structure 5.1 Macro Cell A conventional base station with 20W power and range is about 1 km to 20 km.
 Macro cell in hierarchical structure takes care of roaming mobiles. 5.2 Micro Cell A conventional base station with 1W to 5W power and range is about 500 m to 2 km.
 Besides plugging coverage holes, picocells are frequently used to add voice and data capacity, something that repeater and distributed antenna cannot do.
 As the trend for sharing facilities and wireless equipment continues, optical technology will provide the capacity required to combine backhaul and other facilities for multiple operators.
 A variety of remote RF solutions exist today to help operators provide improved capacity and 4 better quality of service in comparison to other indoor existing available technologies.
 High capacity indoor users have been covered with low power femto cell while hotspots and indoor users will be covered with low power picocell instead of distributed networks to provide much better QoS in comparison to existing wireless technologies for indoor subscribers.
 The implementation of remote cells provides reductions in both the capital and operating expenses associated with new cell site deployment.
 In this paper a simple solution has been suggested to meet the above requirements for up gradation of existing 2G/2.5G network in India.
 The proposed evolution path for green network is given in fig 5. replaced femtocells are Conventional / sectored antennas are replaced by intelligent / adaptive antenna along with A-SDMA approach.
 The use of adaptive antenna will not only reduce the power consumption but also reduce RF pollution drastically in the existing system.
