 Here, we investigate the accuracy of multiple statistical features, based either purely on temporal interaction patterns or on the cooperative nature of the interactions, for automatically extracting latent social ties.
 Using self-reported friendship and non-friendship labels derived from an anonymous online survey, we learn highly accurate predictors for recovering hidden friendships within a massive online data set encompassing 18 billion interactions among 17 million individuals of the popular online game Halo: Reach.
 These results clarify the nature of friendship in online social environments and suggest new opportunities and new privacy concerns for friendship-aware applications that do not require the disclosure of private friendship information.
 The subgraph of interactions by our survey participants contained a total of 2,531,479 vertices and 665,401,283 temporal edges over the same period of time.
 INFERRING FRIENDSHIP To recover latent friendship ties given only the time series of annotated interactions between pairs of individ- uals, we take a supervised learning approach.
 We investigate the accuracy of our statistical fea- tures, divided into temporal and cooperative classes and considered individually, for predicting latent ties.
 In their analysis of friendship and gameplay in Reach, Mason and Clauset showed that individuals who are friends tend to coordinate and cooperate in ways that in- crease their team s score and the probability of winning the match [8].
 The temporal features of raw and normalized pair frequencies Nx,y and Nx,y/Nx are less reliable predictors for small histories, but become more reliable as Nx increases.
 The discrim- inatory power of autocorrelation and prosocial behavior, even with sparse data, suggests that latent friendship ties may in fact be easily detectable, due to the nature of friendship itself.
 In a sense, periodic and prosocial in- teractions are the de nition of friendship, and it may be 11 di cult to maintain such a relationship online without manifesting a signal in these ways.
