 Speci cally, we propose a model for the materialization of risks on the network, in which internal (self-materialization) and external (contagion) risk materializations are separated using historical data.
 First, for a risk i, given that it is in state 0, its spontaneous or internal materialization is a Poisson process with intensity int .
 We nd the values of the model parameters that optimize the model match with the historical data, while we use expert assessments to individualize probabilities of Bernoulli processes for each risk.
 In essence, the expert assessments are de ning those probabilities for each risk in relations to probabilities for other risks, while model parameters map per- formance of all risks onto historical data.
 We also compute the probability that the cascade resulting from the materialization of a given initiator risk would result in the materialization of a selected risk.
 Speci cally, we consider the probability of materialization of the four risks, 8, 1, 17 and 25, observed to be among the top ve risks most frequently active in simulations.
 So model parameters de ne the same ratio of intensities of all risks, while likelihood assessments de ne individual values of these intensities for each risk.
 For a given set of values of parameters , , and , one can compute the log-likelihood of observing the given time-series of risk materialization using Eqs 2 and 12.
 This result demonstrates that to fully uncover the value of expert data requires accounting for network e ects, as we have done in our network model.
 Parameters , , and govern the Poisson process intensities for internal materializations, pairwise in uence, and continuation, as expressed in Eqs. 8, 10, and 9 respectively.
 We assume a three parameter network model for the propagation 16 of risk materialization (representing the corresponding network node failures), and obtain maximum likelihood values for the parameters using historical data on risk materialization.
 Our model was built upon expert assessments available in the WEF report which enabled the construction of a detailed and heterogeneous weighted network of risks.
 We have uncovered the global risk network dynamics and measured its resilience, stabil- ity, and risks contagion potential, persistence, and roles in cascades of failures.
