 The assertion is that the AI will strive not only to improve its capability of achieving its current goals, but also to ensure that it will retain these goals even after it has become more capable.
 But sup- pose it then attains a complete scienti c understanding of humans and human consciousness, and discovers that there is no such thing as a soul.
 Moreover, in its attempts to model the world better, the AI may naturally, just as we humans have done, at- tempt also to model and understand how it itself works, i.e., to self-re ect.
 Once it builds a good self-model and understands what it is, it will understand the goals we have given it at a meta-level, and perhaps choose to disre- gard or subvert them in much the same way as we humans understand and deliberately subvert goals that our genes have given us.
 The sub-goal to procreate was implemented as a desire for sex rather than as a (highly e cient) desire to become a sperm/egg donor and, as mentioned, is subverted by contraceptives.
 In AI research, intelligent agents typically have a clear-cut and well-de ned nal goal, e.g., win the chess game or drive the car to the des- tination legally.
 It is important to remember that, according to evo- lutionary psychology, the only reason that we humans have any preferences at all is because we are the solu- tion to an evolutionary optimization problem.
 Thus all normative words in our human language, such as deli- cious , fragrant , beautiful , comfortable , interest- ing , sexy , good , meaningful and happy , trace their origin to this evolutionary optimization: there is therefore no guarantee that a superintelligent AI would nd them rigorously de nable.
 This might pose a computational nightmare, since it would need to associate a goodness value with ev- ery one of more than a googolplex possible arrangement of the elementary particles in our Universe.
 This suggests that a superintelligent AI 3 with a rigorously de ned goal will be able to improve its goal attainment by eliminating us.
 Machine Intelligence Research Institute, http://intelligence.org/files/CFAI.pdf [2] Good, Irving John 1965, Speculations Concerning the First Ultraintelligent Machine , in Advances in Comput- ers , edited by Franz L.
