 That goal would be to train a critical mass of scienti c generalists, researchers, who in addition to the specialized training of an ordinary graduate program, would also have broad exposure to multiple subjects at the graduate level.
 There is no doubt that in the coming years, data analytics of the scienti c corpus will play a signi cant role in contributing to the creation of precisely such a global view of the scienti c enterprise.
 The digitization of journals, the availability of open API s for accessing scienti c meta-data, and the integration of reference management with social networking are all poised to transform our understanding of the scienti c process at a high-level.
 For example, the growth of computational biology and theoretical neuroscience has been driven by many theoretical physicists who have gone on to do post-doctoral training in the biological sciences, or for example, physicists from the world of quantitative nance, who have returned to academia armed with a new set of skills quite di erent from their PhD training.
 The choice of the qualifying examination as the focal point for this program is that it encapsulates the basic vocabulary of a eld, the core knowledge required to conduct in depth research.
 The aim of this program is emphatically not to train researchers who have in depth, specialized knowledge of 5 di erent subjects that would be an unreasonable, if not outright impossible goal.
 Just as undergraduates who aspire to careers as physician-scientists must adequately prepare themselves with appropriate exposure to both research and clinical work, aspiring scienti c generalists would need to prepare themselves with advanced coursework of su cient breadth to tackle the challenging initial years of this graduate program.
 For an ambitious program such as this one to maximally bene t both the student and the scienti c establishment at large, there would need to be a strong culture to support those students who choose to undergo such a rigorous and extended training.
 For instance, a student whose PhD was in theoretical condensed matter physics and who passed examinations in physics, mathematics, chemistry, biology, and computer science might write an in depth essay on the emergence of quantitative methods in the study of natural selection.
 For the initial batch of students, there would inevitably be some amount of trial and error while both students and faculty develop an understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of the program.
 Venture capital might be another place where scienti c generalists could have a signi cant impact, play- ing the role of bridge builders between academia and industry, and perhaps actively managing their own portfolios and overseeing scienti c startup incubators.
 The speci c aim of this program is to train scientists who have signi cant exposure to the cultural elements of advanced science in multiple disciplines, whose training allowed them to be both scientists as well as participatory anthropologists of the scienti c process.
