 Osipov) Abstract The paper describes gamification, virality and retention in the freemium educational online platform with 40,000 users as an example.
 Moreover, the cost of at- tracting new users can be substantial, and there is a risk not to recover this high cost from monetization.
 Pluses of this approach include fast money earning, and that the K virality factor (K-factor, Reichheld, 2003) can be less than one (discussed below). 2.
 Direct personal invitations initiated by the existing users to the potential new users using different means of communication by e-mail, personal communication, social networks, SMS, etc.
 Table 1 lists the number of published invitation links (open invitations) and how many users posted these links on the weekly basis.
 Table 3 lists the number of individual invitations and the number of users that sent such invitations, while Table 4 lists the number of users who joined as a result of direct personal invitations.
 For example, if the average number of invitations per user is 5, and 20% of the invitees register in the system, i.e. become new users, then the K-factor = 5*0.2=1.
 If the K-factor is greater than 1 (say it is 200%), it leads to the geometric progression growth of the user base.
 For example, purchased 100 users attract 200 new people, and if the K-factor remains the same, the new users will attract 400 new people, and so on.
 Virality, retention and monetization relationship In his book Freemium Economics, Eric Benjamin Seufert (Seufert, 2014) in the Virality and Retention section, on page 175 said: “Virality and retention exist on opposite sides of the acquisition 7 threshold: virality describes how users are introduced to a product, and retention describes how long users remain with a product.
 Users with high product loyalty get increasingly involved in the mechanics of virality and monetization (Fields & Cotton, 2012; Eyal & Hoover (2014).
 Coefficient of the product audience growth, K-growth, can be expressed as a sum of the coefficients of the viral K-factor and the retention factor, K-retention: K growth = K factor + K retention (6) Equation 6 is the main formula of the freemium product growth, based on the viral spreading.
 It’s convenient to use only active audience for calculations, by taking into account only the new users that have become active, but not all registered users.
 If the K-growth factor is less than one, then the product can not grow and looses users with all the consequences for the product and its team.
 The number of the newly joined users invited trough the open links, including all types of invi- tations. 15 Table 3.
