 In this article, we evaluate a representative sample of these platforms, both proprietary and open-source, on the basis of their ability to meet the expectations of di erent IoT users.
 The evaluation is thus more focused on how ready and usable these platforms are for IoT ecosystem players, rather than on the peculiarities of the underlying technological layers.
 The evaluation is carried out as a gap analysis of the current IoT landscape with respect to (i) the support for heterogeneous sensing and actuating technologies, (ii) the data ownership and its implications for security and privacy, (iii) data processing and data sharing capabilities, (iv) the support o ered to application developers, (v) the completeness of an IoT ecosystem, and (vi) the availability of dedicated IoT marketplaces.
 The survey suggests that cloud-based IoT platforms are prone to traditional web and network secu- rity attacks such as Denial of Service (DoS), man-in-the- middle, eavesdropping, spoo ng and controlling attacks.
 A survey of low-level protocols for ensuring security and privacy in both centralized and distributed IoT scenarios is presented in [15], and the research community constantly aims to improve protocols to address these security chal- lenges.
 Integration of sensing and actuating technologies The essence of an IoT platform is to enable the se- cure connection of a multitude of heterogeneous sensing and actuating devices, having di erent constraints and capabilities, to the Internet.
 In [28], Blackstock and Lea integrated the Node- RED composer to the WoTKit processor [Platform 38] to enable the creation of distributed data ows.
 Here, e cient processing means (i) processing IoT data consider- ing computing, storage, communication, and energy limi- tations of IoT environments; and (ii) the timely generation of useful knowledge for IoT applications before it becomes outdated.
 In order to allow to treat the IoT domains as a sin- gle converging ecosystem that provides innovative prod- ucts and services and permits an economy of scale, an IoT platform broker is needed.
 Such a broker will facilitate the sharing of applications and services across space and time, and across platform-speci c IoT sub-ecosystems.
