 For this purpose, a measure of operational ﬂexibility is introduced enabling to compute an inﬂexibility fee charging each individual power plant on a wholesale electricity spot market.
 The total sum of inﬂexibility fees accumulated on the spot markets then can be used to ﬁnance a capacity market keeping the necessary reserves to warrant grid reliability.
 To internal- ize it into price calculation, at ﬁrst we deﬁne measure for the operational ﬂexibility of a given power plant.
 The total of these inﬂexibility fees then can serve to pay power reserves provided by some given capacity mechanism.
 In section II a general class of functions measuring the operational ﬂexibility of a power pant in dependence to its guaranteed start-up time is deﬁned.
 The highest operational ﬂexibilities are exposed by hydroelectric power stations and modern gas turbines. ¥ III.
 Assume moreover that all power plants participating at the spot market are uniquely numbered by the indices i = 1, 2, . . . , n.
 In essence, by Equation (3) a power plant with a low operational ﬂexibility is penalized more than one with a high operational ﬂexibility.
 The reference level price are assumed as p0 = 10 e/MWh and p0 = 70 e/MWh, respectively.
 For a given demand q∗ of electric power, the market-clearing spot price increases more or less slightly, depending on p0.
 A further natural requirement is that a power plant offering its reliability on the capacity market cannot partici- pate on the spot market.
 The main idea is to calculate a fee for each power plant depending on its op- erational ﬂexibility.
 With such a measure, the inﬂexibility is priced in by Equation (3) to the marginal price determining the sell bid of each power plant at the spot market.
 The amount depends on a market- wide reference level price p0 which is set by the market au- thority or the state.
 The total operational inﬂexibility fee Cf accumulated at the spot markets then is spread on the power plants participating in a given capacity mechanism, depend- ing on their operational ﬂexibilities according to Equation (7).
