 The procedure for forecasting SFR are rigid and most often times require data scaling or conversion into binary form such as is the case of the logistic model which may lead to lose of information and effect size attenuation.
 The outcomes of each one of the approaches using the 10 classification algorithms and 10 fold cross validation were compared in order to select the best approach to the problem.
 From the results, it was deduced that OneR fared better with a TN (True Negative Fail) rate of about 88.3% when using data balancing approach, whereas Jrip fared better with a TN rate of 93.3% with the cost sensitive approach.
 They examined the differential effects of prior academic achievement, psychosocial, behavioural, demographic, and school context factors on early high school grade point average (GPA) using a prospective study of 4,660 middle-school students from 24 schools and a combined Multiple Linear Regression (MLR)/ Hierarchical Linear Modeling (HLM) approach.
 Their findings suggest that: (a) Prior grades and standardized achievement are the strongest predictors of high school GPA and (b) Psychosocial and behavioural (e.g., motivation, self-regulation, and social control) add incremental validity to the prediction of GPA.
 These findings highlight the importance of effective risk assessment based on multiple measures (i.e., academic, psychosocial, and behavioural) for the purpose of identifying risk, referring students to intervention, and improving academic success [10].
 They also used a new form of genetic programming called Grammar based Genetic Programming (G3P), combined with an Interpretable Rule Classification Mining Scheme (ICRM) for the prediction of student failure rate at school using real data from high school students in Mexico.
 The crossover operation employs a swapping function in software while the mutation operation uses a knock- out technique. 3.2 Genetic Programming Process The fundamental mathematical formulations guiding a genetic programming application and corresponding pseudo-codes are not new and are given in [12].
 Predicting student academic performance in an engineering dynamics course: A comparison of four types of predictive mathematical models, Journal of Computers and Education, Elsevier, vol. 61, pp. 133-145. [9] Kalles D., Pierrakeas C., 2006.
 Using Genetic Algorithms and Decision Trees for a posteriori Analysis and Evaluation of Tutoring Practices based on Student Failure Models, in IFIP Intemational Federation for Information Processing, vol. 204, Artificial Intelligence Applications and Innovations, Boston: Springer, pp. 9-18. [10] Rquez-Vera C.M., Cano A., Romero C., and Ventura S., 2013.
