 Despite the existence of various distance measures in the literature, it is unclear how to consistently assess and compare them, and which ones to select for constructing patent technology network maps.
 Herein, we propose to compare alternative distance measures and identify the superior ones by analyzing the differences and similarities in the structural properties of resulting patent network maps.
 Using United States patent data from 1976 to 2006 and International Patent Classification system, we compare 12 representative distance measures, which quantify inter- field knowledge base proximity, field-crossing diversification likelihood or frequency of innovation agents, and co-occurrences of patent classes in the same patents.
 Although the studies of product space were based on export and import data and the custom classifications of products, their proximity measure can be adapted to patent data and patent technology classifications.
 Measures C1, C2 and C3 employ the form of a measure, which Teece et al. (1994) first proposed to indicate the relatedness between industries, following the survivor principle in economics.
 Applied to the context of technology classes, the measure compares the empirically observed frequency of co-occurrences of a pair of technology classes in the patenting records of the same inventors, organizations or countries, to the expected frequency in a random co-occurrence situation controlled for the sizes of technology classes.
 C1: Inventor co-occurrence frequency : the deviation of the empirically observed number of inventors occurring in a pair of technology classes from the value that would be expected when technology classes are randomly assigned to inventors.
 Conclusion This paper contributes to the research to develop and analyze patent technology network maps to explore technology diversification and knowledge combination opportunities, and thus support technology forecasting and road mapping practices.
 A main challenge to developing reasonable technology network maps is the ambiguity in the choice of measures of the distance between various technology fields in the total technology space.
 To address this challenge, we have proposed a strategy to assess and compare alternative measures through analyzing the overall structures of their resulting networks, because the structures of technology networks condition the strategic insights that can be potentially drawn for road- mapping and forecasting analyses but are affected by the choices of distance measures.
