 To meet the call for scale, openness, and diversity in aca- demic datasets, we take the opportunity in this article to present a new multimedia dataset containing 100 million media objects and explain the rationale behind its creation.
 We discuss the implications it has for science, research, en- gineering and development, and demonstrate its usefulness towards tackling a broad range of problems in various do- mains.
 SHARING DATASETS Datasets are critical for research and exploration [16] as, rather obviously, data is required for performing experiments, validating hypotheses, analyzing designs, and building ap- plications.
 However, we note that camera clocks are not always set to the correct date and time, and some photos and videos even erroneously re- port they were captured in the distant past or in the future.
 There are 48,366,323 photos and 103,506 videos in the dataset that have been annotated with a geographic coordinate, either manually by the user or automatically via GPS.
 Overall, the dataset spans 249 di erent territories (countries, islands, etc.) in the world, and also includes photos and videos taken in international waters and airspace, see Figure 2.
 Together these photos and videos form approximately half of the dataset, and the re- mainder is composed of CC photos randomly selected from the entire pool of photos on Flickr.
 To investigate whether our dataset contains a representa- tive sample of real world photography, we collected an ad- ditional random sample of 100 million public Flickr photos and videos, irrespective of their license, that were uploaded during the same time period as those in our dataset.
 We found that the average di erence in rela- tive frequencies between two corresponding visual concepts, cameras, timestamps (year and month) and locations (coun- tries) was only 0.02%, with an overall standard deviation of 0.1%.
 Also, di erent elds of research, engineering and science have dif- ferent data requirements and evaluation needs, and all 100 million media objects in the dataset are not likely to be needed for each and every study.
