 There is more profanity within these tweets and there are also more words suggesting that climate change deniers use the term global warming more of- ten than climate change .
 For example, there is more usage of the words stop , blame , freezing , fraud , and politicians in tweets containing global warming .
 We also see a decrease in words such as crisis , bill , risk , denial , denying , disaster , and threat .
 The word contributing most to the decrease in happiness between climate and globalwarming is fail , possibly referencing an inaccurate interpretation of the timescale of global warming consequences dur- ing cold weather.
 We see an increase in negative words fraud , die , lie , blame , lies , and again a de- crease in positive, scienti c words.
 There is also an in- crease in several cold weather words including snow , freezing , christmas , december , indicating that the globalwarming hashtag may often be used sarcastically.
 Similarly, Tweets including the hashtag climaterealists use more words like fraud , lies , wrong , and scan- dal and less ght , crisis , pollution , combat , and threat .
 This particular hashtag gives an increase in positive words green and science , however based on the large in- crease in the aforementioned negative words, we can de- duce that these terms are being discussed in a nega- tive light.
 There is an in- crease in positive words green , energy , environ- ment , sea , oceans , nature , earth , and future , indicating a discussion about the environmental impacts of climate change.
 There is also an increase in pollu- tion , threat , risk , hunger , ght , and problem indicating that the climatechange hashtag is often used when tweeting about the ght against climate change.
 The word shift graphs compare the climate tweets to un ltered tweets on the day of the natural disaster. words.
 CONCLUSION We have provided a general exploration of the senti- ment surrounding tweets containing the word climate in response to natural disasters and climate change news and events.
