 We nd that promotions that are full-price discounted and digital (i.e., the redemption procedure is a few taps on the smartphone) are the ones that cause the largest increase in downloads.
 Our paper is contributing towards a better understanding of the e ects that such promotions can have on the sales and ratings of featured apps, as well their competition. 1Wall Street Journal (http://on.wsj.com/1Haufei) 2entrepreneur.com (http://goo.gl/GdOa3P) 3statista.com (http://goo.gl/dm1aw2) 4statista.com (http://goo.gl/knUMyp) 5statista.com (http://goo.gl/dcqFks) 6nielsen.com (http://goo.gl/QkSPCw) 2 We focus on four such promotion campaigns in the iOS App Store.
 We nd that digital promotions, which are easy to redeem, accompanied by a full price discount are the promotions that cause the largest increase in sales, while having neutral or even positive e ects on the ratings.
 But in promotions with higher barriers (such as less trivial redemption procedure or non-zero price) apps that were more popular before the promotion are the ones that will receive the largest increases in sales.
 Furthermore, Apple Weekly apps o er the highest number of in-app purchases (5 compared to 2.47-2.73 for the other three promotions and 0.42 for the control) at the highest prices.
 This could hint toward Apple selecting and promoting state-of-the-art apps and games that, for example, take full advantage of the powerful graphics of the latest hardware releases. 2 E ect of Promotions on Sales One of the rst metrics that can help evaluate the success of a promotion is the increase in sales it caused for the participating apps.
 The fourth column of Table 2 shows the coe cients for the post treat variable, which 12 estimates the e ect of the promotions, and it con rms our descriptive ndings, shown in Figure 2a.
 In the same time period, apps featured in the Starbucks Digital promotion doesn t seem to have been a ected, with their ratings increasing only by 0.01 star (from 4.21 to 4.22).
 The estimations of the coe cient for the post treat variable for the Starbucks promo- tions, shown in the second and third row of Table 3, provide statistical con rmation for our descriptive results about the e ect of these promotions had on the ratings of the featured apps.
 Popularity before the start of the promotion will help us see if there are any rich-get-richer e ects, where apps that were already popular bene t disproportionally from price reductions and promotions.
 Our work displays the bene ts in sales and ratings of being featured in carefully selected and far- reaching promotions, but also the potential risks of not full price discounts.
