 Fifty-eight professors from TIFR, IITs, IISc, IMSc, CMI, ISI Kolkata, and other institutes and universities delivered invited lectures on different topics in the design and analysis of algorithms, discrete ap- plied mathematics, computer graphics, computer vision, and robotics.
 In the last four decades, graph and geometric problems have been studied by computer science researchers using the framework of design and analysis of algorithms [1, 33].
 Today, computer industries in India provide nancial support to projects on algorithmic research in Indian academic institutes and also provide fellowships to Ph.D. students working in algorithmic research.
 Perceiving future needs, the course Design and Analysis of Algorithms was introduced in the 80 s in the undergradu- ate and postgraduate levels as a core course in premier institutes like IIT s, TIFR and IISc.
 Naturally, several softwares were designed in 80 s and 90 s and many of them used basic algorithmic techniques and data structures that were routinely taught in the courses of Design and Analysis of Algorithms not only in IITs, IISc and TIFR but also in NITs, BITS Pilani, and several universities in India.
 New types of algorithms like streaming algorithms, web- based algorithms, network algorithms, distributed algorithms, big data algorithms, etc. came into play in the last two decades.
 Though the number of researchers working in India on graph and geometric algorithms has increased substantially in the last two decades, the number of active researchers in algorithms is still far lesser in India compared to the large number of bright students and teachers involved in studying and teaching computer science and discrete applied mathematics.
 In order to moti- vate them towards computer science research in general and algorithmic research in particular, twenty-two workshops of introductory lectures on graph and geometric algorithms were orga- nized during 2008-2015 for teachers and students (undergraduate, post-graduate, and doctoral) of engineering colleges and universities at different locations in India.
 These lectures can be classi ed broadly into four categories: (i) Algorithmic Paradigms, (ii) Graphs and Algorithms, (iii) Geometry and Algorithms, and (iv) Geometry and Applications.
 Speci cally, approximation algorithms [35], randomized algorithms [27], on-line algorithms [4], distributed algorithms [24], xed parameter algorithms [29], quantum algorithms [30] and streaming algorithms [28] were covered.
 Speci c topics of computational and combinatorial geometry covered were geometric graphs, facility location, convexity of points, art gallery problems, duality transformation, geometric data structures, ge- ometric shortest paths, geometric spanners, Voronoi diagrams, centerpoint location, and geo- metric prune and search technique.
 Moreover, the bene- ts from the exposure to the broad eld of graph and geometric algorithms will certainly get re ected in the future profession of many of the participants.
