 We randomly selected two samples of ideas (N=400 each), one contained the ideas from young children, the other from adults (aged 17-50).
 The results show that the mobile service ideas from the young children are significantly more original, transformational, implementable, and relevant than those from the adults.
 Therefore, this study shows that young children are better sources of novel and quality ideas than adults in the mobile services domain.
 It also indicates a new and valuable source for the companies that seek for creative ideas for innovative products and services.
 H1a: Mobile service ideas expressed by young children are more original than those by adults.
 H1b: Mobile service ideas expressed by young children are more transformational in terms of existing paradigm than those by adults.
 In order to decide the meaningful sample sizes for comparing the ideas of young children and adults, we consulted several studies in statistics and organizational research.
 Regarding originality (Figure 1), the distribution of the averaged scores of the young children s ideas is noticeably greater than that of the adults ideas.
 With a p-value smaller than 0.05, we found significant support for the hypothesis that the children s ideas are more relevant than the adults ideas (H2b).
 Discussion We hypothesized that the mobile service ideas expressed by young children aged 7 to 12 years are more novel (H1) and of higher quality (H2) than those by the adults aged 17 to 50.
 In terms of the two constructs of idea novelty, namely originality and paradigm relatedness, our study supports the two hypotheses H1a and H1b, and provided significant evidence that children s ideas are more original and transformational in terms of existing paradigm than those by adults.
 Therefore, our claim that the mobile service ideas expressed by young children (7-12 years old) are more creative than those of adults might be limited.
 A collection of more than 41,000 mobile ideas collected in 2006 granted us a unique opportunity to study the potential of children as the source of creative mobile service ideas.
