 The recent use of Twitter in health pro- motion coincides with the in ux of commercial agen- cies into social media to sell commodities, trends and ideas [22].
 The con uence of health promotion and commercial agents on Twitter has led to a cacophony of short health-related messages directed at users and passed through social networks.
 There is little critical analysis of the wider landscape of, and relationships underpinning, health-related content on Twitter, or of the impact that messages have in the broad user base.
 The top hub according to this persistence score is still @1MEDICAL2NEWS, which is a hub in each of the 31 weeks for which we computed the hub scores.
 Sec- ond, we extract the network of followers within the top 1,000 authorities and characterise the interest communi- ties within the network of authorities [1, 46]. a.
 In addition to posting messages that evoke a broad response (as authorities), these users also engage by retweeting and replying to messages posted by other users (as hubs).
 C2 Lifestyle and well-being users: This commu- nity contains accounts related to lifestyle and well- being advice, publications, natural and alterna- tive remedies, detox, health and organic foods and products (17% of the nodes, in red).
 Such initia- tives are designed based on extended assumptions about the Twitter health landscape, the messages which domi- nate it, and the interactions of users within it.
 However, detailed data-driven research can help ascertain the va- lidity of such assumptions and enrich our understanding of the online landscape and its implications for popula- tion health.
 The engage- ment levels of all authorities are sustained throughout the observation period, and it is di cult to clearly dis- cern between these di erent groups based on the content, style or theme of their tweets alone.
 This poses challenges to the use of Twitter as a health promo- tion platform, and requires the use of sophisticated tech- niques (e.g., collaboration of health professionals with practitioners of network and data science).
 The remaining authors declare no con icting in- terests. 19 [1] Beguerisse-D az M, Gardu no-Hern andez G, Vangelov Interest commu- the Journal of Avail- http://rsif.royalsocietypublishing.
