 Cultural Production and Null Reading Models Our methods also allow us to understand how Darwin selectively re-orders the products of his culture.
 To do this, we measure text-to-text and text-to- past surprise using the publication order of the texts that Darwin read.
 We compare the production and consumption of texts by considering only the texts Darwin recorded himself as reading.
 Each transition can then be interpreted as a change in Darwin s exploration and exploitation behavior at the local or global level.
 Text-to-past KL is lower, as Darwin s read- ing spreads out to cover the topic space and lowers the information-theoretic surprise of subsequent books.
 We use the text-to-text and text-to-past models to characterize the ex- ploration and exploitation of Darwin s reading behavior in each epoch.
 In instances where Darwin s average KL-divergence is above the null (more pos- itive), Darwin is more exploratory.
 Conclusion Charles Darwin s well-documented reading choices show evidence of both exploration and exploitation of the products of his culture.
 Text-to-past KL is much lower, as Darwin s reading spreads out to cover topic space and lowers the information-theoretic surprise of subsequent books.
 Left: Average text-to-text (top left) and text-to-text (bottom left) cumulative surprise over the reading path and over the publication history, measured as the cumulative KL divergence (bits).
 Left: Average text-to-text (top left) and text-to-past (bottom left) cumulative surprise over the reading path and over the publication history, measured as the cumulative KL divergence (bits).
 Right: Average text- to-text (top) and text-to-past (bottom) cumulative surprise over the reading order (solid) and over the publication order (dashed), measured in bits. 38 Figure S11: Cumulative and Cultural Surprise (k = 60) Analysis of Figures 1 (left) and 2 (right) repeated for k = 60.
 Left: Average text-to-text (top left) and text-to-past (bottom left) cumulative surprise over the reading path and over the publication history, measured as the cumulative KL divergence (bits).
