 Following a brief review of the policy and research context related to this question, this paper describes the design, features and potential applications of such a tool.
 The Propensity to Cycle Tool (PCT) is an online, interactive planning support system which was initially developed to explore and map cycling potential across England (see www.pct.bike).
 Based 1 on origin-destination data, it models and visualises cycling levels at area, desire line, route and route network levels, for current levels of cycling, and for scenario-based cycling futures .
 Han and Hayashi, 2008; Shergold et al., 2012), and the bene ts of cycling (De Nazelle et al., 2011; Oja et al., 2011; Tainio et al., 2016).
 Zhang et al. (2014) created an individual-based model of cycling potential to prioritise where to build cycle paths to achieve maximum impacts early on .
 The Analysis of Cycling Potential (ACP) tool was developed by Transport for London (2010) to produce heat maps of cycling potential across London, for all trip purposes.
 It is based a mode choice model of likelihood of trips being cycled and uses the characteristics of observed trips (e.g. time of day, characteristics of the traveller, distance) as the main input dataset.
 The PAT is based on the concept of ltered permeability , which means providing a more direct route to people cycling than driving (Melia, 2015).
 The Santa Monica model is an example of a direct facility demand model, which are based on observed counts and context-driven regression models (Kuzmyak et al., 2014).
 It was commissioned by the UK s Department for Transport to identify parts of [England] with the greatest propensity to cycle (Department for Transport, 2015).
 The Principal Investigator of the project was JW, and the initial concept for the project came from JW and RL in response to a call from the Department of Transport.
 AG led the creation of the model underlying the PCT, and the generation of estimates of cycling levels, health gains and carbon impacts in each scenario.
