 The study investigates the network structure of a Ma a organization, de- scribing its evolution and highlighting its plasticity to interventions targeting membership and its resilience to disruption caused by police operations.
 We analyze two di erent datasets about Ma a gangs built by examining di erent digital trails and judicial documents spanning a period of ten years: the former dataset includes the phone contacts among suspected individuals, the latter is constituted by the relationships among individuals actively involved in various criminal o enses.
 Analogously, the network diameter and the Average Path Length APL (i.e., the mean of pairwise shortest path lengths) should also increase, thus making communication between vertices more di cult.
 Finally, Figure 2(c) shows the subgraph Naggr which comprises of all the criminal and telephone-based connections of Ncri where we highlighted the vertices of the subset Icri.
 The analysis of vertices of bosses and their position within the structure of the network gives an important insight in the study of resilience of a criminal network.
 We computed the centrality of each vertex by applying one of the three centrality indices introduced in Section 3.1, i.e., Degree Centrality (DC), Betwenness Centrality (BC) and Closeness centrality (CC).
 For each centrality index, we sorted vertices on the basis of their centrality score and deleted a fraction f of them from Ncon (Ncri) along with their connections.
 BC and CC are respectively the second and third most e ective strategies, however they require, on average, a removal of between 15% and 20% if vertices to e ectively disrupt SCC.
 As a further experiment, we studied the variation of APL in Ncon and Ncri when an increasing fraction of vertices was deleted from these two graphs under both random and targeted attacks (see Figures 8(a) and 8(b)).
 In Figures 10(a) and 10(b) we plot the variation of APL when an increasing fraction f of vertices is neutralized from Ncon and Ncri.
