 Not surprisingly, these new Internet corpora have attracted the attention of linguists of diverse backgrounds and opened the doors to new and innovative studies on how language use varies both geographically and over time (Nguyen et al. 2015) in different languages.
 For instance, using this tool we (Gon alves / S nchez 2014) find two global varieties of Spanish; Einsenstein et al. (2014) propose a latent variable model for English geographic lexical diffusion and change; Doyle (2014) discusses the differences between Twitter-based linguistic maps and results from more traditional approaches; Ibrahim / Abdou / Gheith (2014) use standard Arabic and Egyptian dialectal Arabic tweets in a sentiment analysis; Kulkarni / Perozzi / Skiena (2015) examine semantic and syntactic variation of English with a massive online dataset; Estrada Arr ez / de Benito Moreno (2016) investigate language innovations in online social networks.
 Maps for each concept were generated by drawing a circle centered at each cell with a color given by the dominant word and an area that scales with how many times that word was observed in that cell.
 We identify three distinct regional dialects, as shown in Fig 5, corresponding, respectively, to the Iberian Peninsula (in blue), North America, Central America and the Northern part of South America (in orange) and the Southern Cone (in green).
 Surprisingly, we also find one fourth regional dialect (in yellow) whose extension is less confined and which can be found scattered throughout South America with a predominance in the interior of Argentina, where it coexists with the green dialect, and locations along the Andes 8 mountain range (South, Central and North Andes), where we observe a contact with the orange cluster.
 Using a completely new list of concepts and related words and a much larger geolocated Twitter corpus, we recover a more detailed geographical 10 picture of the two superdialects identified and characterize the regional variations observed.
 The robustness of our results points the way towards a deeper understanding of vernacular language and opens the doors to more detailed empirical studies of language usage and evolution across the world.
 This study is one further step towards a large-scale approach to linguistics and we believe that similar studies on other languages will undoubtedly allow us to start to glimpse common mechanisms in language evolution and differentiation.
 Doyle, Gabriel (2014): Mapping dialectal variation by querying social media , in: Proceedings of the 14th Conference of the European Chapter of the Association for Computational Linguistics (EACL). .
 Einsenstein, Jacob / O Connor, Brendan / Smith, Noah A. / Xing, Eric P. (2014): Diffusion of Lexical Change in Social Media , in: PLoS ONE 9, e113114.
