 This force may Fractal social organization as a foundation to pervasive social computing services 3 be due to cultural, anthropological, or physiologi- cal reasons.
 The de nition of an e ective communication chan- nel : a server taking the shape of, e.g., a middle- ware [4] able to o er PSC services to the constituent actors of a social system identi ed by a given locus. 2.
 Figure 2 provides a high-level view to the structure of the SoC and high- lights its relation with social systems and PSC.
 In so doing, social translucence is realized: actors become aware of the win-wins the mutually rewarding relationships that they may enact and exploit.
 In a MAC, social translucence is sought by identifying mutualistic relationships through the use of semantic service description and matching [34].
 De nition 9 Let S be a social system in which be- haviors may take place as speci ed by behavior set BS .
 Then the following function: S : BS IS (3) maps behaviors in BS into a semantic interpretation/evaluation of the signi cance of those behaviors for S.
 De nition 13 (Social translucence) Given a set of S holds, social translucence social systems S for which is the property to making all involved social systems aware that S holds.
 When a request for services a is enabled, the corresponding actors become a new temporary SoC whose lifespan in limited to the duration of a.
 The rigidity of existing organizations is thus replaced by an agile and dynamic PSC environment that exploits and promotes cooperation between PSC loci that represent societal services at di erent scales.
 The second case is one in which a single event re- quires a complex, composite, and coherent response from 8 Vincenzo De Florio a number of social organizations.
 In particular, we have mapped social translucence with the social computing engine of SoC s, and we have discussed FSO-based e-referral ser- vices in the crisis management and healthcare manage- ment domains.
 We showed how the ability to com- pose social overlay networks constitute a mechanism to achieve complex e-referral services and enable social cooperation between co-existing organizations.
