 Using data from social media users of Last.fm and Twit- ter, we design and evaluate a measure that reasonably captures diversity of musical tastes.
 To date, the social computing community has examined online listening activity as source of information and recom- mendations for music (Bu et al. 2010; Zheleva et al. 2010; Farrahi et al. 2014; Turnbull et al. 2014).
 Our main contributions therefore are as follows: • We propose and validate a novel diversity measure that borrows the concept of Rao-Stirling diversity for music consumption.
 Along with these ﬁndings, our results also show that de- mographic factors such as age and gender are associated with musical diversity rather than conventional socioeco- nomic status such as income and education level.
 We begin by reviewing the primary key research around the diversity of musical tastes, and then identify possible challenges for developing better measures of diversity.
 We inferred socioeco- nomic status including income, education level, ethnic diver- sity of area of residence, and urbanness of area of residence by using geocoded tweets.
 We directly down- loaded demographic information (e.g., gender and age) and other types of into-ness (e.g., number of event attendance in the past, number of loved tracks, period after registration, and number of friends in Last.fm) through the Last.fm API.
 Into-ness and Openness For each user, we calculated several variables that capture openness (preference for novelty and variety) and into-ness (degree of interest in music) using Twitter and Last.fm data.
 To help inferring into-ness and openness regarding each user’s interests, we ﬁrst inferred the user’s general interests by using a method proposed in (Bhattacharya et al. 2014).
 However, if the inferred socioeconomic information are cor- rect, they should correlate with our other proxy for socioe- conomic status: following the New Yorker or Economist.
 Both of Age and Gender in the ‘demographic’ variables have pos- itive effect on diversity: being older or male is more likely to have more diverse musical tastes.
 Musical diversity can be computed by simple methods, but it may underestimate or overestimate diversity depending on the complexity of musical categories and the disparity be- tween musical categories that people perceive.
 Our results show that volume and entropy might not be the best solution for computing the musical diversity of people on a highly complex map of musical categories such as subgenres.
 We only considered the genre and subgenre categories, but new methods for music classiﬁcation may result in cate- gories that are even more complex, making a robust diversity measure even more important.
 In addition, diversity of music consumption was corre- lated with interest in high-proﬁle news media; users who fol- low high-proﬁle news media are much more likely to have a higher level of musical diversity.
