 Scientific progress in many disciplines is increasingly enabled by our ability to examine natural phenomena through the computational lens, i.e., using algorithmic or information processing abstractions of the underlying processes; and our ability to acquire, share, integrate and analyze disparate types of data.
 However, there is a huge gap between our ability to acquire, store, and process data and our ability to make effective use of the data to advance discovery.
 Despite successful automation of routine aspects of data management and analytics, most elements of the scientific process currently require considerable human expertise and effort.
 Accelerating science to keep pace with the rate of data acquisition and data processing calls for the development of algorithmic or information processing abstractions, coupled with formal methods and tools for modeling and simulation of natural processes as well as major innovations in cognitive tools for scientists, i.e., computational tools that leverage and extend the reach of human intellect, and partner with humans on a broad range of tasks in scientific discovery (e.g., identifying, prioritizing formulating questions, designing, prioritizing and executing experiments designed to answer a chosen question, drawing inferences and evaluating the results, and formulating new questions, in a closed- loop fashion).
 Brahe, Kepler, and Newton were all engaged in the practice of science, a systematic process for acquiring knowledge through observation or experimentation and developing theories to describe and explain natural phenomena.
 The past centuries have witnessed major scientific breakthroughs as a result of advances in instruments of observation, formalisms for describing the laws of nature, and improved tools for calculation.
 Today, the experimental instruments are more powerful, the scientific questions more complex, and the mathematical, statistical and computational methods for analyzing data have become more sophisticated.
 Nevertheless, many aspects of the scientific process (designing, prioritizing and executing experiments, organizing data, integrating data, identifying patterns, drawing inferences and interpreting results) constitute an even greater bottleneck than ever.
 Of particular interest are expressive yet computationally tractable languages for representing and reasoning with scientific arguments, and their uncertainty and provenance.
 A shift in emphasis from accelerating data collection and data processing to accelerating the entire scientific process calls for representation and modeling languages with precise formal semantics for describing, sharing, and communicating scientific observations (including measurement models) experiments, data, models, theories, conjectures, and hypotheses.
