 Our design explores new ground for location-based social computing systems, identifying oppor- tunities where these systems can foster the growth of on-line communities rooted at non-places.
 In our work we develop, explore, and evaluate several innovative features designed around four usage scenarios: daily commuting, long-distance traveling, quanti ed traveling, and journaling.
 The main contributions of this work are: The design and implementation of Journeys & Notes, an Android app that lets people check-in to their journeys.
 Two 1-week-long user studies (6 people, and 15 people) of how people adopted the system, and how their use of the system impacted their perceptions of travel and non-places.
 A large-scale eld study on 9,435 participants providing insight into usage patterns, and the types of messages peo- ple write on their journeys.
 When the users tap the new journey" area, they are prompted to specify the origin, destination, and mode of transit to com- plete their journey check-in.
 He describes the phe- nomenon as a distinct category of relationship, providing sup- port and value, and also requiring maintenance in the same way that family, friends, or colleagues do [28].
 Like Paulos and Goodman s Jabberwocky [31], our design of Journeys & Notes does not attempt to alter existing familiar stranger norms or relationships.
 First, we wanted to better understand the landscape of how people conceptualized the journeys they take and people they encounter along the way.
 Second, we wanted them to use Journeys & Notes for a week, so we could get a high level understanding of which aspects of the system people seemed to respond most to, and which were features were not as robust.
 Anonymity and Other People Because the content was sparse and geographically siloed across the city, participants had limited contact with others in the study, however there was some.
 Instead of a world-wide release in an app store, we could have em- braced geographic-contagion model for the release, focusing on one dense geographic region to start and scaling out.
