 For example, one teacher read the expression log x as log times x instead of log of x .
 For instance, in one video, the teacher canceled two occurrences of the log function one in the numerator and one in the denominator: log 1 4 log 1 2 = log 1 4 log 1 2 = 1 4 1 2 (Interestingly, his nal answer to the problem due to another mistake was actually correct.) EXAMINING THE DIVERSITY OF THE VIDEOS In order for personalized learning systems to be e ective for a wide variety of students, they must be able to draw from a large and diverse set of learning resources in order to give each individual student the kind of help she/he needs most.
 We thus performed a qualitative analysis of the crowdsourced videos for diversity along the dimen- sions of presentation format, language, and pedagogical approach used to solve the math problem.
 Presentation format As shown in Figure 2, there was diversity in the pre- sentation formats and styles used in the videos.
 Language Although all crowdsourced videos were in English, there was variability in the geographical origin and dialect of the spoken English.
 Pedagogical style Over the 18 math problems for which tutorial videos were crowdsourced, we observed two general approaches Video 1 Video 2 Video 3 Video 4 Video 5 Figure 2.
 Results The histogram of the Gk for k {1, . . . , 40} is shown in Figure 4.
 The average learning gains (0.105) for the 40 crowdsourced videos was higher than for the control video (0.045); the di erence was statistically signi cant (t(39) = 3.715, p < 0.001, two-tailed).
 Differential Drop-out Since some subjects started but did not complete the experiment, the number of subjects collected per video varied.
 This issue of di erential drop-out can lead to distorted estimates: for example, if one tutorial video is particularly bad and only those students who are al- ready pro cient in logarithms decide to persist through Results As shown in Table 1, the learning gains associated with the Khan Academy video compared to the best of the 4 crowdsourced videos were very similar 0.1506 versus 0.1416, respectively.
