 We replicate a spectrum of standard human biases as exposed by the Implicit Association Test and other well-known psychological studies.
 We replicate these using a widely used, purely statistical machine-learning model—namely, the GloVe word embedding—trained on a corpus of text from the Web.
 The IAT is ordinarily used to pair categories such as ‘male’ and ‘female’ with attributes such as ‘violent’ or ‘peaceful’.
 The IAT has been used to describe and account for a wide range of implicit prejudices and other phenomena, including stereotype threat (Kiefer and Sekaquaptewa, 2007; Stanley et al., 2011).
 The thesis behind word embeddings is that words that are closer together in the vector space are semantically closer in some sense.
 Our primary claim is that the associations revealed by relative nearness scores between categories match human biases and stereotypes strongly (i.e., low p-values and high effect sizes) and across many categories.
 Nevertheless, this difference precludes a direct numerical comparison between human biases measured by the IAT and algorithmic biases measured by our methods.
 We used one of GloVe’s standard semantic models trained on standard corpora of ordinary language use found on the World Wide Web.
 We have also found similar results for other standard tools and corpora, which we will also discuss in future versions of this paper’s appendices.
 Our Finding: We found the same result that females are more associated with family and males with career, with an effect size of 1.81 and p-value < 10−3.
 Bureau of Labor Statistics3, which provides information about occupational categories and the percentage of women that have certain occupations under these categories.
 We generated single word occupation names (as explained in the Methods section) based on the available data and calculated the percentage of women for the set of single word occupation names.
 They have also found use in cognitive science for understanding human memory and recall (Zaromb et al., 2006; McDonald and Lowe, 1998).
 The ﬁrst is to test if occupation word vectors embed knowledge of the gender composition of the occupation in the real world.
 We therefore recommend continuing the program of research examining behavior that does and does not correlate to human subject performance in the IAT.
