 We extracted conversations related to health and disease postings on Twitter using a set of pre-defined keywords, assessed the prevalence, frequency, and timing of such content in these conversations, and validated how this search protocol was able to detect relevant disease tweets.
 Classification and Regression Trees (CART) algorithm was used to train and test search protocols of disease and health hits comparing to those identified by our team.
 Our study shows that monitoring of public sentiment on Twitter can be used as a real-time proxy for health events.
 Introduction Twitter is a free social networking and micro-blogging service that enables its users to read and share messages no longer than 140-characters.
 Twitter offers a potential for data mining of public information flows [2] and these massive data sources may be exploited for public health monitoring and surveillance purposes [3].
 However, the validity of twitter mining protocols to correctly detect health and disease events is one methodological challenge of this media.
 This study seeks to validate a search protocol of ill health-related terms using real-time Twitter data which can later be used to understand if, and how, twitter can reveal information on the current health situation in Indonesia.
 Materials and Methods We started by developing groups of words and phrases relevant to disease symptoms and health outcomes to extract Fig. 1.
 For further investigation, we tested the model to the Twitter real-time feeds collecting a total of 1,145,649 tweets using Twitter stream API [2] by recording conversations within Indonesia region (between latitudes 11°S and 6°N, and longitudes 95°E and 141°E), for one week (26th July – 1st August 2016).
 Classification and regression trees To evaluate the feasibility of quantifying and using this protocol to detect disease trends, we calculate its performance in term of sensitivity, specifity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV). 3.
 We further explored the classification and regression trees model (Fig. 2) and found that if the word orang (person), hati, lemah (weak), or rasa are in a tweet, then the model predicted FALSE more often.
 Although this study did not examine and compare the distribution of the number of Twitter users in each region of Indonesia, the methods developed in this study has been able to detect the signal, i.e. the tweet containing a health risk information, in nearly real-time.
 This means the number of tweets that may contain the conversations related to disease symptoms and health outcomes was very small (0.5%) compared to the entire tweets stream.
 Conclusion In this study, we validated a search protocol of health- related terms using real-time Twitter data within the setting of Indonesia.
 Our study shows that monitoring of public sentiment on Twitter, combined with contextual knowledge about the disease, can detect health and disease tweets and potentially be used as a valuable nearly real-time proxy for health-related indicators.
