 We explore a simple semantic framework for smart contracts, covering both operational and non-operational aspects, and describe templates and agreements for legally-enforceable smart contracts, based on legal documents.
 We also explore the design landscape, including increasing sophistication of parameters, increasing use of common standardised code, and long-term research. 1 Introduction The aim of Smart Contract Templates [2] is to support the management of the complete lifecycle of smart legal contracts.
 The word contract in this sense indicates that these software agents are ful lling certain obligations and exercising certain rights, and may take control of certain assets within a shared ledger.
 As an example of how automation might be achieved using smart legal contracts, Grigg [9] presents the Ricardian Contract triple of prose, parameters and code .1 The legal prose is linked via parameters (name-value pairs) to the smart contract code that provides automation.
 Figure 1: From Grigg [8], the y-axis represents an increasing ability to capture the semantics of a smart legal contract, whereas the x-axis represents the increasing performance of smart contract code. 3 Smart Contract Templates Smart Contract Templates provide a framework to support complex legal agreements for nancial instruments, based on standardised templates.
 Following Grigg s Ricardian Contract triple [9], they use parameters to connect legal prose to the corresponding computer code, with the aim of providing a legally-enforceable foundation for smart legal contracts.
 It is possible for a parameter to be de ned (given a name) in one document, given a value in a second document, and used (e.g. in business logic) in a third document.
 Figure 7: Long-term research may lead from existing separate code and legal prose to source languages which can be automatically translated into both code and legal prose, with the prose being admissible in court.
 We viewed legal contracts within a simple semantic framework based on two key aspects: one being the operational aspects concerning automation of the contract and another being the non-operational aspects.
 We then explored the design landscape: increasing the sophistication of parameters to complex higher-order types and business logic that could be admissible in court and potentially replace the corresponding legal prose.
 Smart Contract Templates have already demonstrated a way to link standardised agreements to standardised code and so, in the near term, it may be possible to utilise them with existing infrastructure.
 We are continuing to collaborate broadly, including via trade associations such as ISDA and FIA, on exploring formats for the storage and transmission of smart legal agreements comprising legal prose and parameters.
