 We also argue that the individuals tasked with developing data science courses should not only have statistical training, but also have experience analyzing data with the main objective of solving real-world problems.
 Here, we share a set of general principles and offer a detailed guide derived from our successful experience developing and teaching a graduate-level, introductory data science course centered entirely on case studies.
 In response to this, ​numerous authors have offered compelling arguments to expand and update the statistics curriculum​ ​emphasizing the importance of data science proficiency.
 We carefully and deliberately select a set of diverse case studies to give us an opportunity to motivate and teach the wide range of techniques needed to be a successful data scientist.
 This demonstrates to students what is expected in the homework assignments, stresses the importance of computational skills (Nolan and Temple Lang 2012)​, and maximizes the “hands-on” experience of data analysis in classroom.
 Self-reported heights of students in course Introduction to R, R Markdown, RStudio, Exploratory data analysis (EDA), summary statistics Are health outcomes and income inequality increasing or decreasing in the world?
 Global health and economic data from Gapminder Exploratory data analysis; Static and interactive data visualization using ggplot2 What are the basics of data wrangling?
 Exposing students to practical questions and data in the real-world can serve as great motivation to learning the concepts and mathematics presented in an introductory statistics course.
 We also note that our course is only an introduction and that several more advanced courses are necessary to meet the demand of those seeking data science training.
 In 2015, ​The American Statistician​ published a special issue emphasizing the importance of data science proficiency in the undergraduate statistics curriculum ​(Horton and Hardin 2015)​.
 Throughout this part of the course we used Monte Carlo simulations to illustrate probability and inference concepts as proposed by ​Cobb (2007), Hesterberg (2015) and Horton (2015​).
 We begin by describing some of the rules of baseball and how they relate to reported statistics, such as ‘singles’, ‘doubles’, ‘triples’, ‘home runs’, ‘stolen bases’ and ‘bases on balls’.
 As an introduction to the challenge of recommender systems, we motivate the students with the problem movie recommendations and describe the Netflix challenge (Bell, Koren and Volinsky 2007).
 Because the Netflix data is not publicly available, we used movie rating data from MovieLens (Harper and Konstan 2015) after obtaining permission from the authors to use it in our course.
 We encourage the students to explore the admissions data and they quickly notice that once you stratify the data by subject the apparent gender bias disappears.
