 We find that their existence is prevalent, they are early-movers towards joining Airbnb, and their listings are disproportionately entire homes and located in the US.
 Our work advances the current understanding of how Airbnb is being used and may serve as an independent and empirical reference to inform the debate.
 One third of all listings are owned by 9.4% of hosts, each of whom has at least three listings, and one host even owns 1, 800 listings.
 Furthermore, we show that business operators are early-movers towards joining Airbnb and behave more professionally than or- dinary hosts and that their listings are disproportionately of the entire home type and located in the US.
 In the second step, for each listing, our script visited its web page, saved the HTML file, and collected all the reviews.
 The only official but approximate numbers we found were already mentioned in ยง 1: 191+ countries, 2M+ listings, and 60M+ total guests.
 We observe that, on the continental level, listings are heavily located in West- ern Europe, North America, East and South Asia, and Pacific Asia.
 Figure 3(b) shows the number of the three types of listings in the top 30 countries with the largest number of listings.
 In the US, which has the largest number of listings, 65.8% are entire rooms, and the ratio between number of entire homes and private rooms reaches 2.
 These three categories of listings account for over 95% of all listings, and the number of listings with 3.5 or lower stars is essentially negligible.
 Focusing on listings with at least one review, Fig. 5(b) shows the 10th, 50th, and 90th percentile of number of reviews of listings grouped by host age.
 Simply put, although the vast majority of hosts have a small number of listings, there is a consistent number of hosts who own a large number of listings.
 In particular, 1, 030, 134 (78.4%) and 159, 627 (12.2%) hosts respectively own one and two listings, and the remaining 9.43% hosts own 33.16% of all listings.
 Specifically, for a given threshold, we characterize (1) the subset of hosts whose number of owned listings exceeds the given threshold; and (2) the subset of listings owned by those hosts.
 For exam- ple, if one focused on a particular value (1 or 2), one would have concluded that the number of US listings owned by multi-listers is proportional to total listings in the US, which is not the case.
