 Typical micro-tasks in- clude classiﬁcation and tagging of text or images, audio and image transcription, and validating addresses of companies on the Web.
 In Section 3 we evaluate the suitability of existing SDT-based work motivation scales for the crowdworking domain and show the 3 need for a work motivation scale adapted to the idiosyncrasies of this domain.
 Section 4 describes the process of developing the MCMS and Section 5 presents a validation of the MCMS in ten countries and three income groups.
 The resulting Work Extrinsic and Intrinsic Motivation Scale (WEIMS) measures six factors: amotivation, the four external regulation subtypes and intrinsic motivation.
 MWMS measures six 5 ﬁrst-order factors (amotivation, material external regulation, social external regulation, introjected regulation, identiﬁed regulation and intrinsic motivation) and one second-order factor (external regulation).
 Work motivation scales such as MWMS, MAWS and WEIMS investigate motivations at the domain level of analysis, meaning that they measure the general motivation to perform a job as opposed to speciﬁc tasks within a job.
 Besides the domain of work, SDT-based scales for measuring motivation also exist for many other domains such as sports [20, 44], teaching [19] or academics [58].
 Antin and Shaw [1] used a list experiment for investigating social desirability eﬀects in motivation self-reports of crowdworkers from the USA and India on AMT.
 The rationale for evaluating the alternative model WEIMS-M2 is that the integrated regulation factor has been shown to be poorly separable from identiﬁed regulation and Table 1: Evaluation of existing work motivation scales.
 For the MWMS, we test the model originally hypothesized by Gagn´e et al. [26] (MWMS-M1) and the model which had the best ﬁt in [26] (MWMS-M2).
 Further- more, we test a 6 factor model where material external and social regulation are separate factors, omitting the second-order external regulation factor.
 The ﬁt measures for MWMS-M2 are not included in Table 1 due to the covariance matrix of the factors not being positive deﬁnite.
 The upper middle income group contains Brazil, Russia and Mexico, and the lower middle income group is comprised of India, Indonesia and the Philippines.
 Full metric invariance was also achieved, indicating that the strength of the relationship between the items and constructs is the same across groups.
 The lack of an integrated regulation factor in the MCMS is due to problems of statistically distinguishing this factor from identiﬁed regulation and intrinsic motivation.
