 In this paper, we present a principled and scal- able approach to detect bullying and aggressive behavior on Twit- ter.
 We propose a robust methodology for extracting text, user, and network-based attributes, studying the properties of bullies and aggressors, and what features distinguish them from regular users.
 In this paper, we design and execute a novel methodology geared to label aggressive and bullying behav- ior in Twitter.
 Speci(cid:27)cally, by presenting a principled and scalable approach for eliciting user, text, and network-based attributes of Twitter users, we extract a total of 30 features.
 Moreover, we show that bully and aggressive users tend to attack, in short bursts, particular users or groups they target.
 Our novel methodology analyzes users’ tweets, individually and in groups, and extracts appropriate features connecting user behavior with a tendency of aggression or bullying.
 To (cid:27)nd optimal cuto(cid:29)s for these heuristics, we study both the distribution of hashtags and duplication of tweets.
 Figure 4d depicts the CDF of the average number of URLs for the di(cid:29)erent classes of users.
 The median value for bully, spam, aggressive, and normal users is 1, 1, 0.9, and 0.6, respectively.
 Figure 5: (a) Friends, and (b) Followers distribution, (c) Avg. distribution for Reciprocities, and (d) Power di(cid:29)erence. the expressed sentiments.
 For anger, even though the aggressive and normal distributions are statistically di(cid:29)erent (D=0.21515), the bully and normal users are not (D=0.080029 and p=0.88).
 We examine the usefulness of this attribute and calculate the clustering coe(cid:28)cient which shows a user’s tendency to cluster with others.
 The resulting data distribution is 349, 386, and 340 instances for the bully, aggressive, and normal classes, respectively.
 Based on the analysis in [5] they also are older Twitter users based on their account age.
 Aggressive users show similar behavior to spammers in terms of number of followers, friends, and hub scores.
