 The websites for each of these services witness hourly, daily and weekly changes, with the added caveat that this data is also extremely ephemeral: listings can disappear as soon as a property is let out.
 Exist- ing official data collection channels are much more infrequent and depend- ent on samples, and therefore ill-suited to capture the rich temporal dynam- ics of such processes.
 Internet platforms reduce search and transaction costs associated with find- ing a place to stay (for the new renter), and attracting a lodger or flatmates (for the existing renter or owner in a property).
 However, any evidence on the housing bene- fits or otherwise of such practices is limited, and there are growing questions about potential risks to public health and safety (e.g. overcrowding), resi- dential amenity, and the supply of affordable rental housing.
 In this paper, we present a first and preliminary quantitative glance on shared accommo- dation practices across all major urban centres of Australia enabled via ana- lytics of thousands of online listings.
 We examine, countrywide, the spatial and short time scale temporal characteristics of the phenomenon, along with preliminary analysis on rents, dwelling types and other dwelling character- istics.
 Data was collected by writing Python based scripts that were used weekly, over 8 weeks from October 2016 to December 2016, to collect listings data from both these sites.
 It is usually assumed that shared accommodation across Australia would be particularly dense around inner city areas and specific areas such as Univer- sities or business districts.
 We had earlier found that at the LGA level, the City of Sydney and Waverley localities showed the highest density of listings (accounting for 8-14% of all dwellings that were shared homes between non-related adults), while the Parramatta LGA ac- counted for only 4% of all dwellings accommodating rental sharing.
 This is extremely significant since this brings out that there are potentially sharing “hot-spots” that can only be brought out at a finer level of data granularity at the suburb or post code level and that will be missed by coarser LGA level analysis.
 For example, 69% of the listings of Week 1 reappear in Week 2, and 24% of the listings of Week 1 still appear in Week 8.
 Thus, the size of the city seems to have a direct correlation with the available dwelling stock typologies, and is therefore shaping behavior in the shared accommodation market.
 Thus, in carrying out a rent analysis, the actual distribution of the number of bedrooms and the number of occupants per dwelling at a fine geographic granularity would need to be accurately considered.
 We reported on the methodology used for data collection, and presented a preliminary analysis of the spatial, temporal and structural characteristics of this market as revealed by the data.
 We explored four specific research ques- tions related to (a) the geography, (b) the temporal flow characteristics, and (c) the dwelling characteristics, and (d) the rental characteristics of the shared accommodation market in Australia.
