 The considered psycho-demographic pro le comprise of psychometric scores based on ve-factor O.C.E.A.N. model of personality [Goldberg et. al, 2006] and demographic scores such as Age, Gender and the Political Views.
 For our experiments we used data corpus comprising of 1 Applying Deep Machine Learning for psychological pro ling using O.C.E.A.N. model of personality psycho-demographic scores of individuals and their digital footprints in form of Facebook likes.
 Data pre-processing The raw data preprocessing is an important step in machine learning analysis which will signi cantly reduce the time needed for analysis and result in better prediction power of created machine learning models.
 To start preprocessing and trimming, run the following command from terminal in the project s root directory: $ R s c r i p t ./ s r c /preprocessing .
 The values for the minimum number of users per like uL and the minimum number of likes per user Lu was selected based on recommendations given in [Kosinski et. al, 2016].
 To build the prediction model for variables with continuous values we applied linear regression analysis and for variables with categorical values - logistic regression analysis.
 The Shallow Feed Forward Arti cial NN evaluation A Shallow Neural Network (SNN) is an arti cial neural network with one hidden layer of units (neurons) between input and output layers.
 It was found that optimal number of SVD dimensions for Shallow ANN is K = 128, with number of units in the hidden layer 512, and learning rate = 0.0001.
 Feed Forward Deep Learning Networks Architecture Evaluation A Deep Neural Network (DNN) is an arti cial neural network with multiple hidden layers of units between the input and the output layers.
 We started with learning rate = 0.0001 which resulted in best prediction performance for shallow ANN and attempted series of experiments to estimate optimal value of K SVD dimensions.
 The optimal prediction accuracy of DNN model was achieved with K = 256 SVD dimensions and two hidden layers comprising of [512, 256] units correspondingly.
 The further increase of K SVD dimensions and adding of extra hidden layers lead to model over tting and degradation of accuracy over validation data set.
 Gathered experimental data con rms that advanced machine learning methods based on variety of studied arti cial neural networks architectures outperform simple machine learning methods (linear and logistic regression) described in previous research conducted by M.
 The left one has narrower base and sharp peak, which means that layer converged withing narrower search space and as result has better prediction power.
 Figure 6: The loss function plot against train and validation data sets, for K = 1024 input features and three hidden layers - [2048,1024,1024] units correspondingly.
