 In this research, we aimed to theoretically construct a model for IS security innovation adoption process in organisations, which includes organisational adoption process and the user acceptance of innovation.
 This study, then utilised the most suitable concepts and relationships of prominent IS innovation adoption theories and user acceptance models, to explain the process of adoption of IS security innovations in organisations.
 The integrated illustration of these models could methodically be used to examine the adoption process and user acceptance of IS security innovations in organisations.
 Combining the organisational adoption process and user acceptance of innovation in a single model allows illustrating the overall adoption process more comprehensively compare to any of the past IS security adoption frameworks.
 In the ‘IS Security Innovation Adoption Model’ section, we discuss innovation adoption theories that are most relevant to IS security adoption.
 Indeed, a number of studies have introduced adoption and user acceptance models in the organisational context for various other innovations [28, 31]. 5.1.
 Consistent with extant research on IS security, we developed the IS Security adoption model by replicating the theories of IS innovation adoption.
 The proposed model uses the constructs of TAM and TPB to account for the user acceptance of IS security innovation.
 In this study, we developed and proposed a model for the process of IS security innovation adoption in organisations.
 The study integrated perspectives from DOI, TAM, TPB and TOE to depict IS security innovation adoption process in organisations.
 The model exploited DOI model and TOE framework to characterize the organisational adoption process until the acquisition of innovation and the constructs of TAM and TPB explains the user acceptance of IS security innovation.
 The model also included several factors from different contexts that is perceived to impact IS security innovation adoption in organisations.
 Combining different innovation adoption models allows the individual model to complement each other, strengthening the analytical ability of the proposed model.
 Another important contribution of this research is that the proposed IS security model considers both the organisational adoption process and the user acceptance of innovation in a single illustration.
 Incorporating the organisational adoption process and the user acceptance of innovation in a single representation allows to explain IS security innovation adoption process more thoroughly.
