 EviPlant is a system designed for the efﬁcient creation, manipulation, storage and distribution of challenges for digital forensics education and training.
 In order to create challenges for students, educators can boot the base system, emulate the desired activity and perform a “difﬁng” of resultant image and the base image.
 Evidence packages can be created for different personae, different wear-and-tear, different emulated crimes, etc., and multiple evidence packages can be distributed to students and integrated into the base images.
 A number of additional applications in digital forensic challenge creation for tool testing and validation, proﬁciency testing, and malware analysis are also discussed as a result of using EviPlant. © 2017 The Author(s).
 Sharing and Redistribution e as a general guideline, hard disk images created for the purposes of education should be made freely available for others to download.
 Current approaches to providing viable disk images The problem of providing realistic data for digital forensics ed- ucation has resulted in a number of techniques being employed by the educator.
 EviPlant This paper introduces EviPlant as a more efﬁcient alternative for the creation, manipulation, storage, and distribution of digital forensic challenges to classes of students.
 To create the challenge, an instructor can boot the standard base image in a virtual machine, and emulate the criminal behaviour that the students are tasked with detecting.
 This package can then be distributed to students, who then use the injection tool to “plant” this evidence on their base images, as can be seen in Fig. 1.
 Due to the curated nature of the base image and speciﬁc evidence packages (both wear-and-tear and pertinent), the generation of answer sets for the challenges produced by the system should be straightforward.
 Evidence packages contain all the digital artefacts (ﬁles, ﬁle fragments, slackspace, etc.) and associated metadata created during the emulation of the crime.
 Evidence planting The model for evidence injection centres around the initial distribution of a base image (or collection of base images if necessary) to each student in a class.
 For the injection of “black box” packages, the evidence packages (containing all artefacts and associated metadata) are downloaded from a centralised server.
 Building a sufﬁcient catalogue of evidence packages allows the quick creation of challenges for proﬁciency testing containing numerous permutations and combinations of the catalogue.
 In the eventuality of con- ﬂicting artefacts, the version from the base image was overwritten by that from the evidence package.
