 RESULTS: Three general types of care coordination patterns were discovered, each of which was affiliated with a specific patient group.
 Thus, in this study we leverage EMR data to infer trauma-centered coordination patterns and quantify their relationship with hospital LOS.
 We excluded patients who died during their trauma service to focus on coordination patterns indicative of completion in hospital care.
 Study Design In preparation for this study, we composed a set of cohorts by defining cases (e.g., patients with longer LOS) and controls (e.g., patients with shorter LOS).
 Then, care coordination patterns (e.g., networks of healthcare employees) were inferred for cases and controls, respectively, and their relationship with hospital LOS was examined.
 Thus, the care coordination patterns inferred from such defined cases and controls may be segments of real coordination and could not represent the exact networks of healthcare employees.
 This was accomplished by i) inferring the care coordination patterns and then ii) applying the inferred patterns to compose the cohorts.
 Our study design consists of three components: i) learn patient groups according to care coordination patterns; ii) quantify care coordination patterns by standard social network characteristics; and iii) assess the relationships between coordination patterns and hospital LOS.
 Relationship between Coordination Patterns and LOS The relationships between care coordination patterns and LOS are depicted in the top of Table 2.
 These results suggest that the three care coordination patterns provided care for the similar patients, but lead to different LOS.
 Discussion To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study to use EMR data to study the relationship between care coordination patterns and inpatient hospital LOS among trauma patients.
 In doing so, it fills a gap in knowledge about the relationship between care coordination (patterns) and health outcome (LOS).
 This missing information may influence the care coordination patterns and patient groups we inferred from the EMR data.
 Thus, it is a necessity to quantify influence of care coordination patterns on a combination of LOS and care quality measurements (e.g., readmission rate).
 This study showed that care coordination patterns with the high level of collaboration is associated with a shorter hospital LOS for trauma patients.
