 Users of this social network were grouped according to city zone and time slot in order to analyse the daily dynamics of the city and the relationship between this and land use.
 First, daytime activity in each zone was compared with activity at night in order to determine which zones showed increased activity in each of the time slots.
 Lastly, a multiple regression analysis was performed to determine the influence of the different land uses on each of the major time slots (morning, afternoon, evening and night) through their changing coefficients.
 The aim of this study was to use information from the social network Twitter in order to analyse city dynamics throughout the day and the relationship between this and land use.
 We estimated the number of unique active users in each zone of the city of Madrid throughout the day, as a proxy for the changing location of the population.
 Then, we analysed Twitter activity (active users) throughout the day according to land use, yielding typical activity profiles for each land use.
 Lastly, we calculated multiple regression models (OLS) for each time slot to explain Twitter activity based on square metres of each land use in each zone of the city.
 To relate the distribution of unique active Twitter users to land use, each transport zone was characterised in terms of percentage of surface area occupied by each land use, based on land registry records.
 In contrast, the correlations were highest between night and afternoon, and especially between night and evening (when many people have returned home after a day’s work).
 The residual plots of the correlations between night and the rest of the time slots show the different behaviour of residential spaces and areas of activity throughout the day (Figure 4).
 As expected, the coefficients of the four models presented positive signs for the various categories of land use and a negative sign for distance to the centre.
 In this case, we downloaded and geotagged each of the tweets and aggregated the data spatially and temporally in order to obtain the number of active users according to city zone and time slot.
 A marked contrast was observed between residential zones, with increased activity at night, and areas of activity, which were much more active during the day.
 An analysis of zone activity profiles is a simplification, since we only considered the predominant land use in each zone, when most of them host several land uses.
 As expected, the coefficients of the independent variables in all models presented positive signs for the land use variables and a negative sign for distance to the centre.
