 In this paper we propose a privacy framework matching aviation stakeholders to a range of sensitive information types and assess the impact for each.
 A prime example is the Aircraft Communications, Ad- dressing and Reporting System (ACARS), which has evolved from being a single purpose tool primarily for commercial aviation to being widely deployed on many types of aircraft.
 ACARS provides data link communications be- tween aircraft and entities on the ground and is used for many diﬀerent purposes, from air traﬃc control (ATC) to management of aircraft ﬂeet.
 Analyzing Privacy Breaches in the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS) 2 One way this manifests itself is in leaking a signif- icant amount of private data.
 In or- der to do this, voice and data communications are used extensively both on the ground and in the air.
 In this section, we categorize these stakeholders along their respective objectives and needs, followed by an analysis of their privacy requirements.
 Passenger aircraft will often carry some cargo in the hold, cargo aircraft, on the other hand, do not tend to carry passengers.
 Commercial aircraft heavily use data link for ATC in congested airspace and ﬂeet management, with the exact usage varying depending on the operator.
 A typically military ﬂeet will consist of some civilian aircraft adapted for military purpose or used for transport, and a set of military-speciﬁc air- craft.
 As far as military aircraft are used to transfer mili- tary or government leaders, their passenger information may also be considered highly sensitive.
 Analyzing Privacy Breaches in the Aircraft Communications Addressing and Reporting System (ACARS) 11 mation relating to these aircraft is likely to be extremely sensitive.
 We summarize the pri- vacy breaches discussed in this section through Table 5 for VHF and Table 6 for SATCOM.
 A total of 42% of all state and government aircraft were receiving satellite communication, however they did not receive any ACARS messages.
 These messages con- tained weather reports leaking departure and destina- tion airports thus adding to the breach of intention in- formation.
 Indeed, most of these systems lack even basic security features. 11 Conclusion In this paper, we analyze the privacy breaches arising from ACARS usage.
