 By doing so, we miss the opportunity to create Intelligent Infrastructure that will provide the foundation for increased safety and resilience, improved efficiencies and civic services, and broader economic opportunities and job growth.
 Intelligent infrastructure is the deep embedding of sensing, computing, and communications capabilities into traditional urban and rural physical infrastructures such as roads, buildings, and bridges for the purpose of increasing efficiency, resiliency, and safety.
 The data also paves the way for building interoperable and cross platform systems that enable cross-system coordination, and that will ultimately allow localities to provide higher quality, expanded services, from waste management to emergency response to public health, at a lower cost.
 The second opportunity is that intelligent infrastructure investments can enhance and inform the strategic planning capacities of local communities—large and small—with real-world data on how infrastructure is used by citizens and businesses and how the infrastructure is performing.
 Investments in intelligent infrastructure will cause greater integration between the cyber and physical worlds and, thus, greater collaboration is needed between both software developers and engineers to understand and design these systems to be safe and secure.
 Decision Support: Intelligence does not reside solely in the technical infrastructure; it is jointly produced through amplifying and augmenting human abilities to discern, manage, and anticipate challenges in modern municipal systems and services.
 Future systems must help municipal administration and staff to accurately diagnose current and pending problems in infrastructure, to effectively compare and contrast possible plans, and to efficiently allocate resources across a constrained system.
 Education and workforce development: We wish to amplify the importance of educational programs and approaches that integrate key training in data analytics, sensing, communication, security, and privacy as deploying intelligent infrastructure will require greater ability and awareness of communities to manage, maintain, and protect the infrastructure4.
 Hence, evaluation of intelligent infrastructure technologies must bring together teams of engineers, computer scientists, social scientists, urban planners, economists and local leaders. 4.0 There is a clear need to invest in our nation’s infrastructure, the roadways, water mains, energy distribution systems and more that support the fabric of everyday life.
 The MetroLab Network is a network of 38 cities, 4 counties, and 51 universities, organized into “city (or county) – university partnerships” focused on “research, development, and deployment” (RD&D) projects that offer technologically- and analytically-based solutions for challenges facing communities: mobility, security and opportunity, aging infrastructure, and economic development.
 One role for the Federal Government is in resourcing and institutionalizing these networked partnerships to support policy diffusion across communities and information exchange about how smart communities’ investments (programs, projects, and objects) perform as implemented.
 Although the Federal Government should not set a standardized approach, the Federal Government should consider developing technical standards and platforms for data, connectivity, and integration of hard infrastructure and 6 information and communication technologies to protect citizens and consumers from excessive experimentation.
 The National Institute of Standards and Technology’s efforts to develop the global cities team challenge and convene industry, local governments, and universities to discuss and develop standards is an important start as well.
 However, what is increasingly important is charting the path for sustained public-private partnerships that drive problems and approaches from the priorities of US cities and communities and develop the foundation for sustainable business models.
 Further, universities are embedded in local communities and have long- term working relationships with local and state governments and a vested interest in the presence of world class infrastructure in their own communities.
