 To maintain the trust between creators and backers, and sustain the crowdfund- ing business growth, it is crucial to understand how on-time and late reward delivery projects are different.
 In this paper, we analyze characteristics of on-time and late reward deliv- ery projects, especially, focusing on project descriptions, cre- ator proﬁles, and activeness and linguistic patterns of creators and backers.
 Our analysis reveals that the less complicated a project is and more actively a creator responds to backers, the higher an on-time reward delivery probability is.
 All rights reserved. 1https://www.kickstarter.com/fulﬁllment To achieve trustworthy crowdfunding platforms, the ﬁrst step is to understand how on-time and late reward delivery projects are different.
 Through our com- prehensive analysis of 2,198 sampled Kickstarter projects, we found that: • There were 12 project and creator related features, which distinguished between on-time and late reward delivery projects.
 Less complicated projects (e.g., a lower amount of goal and less number of rewards) had a higher chance to deliver rewards on time. • During the reward delivery phase, creators in on-time reward delivery projects posted updates and comments more quickly than creators in late reward delivery projects.
 Backers in on-time reward delivery projects asked less number of questions through comments. • Creators in on-time and late reward delivery projects had different linguistic usage in their updates.
 Based on this, we ﬁrst deﬁne what on-time and late reward delivery projects mean as follows: • A project is called an on-time reward delivery project if all the rewards associated with the project were shipped by the longest estimated delivery date (LEDD) among es- timated delivery dates of the rewards.
 Characteristics In this section, we analyze the 2,198 projects, and associated creators and backers’ behavior to understand characteristics of on-time and late reward delivery projects.
 There were two features differentiated on- time and late reward delivery projects: # of backed projects and smog score of a bio description.
 Did backers in on-time delivery projects behave differently from ones in late delivery projects in terms of posting more or less number of questions?
 In- terestingly, creators in on-time delivery projects used words related to positive emotion (e.g., love, sweet) and affective processes (e.g., happy) more than creators in late deliv- ery projects.
 However, creators in on-time delivery projects used words related to Cognitive processes (e.g., cause, know, ought) less than creators in late delivery projects.
 We also analyzed backers’ comments to understand their linguistic usage via the same process and found 5 categories with signiﬁcant difference: positive emotion, negative emo- tion, anxiety, cognitive processes and insight.
 In particu- lar, backers in on-time delivery projects used words related to positive emotion more, and related to negative emotion and cognitive processes less than backers in late delivery projects.
