 Across 47 countries, we compute the au- diences of marker interests, and evaluate their potential in tracking health conditions associated with tobacco use, obesity, and diabetes, compared to the performance of placebo interests.
 Despite its huge potential, we (cid:128)nd that, for modeling prevalence of health conditions across countries, di(cid:130)erences in these interest audiences are only weakly indicative of the corresponding prevalence rates.
 Lastly, this approach would allow for an international and cross-lingual analysis by piggy- backing on Facebook’s NLP pipeline. (cid:140)us, although Facebook Ads is a proprietary system, it is worth investigating its value as a data source for lifestyle disease surveillance.
 In this paper we investigate the feasibility of using Facebook ad- vertising audience estimates for global lifestyle disease surveillance aiming at identifying advantages, disadvantages and limitations of this approach.
 While some e(cid:130)orts a(cid:138)empt to (cid:128)x Google Flu models [15], others have been dedicated to assessing and evaluating the data quality extracted from social media [11].
 On the other hand, Chunara et al. explore the relationship of two factors – interest in television and outdoor activities – to the obesity rates in metros across the USA and neighborhoods within New York City [4].
 In order to avoid sparsity issues, we perform our analysis for all countries with more than 5 million ac- tive Facebook users, as reported by the API.
 As latent factors such as socioeconomic status or demographic variables could a(cid:130)ect both national health statistics and Facebook interests, correlations themselves might be spurious and not necessarily indicative of any meaningful relation- ship.
 We also add two health- oriented interests, Health Care and Fitness & Wellness, to serve as indicators for whether we are picking up (i) interest speci(cid:128)c to a health concern, or (ii) generic interest in health topics.
 Whether or not a given user has a particular interest is strongly confounded by the time they spent online in general and on Facebook in particular.
 In an e(cid:130)ort to correct for this, without being able to access the user-level data, we experimented with di(cid:130)erent normalizers, including Health Care and generic topics of Reading OR Entertainment OR Technology.
 However, we (cid:128)nd the placebo interests too o(cid:137)en outperform the targeted marker interests. (cid:140)e strongest signi(cid:128)cant correlations we (cid:128)nd are between Fitness & Wellness and obesity (r = 0.590), and Health care and Face- book and diabetes (r = 0.313 and r = 0.302, respectively).
 Figure 1 shows the average z-scores of (a) placebo interests, and marker interests for (b) tobacco, (c) obesity, and (d) diabetes, broken down by gender.
 Yet we also (cid:128)nd that women show more interest in topics around obesity and diabetes, though it is expected that, for example, Gestational diabetes would be a more popular topic for women than men.
 But if the changes re(cid:131)ect the actual changes in user base and their evolving interests, then the changes should be similar in places with similar culture, geography, and language.
