 It is therefore not surprising that there is an arms race between publishers and advertisers, on one hand, and ad-blocking tools (or ‘ad-blockers’), on the other1.
 In this paper, we study a number of popular ad-blockers and analyze their performance in desktop and mobile settings for a large number of webpages.
 In one study, the New York Times analyzed the top 50 news websites2 and found that more than half of all data came from ads.
 They then look deeper into the individual default and possible con(cid:27)gurations of these ad-blockers and study the changes in blocking capabilities with the di(cid:29)erent settings.
 The HAR (HTTP Archive File) is a JSON-formatted (cid:27)le that captures the interactions between the browser and the website, including network requests, types and size of objects, and load times.
 We load the same URL in six browser modes, all simultaneously: a vanilla mode (no ad-blocker), and one mode for each of (cid:27)ve ad- blockers.
 Figures 1 and 2 show the results for the desktop and mobile versions of the Top150 webpages; and Figure 3 for the GDELT webpages.
 Speci(cid:27)- cally, to measure the impact of potentially privacy invading requests when using no ad-blocker, we manually examined the tracking pa- rameters from the request headers and found nine frequently used tracking parameters that accompanied a large set of requests.
 Figure 4 shows the fraction of requests containing one, two and three tracking parameters in a request when using an ad-blocker, again normalized over the vanilla mode.
 When web- pages from the GDELT dataset are loaded in the vanilla mode (no ad-blockers), we (cid:27)nd more than 3,260 webpages (10.8%) with ex- plicit attempts to determine if any ad-blocking tool is used.
 When AdBlock or AdblockPlus is activated, the number of webpages rises to 10,097 and 10,226 (33%), respectively, indicating that a large portion of webpages actively track the usage of these ad-blockers.
 When the other tools are used, the number of webpages with such requests is not as high; 15, 9, 8% of the webpages for Ghostery, Privacy Badger, and uBlock respectively.
 Unsurprisingly, the most popular domains found in A are googlesyndication.com and doubleclick.net, in accordance to previous studies, and blocked (characterized as ads) by all tools.
 A more interesting question is to identify the “extra” E requests that incur exclusively at the presence by ad-blockers and to look for potential leakages in information14.
 Our preliminary (cid:27)ndings indicate that though ad-blockers block external ads and third party trackers to varying degrees, they intro- duce various tracking services of their own.
