 We believe that rather than being a set of needs, the rural United States presents a set of exciting possibilities for novel innovation benefiting not just those living there, but the American economy more broadly. 1.0 The Case for a Rural-Inclusive Intelligent Infrastructure Rural communities differ from urban communities in ways that are relevant to intelligent infrastructure considerations.
 In the 2010 Census, 59.5 million people, 19.3% of the population, was rural while more than 95% of the land area was still classified as rural.3 Sparse population densities drive many of the challenges facing rural areas; these are problems that differ from high- density urban areas.
 Further, for many years most rural communities have seen a decline in employment opportunities, and while that trend has slowed recently, the employment options are not the same as found in cities.1 That said some rural communities are seeing improving employment opportunities as the recreation industry grows, and it would be a mistake to take a deficit-only view of rural communities.
 Instead they are the places some people live and others visit; crucially, Americans are dependent on their success (whether it be from relying on agricultural production, or ensuring that aging Americans and veterans have access to healthcare).
 January 2017. https://www.hrsa.gov/ruralhealth/aboutus/definition.html 1 about the future of what it means to be smart: inviting consideration of different traffic patterns, pollution causes and locations, agricultural monitoring, aging in place, support for veterans, and so forth. 2.0 Foundations of Intelligent Rural Infrastructure This whitepaper series defines intelligent infrastructure as “the deep embedding of sensing, computing, and communication capabilities into traditional urban and rural physical infrastructures such as roads, buildings, and bridges for the purpose of increasing efficiency, resiliency, and safety.” 4 This definition makes clear that the foundation for intelligent infrastructure is the capability to move data from where it is gathered (sensing) to where it is processed (computing) to where it is used, via communication networks.
 While these networks need not (and perhaps will not) be exclusively Internet-based, Internet access forms the foundation and backbone for intelligent infrastructure, allowing for real-time access and control, as well as efficient methods for gathering and integrating data into decision-making.
 The lack of broadband access in rural spaces is caused by a convergence of factors that are exemplary when we consider challenges for intelligent infrastructure, including remote and difficult terrain, sparse population densities, lack of IT education, the lack of private investment due to concerns about profitability, and inadequate/outdated infrastructure (e.g., old copper-line networks that have fallen into disrepair, and that cannot support today’s needed broadband data speeds).
 Designing rural intelligent infrastructure that is robust in the face of power outages, works in the heat of the Mojave and the wetlands of the Atchafalaya swamp, and is located 100s of miles from any form of significant data processing capability or IT experts, presents important socio-technological challenges.
 Further, as the history of innovation in computing finds, technologies designed with these goals in mind are likely to find other relevant uses, and generate new industry and market opportunities fueling the American economy.6 This innovation begins with government investment.
 By the 1930s, over 90% of urban dwellers had electricity, but only 10% of rural Americans did.7 Companies argued that it was too expensive to bring the grid to these rural areas—much as the private sector argues that it is not profitable to bring today’s networking technologies to sparsely populated areas.
 Rural residents benefited from the Rural Electrification Act (REA) that fueled the development of infrastructure, which in turn encouraged the private sector to invest. 7 Government investment in a rural Internet- 4 Mynatt et al. (2017) “A National Research Agenda for Intelligent Infrastructure” CCC Led Whitepapers http://cra.org/ccc/resources/ccc-led-whitepapers/, last accessed April 12, 2017. 5 West et al. (2016) “Rural and urban America divided by broadband access” TechTank by Brookings. https://www.brookings.edu/blog/techtank/2016/07/18/rural-and-urban-america-divided-by-broadband-access/.
 How we collect data from rural sensors, as well as move it to a computation facilities (whether local or in the Internet) for real-time analysis relies on protocols and technologies that can span distances, and are robust to power outages (which may take longer to resolve when they are in sparsely populated areas).
 Applications that partner humans and technologies may have to reconsider the balance of automation and human intervention in rural settings. 4 Intelligent Disaster Response: natural disasters can happen in urban areas, but some types of natural disasters are particularly likely in rural areas.
 Beyond white space networking as a technology, rural areas are likely to see a collection of other ad-hoc networking and diverse link level technologies combined to provide the best possible connectivity for reasonable capital and recurring costs.
 For example, the recent explosion in digital education (e.g., Massive Online Open Courses), could provide valuable educational opportunities for Americans in rural settings, but only if Internet access is available and sufficient to make theses on-line training opportunities high quality.
