 In fact, the first three classes of the graduation pathway give an effective early indication of student success or failure.
 Tair and El- Halees (13), used K-means to predict graduate students’ performance, and overcome the problem of low grades of graduate students.
 Ayesha, Mustafa, Sattar and Khan (4) have also used K- means clustering to predict student performance in a particular course.
 Romero, Ventura and Garca (12) described the full process of clustering, classification, visualization and statistics in the context of mining Moodle (e-learning) data.
 Our current work uses unsupervised clustering methods to address the issue of large scale student behavior, and attempts to identify student successes and failure through predictive clustering.
 Data Collection and Preprocessing We obtained records academic containing grade information from declared majors in five departments in the College of Business and Economics and College of Engineering at CSUN.
 The data spans a ten-year period between 2004 and 2014 containing 9,088 student records in total and contains only the courses required for each major.
 The grade data for each course were encoded with the following normalized GPA scale prior to statistical analysis: TABLE I.
 The datasets were separated by majors, with columns for graduation, number of semesters in the major, number of credits for the major, number of transfer credits earned, followed by the course names. 1 | Page B.
 We then used ROC curves to evaluate and compare predictive performance of clustering and logistic regression methods for each department (Table 2).
 ACCURACY, PRECISION, RECALL, AND F1 SCORES 2 | Page can be seen as the beginning of the bottleneck for each major.
 These methods could be used to develop early warning and recommendation systems for automated advisement, which would be especially beneficial to over-taxed advisement systems at comprehensive state universities such as CSUN. their major Another related issue is the incidence of major-switching is an important factor, since re-declaring a major is time- consuming and costly.
 Approximately 24% of CSUN students re-declare their major, and the plurality of these changes involve departments in the David Nazarian College of Business and Economics (CoBaE) (1).
 In each case we found strongly predictive clusters, and found that cluster separation was driven disproportionately by a small number of bottleneck courses.
 We also found that training classifiers on the first three classes on the graduation pathway was an effective early detection method.
