 The importance and value of user data in platform ecosystems is accentuated since platform owners use and sell the data for their business.
 Firstly, this paper assists researchers in understanding data governance in the context of platform ecosystems by conducting an extensive literature review and case studies.
 The case studies show how data governance is implemented in representative platform ecosystems: Facebook, YouTube, EBay and Uber (the state of practice).
 The Identified Data Governance Factors for Platform Ecosystems (1) Data ownership and access definition: presents who owns and uses the data in platform ecosystems.
 The definition for all types of data should be clarified to support revenue sharing and to keep control of data flow in platform ecosystems.
 A decision model based on legal aspects, and a mechanism to track and notify the compliance of the rules should be applied in data governance for platform ecosystems.
 Recently, how to share or sell data without losing control has become a central issue to both platform owners and platform users as the value of the data in a platform is increasing.
 Data categories of platform ecosystems should include various sources of data (not only user content): i.e. data from users, systems and business processes (Firmani et al. 2016).
 In addition, the use cases and the relevant stakeholders of the data (including individual use case for each data category) should be clearly defined and linked.
 The consistency and integrity of the cases must be considered over the lifecycle of the data to support a visible data supply chain.
 Twenty First Pacific Asia Conference on Information Systems, Langkawi 2017 Data Governance for Platform Ecosystems Example 1: data ownership practice of Facebook (P1).  Facebook (their policies) provides information of data ownership definition (i.e. they say who owns the data in the platform in their policies).
 Define data categories of a platform: The existence of “information of the collected data by the platforms” and sufficiency of “all data types (user content/system data/process data)” are used to survey this practice.
 This issue is claimed in previous research as one of the critical challenges and ethical issues (Kaisler et al. 2013; Martin 2015).
 State of the Art (Existing Governance Models) We analyzed currently used industry and research governance models to reveal gaps and limitations based on our identified data governance factors (Table 3).
 The framework describes that data lineage is necessary to support metadata of critical data and to provide transparency and visibility of the flow of data.
