 All these aspects obstruct the sharing and interconnection of data, and the eventual inter- pretation of data through machine learning or other approaches.
 This focus arises because data is normally from benchmarks or publicly available data sets, so performance in a task is improved by exercising control over model.
 For any data analyst, when embarking on a project, a particular challenge is assessing the quality of the available data, how much processing is required?
 Or to make statements, “we’ll be unable to deliver on that integration unless the data readiness level is at least B3..”2 This paper aims to trigger a discussion in statistics and data science communities by proposing an initial set of descriptors for data readiness.
 Bringing data to C1 is often a signiﬁcant eﬀort itself involving many lines of bespoke software and human understanding of systems, ethics and the law.
 Visualizations of the data should be carried out to help render the data vivid and to ensure decision makers, who may not be data aware, can become involved in the analysis process.
 By the end of Band B, when data is B1, a broad idea of limitations in the data should be present in the expert’s mind.
 Once data has been considered alongside a task and any remedial steps have been taken, then the data is in A1 condition.
 Because A1 is about data in context, it is possible for a data set to be A1 for one question (e.g. predicting customer churn) but only B1 for a diﬀerent question (e.g. predicting customer susceptability to a particular special oﬀer).
 To bring a data set up to A1, there may be a need for signiﬁcant annotation of the data by human expert.
 My team will be ineﬀectual until it’s B1 and at the moment I see no provision in the plan for resource to bring it there.
 I gave them the data readiness levels to go through and they realized they hadn’t yet got the necessary ethics approval for sharing the zip codes.
 Many of the associated challenges were the same and they could even reuse some of that team’s statistical models. 4 Case Studies How useful would data readiness levels be?
 Costs of data curation are often underestimated and those who do the work in Band C and Band B are very often undervalued.
 Data readiness levels highlight the diﬀerent skill sets required in each stage of analysis, from software engineer, to data-munger, to data scientist to machine learning scientist.
