 If a human H computes the output of an arbitrary Turing machine J, H is weaker than a Turing-complete machine.
 Proof: By Proposition 4, if an automaton H computes the output of an arbitrary Turing machine J, H is either stronger or weaker than a Turing-complete machine.
 If a human H computes the output of an arbitrary Turing machine J, H is computable by some Turing machine. 2 Proof: By Proposition 5, if a human H computes the output of an aribtrary Turing machine J, H is less powerful than a Turing-complete machine.
 Proof: By Proposition 6, if a human H computes the output of an arbitrary Turing ma- chine J, H is computable by some Turing machine.
 I then went to the newly alien land of Korea and sulked for six years, trying to ﬁgure out how these aliens – Koreans – think.
 The key idea is that the rules are explicit and ﬁnite, so that it can be written down and looked up whenever one wants to.
 In other words, it is an concretized deﬁnition of rationality, where we deﬁne a process as rational if and only if there exists a Turing machine that describes that process.
 For example, ADDITION is a Turing machine which takes in two numbers as inputs, manipulates the inputs with some explicit instructions, and outputs their sum.
 A Turing machine, they thought, had to be some physical machine that looked at some data and output some data.
 This is evidenced by the smartphone, a universal machine, on your desk. 7 But the equivalence of Turing machine and data, as explained above, permits using a Turing machine as an input to a Turing machine, which in turn permits self-reference.
 To tie this back to Vygotsky and Piaget, I claim that the moment a child starts performing reverse action is when s/he realizes the equivalence of Turing machine and data.
 As such, the idea of just what a human being is is radically diﬀerent in person from a typically Eatern cultureic versus typically Western cultures.
 It is a common Korean mood that just because you are technically of the genus homo sapiens does not qualify you to be a human being.
 This is not possible if, in the person from a typically Eatern cultureic society disdaining the computable, there is an axiom that declares a whole swath of people as computable.
 People from typically Western cultures are stronger on this front: they are very wary of contradictions and know that a lot of things in the world can be described by a coherent schema.
