 An intelligent agriculture infrastructure that leverages private development and public R&D is the key to addressing these grand challenges and increasing our competitive position globally. 2 Interconnecting existing and new models 1 The Seeds of Innovation – Big Data Reshaping U.S.
 Data-based assets detailed in Box 1 include raw data, processed data, tools for real-time decision-making, and tools for models that stand alone and hopefully in the future will be interconnected.
 The creation of such tools evidences the need for continuous, solid and reliable production of data; the design of analytics that translate such data into information; and the ability to synthesize and deliver the right information in time and space. 3. 3.1.
 Furthermore, existing sensing infrastructure only allows infrequent (e.g., bi-weekly) and coarse resolution (e.g., 30 meter-pixels) monitoring via remote sensing satellites which introduces major delays in detection of adverse conditions and corrective actions.
 Addressing these critical societal needs requires investment in intelligent infrastructure and computing research that concurrently increases economic competitiveness, intensifies food production, reduces resource use (e.g., land, water, and manual labor), and ensures long-term environmental viability and food safety.
 It is also important to invest in the modernization10 of the Global Positioning System to protect against outage, jamming and spoofing as it is a crucial infrastructure for the precision agriculture during narrow time-windows for harvesting or planting large farms.
 Broadly, the complex, interdisciplinary, and changing nature of agricultural processes and these urgent, potentially conflicting goals, demand technological breakthroughs that leverage recent advances in precision agriculture and scalable data management, while integrating new approaches for remote sensing and advanced analytics to provide effective, low cost, data-driven decision support and automation for the next-generation in farming operations.
 One key example of this is e-commerce for the retail sector — in which companies such as Amazon, Netflix, and Walmart combine large-scale data analytics, complex modeling, and easy-to-use and scalable cloud systems to disrupt how consumers purchase goods and services.
 Data systems will consist of public cloud services and on-farm or community-based edge cloud systems that implement a wide range of tools (e.g., open source and proprietary) for extracting actionable insights from farm data.
 Edge clouds are small computing “appliances” that operate similarly to public clouds yet preclude the need for Internet connectivity (and costly data transfer) while giving farmers real time, localized decision support and control over the privacy and sharing of their data.
 Networks link sensor and cloud systems to complete this end-to-end, multi-tier cyberinfrastructure that is key to enabling research and technology-transfer to the agriculture industry for open source and co-designed algorithms, programming environments, protocols, systems software, and analysis engines.
 Such systems are necessary to make it easy and economical to collect, mine, and analyze information (e.g., extracting inferences and predictions) and to form concrete solutions that can be directly tested, evaluated, and employed by U.S. growers to increase yields sustainably.
 Moreover, these data sets are incomplete, interdependent, volatile, imprecise, and generated by a vast diversity of devices (e.g., drones, farm workers, sensors, and Internet services) not designed to address future (and unknown) challenges.
 New techniques for data fusion are needed that integrate multi-dimensional data from multiple sources to form standardized and useful representation of a physical Intelligent Cyber-Infrastructure to support smart food systems 6 Engaging the Computing Research Community in Smart Agriculture object or system that are amenable to analysis.
 The computing research community may be engaged in this effort via community workshops to survey the current infrastructure for Food, Energy and Water as well as disruptive technology trends to identify research challenges and opportunities.
