 An understand- ing of the modus operandi for the creation of knowledge may help in accelerating the existing pace of building knowledge.
 The reason behind it has been our inability to acquire the underlying data of this complex process.
 However, current time shows great promise of improvements in the knowledge building domain due to the availability of several on- line knowledge building portals.
 The knowledge that we have gathered till date seems to have been built out of some serendipitous methods or from techniques based on trial and error.
 These por- tals are successfully accomplishing the job of collective problem solving, col- laboratively accumulating facts and building knowledge on top of the existing information.
 They further argued that the process of learning and the process by which the knowledge advances are quite similar.
 Cook and Brown [13] in 1999 suggested that knowledge creation is a product of the interplay between knowledge and knowing.
 The authors showed that heterogeneity in the user and question networks is one of the reasons behind the success of the portal.
 Understanding this process is important for the 8 knowledge building domain to progress and to accelerate the pace of building knowledge.
 Further, not only do we not know how new knowledge comes by, we are in a state of ignorance when it comes to answering some of the related questions of this broad phenomenon.
 This analysis may help in encouraging the right mixture of participants for knowledge development. 3.6 Do people trigger each other?
 This portal helps people seek and provide perspective based answers, hence building another very useful repository of knowledge.
 Therefore, an access to its data may help in improving the collaboration dynamics of the scientiﬁc knowledge building in general.
 A huge amount of overhead in accessing the data may deter the knowledge building researchers from using them.
 Extrapolating these insights for the universal knowledge building, we may be able to answer the general question of how new knowledge gets built.
