 Such a digital grid requires a tight integration of the physical layer (energy and power) with digital and cyber information to allow an open and real time market akin to the world of e-commerce.
 Driven by the decreasing cost in distributed solar, energy storage, electric vehicle, on site generation and microgrids, the high penetration of Distributed Energy Resource (DER) is shifting challenges substantially towards the edge of grid from the control point of view.
 The envisioned Digital Grid must facilitate the open competition and open innovation needed to accelerate of the adoption of new DER technologies while satisfying challenges in grid stability, data explosion and cyber security.
 The American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 was an unprecedented action to stimulate the economy and to modernize our nation’s energy and communication infrastructure and enhance energy independence.
 On the demand side, changes are needed due to the same reason as above, to accommodate intermittency and Electricity Market and Regulatory Policy 1 Mynatt et al. (2017) “A National Research Agenda for Intelligent Infrastructure” CCC Led Whitepapers http://cra.org/ccc/resources/ccc-led-whitepapers/, last accessed April 12, 2017. 1 Data Analytics Grid Stability and Resiliency under High DER Penetration uncertainty in renewable generation.
 Since the Digital Grid is fundamentally supporting high DER penetration with very dynamic bidirectional power flows affected by the real- time market participation, the grand challenges in control is to achieve voltage and frequency stability, as well as intelligent protection.
 New transmission technologies such as the High Voltage Direct Current (HVDC) must be further developed and installed to connect highly dynamic distribution grids with strong regional interconnection to balance of the system demand and supply. 3.
 Compared to the traditional Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems available for operations, these future data sources could provide vastly richer information about the state of the grid.
 The unique characteristics of the new information available to operations create a number of challenges, including: extensive geo-spatial distribution, temporal diversity, internal organizational boundaries, disparate underlying physical sources and a wide range of data quality.
 The push to adopt the existing open Internet and high-performance computing technologies would not be enough to meet the requirement of collecting and processing very large volumes of real-time data.
 Cyber vulnerabilities of the power grid exist in numerous facilities, including Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) systems that power grids rely upon for monitoring and control of the physical grid.
 About 65 million smart meters and other sensing devices, with capabilities for data collection for billing, outage reporting, and customers’ choice, have been installed at the customer locations.
 Such attacks resemble the October 2016 attack on the eastern U.S., in which smart devices such as wireless cameras were compromised and used to disrupt Internet access to millions of users.
 Ensuring resilience of the power grid to cyber threats will require a sustained and coordinated research effort towards understanding the vulnerabilities of cyber- attacks on the grid, providing defense mechanisms that can ameliorate the impact of attacks and ensure continued operation and efficient recovery from attacks when and where they occur.
 Create a DOE led investment program to US industry and electric power companies to manufacture and upgrade the edge of the grid into a Digital Grid, such as the Smart Transformer manufacturing and deployment.
