 The purpose of this study is to analyze cyber security and security practices of electronic information and network system, network threats, and techniques to prevent the cyber attacks in hotels.
 Helping the information technology directors and chief information officers (CIO) is the aim of this study to advance policy for security of electronic information in hotels and suggesting some techniques and tools to secure the computer networks.
 The results show that hotels’ cyber security is very low and hotels are very vulnerable in this regard and at the end, the implications and contribution of the study is mentioned.
 At the user level, the user browse the hotel website to make reservations and to access the information about the hotel (Cobanoglu, & Demicco, 2007).
 Cyber risk is becoming an increasing issue for many organizations and businesses, including hospitality industry, as new advances in computing systems emerge, such as cloud computing, social media, and big data.
 Questions of this research and the purpose of study The purpose of this study is to analyze cyber security and security practices of electronic information and network system, network threats, and techniques to prevent the cyber attacks in hotels.
 Fortunately, the hackers were not able to get the name of the customers as well as their addresses and personal identification numbers, however they had accessed to the credit card numbers plus security codes and expiration dates.
 The interviewees included hotels’ front desk employees, hotels’ guests, and hotels’ assistant of general managers (GMs) or IT managers depending whether the hotel employed an IT manager or not.
 The hotel tries to have a strong password to access the computer system by using small and capital letters as well as symbols and numbers in creating passwords.
 In addition, they also mentioned they never heard about data breach in this hotel and they received complains a couple of times about the fake websites and money transactions.
 Among ten guests, five of them were loyal customers however none of them change their password regularly and two of them said in the case of observing suspicious activities, they would change the password.
 The hotel currently has contract with an IT company and they come to check the system and update the security software on a regular bases.
 The hotel tries to have a strong password to access the computer system by using small and capital letters as well as symbols and numbers in creating passwords.
 So based on the findings and results and data analysis, we understand that hotels are very vulnerable and they definitely require a lot more security for their computer networks and system.
 And finally it is better for any hotel to have cyber insurance so that if the hotel experienced any data breach or cyber attack, the insurance covers its loss and liabilities.
