 As an evidence of this importance, in recent years, many PT operators and decision makers adopted quality-based incentives so that expected quality (from rider’s perception) and real quality (presented by the system) would converge.
 In section two (2), we conduct an analysis of related works, focusing on papers that integrate data analysis and preference surveys.
 This is followed, in section four (4), by an empirical application of the method, where we describe the available data, quantification of PT riders’ choices, and the tools to represent resultant discrepancies when compared to optimized path-choices.
 In the sixth and final section (6), we discuss the repercussions of such results in terms of quality perception data gathering, and more cost effective survey methods. 2.
 We understand this exploration as a cyclic process, which comprises the tasks of data collection, processing and analysis, and hypothesis testing.
 First, the supporting tools for (objective and subjective) data collection, analysis and integration, wherever possible, and second, the supporting tools for contextualized analysis of public transportation.
 The dynamic nature of PT supply and complexity of human behavior require the definition of what criteria should be used to define quality.
 In 12 and 14, the automatic user location development of hypotheses about the helps synthesize what to ask; and changing habits of users (still under construction).
 The second step aims to support the synthesis of the research in regards to where to investigate and who are the potential users with unexpected behavior; 3.
 Although surveys are important sources of data collection, they can be very slow to gather, as well as to tab and analyze.
 We believe that, concerning route choice preferences, data gathered directly from the observation of user’s behavior should provide information in more quantity and detail.
 The actual route is compared with the optimal route regarding shortest distance (a), number of hops (b), number of bus transfers (c), and shortest travel time (d).
 Riders behavior patterns and locations selected for data collection To help us analyze all collected data, we introduced an analytical dashboard as the supporting step of the proposed methodology.
 From this synthesis, we derived a hypothesis that these PT riders did not choose the best routes due to the lack of local information about possible routes.
 We verified that, in general, users make an optimal number of transfers, but do not choose the best place to do so.
