 After a brief presentation of RFID technologies and their applications, the paper describes an RFID-based system that can provide efficient facilities to allow essential information management for emergency care across hospital boundaries.
 Thus, RFID applications offer solutions for: 1) logistical tracking and tracing, 2) production, monitoring and maintenance, 3) product safety, quality and information, 4) access control and tracking and tracing of individuals, 5) loyalty, membership and payment, 6) healthcare, 7) sport, leisure and household, 8) public services.
 The next section briefly presents some of the real-world applications of RFID technologies in healthcare. 2.2 RFID Applications in Healthcare According to various studies and reports, RFID technologies provide numerous solutions for the main areas of healthcare industry.
 Patient-related is scattered among various medical units, the patients’ charts have no standardized form or content and are seldom complete or up-to-date; moreover, if need be, they cannot be accessed online by the medical staff.
 Thus, key medical information about the patient, such as drug allergies, blood type, etc., is stored on the individual’s medical card (which is, in fact, a passive RFID tag).
 This card provides quick access to the information regarding the actual health state of a patient and helps the medical staff take the best decisions, especially in case of emergency.
 Thus, the considered card may also store some data that provide secure access to the patient’s electronic health care records kept in an electronic health record (EHR) system, located elsewhere.
 Furthermore, implements specific that it Furthermore, the proposed system involves attaching RFID tags to objects such as, mobile medical assets, medical laboratory items, sensors, etc.
 The RFID tag may store some key information about the tagged-object and some data that allows accessing detailed information about the object from the specified location.
 Furthermore, no new training is required for members of the medical staff on using a new information system in order to manage their patients’ medical records.
 One of the flaws of present healthcare industry is rendered by the existence of duplicate patient medical tests, e.g. tests that have already been done in the previous one or two years.
 Thus, the Internet of Things infrastructure allows connections between different entities, such as, human beings (patients, medical staff, etc.), medical devices, wireless sensors, mobile robots, etc.
 According to researchers, the use of information technology (IT) and electronic medical records (EMR) holds promise for improving the quality of information transfer and is essential to patient safety (Bates & Gawande, 2003).
 The current widespread deployment of cell phones, laptops, Wi-Fi, Bluetooth, personal digital assistants (PDAs), and various forms of sensing devices based on digital and radio frequency identification (RFID) technologies penetrate the healthcare environment. environment.
 A vast This paper considers some real-world applications of RFID technologies in healthcare area and briefly describes the benefits of RFID technology for healthcare applications.
