 In one-class classification models, the target class and other classes represent the class of interest and outliers respectively, and the models only need to label some target data (positive data) in training processes (Li 2013).
 Besides, Li and Guo have developed one-class models named positive and unlabeled learning (PUL) and positive and background data learning (PBL) in succession.
 The results indicate that PBL and PUL classifiers provide the highest classification accuracy and reduce time cost of manually labeling data.
 As comparing group, binary classification models (SVM and ANN) require positive and negative samples as input data in training processes.
 Li have proved that PUL integrated with back-propagation neural network (BPNN) can estimate conditional probability and classifying image accurately (Li et al. 2011).
 In this paper, we use BPNN of 10 hidden layers implemented by Alglib package (Bochkanov and Bystritsky 2013) to train the PBL and PUL classifiers.
 We set and , and searched the optimum parameters by grid-search method, while the accuracy of OCSVM model is equaled to 1.0.
 Urban impervious surface not only has a great effect on climate, ecology and environment of inner cities, but also has close connection with resident activities (Wouters 2014).
 Training errors and commission errors would occur during the training and classification processes, which would lead to low accuracy of urban impervious surface area extraction using BSVM.
 So far, no research is effective to extract impervious surface areas through own spectral and texture features of HSR images exactly.
 However, the one-class classification methods, especially PBL and PUL, can obtain similar or higher accuracy of impervious surface areas extraction, even under the situation of positive samples existed only.
 Hence, it is possible to extract urban impervious surface areas from HSR images exactly and effectively by one-class models.
 However, this study also has its own limitations that a large amount of samples is needed during the training processes of PBL and PUL, and we have barely probed into urban impervious surface areas extraction, though urban impervious surface area have the highest complexity and uncertainty on HSR remote sensing images.
 Conclusions In this paper, we adopted several one-class models, such as PBL, PUL, MAXENT, OCSVM and BSVM to extract urban impervious surface area of Guangzhou on GF-1 WFV image and compared with the results of artificial interpretation, multi-class models and previous researches.
 In general, one-class classification models integrating object-oriented classification method can extract urban impervious surface area from HSR remote sensing image successfully in the situation of positive samples existed only.
