 Abstract: Hospital acquired infections are a serious threat to the health and well-being of patients and medical staff within clinical units.
 Many of these infections arise as a consequence of medical personnel that come into contact with contaminated persons, surfaces or equipment and then with patients, without following proper hygiene procedures.
 Annually, infections are accountable for 37 000 deaths in Europe and 99 000 deaths in the USA (World Health Organization, 2011).
 The wireless sensor network custom designed for the system is depicted in Section 3, where all as- pects related to its hardware and software components are covered.
 There are sev- eral automated solutions to reduce infections caused by improper hand hygiene, most of which use con- tinuous surveillance and immediate notiﬁcation in case non-compliance is detected (Shhedi et al., 2015).
 Our development approach is bottom-up, and starts with modelling some of the less complex workﬂows, which involve only medical staff and patients.
 The GP starts a conversation with the patient, in order to learn about their medical history, current treatment and reason for the visit.
 Sections 3 and 4 describe how the wireless sensor network is used for monitor- ing and how the workﬂow engine monitors the exe- cution of hygiene-relevant events.
 The main reason for this is that the system is envisaged as an additional aid for medical personnel that ensures their safety from pos- sible infection.
 The system is designed on the princi- ple that medical personnel are responsible and aware of the detailed actions they must undertake to ensure their own, as well as their patients’ safety.
 The intermediate step of the workﬂow concern- ing patient examination starts when the system has detected that hand hygiene compliance is achieved.
 The two activities are exclusive: if an alert is generated, the workﬂow instance is stopped and the recorded hygiene breach is recorded.
 This component provides the required features that allow for the creation, update and deletion of clinical workﬂows monitored by the system.
 The workﬂow engine interprets events, such as inputs from deployed sensors (e.g. hand washing detected), and acts upon them accord- ing to a predeﬁned process.
 The work- ﬂow engine keeps track of the state of process executions and manages creation and progress of process executions. 4.
