 To garner all beneﬁts of surgical data science it is necessary to have an unambiguous, shared understanding of algorithms and data.
 This in- cludes inputs and outputs of algorithms and thus their function, but also the semantic content, i.e. meaning of data such as patient parameters.
 We therefore propose the establishment of a new ontology for data and algorithms in surgical data science.
 Such an ontology can be used to provide common data sets for the community, encouraging sharing of knowledge and comparison of algorithms on common data.
 We hold that this is a necessary foundation towards new methods for applications such as semantic-based content retrieval and similarity measures and that it is overall vital for the future of surgical data science.
 There is a vast amount of approaches for surgical data science applications ranging from preoperative decision support over intraoperative assistance generation and workﬂow optimization to post-operative skill assessment.
 A deep, clear and machine-readable understanding of the underlying data is also important for machine learning.
 The quantity, heterogeneity and interconnectedness of algorithms and data are salient challenges to surgical data science.
 To truly realize its potential of holistic analysis, a language for data and algorithms needs to be found.
 A shared understanding on the semantic level is necessary to cope with the large amount of data and algorithms.
 Especially in a collaborative community this is important as it supports sharing of data and helps avoid misunderstandings.
 To this end, we propose the development of an ontology for algorithms and data in surgery.
 It also aids in the selection of machine learning approaches as it allows a better understanding of processes and data generation. 3 Further applications include easier search for algorithms tailored to speciﬁc purposes, improved understanding as well as documentation.
 The associated challenge is to gather, combine and formalize expert knowledge from clinicians and technicians.
 To reap the beneﬁts of the ontology, real-world data sets and algorithms must be described with it.
