 This comprehensive and far reaching data analysis methodology, will en- compass statistical modelling, machine learning, predictive analytics, and vi- sualization analytics, whenever these are relevant and appropriate.
 This is pursued with a preliminary study in section 5. 2 New Challenges and Opportunities in the Con- text of Big Data Analytics The following expands on our contribution to the discussion in Keiding and Louis (2016).
 The comprehensive survey (with 141 references) of Keiding and Louis 2 (2016) sets out new contemporary issues of sampling and population distribution estimation.
 The bridge between the data that is analyzed, and the calibrating Big Data, is well addressed by the geometry and topology of data.
 Consider, as noted by Lebaron (2009), how Bourdieu’s work, involves “putting his thinking in mathematical terms”, and that it “led him to a conscious and systematic move toward a geometric frame-model”.
 The concept of ﬁeld, here, uses Geometric Data Analysis that is core to the integrated data and methodology approach used in the Correspondence Analysis platform (used, in general, in Murtagh, 2010; and comprehensively in Le Roux, 2014).
 The noting of the need for the “formulation of abstract laws” that bridge sampled data and calibrating Big Data can be addressed, for the data analyst and for the application specialist, as geometric and topological.
 Harcourt notes the need “to visually represent the relationship between structures of social meaning and the contexts and practices within which they are embedded”.
 This portrays emotional attraction and repulsion between Rick and Ilsa, on the second axis (respectively, here, negative, positive directions); the ﬁrst axis counterposes externality relative to the main location, Casablanca.
 In Murtagh and Ganz (2015) we look at, ﬁrstly, emotional interaction in the Casablanca movie, using dialogue (and dialogue only) between main characters Ilsa and Rick.
 By looking at all tweets, and all terms, it is seen that the campaign initiating tweets, and the overall campaign means, are close to the origin, i.e. the global average.
 These are, respectively, “CIS-R score in four groups, 0-5, 6-11, 12-17, 18 and over. (CIS-R = Common Mental Disorders questionnaire)”; and no neurotic symptoms in the past week.
 Respectively, the symptoms and demographic 11 l0.00.51.0−0.4−0.20.00.20.40.60.82007, 7403 surveyed: neurotic symptoms, mental disordersDim 1 (60.72%)Dim 2 (19.53%)CISRFOURnosympPTSDeverMajorT16PTSDcomPTSDPos Figure 6: Adult psychiatric morbidity survey 2007, England, household sur- vey.
 Displayed are the 10 highest contributing variables to the principal plane. example of it was going for a walk, therefore taking exercise, in the countryside or parkland.
 For background on this, and case studies, detailing the Correspondence Analysis platform, and ultrametric (hierarchical) topology that is central to unconscious thought processes, see Murtagh (2014).
