 The healthcare data management system consists of records in different formats such as text, numeric, pictures and videos leading to data which is big and unstructured.
 Hence, a secure data access and retrieval is needed in order to in health care provide security of critical medical records management system.
 Biometric authentication mechanism is suitable in this scenario since it overcomes the limitations of token theft and forgetting passwords in conventional token id-password mechanism used for providing security.
 In this paper we propose BAMHealthCloud which is a cloud based system for management of healthcare data, it ensures security of data through biometric authentication.
 Therefore, an amalgamation of biometrics and cloud can be thought of as an elixir for management of e-health records.
 It makes use of parallel computing frameworks such as apache hadoop[3] for carrying out the authentication of data and artificial neural network for training and processing of dynamic signature data.
 Thus, this paper proposes BAMHealthCloud and discusses various existing approaches for e- health data and presents a case study about management of health data in a developing country.
 Pt = {Pt1, Pt2, Pt3, …} where Pti is the ith patient having access to only his or her record, D denotes data store and Sm security manager.
 The health data store is based on health data management system and security is handled by the biometric authentication agent on behalf of the security manager.
 The data that is to be secured is stored in Health Data Store and the security manager uses biometric authentication agent for providing the security on cloud.
 After the signature is captured its important features are extracted and then it is preprocessed and stored as a template.
 After this phase, this template is used for training the data and then these trained networks are stored in cloud.
 Cor = Cov/s*s’ /* correlation from covariance matrix and product of square root matrix obtained from step 10 and its transpose is calculated */ 11.
 Proof: The time complexity for performing security check on health data stored on cloud is O (L x M).
 It takes O (L x M) for performing security check on average priority users (line 8, ALGORITHM 1).
