 Zhang School of Geography and Planning, Guangdong Key Laboratory for Urbanization and Geo- simulation, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510275, Guangdong province, China. 1 Abstract: China has encountered serious land loss problems along with urban expansion due to rapid urbanization.
 This study proposed a random forest algorithm (RFA) based cellular automata (CA) model to simulate China’s urban expansion and farmland loss in a fine scale from 2000 to 2030.
 The objectives of this study are to 1) mine urban conversion rules in different homogeneous economic development regions, and 2) simulate China’s urban expansion process and farmland loss at high spatial resolution (30 meters).
 Secondly, we constructed a RFA-based CA model to mine complex urban conversion rules and carried out simulation of urban expansion and farmland loss at each homo-region.
 For example, some studies have carried out provincial simulation of urban expansion by using case-based reasoning (CBR) and formal concept analysis (FCA) coupled with high performance computing technology (Li and Liu 2006, Lin and Li 2015).
 Then we introduced the random forest algorithm (RFA) to mine China’s urban conversion rules in different regions as well as to simulate China’s urban expansion and farmland loss from 2000 to 2030.
 We design three fixed thresholds to control the convergence condition, which are minimum urban expansion acceleration , minimum 19 RA1(ln)RA(,)iPktTP(,)iCellktiTPTPt()UENt()att()()(1)(1)UEUEUEatNtNtNtgivena total number of urban expansion cells , and maximum iteration times respectively.
 The stopping conditions of these parameters are listed as below: for urban expansion acceleration , for total number of urban expansion , and for iteration times .
 As seen from Figure 9, the simulated urban land ratio for 2010, 2020 and 2030 all had a much more compact spatial structure than actual urban land ratios derived from CASM land cover data for 2000 and 2010.
 Yellow line shows the 55 simulation and prediction results of farmland area change from 2000 to 2030, and blue line shows the actual farmland area change from 2000 to 2011.
 Then, a RFA based CA model was carried out to obtain urban conversion rules and different spatial variables’ contribution of 80 urban development in multi-scale.
 Finally, proposed RFA-based CA models were used to simulate urban expansion and farmland loss processes from 2000 to 2030 in a fine scale of 30 meters.
 Furthermore, the simulation 85 results indicate that in the next 20 years, the farmland loss rate is expected to slow down gradually, and the farmland area will stabilize.
 However, China is still in the stage of rapid urban expansion, and considering its high relevance with farmland loss, the future of farmland preservation still remains severe.
 The performance of our proposed RFA-based CA model is better than previous CA model for large-scale simulation, and the accuracy of RFA-CA model can still be improved under our proposed framework.
