 New Vehicle Platforms: With the rapid development of Connected/Automated Vehicles, Delivery Drones and Commercial Space we identify the need for (i) a smart rebuild of the interstate system, (ii) an integrated transportation communications infrastructure and (iii) a nation-wide network of autonomous truck ports to substantially reduce the need to build expensive new roads.
 The use of such sensors, real-time data and Artificial Intelligence in our vehicles and transportation networks requires policy and infrastructure for (i) ensuring autonomous systems make safe, fair and predictable decisions, (ii) efficient exchange of travel data while ensuring user privacy and asset security, and (iii) co-existence of private and public autonomous systems with an integrated technology roadmap. 3.
 The Transportation and Infrastructure Committee must establish a technology and policy foundation for the deployment of automated vehicles by achieving broad industry participation in the NHTSA Automated Vehicles Policy development process.
 The Smart Rebuild of the Interstate System should bring the system up to modern highway and bridge design standards, include critical operational and safety improvements, plan strategic widenings and advanced traffic management where appropriate geared toward eliminating or reducing major commuter and freight bottlenecks, and include connected and autonomous vehicle infrastructure necessary for the next generation of vehicles.
 The Transportation and Infrastructure Committee must guide robust vehicle security policies to ensure every vehicle manufacturer adopt a common set of security and privacy principles which include (1) transparency, (2) choice, (3) respect for context, (4) data minimization, de-identification and retention, (5) data security, (6) integrity and access, and (7) accountability.
 Rail Transportation: Integrated Technology Plan The Rail Industry is undergoing a silent revolution with system-wide sensors for real-time equipment monitoring and the use of drones for inspection and crash analysis of rail assets for hazard monitoring.
 A second coordinated effort is needed on Rail System Data Analytics to enhance safety and throughput with rail-to-rail trip optimizers, network level movement optimizers, monitoring the health of rolling stock, and with the use of uniquely identified freight cars and locomotives.
 As 42% of aircraft delays are due to maintenance, supply chain, operations and ground handling issues and 25% come from airport and airspace congestion, the benefits of improved infrastructure and connectivity across components of the airport infrastructure are clear.
 The nation’s biggest airports, our international hubs, struggle with surging demand and inefficient ground and landside infrastructure; these airports clearly need investment in terms of new hard infrastructure, particularly as other countries look to build up their own international airport hubs.
 We must make investments in airport infrastructure with the understanding that airports are nodes in a larger, interconnected multimodal transportation system; moreover, that investments in one airport may be detrimental to the air service and economic development of a neighboring region.
 In considering modernization efforts, a careful analysis of the question of whether or not (and to what extent) to privatize ATC functions, the associated risks and benefits, and the technological approach is much needed.
 Air Transportation: Unmanned Aerial Systems Unmanned aerial systems also hold the potential to revolutionize urban and rural parcel delivery; medical device testing and drug delivery; the agricultural sector through precision farming; and the oil and gas industry through efficient pipeline inspections and infrastructure maintenance.
 While the FAA has not yet approved the certification of such UAS vehicles for commercial operations, both the public and private sectors are hard at work developing certifications and UAS technologies.
 Analyze skills and education requirements to facilitate new technical jobs for shared, autonomous and data-driven technologies in road and air technology management and maintenance due to a looming talent and skills shortage in the planning, design and construction of transportation technologies. 2.
 Identify needs to create or maintain architecture and standards that assure quality, safety, security, accessibility, interoperability, and reliability of products, processes, and services for critical initiatives—such as connected and automated vehicles, or systems that address vulnerable road users (e.g. pedestrians, cyclists, etc.).
