 We classify the methodologies and approaches that researchers have used to predict the eﬀect of such services on the ﬁnancial growth and proﬁtability.
 Thus, the issue of service marketing in general and particularly digital banking services witnessed a substantial growth during the last decade in almost all the countries around the world.
 Although modern digital banking started with the automated teller machines (ATM) and phone banking, however, the internet and mobile banking oﬀer fast and eﬀective delivery channels not only for traditional banking products but also paved the way for new products as well.
 The outreach of 3G and 4G internet technology along with the expanded uses of smartphones and tablets has increased the demand for digital services.
 Despite considerable research on DFS and ﬁrm performance that has appeared in academic journals, a review of the literature on this topic remains missing.
 The aim of this study is to explore, understand, analyze and summarize ﬁndings of DFS on ﬁrm performance in the last one decade (2006-2016).
 Leghari, 2016) automation/internet/ self-service technology (Mehmood et al., 2015),(Muhammad et al., 2013),(Georgia and Christos, 2013) (Ciciretti et al., 2009), (Uchida et al., 2011),(Al-Hawari and Ward, 2006) (Hernando and a J.
 Nieto, 2007) (Delgado et al., 2007) (Ugwueze and Nwezeaku, 2016) (Uchida et al., 2011) (Ho and Wu, 2009) (Kennedy and Jacky, 2013) (Mehmood et al., 2015) (Tunay et al., 2015) (M.
 The eﬀect of automated service quality on Australian banks’ ﬁnancial performance and the mediating role of customer satisfaction Marketing Intelligence & Planning How the Internet aﬀects output and performance at community banks Is the Internet delivery channel changing banks’ performance?
 Most of the studies (70%) combined ﬁnancial ratios and regression analysis followed by (13%) data envelopment and prin- cipal component analysis.
 Although ﬁnancial data indicating the performance of the company is available easily, however, secondary data for digital payment channels were non-existent in the early stage (the 2000s) of emerging DFS.
 A comparative analysis of DFSs performance and its eﬀect on ﬁrm with respect to customer based in rural and urban areas could be interesting as well.
 The 39 research articles in- cluded in this review studied the impact of DFS on banking industry (as a service provider) only.
 The future research to investigate the role of such services in the proﬁtability and performance of mobile service providers’ companies could be interesting and the comparison of branchless banking in developed and developing countries can extend understanding for adoption, eﬃciency, performance and trust.
 This research tends to integrate the other sectors and digital channels that have not been studied so far and need more attention.
