 Then both correlation analysis and causality test demon- strate that ﬁve attributes of the stock market in China can be competently predicted by various online emotions, like disgust, joy, sadness and fear.
 In light of these studies, we focus purely on the stock market in China and try to under- stand the volatility, causality and predictive ability of multiple online emotions in Weibo.
 Employing the Bayesian classiﬁer of emotions and other preprocessing methods, we obtain time series which could reﬂect the online emotion of daily stock market in the period.
 It further inspires us to investigate the correlation and even causality between emotions and the market, which will provide the foundation for the predicting models. 7 Figure 2: Time series of each online stock market emotion from December 1st 2014 to September 16th 2015.
 Because in the circumstance of bullish market, investors intend to post positive tweets with joyful sentiment and thus joy can be an ideal proxy of the external emotional expression of greed and complacency for investors.
 Considering the dominant occupation of inexperienced users in the mar- ket, we argue that the stock market in China is signiﬁcantly emotional and the connection between emotions and the market deserves further explorations.
 In this section, by thor- oughly investigating the statistical correlations between emotions and market attributes, we demonstrate that emotions like joy and fear possess causal relations with the stock market and can be promising features in developing prediction models for stocks in China.
 It is worth noting that considering the tiny fraction of experienced or institutional investors (less emotional) in the market, we do not discuss the correlation or causality for diﬀerent investors in the following parts of the study.
 Ti is the i-th item in time series T , Tmax is the maximal value of T , and Tmin is the minimal value of T .
 For observing whether there are distinct diﬀerences of correlation coeﬃcient between online emotions and the stock market, we use bootstrap resampling method to estimate the mean of correlation coeﬃcients, as well as the error bars in the mean [17, 40].
 The correlation between all online emotion time series (in X) and Yclose is very 18 low (ρ < 0.2), which indicates little linear dependence between them.
 An interesting ﬁnding is that the correlation between Yvolume and Xsadness (no matter ahead of how many days) is unexpectedly high, correlation coeﬃcients ρ of which is more than 0.5.
 Investors always just care for whether Yclose,i (the element on i-th day in Yclose) are positive or negative, which will help investors make decisions to conduct stock transactions, and the binary classiﬁcation (positive or negative) of Yclose and Yopen are also the part of our targets for prediction.
 There are slight diﬀerences in performance between SVM-ES and the SVM trained using all the emotions, indicating emotions selected are playing dominant roles in forecasting the market.
 It turns out that the model achieves the high prediction performance, especially with accuracy of 64.15% for the intra-day highest index (3-categories) and the accuracy of 60.38% for the trading volume (3-categories).
