 Unlike other papers that use a single data source, this article examines three sources of data to reflect different tourism activities in cities: Panoramio (sightseeing), Foursquare (consumption), and Twitter (being connected).
 Tourist density in the three data sources is compared via maps, correlation analysis (OLS) and spatial self-correlation analysis (Global Moran's I statistic and LISA).
 Finally the data are integrated using cluster analysis and combining the spatial clusters identified in the LISA analysis in the different data sources.
 The results show that the data from the three activities are partly spatially redundant and partly complementary, and allow the characterisation of multifunction tourist spaces (with several activities) and spaces specialising in one or various activities (for example, sightseeing and consumption).
 The main conclusion of the paper is that it is not sufficient to use one data source to analyse the presence of tourists in cities; several must be used in a complementary manner.
 Section 5 describes and discusses the results, while Section 6 presents the main conclusions and suggests further directions for research. 2.
 RESULTS Tourist density maps and descriptive statistics Figure 3 shows tourist density maps according to census tracts, with rescaled data and at the same intervals in the three maps.
 It is particularly high in the historic centre and along the Paseo de la Castellana axis, and it tends to spread throughout a great number of census tracts.
 Figure 6 shows the spatial distribution of the 6 groups established: - Groups of census tracts with a predominance of tourists related to sightseeing: groups 6 (coffee) and 2 (red).
 CONCLUSIONS The work tracks the digital footprint of urban tourists using several data sources and taking the city of Madrid as the study area.
 Three data sources are used to identify the places where tourists carry out their activities: geolocated photographs from the Panoramio platform (sightseeing), Foursquare check-ins (consumption), and interaction on the social network Twitter (being connected).
 Unlike other papers, this article not only counts the density of digital footprints (for example, number of photographs or tweets) but the density of tourists.
 This mitigates problems of possible bias (compulsive photographers, Foursquare users or tweeters) and allows the three data sources to be compared.
 Not surprisingly, the three data sources show a high tourist density in the historic centre, where there is a significant concentration of monuments, shops, hotels, restaurants and others.
 Tourists’ digital footprint also extends throughout other areas of the city through photographs (football stadiums, bullring, large parks), with Foursquare check-ins (particularly in areas specialised in restaurants and shopping), and with tweets.
