 To address such questions quantitatively we need to pro- vide structure to the diverse and complex space of online communities.
 In order to systematically understand the relationship be- tween community identity1and user engagement we intro- duce a quantitative typology of online communities.
 Our ty- pology is based on two key aspects of community identity: how distinctive—or niche—a community’s interests are rel- ative to other communities, and how dynamic—or volatile— these interests are over time.
 We are not directly concerned with the more sociopolitical and psy- chological connotations of these terms (Polletta and Jasper 2001; Simon and Klandermans 2001; Ashmore, Deaux, and McLaughlin- Volpe 2004).
 Our main insight in implementing this typology auto- matically and at scale is that the language used within a community can simultaneously capture how distinctive and dynamic its interests are.
 These speciﬁc interests provide a window into the nature of the communities’ interests as a whole, and by extension their community identities.
 This section shows that there is an informative and highly predictive relationship between a community’s position in this typology and its user engage- ment patterns.
 We ﬁnd that communities with distinctive and dynamic identities have higher rates of user engagement, and further show that a community’s position in our identity- based landscape holds important predictive information that is complementary to a strong activity baseline.
 In particular user retention is one of the most crucial as- pects of engagement and is critical to community mainte- nance (Ren et al. 2012).
 Our results indicate that rates of user retention vary drastically, yet systematically according to how distinctive and dynamic a community is (Figure 1).
 We quantify these divides in content afﬁnity by measuring differences in the language of the comments written by ac- tive users and outsiders.
 To understand whether these variations manifest system- atically across communities, we examine the relationship between divides in content afﬁnity and community type.
 While the focus of those studies is to identify and characterize sub-communities within a larger social network, our typology provides a characterization of pre- deﬁned communities based on the nature of their identity.
 These studies focus on individual-level psychological manifestations of collective (or social) iden- tity, and their relationship to user engagement (Allen and Meyer 1996; Meyer et al. 2002; Utz 2003; Ren, Kraut, and Kiesler 2007).
 By averag- ing our measures of distinctiveness and dynamicity across time, our present study treated community identity as a static property.
