 Introduction 1 In this past election cycle for the 45th President of the United States, the world has witnessed a growing epidemic of fake news.
 The worst real-world impact is that fake news seems to create real-life fears: last year, a man carried an AR-15 riﬂe and walked in a Washington DC Pizzeria, because he recently read online that “this pizzeria was harbor- ing young children as sex slaves as part of a child- abuse ring led by Hillary Clinton”1.
 The man was later arrested by police, and he was charged for ﬁring an assault riﬂe in the restaurant (Kang and Goldman, 2016).
 The broadly-related problem of deception de- tection (Mihalcea and Strapparava, 2009) is not new to the natural language processing commu- nity.
 When testing on real-world review datasets, the results could be suboptimal since the positive training data was created in a completely different, simulated plat- form.
 However, the lack of manually la- beled fake news dataset is still a bottleneck for advancing computational-intensive, broad- coverage models in this direction.
 With such volume and a time span of a decade, LIAR is an order of magnitude larger than the currently avail- able resources (Vlachos and Riedel, 2014; Ferreira and Vlachos, 2016) of similiar type.
 Therefore, it is of crucial signiﬁcance to introduce a larger dataset to facilitate the development of computational approaches to fake news detection and automatic fact-checking. in Figure 1.
 We show some random snippets from our The LIAR dataset4 in- dataset cludes 12.8K human labeled short statements from POLITIFACT.COM’s API5, and each statement is evaluated by a POLITIFACT.COM editor for its truthfulness.
 The speakers in the LIAR dataset include a mix of democrats and republicans, as well as a sig- niﬁcant amount of posts from online social me- dia.
 The batch size for stochastic gradient descent optimization was set to 64, and the learning process involves 10 passes over the training data for text model.
 For the hybrid model, we use 3 and 8 as ﬁlter sizes, and the number of ﬁlters was set to 10.
 Character-level convolutional networks for text clas- In Advances in neural information pro- siﬁcation. cessing systems. pages 649–657. 5 Conclusion We introduced LIAR, a new dataset for automatic fake news detection.
 Compared to prior datasets, LIAR is an order of a magnitude larger, which en- ables the development of statistical and computa- tional approaches to fake news detection.
 We show that when combin- ing meta-data with text, signiﬁcant improvements can be achieved for ﬁne-grained fake news detec- tion.
