 Advancing consumer adoption of blockchain applications Zane Witherspoon University of San Francisco Abstract Blockchain technology as a whole is experiencing a dramatic rise in adoption, in no small part due to the developer-friendly Ethereum network.
 The decision made by the consumer is not a matter of whether or not to adopt a new technology, but whether or not to defer the adoption to a later time when the initial costs have fallen . 4 The different ways of using blockchain technology have their own costs and benefits.
 Reprinted in Rosenberg, N. (1976), Perspectives on Technology, Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, pp. 189-212. 4 ​Hall, Bronwyn, and Beethika Khan. "Adoption of New Technology." National Bureau of Economic Research (2003): n. pag.
 By reviewing and applying the theoretical frameworks of scholarly literature to the current market drivers of blockchain technology, we’ll uncover the apparent costs of adoption to the consumer.
 We will then explore the best practices by the suppliers of blockchain technology for mitigating those costs and elaborating the benefits as to increase the growth of their blockchain application. 2.
 Modeling the diffusion of technology Since we’re discussing the diffusion of blockchain into the market, it is useful to visualize how that adoption looks over time.
 This curve visualizes the initial slow growth of a new technological innovation, followed by rapid growth by the market majority, and finally the slowing of growth as the market reaches saturation.
 The whole product is the core product plus everything else you need to achieve your compelling reason to buy, including additional software, hardware, systems integration, installation and debugging, training and support, standards and procedures, etc.
 Blockchain as a technological innovation The first publication on blockchain technology was ​“Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System” published by the unknown creator of bitcoin under the pseudonym of Satoshi Nakamoto .
 The white paper introduces some of the simplest blockchain applications like cash transfer and escrow, but doesn’t begin to touch on the multitude of other applications for the new tech that other computer scientists have developed. 10 Most of the newest applications of blockchain technology have come to light after the introduction of the Ethereum network.
 The updated examples and classifications of the factors confirm Rosenberg’s theories. ​Hall, Bronwyn, and Beethika Khan. "Adoption of New Technology." (2003) 10 Nakamoto, Satoshi. "Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System." (2008): n. pag.
 Knowing the factors affecting the diffusion of technology, we can identify some actionable practices by the suppliers of blockchain applications to facilitate more rapid adoption ​whole of their products.
 It stands to reason then that by abstracting away these new skills currently required in a distributed application, the creators of blockchain applications can accelerate the adoption of their products.
 Complementaries “The importance of complementary inputs in the diffusion of new technology cannot be overemphasized” - Hall & Kahn 15 Nathan Rosenberg explained complementaries by drawing from the history of American railroads in the second half of the nineteenth and the early twentieth centuries.
 Hall and Khan explained complementaries by referencing makers of mobile telephones or PDAs teaming up with software suppliers like Microsoft to produce complementary software for customers to use.
