 In this paper we present an RFID_B2B system that brings together the B2B and RFID advantages and which could be a viable solution for the potential problems created due to the globalization process.
 According to Jakob Nielsen [2], the major problems with B2B sites are:    the fail in supporting customers' decision-making process by preventing them from getting the information they need to research solutions; they use segmentation that don't match the way customers think of themselves; they lack pricing information (the users in the study prioritized prices as the most critical type of information).
 RFID is similar to another AIDC technology, bar code technology, but instead of optically scanning bar coded labels it uses radio waves to capture data from tags and no direct line of sight is required for this data exchanged between the tags and the readers.
 The key components of any RFID system, tags, are made up of three parts:  microchip: holds the desired information, e.g., information about the physical object to which the tag is attached; antenna: transmits information to a reader using radio waves;   packaging: encases the previous components (chip and antenna) to permit attaching the tag to the desired physical object.
 Tags use a variety of power sources:  active tags - contain their own power source (a battery), that is used to run the microchip's circuitry and to broadcast a signal to a reader;  passive tags, that have no internal power source.
 RFID@B2B Our research team implements an RFID_B2B system that brings together the B2B and RFID advantages and which in the near future could be a viable solution for the potential problems created due to the globalization process.
 By extending the system to the entire supply-chain - final producer, supplier, the manufacturer’s suppliers, etc. - the customer can follow the course of materials included in the final product, up to the primary sources.
 Different applications of RFID are implemented in the data collection level in order to write and read the data from the tags attached to the materials, assemblies and finite products.
 All three types of control gates have the ability:  to read fields from RFID tags and save them into a non-volatile history memory using a file system;     to send stored data to a PC (only at request); to modify fields on RFID tags as a result of a command from a PC or as the result of an internal script execution; to fire alarms as the consequence of some actions and events that occurred; to control relays and read data using digital inputs and outputs.
 All three kinds of control gates are able to use a RS485 serial connection to communicate with a PC through ModBus communication protocol and a RS232 connection to communicate with the RFID reader.
 The presented system offers a high degree of flexibility and helps companies of all sizes enable their customers to do business on demand — when they want, where they want and how they want.
 Other system benefits are:  Assures realtime inventories so the users can always receive accurate, up- to-date inventory information;  Offers the possibilities to share meaningful data with supply chain partners;  Permits strengthening customer and partner relationships with collaboration;  Speeds and simplifies the deployment and management of e-commerce sites;  Maximizes performance, scalability and adaptability of partners systems;  Provides rich, ready capabilities for products catalog and content management;  Permits a greater visibility through realtime product updates, availability and pricing information;  Offers personalization capabilities. 3.
 The presented system helps small, medium and enterprise organizations to improve productivity and provide better service to their customers by providing a flexible solution for all of a company's B2B needs.
 Acknowledgment This work was supported in part by the Romanian Ministry of Education and Research under Grant named “Integration of RFID Innovative Applications in a Web B2B Platform for Enterprise Supply Networks - RASMEN” 06CEEX I 03/2005.
 References [1] Kenjale, K., Phatak, A. (2002) “The Benefits of B2B Exchanges”, available at http://www.destinationcrm.com [2] Nielsen, J. (2006) “B2B Usability”, available at http://www.feeds4all.com [3] IBM, “Improving shop floor execution from suppliers to finished product”, available at http://www-03.ibm.com [4] Goloca, A., Popa, V., Găitan, V., Vlad, V. (2006) “Access Control Using Low Complexity Gates Based on RFID Technology and ModBus Protocol”, “Securizarea accesului folosind porţi bazate pe tehnologia RFID şi protocolul ModBus”, vol.
