 Safety and Security for Intelligent Infrastructure Kevin Fu University of Michigan Elizabeth Mynatt Georgia Tech Computing Community Consortium Ann Drobnis Computing Community Consortium Greg Morrisett Cornell University Shwetak Patel University of Washington Radha Poovendran University of Washington Ben Zorn1 Microsoft Research What is Intelligent Infrastructure?
 While our nation’s cities and communities face increasingly serious challenges brought on by an aging and inadequate physical infrastructure, rapid advances in computing and communications have radically transformed cyberinfrastructure industries in the US economy.
 These devices are part of the Internet of Things (IoT) and the economic value of their widespread deployment is estimated to be trillions of dollars, with billions of devices deployed.
 The same benefits accrue to any infrastructure that embeds increased sensing and actuation capabilities via IoT devices, including roads and traffic control, energy and water management in buildings, and public health monitoring.
 Potential Problems & Challenges While there are clear benefits to embedding sensing, computing, and communication into previously “dumb” infrastructure, this technology also creates new and challenging threats to safety, security, and privacy.
 While verifying an entire general purpose computer (running Linux for example) may be very difficult and expensive, relatively simple devices embedded in infrastructure might be simple enough 4 https://www.theguardian.com/technology/2016/oct/26/ddos-attack-dyn-mirai-botnet 2 that formal verification methods are both possible and economical.
 Theme: Device Life Cycle and Graceful Degradation Given that devices installed in infrastructure need to last for decades, several top-level concerns arise related to maintaining the hardware and software in the devices over their entire life cycle.
 Increasingly, cryptography is also being used within an application to ensure that the application executes correctly and does not reveal any private information to outsiders even if the host operating system is compromised.
 Finally, to protect individual privacy overall, techniques such as differential privacy provide mathematical guarantees that limit the amount of information a third party can learn about an individual by analyzing collected data.
 Theme: System Interdependencies, Compartments, and Points of Failure In general, as smart technology creates greater interdependencies (for example between the HVAC system and the lighting system in a building), the potential arises for unforeseen circumstances when one system fails to operate as expected.
 Theme: Protecting Collections of Devices An emerging threat that arises when tens of thousands of similar devices are deployed in infrastructure is the potential for an attacker to compromise many related devices at the same time, giving them greater potential for damage.
 Beyond educating the operators, it is also important that individuals using and affected by technology deployed as part of Intelligent Infrastructure understand the implications of the technology and how it impacts them.
 For example, in the case of smart meters, owners should be aware of the privacy implications of the devices as well as what precautions they should take regarding protecting the device both physically and against cybersecurity attacks (for example to prevent someone from hacking their account).
 Such devices change the way in which we think about infrastructure and many of the challenges already understood about computer security in general apply to these systems.
 We have discussed how such systems require expansive thinking about safety and security and we have described the kinds of research that will improve these qualities.
