 Moreover, cost- effective management and sustainability of these growing urban areas will be one of the most critical challenges to our society, motivating the concept of science- and data-driven urban design, retrofit, and operation—that is, “Smart Cities”.
 Rather, these open, generative infrastructures are the result of a balance of federal and commercial investment in basic research and key technologies, and federally supported communities of academic and commercial participants collaborating toward open infrastructure.
 Rather, it was catalyzed by federally supported basic research and collaborative contributions by academic, industry, and government researchers who solved fundamental scientific and technical challenges and engaged in their test and evaluation in working infrastructure.
 Critical to achieving today’s Internet was leadership on the part of the federal government to encourage and support evaluation and selection of a common, open platform, through a process that ultimately engaged all of the platform providers spanning academia, government, and industry in building a common, open Internet.
 Using Argonne’s Waggle platform, designed to provide reliable sensor hosting and edge computing capabilities in remote locations [Beckman2016], AoT is establishing an open platform for rapidly embedding new sensors, communication and computing devices in a major urban areas beginning with Chicago.
 AoT is also an example of the importance of cities partnering with local universities and national laboratories to harness these new sensing, measurement, and observational technologies, as is also evidenced by the participation of such teams in organizations such as the MetroLab network.
 Resilient Architecture and Balancing Distributed and Central Functions 2.4 Many traditional smart city projects rely on data collection from sensors such as cameras, transmitted to a cloud platform where images and other data are continuously and centrally analyzed for decision support.
 Edge computing is essential to providing such resilience, but moving from a centralized command-control architecture to a resilient, cooperative, distributed architecture also introduces the need for basic research and development of configuration, reliable management, programming, and automated control of distributed systems of autonomous devices.
 Dynamic charging technology allows EVs to charge their batteries while moving on the road, and hence make batteries lighter, smaller and EVs overall cheaper. • Privacy and Security: The EVs are tightly coupled with other sensing, communication and computing infrastructures such as smart grid utilities and road infrastructures.
 Hence, coordinated and innovated agreements, pricing models, and billing protocols which are also privacy-preserving, are required and represent a major challenge for transportation electrification. 4 Recommendations City-scale intelligent systems and platforms are major components of the overall integrated and intelligent infrastructure for future cities and megacities and, more broadly, urban settings.
 Along the same lines, incentives need to be in place so that both private and public organizations can make data available on a continuing basis. • We recommend two focus areas for research regarding the development, prototyping, and deployment of city- scale intelligent infrastructures.
 Cities within developed economies such as U.S. are faced with aging infrastructure, and thus the need for research into re-purposing, retrofitting, optimization, and better control of existing infrastructure, including new measurement, data analysis, and autonomous control systems.
 Concurrently, cities in developing economies are rapidly expanding, and new cities are being built, where there is need for research regarding the design and deployment of intelligent infrastructures, systems and platforms toward goals such as reduced energy costs, efficient transportation, and equitable accss to healthcare, energy, food, water, and other services.
 Both of these areas require research into data integration and analysis techniques and platforms—particularly those harnessing machine learning—as well as measurement methods and technologies necessary for infrastructure and investment evaluation, and multi-scale, coupled computational modeling capabilities to support optimized designs through simulation. • The availability of data motivates data-driven approaches for resource allocation at all levels of the Smart City infrastructure.
 Hence, research is needed to develop data-driven resource allocation mechanisms, including control and audit systems to support privacy and security—enabling data-driven approaches that go beyond open data, harnessing sensitive data essential to fully understanding or modeling urban systems. • New research is needed in machine learning and data analytics emphasizing dynamic system aspects since city-scale systems and platforms are dynamic complex systems.
