 Third, it proposes to adopt a meso-level approach, in be- tween the macro-level of democratic theories and the micro-level of tools, to situate the interplay between people, digital technologies, and data.
 The exploration of new technologies and methods to harness the potential of crowdsourcing for civic action and politics, nevertheless, contrasts with the scarce attention given to the underlying assumptions about democracy, participation, equali- ty, representation, and citizenship.
 Third, we propose to adopt a meso-level approach, in between the macro-level of democratic theories and the micro-level of tools, to situate the interplay between peo- ple, digital technologies, and data.
 In her work on representative democracy, Nadia Urbinati has noted that both Montesquieu and Rousseau were ‘the first theorists to argue (for divergent reasons) that an unsolvable tension exists between democracy, sovereignty, and representation’ (2004: 54).
 Condorcet, Urbinati notes, reconciles sovereignty, representation, and participation by making ‘citizens’ participation essential to both the functioning of representative government and the preservation of political liberty’ (2004: 60).
 Likewise, we can satisfy the principles of political equality and deliberation if we choose (by lot or by random sampling) a microcosm of deliber- ators (e.g.
 The elaboration of Iceland’s Constitution is another recent example of the weak con- nection between deliberative bodies (in this case, the Constitutional Convention and the Parliament).
 Yet, research on the implica- tions of civic technologies for democracy and democratisation processes is still large- ly overlooked in both deliberative and epistemic accounts of democracy.
 For example, enabling effective non-electoral forms of representation would require a survey of technology options and ‘knowledge of what works and when’ (Noveck 2017).
 Likewise, a better understanding of the underlying principles, models, and concepts of democratic theory would help to inform the design of civic tools and modulate the frequently inflated expectations placed on them.
 The group deliberates on a first draft, which is open to the general public for comments and suggestions (typically from a self-selected subset of the electorate).
 The feedback from this very large group is incorporated in the draft and subsequently adapted to produce, after a number of iterations, the text to be agreed and ratified by the electorate.
 The Swiss ‘semi-direct democracy’ model (Cormon 2015) is paradigmatic when combining repre- sentation and popular sovereignty at the three levels of governance (federal, cantonal and mu- nicipal).
 We are interested in discovering how those con- nections are made and how they can be reused. 5 Concluding Remarks In this paper we have briefly sketched some tensions and trilemmas in democratic theory that are relevant to the topic of designing civic technologies for democracy.
 Our contention is that technology can provide solutions to these tensions and trilem- mas if we embed the issues at stake in a particular institutional meso-level.
