 This paper focuses on the Power Line Communication (PLC) aspect and technologies used in the smart grid.
 Modeling of the PLC system with different types of digital modulations was conducted using MATLAB/Simulink software and Python.
 The benefits and design tradeoffs of Amplitude Shift Keying (ASK), Frequency Shift Keying (FSK), and Phase Shift Keying (PSK) are discussed.
 Power generation via renewable and conventional energy is optimized and managed by the smart grid operators at the distribution level financial and environmental applications [3],[4].
 The smart grid includes smart meters, smart appliances, energy efficient resources, and renewable energy resources.
 The PLC system allows renewable energy integration to sell power to the electric grid [6],[7].
 This paper the use of wired communication technologies for the smart grid that utilize the existing power line infrastructure.
 However, due to the characteristics of the communication channel, analog modulation is not suitable for PLC.
 Therefore, this paper addresses only digital modulation techniques, including Amplitude Shift Keying (ASK), Frequency Shift Keying (FSK) and Phase Shift Keying (PSK).
 Using substation connection data provided by Florida Power and Light (FPL), the power line channel forming the Atlantic and Yamato is modeled and considered for data transmission and electrical fault detection.
 The smart grid friendly characteristics integrates the generation, transmission, and distribution of the electric utilities.
 The smart grid is a two-way communication between the customer and electric utility [16].
 In Fig. 1, a BB–PLC is displayed and in Fig. 2, the output signal of a NB-PLC is shown.
 APPLICATION TO ATLANTIC-YAMATO SUBSTATION COMMUNICATION LINK An important component of any smart grid PLC system design is a block diagram and simulation of the system.
 The modulating process consists of amplitude shift keying, frequency shift keying demonstrated in Fig. 5.
 In amplitude shift keying, the amplitude of the carrier is changed depending on the data signal.
 BPSK can be utilized to transmit measured data over the power lines on the monitoring system [22].
 The output that FSK transmission and reception was shows properly modeled and operational for this PLC system.
 PLC PSK DATA TRANSFER SIMULATION PSK was modeled using a standard PSK modulator and demodulator.
 The PSK signal generated, shown in Fig. 12, depicts the effects that noise has on the modulated signal.
