 In this case, the priority order of the loads should be considered to maintain electric supply to the most sensitive loads in the event of insufficient generation.
 In [5], a method based on Monte-Carlo simulation to evaluate reliability of an active distribution system with multiple microgrids is proposed.
 It has been shown that the inclusion of DGs and storage increases the overall reliability of the system.
 Markov modeling is used the reliability of microgrid with photovoltaic (PV) generation and energy storage systems (ESSs) in [8].
 One of the crucial requirements for utilities is to ensure that the system reliability is maintained with the inclusion of microgrid topology.
 Therefore, this paper evaluates the reliability of a microgrid containing prioritized loads and distributed RES through a hybrid analytical-simulation method.
 The results indicate the reliability enhancement of the overall system in the presence of the microgrid topology.
 The ability of a microgrid to operate in islanded mode increases the reliability of the load points.
 The islanding mode can occur if there is a fault within the microgrid or in the upstream network to which it is connected.
 In islanded mode of operation, the loads depend upon the power generation of DGs connected in the microgrid.
 The wind power is obtained from the wind speed by using the WTG power curve shown in Fig. 2.
 The power curve expresses the wind power as the function of wind speed and is provided by the wind turbine manufacturer.
 The power curve of WTG is usually characterized by the following parameters: Rated speed (vrated): The speed at which the maximum power can be extracted from the WTG.
 The expression for output power of PV in terms of solar radiation is given as [14]: GP 2 G R std c G G std P sn R G G c std G G std G R c P PV (9) P sn (cid:33) (cid:31) (cid:100) (cid:100) (cid:100) 0 sn (cid:173) (cid:176) (cid:176) (cid:176)(cid:176)(cid:32) (cid:174) (cid:176) (cid:176) (cid:176) (cid:176)(cid:175) (4) (5) Using the wind power curve, the simulated wind power is obtained from the wind speed.
 The number of occurrences at which the load is supplied by RES for each of the load points is counted.
 The results also indicate that the reliability indices for the most non-sensitive load does not change significantly.
 Reliability indices for load points 9 for different cases. that the decrease in probability of successfully islanding, reduces the reliability of the system.
 The stochastic nature of wind and solar energy introduces complexity in the reliability evaluation methods.
 The studies indicated that integration of intermittent wind and solar energy sources in microgrid increase the reliability indices of the system.
 It was also highlighted that the reliability of the system decreases with decrease in reliability of the islanding operation.
