 Existing cavern models for the CAES used in power system optimization problems are not accurate, which may lead to infeasible solutions, e.g., the air pressure in the cavern is outside its operating range.
 Compressed air energy storage (CAES), as mentioned in the first paper of this two-part series, is a promising large-scale energy storage technology.
 Reference [15] integrates ideal and generic storage devices into stochastic real-time UC problems to deal with the stochasticity and intermittence of non-dispatchable [16] developed an enhanced security constrained UC formulation considering CAES and wind power.
 Reference In the papers mentioned above, the temperature of the air in the cavern of CAES is assumed to be constant (called constant- temperature cavern model for the CAES).
 In the current paper, a novel method with a smaller number of constraints and variables than [17] is proposed to ensure the minimum switch time.
 In the CAES model, the mass, pressure, and temperature of the air in the cavern are involved in the continuous bi-linear terms and have large ranges.
 The idle The CAES cannot be in charging and discharging processes at the same time, which can be modeled as in the cavern, which can be expressed as (discharging) power is 0.
 The following constraint ensures that, when it is in idle should be in one and only one of the charging, discharging, and idle processes at a time.
 In this subsection, reformulation and piecewise linearization are used to linearize these bi-linear terms and reduce the complexity of solving the whole model given in Section II.
 Comparing Fig. 3b with Fig. 5b shows that CAES helps to reduce wind shedding, especially in scenarios 2 and 3 that have more wind power.
 That is, the benefit attributed to CAES increases as the wind power penetration increases. > THIS IS NOT THE FINAL FULL VERSION, PLEASE WAIT FOR THE IEEE VERSION FOR FULL PAPER < 6 pressure region.
 Results obtained from the UC model without CAES: a) load and total output from conventional units, b) total wind power capacity and total wind power output. 60 70 75 TABLE I PENETRATION.
 Note that only scenario 2 is shown in Fig. 6; scenarios 1 and 3 are similar but not shown as the space of the paper is limited.
 The average relative errors between the pressure (temperature) obtained by the two models are 0.27, 0.28, and 0.28% (0.27, 0.27, and 0.28%) for scenarios 1, 2, and 3, respectively.
 Therefore, the time interval of the cavern model for CAES can be set to 20 minutes and there is no need to decrease this time interval to further increase accuracy at the expense of a higher computational burden.
 However, the solution obtained from the bi-linear model ensures the cavern of CAES plant operates within the optimal a) c) b) d) Fig. 6.
 Temperature result obtained from a) Linearized Model II and the analytical model [19], and b) the constant-temperature model and the analytical model [19]; Pressure result obtained from c) Linearized Model II and the analytical model [19], and d) the constant-temperature model and the analytical model [19].
 Note that the final solution of Linearized Model II given in previous subsections is obtained in step 6, as described in Section III-E.
 Simulation results show that the bi-linear cavern model is more accurate and avoids violating the optimal operating range of the air pressure in the cavern compared to the constant-temperature cavern model.
 Simulation results also show that integrating CAES in the UC problem reduces wind shedding, total cost, and the number of times conventional generators are turned on and off.
