 In order to characterize the conducted and radiated phenom- ena that occur along every branch of a PLN, we make use of the transmission line super theory (TLST) [6].
 For what concerns the common mode (CM) transmission, a reference plane has to be taken into account in the system to let the CM current circulate.
 It can be noticed that for d ≫ L, λ the two lines are equivalent to a single wire which radiates double the power of a single wire alone.
 The radiated power can be obtained by solving (1) for the single wire in free space, considering the array factor given by the image theory [12].
 Hence, two main lobes are created in the forward and backward directions, their amplitude being proportional to the square of the forward and reverse currents respectively.
 With this model, a series resistance for each wire accounts for the radiation losses due to differential signaling between that wire and another one.
 Moreover, a series resistance on the ground reference accounts for the radiation losses due to the common mode signaling that passes through the cable and closes its path through the ground.
 In order for such a model to be extendible to a cable of any length, some simpliﬁcations need to be made for the models of RDM and RCM , since they do not increase linearly with the cable length.
 As for RDM , we can consider rDM to be equal to RDM ∞ /λ, where RDM is the total DM radiation resistance of a semi-inﬁnite cable, up to L = λ.
 MODE CONVERSION AND DISCONTINUITIES In this section, we explain the causes of mode conversion in power line networks, which eventually foster electromagnetic radiation and deteriorate the quality of the signal transmitted through the power line.
 Solving (12) as presented in [10] gives the voltage and current propagation equations I(x) =Z −1 V (x) =T e−ΓxV + C T (e−ΓxV + m + eΓxV − m , m − eΓxV − m ) (14) where Γ and ZC are the propagation constant and the char- acteristic impedance of the cable respectively.
 The corresponding mixed-mode voltage and current state vector is: A power line branch can be in general represented as a multiport system where the signal at N input ports is transferred to N output ports.
 To derive the scattering matrix of this system, (14) has to be solved for x = 0 and x = l, where l is the length of the line, respectively.
 The voltages and currents at the input side of the MTL are II =Z −1 VI =(V + C (V + m + V − m ) m − V − m ), (16) (17) while the voltages and currents at the output side of MTL are C (e−ΓlV + IO =Z −1 VO =(e−ΓlV + m + eΓlV − m ). m − eΓlV − m ) (18) (19) The subscripts I and O denote the input and output ports respectively.
 The scattering matrix Sjk for single-ended ports and for mixed-mode ports obey the following relations bjk ≡ Sjkajk, ˙bjk ≡ ˙Sjk ˙ajk. jk, bc jk). jk), ˙ajk = where bjk = (bj, bk), ajk = (aj , ak), ˙bjk = (bd (ad jk, ac Reordering the rows of Θ, it is possible to compute the ˙Sjk relationship between the mixed-mode scattering matrix and the single-ended scattering matrix S.
 To this aim, Θ is split in two rectangular matrices Θ1, Θ2. Θ1 is composed by the ﬁrst two rows of Θ and Θ2 the last two, respectively.
 The conversion be- tween S and ˙S is computed by applying (34) and to all the possible j, k couples. jk) and ˙a = (ad jk, . . . , ac D.
 While the two cases with ZP 1 = ZP 2 exhibit very low values of rdc1−2 , the mode conversion is signiﬁcantly higher for ZP 1 6= ZP 2.
 In fact, a comparison between Figure 7 and Figure 8 shows that the power converted to CM when ZP 1 = 150 Ω and ZP 2 =16.7 Ω (square symbols) is about one order of magnitude less than the transmitted differential power.
 We showed that such matrix can be used to compute the overall mode conversion of the network and we tested our model measuring the mode conversion of a loaded cable.
