 This holds true in particular for images decomposed into a number of scales, exemplary in JPEG 2000 coding system.
 We present the core focused on CDF 5/3 wavelet and the symmetric border extension method, both employed in the JPEG 2000.
 INTRODUCTION transform (DWT) The discrete wavelet is the signal- processing transform suitable as a basis for sophisticated compression algorithms.
 The transform results in two subbands, corresponding to two FIR filters (a low-pass and high-pass ones).
 This induces special prolog and epilog phases, which cause delays at the beginning and end of the processing.
 The polyphase matrix [4], [6], [7] is a convenient tool to express the transform filters.
 Unlike a convolution scheme, the lifting allows [9] formulation of the transforms mapping integers to integers.
 To keep the total number of wavelet coefficients equal to the number of input samples, symmetric border extension is widely used.
 The symmetric border extension method assumes that the input image can be recovered outside its original area by symmetric replication of boundary values.
 The direct consequence of this formulation is the possibility of an elegant treatment of signal boundaries.
 The stage is used in the sense of the scheme step, usually the lifting step.
 As a next step, a unit which continuously consumes the input signal a0 and produces the output a1, d1 subbands is proposed.
 As a consequence of the DWT nature, the core has to consume pairs of input samples.
 The input signal is processed progressively from the beginning to the end, therefore in a single loop.
 The size of the buffer can be expressed as κ coefficients, where κ is the number of values that have to be passed between adjacent cores.
 To simplify relations, two functions are introduced given by Θ(n) = n + F, and Ω(n) = ⌈n/2⌉. (5) The function Θ(n) maps core output coordinates onto core input coordinates with the lag F .
 The output signal is generated with the lag F = 1 sample with respect to the input signal.
 The data-flow graph obtained shows the mirroring at the beginning and end of the signal.
 CONCLUSIONS We have focuses on treatment of signal boundaries for com- puting of the discrete wavelet transform.
 Malumbres, “On the efficient memory usage in the lifting scheme for the two-dimensional wavelet transform computation,” in Image Processing, 2005.
