
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 There is before the Court a Creditor's Petition and an Amended Notice Stating Grounds of Opposition.
The grounds of opposition are as follows:
 
 
 "1.
The Applicant was not served with a Bankruptcy Notice as alleged or at all.

 2.
Copy of Notice faxed after Creditor's Petition indicates that Notice expired (past 6 months) from date of issue.

 3.
The Creditor's Petition was not served.

 4.
The Applicant was not served with both the Bankruptcy Notice and the Extension Notice.

 5.
The effective date of expiry of the Notice was not clear on the face of the record.
" 
 
 
 BACKGROUND FACTS 
 
2 On 2 November 2004, the applicant ("the Creditor") obtained judgment against the respondent ("the Debtor") in the Newtown Local Court for $55,368.94.
The judgment debt arose out of a loan by the Creditor to the Debtor of $40,000, on which interest has continued to accrue.
There has been no challenge to the judgment debt.
3 On 30 March 2005, the Creditor procured the issue of a Bankruptcy Notice.
The Debtor had not, and still has not, made any payment in reduction of the judgment debt (on the hearing he explained why, with a view to showing that he had not tried to avoid paying).
The amount specified in the Schedule to the Bankruptcy Notice as outstanding was $57,375.87, which included interest of $2,006.93.
4 The Bankruptcy Notice was required to be served within the period of six months commencing on the date of its issue or any further period that the Official Receiver might allow (whether within or outside that period of six months): reg 4.02A(2) of the Bankruptcy Regulations 1996 (Cth).
The period of six months expired on 30 September 2005.
5 William Cotsis, the solicitor for the Creditor, instructed Rapid Process Service to serve the Bankruptcy Notice.
Rapid Process Service told Mr Cotsis that unsuccessful attempts were made to effect personal service on the Debtor at the office of Davis Breene Conti, Solicitors, at Level 12, 111 Elizabeth Street, Sydney, several times in 2005, the last being on 19 September 2005.
The Debtor is a practising barrister and apparently does not have chambers.
6 On 3 November 2005, Mr Cotsis wrote to the Official Receiver asking to be allowed to serve the Bankruptcy Notice during a further period.
With his letter, he enclosed the Bankruptcy Notice and two Affidavits of Attempted Service, each one by a licensed commercial sub-agent who had been instructed by Rapid Process Service.
The affidavits went to the deponents' unsuccessful attempts to serve the Debtor at the address mentioned.
7 On 9 November 2005, the Official Receiver granted an extension by issuing a document headed "EXTENSION OF BANKRUPTCY NOTICE Pursuant to sub-regulation 4.02A(2)(b)".
This "Extension Notice" was headed with the Bankruptcy Notice number and the names of the Creditor and the Debtor, followed by this:
 
 "Date Notice issued: 30 March 2005 
 Date Notice extended to: 30 March 2006" 
 

The text of the Extension Notice was as follows:
 
 "This Authorisation has been issued by the Official Receiver (or delegate or an officer authorised by the Official Receiver) for the bankruptcy district of New South Wales.
" 
 

A footnote stated:
 
 "A copy of this Authority extending the Bankruptcy Notice should also be served on the Debtor.
" 
 

8 I have set out the form of the Extension Notice in detail because of the fifth ground of opposition.
On the first day of the hearing, I mentioned to the parties that it struck me as odd that the operative words of the Extension Notice were not in terms to the effect that the Official Receiver was thereby allowing a further period within which the Bankruptcy Notice might be served.
Apparently it was this passing comment that prompted the Debtor to seek leave on the second day of the hearing to amend by raising the fifth ground of opposition.
9 I think it clear that the 'Authorisation' referred to in the text of the Extension Notice is the 'allowance' of a further period for service, contemplated by sub-reg 4.02A(2)(b).
That subregulation is referred to in the heading of the document.
There is no obscurity in the end date: 30 March 2006.
One might wish that the text were better expressed, but it cannot seriously be suggested that the document did not establish that the Official Receiver had allowed, under sub-reg 4.02A(2)(b), an extension for a further period expiring on 30 March 2006 within which the Bankruptcy Notice was to be served.
10 This conclusion disposes of the fifth ground of opposition.
11 By the time he obtained the extension, Mr Cotsis had become aware of reg 16.01 of the Bankruptcy Regulations , which, relevantly, provided:
 
 "16.01(1) Unless the contrary intention appears, where a document is required or permitted by the Act or these Regulations to be given or sent to, or served on, a person (other than a person mentioned in regulation 16.02) , the document may be: 
 
 
 
 (a) sent by post, or by a courier service, to the person at his or her last-known address; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) left, in an envelope or similar packaging marked with the person's name and any relevant document exchange number, at a document exchange where the person maintains a document exchange facility; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) left, in an envelope or similar packaging marked with the person's name, at the last-known address of the person; or 
 
 
 
 (d) personally delivered to the person; or 
 
 
 
 (e) sent by facsimile transmission or another mode of electronic transmission: 
 
 
 
 
 (i) to a facility maintained by the person for receipt of electronically transmitted documents; or 
 (ii) in such a manner (for example, by electronic mail) that the document should, in the ordinary course of events, be received by the person.
" 
 
 
 

12 An affidavit of Mr Cotsis shows that on 16 November 2005, he sent the Bankruptcy Notice, to which the Extension Notice was stapled, to the Debtor, addressed to him care of his Document Exchange box, namely, DX 1091 Sydney, and also personally delivered the Bankruptcy Notice with the Extension Notice attached to the address at Level 12, 111 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
It is not disputed that DX 1091 Sydney is a Document Exchange box shared by the Debtor and others and is a box through which the Debtor has let it be known that it is appropriate to send mail to him.
It is also not disputed that the solicitors' address mentioned was the Debtor's "last known address" for present purposes.
13 Annexed to an affidavit of Mr Cotsis is a copy of his mail book register for the date 16 November 2005 showing that mail was dispatched on that date in relation to a file of 'Carver' to the Debtor at DX 1091 Sydney.
In relation to his delivery of the Bankruptcy Notice and Extension Notice, Mr Cotsis has deposed that he said to the receptionist at the address mentioned, "I have some documents for Mr de Robillard, can you give these to him?
" to which she replied "yes, all right".
Mr Cotsis left the documents with her.
14 In accordance with the Bankruptcy Notice, the Debtor had 21 days after the date of service to pay the Creditor the amount of the debt.
On the basis that the Bankruptcy Notice was served on the Debtor on 16 November 2005, the Debtor committed an act of bankruptcy on 7 December 2005.
15 The Creditor's Petition, specifying that act of bankruptcy, was issued on 19 April 2006, and, subject to what is said below about service, was served on the Debtor on 3 May 2006.
Mr Cotsis has sworn an affidavit on 14 June 2006 to the effect that he effected service by sending a copy of the Creditor's Petition to the Debtor's Document Exchange box, DX 1091 Sydney, and by sending it to him both by facsimile and by electronic mail, in all three cases on 3 May 2006.
CONSIDERATION 
 First, second and fourth grounds of opposition: 
 "The Applicant was not served with a Bankruptcy Notice as alleged or at all" 
 
 "Copy of Notice faxed after Creditor's Petition indicates that Notice expired (past 6 months) from date of issue" 
 
 "The Applicant was not served with both the Bankruptcy Notice and the Extension Notice" 
 
16 These three grounds are interrelated and it is convenient to deal with them together.
The fourth ground was added on the second day of the hearing upon the filing, with leave and over the Creditor's opposition, of an Amended Notice Stating Grounds of Opposition.
17 The Debtor's affidavit evidence shows that, following his receipt of the faxed copy of the Creditor's Petition on 3 May 2006, he inspected this Court's file on 5 May 2006.
On 19 May 2006, he attended at the office of the Insolvency and Trustee Service Australia ("ITSA"), where an officer gave him a copy of the Bankruptcy Notice and a copy of a computer screen display relating to the Debtor.
This last document, while referring to the Bankruptcy Notice, did not show any record of the grant of an extension under sub-reg 4.02A(2)(b).
The display contained provision for any extension to be shown: it had a box labelled "Extended to", but the box was blank.
The Debtor took up this matter with Mr Cotsis who gave him a copy of the Extension Notice.
18 The Debtor has sworn that he did not receive the Bankruptcy Notice or the Extension Notice until after he received the copy of the Creditor's Petition.
He states that he asked of the secretaries who work at the address mentioned if they had any recollection of someone having called at the office to deliver documents for him around November 2005, to which they replied "No we do not".
19 This evidence was unsatisfactory as the cross-examination of the Debtor demonstrated.
The Debtor did not inquire of all the secretaries who worked at the office and there was not a reply "in chorus".
In fact, in cross-examination, the Debtor gave evidence only of having spoken to one secretary over a mobile telephone.
20 The Debtor cross-examined Mr Cotsis at some length.
Ultimately, I did not find the cross-examination or the submissions based on it persuasive.
Mr Cotsis was plainly honest and straightforward in his evidence, and had good recall.
