
 
 1 The late Mr Dunn served in the Royal Australian Navy from 12 July 1947 to 11 July 1959.
In October 1994 Mr Dunn had an estimation of his prostatic specific antigen which was found to be higher than normal.
Prostatic biopsies showed that he was suffering from prostate cancer.
He underwent radical prostatectomy and at the operation was found to have an aggressive cancer with secondary deposits.
Although the condition was treated with hormonal manipulation and orchidectomy, it eventually worsened and Mr Dunn died on 15 June 2003.
2 Mr Dunn's widow applied for a War Widows Pension under the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 (Cth) (the VE Act).
The Veterans' Review Board (the VRB) concluded that the material before it relating to the application did not raise a reasonable hypothesis within the meaning of s 120(3) of that VE Act, so that it followed that the Board was satisfied beyond reasonable doubt, for the purposes of s 120(1), that there was no sufficient ground for determining that the veteran's malignant neoplasm of the prostate was war-caused.
That decision was made on 3 September 2003.
3 Mrs Dunn applied to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal (the Tribunal) to review the decision of the VRB.
On 2 June 2005 the Tribunal set aside the decision of the VRB and in substitution decided that the late Mr Dunn's 'malignant neoplasm of the prostate', was war-caused, the decision having effect from 20 December 2001: Dunn v Commission (2005) AAT 510.
4 The respondent before the Tribunal, the Repatriation Commission (the Commission), now appeals to this Court pursuant to s 44 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (Cth) (the AAT Act).

 LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK 
 
 5 The liability of the Commonwealth to pay a pension to a veteran incapacitated by a war-caused disease is provided for in s 13(1) of the VE Act.
6 The circumstances in which an injury or a disease is taken to be war-caused is set out in subss 9(1) and (2) of the VE Act as it was at the date of the application.
They include (relevantly): 
 
 '9 
 
 
 (1) Subject to this section, for the purposes of this Act, an injury suffered by a veteran shall be taken to be a war-caused injury, or a disease contracted by a veteran shall be taken to be a war-caused disease, if: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) the injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran resulted from an occurrence that happened while the veteran was rendering operational service; 
 (b) the injury suffered, or disease contracted, by the veteran arose out of, or was attributable to, any eligible war service rendered by the veteran; 
 ...' 
 
 
 
 
 (2) For the purposes of this Act, where any incapacity of a veteran was, in the opinion of the Commission, due to an accident that would not have occurred, or due to a disease that would not have been contracted, but for his or her having rendered eligible war service or but for changes in the veteran's environment consequent upon his or her having rendered eligible war service: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) if that incapacity was due to an accident--that incapacity shall be deemed to have arisen out of the injury suffered by the veteran as a result of the accident and the injury so suffered shall be deemed to be a war-caused injury suffered by the veteran; or 
 (b) if the incapacity was due to a disease--the incapacity shall be deemed to have arisen out of that disease and that disease shall be deemed to be a war-caused disease contracted by the veteran.
' 
 
 
 
 7 Provision is made in s 119 for the Commission not to be bound by technicalities, the following portions of that section being relevant: 
 
 '... 
 the Commission: 
 
 
 (f) is not bound to act in a formal manner and is not bound by any rules of evidence, but may inform itself on any matter in such a manner as it thinks just; 
 (g) shall act according to substantial justice and the substantial merits of the case, without regard to legal form and technicalities; and 
 (h) without limiting the generality of the foregoing, shall take into account any difficulties that, for any reason, lie in the way of ascertaining the existence of any fact, matter, cause or circumstance, including any reason attributable to: 
 
 
 
 
 (i) the effects of the passage of time, including the effect of the passage of time on the availability of witnesses; and 
 (ii) the absence of, or a deficiency in, relevant official records, including an absence or deficiency resulting from the fact that an occurrence that happened during the service of a veteran, or of a member of the Defence Force or of a Peacekeeping Force, as defined by subsection 68(1), was not reported to the appropriate authorities.
' 
 
 
 
 8 The standard of proof to be applied to the question whether a veteran is suffering from a disease and the diagnosis of that disease is that provided for as follows in s 120(4) of the VE Act.

 
 '120 
 ... 
 
 
 (4) Except in making a determination to which subsection (1) or (2) applies, the Commission shall, in making any determination or decision in respect of a matter arising under this Act or the regulations, including the assessment or re-assessment of the rate of a pension granted under Part II or Part IV, decide the matter to its reasonable satisfaction.
' 
 
 
 9 The standard of proof to be applied to the question whether the disease is war-caused is that provided for as follows in subss 120(1) and (3): 
 
 '120 
 
 
 (1) Where a claim under Part II for a pension in respect of the incapacity from injury or disease of a veteran, or of the death of a veteran, relates to the operational service rendered by the veteran, the Commission shall determine that the injury was a war-caused injury, that the disease was a war-caused disease or that the death of the veteran was war-caused, as the case may be, unless it is satisfied, beyond reasonable doubt, that there is no sufficient ground for making that determination.

 (2) ... 
 (3) In applying subsection (1) or (2) in respect of the incapacity of a person from injury or disease, or in respect of the death of a person, related to service rendered by the person, the Commission shall be satisfied, beyond reasonable doubt, that there is no sufficient ground for determining: 
 
 
 (a) that the injury was a war-caused injury or a defence-caused injury; 
 (b) that the disease was a war-caused disease or a defence-caused disease; or 
 (c) that the death was war-caused or defence-caused; 
 
 
 as the case may be, if the Commission, after consideration of the whole of the material before it, is of the opinion that the material before it does not raise a reasonable hypothesis connecting the injury, disease or death with the circumstances of the particular service rendered by the person.
' 
 
 

These provisions are to be applied in the manner explained by the High Court in Byrnes v Repatriation Commission [1993] HCA 51 ; (1993) 177 CLR 564 at 571 ( Byrnes ).

 10 The threshold question posed by s 120(3) is whether, on the whole of the material before the decision-maker, a reasonable hypothesis is raised connecting the disease with the circumstances of the particular service rendered by the veteran.
In Repatriation Commission v Owens (1996) 70 ALJR 904 at 904 the High Court emphasised that the question whether a reasonable hypothesis is raised is to be determined on a consideration of the whole of the material before the decision-maker.
11 The application of s 120(3) is affected by s 120A which relevantly provides: 
 
 '120A 
 
 
 (1) This section applies to any of the following claims made on or after 1 June 1994: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) a claim under Part II that relates to the operational service rendered by a veteran; 
 (b) a claim under Part IV that relates to: 
 
 
 
 (i) the peacekeeping service rendered by a member of a Peacekeeping Force; or 
 (ii) the hazardous service rendered by a member of the Forces.

 
 
 ... 
 (3) For the purposes of subsection 120(3), a hypothesis connecting an injury suffered by a person, a disease contracted by a person or the death of a person with the circumstances of any particular service rendered by the person is reasonable only if there is in force: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) a Statement of Principles determined under subsection 196B(2) or (11); or 
 (b) a determination of the Commission under subsection 180A(2); 
 
 
 
 
 that upholds the hypothesis.
' 
 
 

The effect of s 120A(3) is that the hypothesis raised by the material will only be reasonable if it is consistent with, or fits the template of, a Statement of Principles (SoP).

 12 The method by which ss 120(1), 120(3) and 120A(3) are to be applied was explained in Repatriation Commission v Deledio (1998) 83 FCR 82 at 97-98 ( Deledio ).
13 The consequence of the application of the above sections is that no claim that a disease is related to operational service can succeed, where there is in force a SoP concerning that kind of disease, unless the material before the decision-maker raises (or points to) a hypothesis that fits the template of the applicable SoP in the manner described by the Full Court in Repatriation Commission v Hill (2002) 69 ALD 581 at [57] ( Hill ).
There the Full Court (Black CJ, Drummond and Kenny JJ) said: 
 
 '...where it applies, the SoP prescribes the essential content of what is a reasonable hypothesis, for s 120(3) purposes, capable of connecting the particular kind of injury, disease or death with the circumstances of a veteran's particular service.
In order to satisfy ss 120(3) and 120A(3), a hypothesis relied on by a veteran to support a pension claim must be supported by material pointing to each element that the SoP makes essential for the hypothesis to be reasonable.
' 
 
 14 At the time of the Tribunal's decision relating to Mr Dunn's appeal there was in force a SoP concerning Malignant Neoplasm of the Prostate, No.
84 of 1999, as amended by No.
69 of 2002.
It is agreed by the parties that the ' Malignant Neoplasm of the Prostate SoP ' No 84 of 1999 [as amended by No 69 of 2002] was the appropriate SoP and that factor 5(c) of the former SoP was the relevant factor.

 
 ' Factors 
 
 
 5.
The factors that must as a minimum exist before it can be said that a reasonable hypothesis has been raised connecting malignant neoplasm of the prostate or death from malignant neoplasm of the prostate with the circumstances of a person's relevant service are: 
 ... 
 
 
 
 
 (c) increasing animal fat consumption by at least 40% and to at least 70gm/day for at least 20 years before the clinical onset of malignant neoplasm of the prostate; 
 
 
 
 
 
 (Where at clause 8) 
 'animal fat' means fat contained in or derived from meat, other flesh or offal from animals (including birds), and dairy products: ...' 
 

Factor 4 provided that, subject to cl 6 (which has no relevance here), 'at least one of the factors set out in cl 5 must be related to any relevant service rendered by the person'.

 15 Clause 4 of the SoP derives from s 196B(2) of the VE Act which reads: 
 
 
 '(2) If the Authority is of the view that there is sound medical scientific evidence that indicates that a particular kind of injury, disease or death can be related to: 
 
 
 (a) operational service rendered by veterans; or 
 (b) peacekeeping service rendered by members of Peacekeeping Forces; or 
 (c) hazardous service rendered by members of the Forces; 
 
 
 the Authority must determine a Statement of Principles in respect of that kind of injury, disease or death setting out: 
 
 
 (d) the factors that must as a minimum exist; and 
 (e) which of those factors must be related to service rendered by a person; 
 
 
 before it can be said that a reasonable hypothesis has been raised connecting an injury, disease or death of that kind with the circumstances of that service.
' 
 

With regard to the reference to 'factors ...related to service' in (d), reference needs to be made to s 196B(14) which relevantly reads:
 
 
 '(14) A factor causing, or contributing to, an injury, disease or death is related to service rendered by a person if: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) it resulted from an occurrence that happened while the person was rendering that service; or 
 (b) it arose out of, or was attributable to, that service; or 
 (c) ... 
 (d) it was contributed to in a material degree by, or was aggravated by, that service; or 
 (e) ... 
 (f) in the case of a factor causing, or contributing to, a disease--it would not have occurred: 
 
 
 
 (i) but for the rendering of that service by the person; or 
 (ii) but for changes in the person's environment consequent upon his or her having rendered that service; or 
 
 
 
 (g) in the case of a factor causing, or contributing to, the death of a person-it was due to ... a disease that would not have been contracted: 
 
 
 
 (i) but for the rendering of that service by the person; or 
 (ii) but for changes in the person's environment consequent upon his or her having rendered that service.
' 
 MR DUNN'S BACKGROUND 
 
 16 Mr Dunn was born on 1 November 1929.
Included in his operational service from 1947 to 1959 were periods constituting eligible war service.
Those periods were 12 July 1947 to 30 June 1951 with respect to World War II and 2 November 1953 to 16 July 1954 with respect to Korea.
His first six months of service and a total of about 2.5 years out of the 4 years of his first period of operational service was spent onshore in Australia.
Of his 12 years of service, more than 7 years were not operational service.
He served on ship and shore during both his operational service and his non-eligible service.
17 Mr and Mrs Dunn were married in 1955.
18 It was in March 1995 that Mr Dunn was diagnosed with prostate cancer.
His claim under the VE Act in respect of the disease was lodged on 20 March 2002.
It was refused by a delegate of the Commission on 30 April 2002.
19 On 5 May 2003 the VRB adjourned its hearing so that an opinion could be obtained from a dietician concerning the quantity of animal fat in Mr Dunn's diet.
Unfortunately Mr Dunn died on 15 June 2003.
Neither the Commission or Mrs Dunn was able to find a suitably qualified dietician who could provide an opinion after Mr Dunn's death.
It therefore came about that on 3 September 2003 the VRB affirmed the Commission's decision.

 TRIBUNAL'S REASONS 
 
 20 The hypothesis advanced by Mr Dunn to the Tribunal was that operational service had increased his fat intake; this had led to an increased fat intake being maintained during the post-operational service period; in turn that had led to malignant neoplasm of the prostate; and in turn that caused Mr Dunn's death.
The parties were in agreement that this hypothesis pointed to a connection of the death of Mr Dunn with the circumstances of his operational service and that it was a reasonable one.
21 In a signed appendix to his claim Mr Dunn provided an example of his diet before service and an example of the diet available and common in service.
He also provided a signed account of his pre-service life.
On 27 September 2002 Mrs Dunn completed a survey concerning Mr Dunn's diet.
Additionally, the Tribunal had before it supplementary witness statements from his wife and two sons concerning Mr Dunn's eating patterns.
The Commission did not cross-examine on these statements.
22 The Commission called Dr Ruth English (Dr English), a Nutrition Consultant.
The critical question in this appeal is whether the Tribunal was in error of law when it preferred the evidence relating to Mr Dunn over the expert opinion of Dr English.
23 The evidence of Dr English is set out in some detail in the reasons of the Tribunal.
In relation to the pre-operational service periods, she testified that the large variation between Mr Dunn's pre-service energy intake and his energy requirement was that the pre-service diet return for him was invalid and unacceptable as it significantly under-reported his true food intake.
In relation to his post-operational service period, her evidence was that inconsistencies between the evidence of the diet provided for him and his weight gains and energy levels post-service, was that there was significant under-reporting and documented invalidity in his post-service diet.
Therefore she concluded that there was no support for the proposition that his animal fat intake increased by at least 40 per cent between pre-operational service and operational service.
She accepted his consumption of animal fat during post-service period would have remained at 70g per day or above for at least the required minimum period of 20 years.
In relation to supplementary evidence concerning the daily eating patterns of the late Mr Dunn during pre-service, service and post-service periods, Dr English gave her opinion that they still convincingly showed a major under-reporting of the veteran's pre-service diet and an over-reporting of his post-service diet so that the classification for the diet return for pre and post-service periods remained invalid.
Her calculations were that the animal fat and energy content of Mr Dunn's putative diets prior to service were 42.1g/day of animal fat, during service 108.8 g/day and post service 224.8 g/day.
24 The Tribunal's reasons stated in [8]-[11] that 'at the commencement of the hearing both parties acknowledged that there was no dispute that the first 3 steps of the ' Deledio Methodology' were satisfied.
It then set out those steps.
In relation to the third step the reasons stated 'the parties were in agreement that the hypothesis advanced by the applicant was a "reasonable hypothesis" '.
25 The Tribunal commenced its consideration of the evidence with reference to the fact that Dr English had relied upon inference to provide the basis for her conclusions.
It said inferences were only permissible where there are objective facts from which to infer the other facts which it is sought to establish: Caswell v Powell Duffryn Associated Collieries (1939) 3 All ER 722 at 733 ( Caswell ).
It said that additionally Dr English had relied on the Schofield equations used in mathematical models for predicting weight change and related dietary aspects to arrive at her conclusions on the dietary fat intake of Mr Dunn at different periods of service.
The weight of such evidence depended upon whether the assumptions on which they were based were supported by some factual evidence or satisfactory expert opinion: Lawrence v Kempsey Shire Council (1995) 87 LGERA 49 ( Lawrence ).
26 The Tribunal then turned to the fourth issue arising from Deledio , namely whether the factual evidence before the Tribunal discharged the legal standard of proof.
The Commission conceded that there was little dispute in the evidence concerning Mr Dunn's fat intake during his operational service.
27 The Tribunal then described as follows the reasoning of Dr English in predicting Mr Dunn's dietary requirements (basal metabolic rate, 'BMR') for the pre-service period.
