
 
 1 GE Capital Finance Australasia Pty Ltd is a financier ('GE Capital').
It has been sued by Boston Commercial Services Pty Ltd (ABN 87 114 658 070) (new Boston) which claims to be the assignee of the business, including rights under its contracts, of Boston Commercial Services Pty Ltd (ABN 75 003 990 583) (old Boston).
2 On 9 November 2004 old Boston entered into a contract with GE Capital which provided for old Boston to make what were described as 'field calls' on customers of GE Capital who were not paying their debts in accordance with their loan agreements.
3 On 1 July 2005 old and new Boston entered into a sale of business agreement which was completed at 8.30a.m.
on that day (cl 1.1(e)).
Under the sale agreement old Boston sold to new Boston the business of debt collection and related services which the former had conducted (Sch A).
Mr Derryn Harrison was the sole director of both new Boston and old Boston at all relevant times (Harrison affidavit pars 1 and 2 and company searches Trinca EF).
Old Boston promised, under the sale agreement, to deliver to new Boston all assignments, consents to assignments, releases and incidental documents necessary for new Boston to operate the business but only to the extent that those documents were held by old Boston.
In addition, old Boston promised to deliver to new Boston a notice of assignment, novation or such other form of transfer or notice as new Boston might reasonably require with respect to the GE Capital contract (cl 6.2(c) and (e)).
4 Later in July 2005 old Boston went into a form of external administration and later was subject to a creditor's voluntary winding up.
In October 2005 old Boston's creditors resolved that it be voluntarily wound up and liquidators were appointed.
The liquidators resigned on 7 April 2006 and the evidence before me is that old Boston no longer exists.
5 On 1 July 2005, new Boston sent a letter to GE Capital saying that: 
 
 '...as part of a corporate group restructure, from today's date, Boston Commercial Services Pty Ltd will be operating under a new ABN number, being 87 114 658 070.
As such, all invoices from July 2005 forwards will be issued under this new number.
All other contact and trading details for Boston remain unchanged.
' 
 
 
 6 On 9 June 2006 new Boston commenced these proceedings.
In its application it sought unliquidated damages pursuant to s 82 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ('the Act').
New Boston's statement of claim is based on claims for breach of contract, misleading and deceptive conduct in contravention of s 52 of the Act and unconscionable conduct in breach of s 51AC of the Act.
7 The singular feature about the claim, as formulated in the statement of claim, was that new Boston is, in effect, suing GE Capital on the basis of its conduct affecting, its misrepresentations made to, and a contract entered into by, old Boston.
New Boston has pleaded that the sale agreement constituted, or embodied, an assignment which in effect entitled it to succeed to old Boston's rights and liabilities, including choses in action, so as to entitle new Boston to exercise old Boston's causes of action in contract and under ss 51AC , 52 and 82 of the Act.
8 In essence new Boston's claim is that old Boston was invited in early February 2004 to tender for the supply of field agent services by GE Capital.
GE Capital is alleged to have represented to old Boston that it would provide instructions to the successful tenderer to 'effect' field agent services in respect of 25% of its defaulting customers, that would result in approximately 282 field call instructions per month to old Boston.
9 New Boston pleaded that GE Capital specifically represented to old Boston that those services would be required for a period of two years with the possibility of a further extension and that that period was specifically provided for in the GE Capital contract.
10 The GE Capital contract did have a written term of two years.
However, GE Capital also could terminate the GE Capital contract immediately by written notice without any liability or obligation if old Boston entered into liquidation or any other type of insolvency or ceased to conduct business to give effect properly to the GE Capital contract (cl 20(a)(v)).
In addition, GE Capital also had the right to terminate the agreement at its discretion at any time by giving 14 days written notice, in which case it was liable only for the amount outstanding for services provided up to the date of termination (cl 20(b) and (c)).
11 The statement of claim also alleged that old Boston expended considerable time and cost to complete costing analyses for the purpose of preparing its tender, and in doing so it was alleged to have relied on the representations as to the volume of work which would be provided by GE Capital.
The activity of inviting tenders and their responses took place between 4 and 13 February 2004.
12 On 8 March 2004 old Boston was advised by GE Capital that it had satisfied its criteria, subject to passing some form of auditing.
This led to the formation of the GE Capital contract on 9 November 2004, to which I have referred.
That contract contemplated that old Boston would be a contractor to provide services on the terms and conditions of the contract and that the relationship would be that of principal and independent contractor (cl 2(a)).
The services schedule to the contract specifically provided that GE Capital gave no undertaking, representation or warranty as to the number or frequency of referrals of field calls that it may make to old Boston under the contract, but that old Boston was required to undertake such field calls as were requested in compliance with the provisions of the GE Capital contract (Services Sch cl 3).
Somewhat confusingly, the GE Capital contract provided that old Boston must ensure that only persons who were its employees provided the services unless it obtained GE Capital's prior written consent to the contrary (cl 7(a)(vi)), while at the same time saying that old Boston should perform the services through employees, agents and servants and, provided that GE Capital had been advised of their identities, its contractors (cl 22(a)).
However, old Boston was to remain fully responsible for the performance of all services provided under the GE Capital contract (cl 22(c)).
13 The statement of claim pleaded that old Boston incurred costs and expenses to prepare for complying with the service standards which were agreed between it and GE Capital on the basis that those expenses would be amortised over a two year term.
Some hearsay evidence was relied on by new Boston that an employee was engaged at about $40,000 p.a.
to co-ordinate field calls, expenses were incurred of approximately $18,000 associated with set up costs for the old Boston's information technology systems and $5,000 for reconciling payments made to old Boston which GE Capital paid by cheque in respect of each individual referral.
14 The statement of claim alleges that between November 2004 and November 2005 GE Capital provided less than half of the agreed number of defaulting customers on whom field calls might be made and set out a table showing the monthly numbers of instructions actually received by either old Boston or new Boston respectively.
It is clear that on the monthly figures, on no occasion did GE Capital require 282 field calls per month to be made, and only on one occasion did the number of calls required exceed 200.
15 On 29 November 2005, GE Capital terminated the agreement.
