
 
1 In this appeal, the Appellant contends that Federal Magistrate Nicholls erred in dismissing ( SZEPI v Minister for Immigration  Multicultural Indigenous Affairs  Anor [2006] FMCA 153) on 23 February 2006 an application for review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ('the Tribunal') delivered on 21 September 2004 affirming a decision of the Minister's delegate refusing the Appellant's application for a protection visa.
2 The Appellant relies upon three grounds.
Firstly, a contention that 'the judgment of Federal Magistrate Nicholls is absolutely incorrect'.
Secondly, that Federal Magistrate Nicholls erred in failing to find an error of law on the part of the Tribunal constituting a jurisdictional error and a failure to find a procedural error in the Tribunal's decision constituting an absence of natural justice.
Neither of the two limbs of this second ground are particularised.
Thirdly, that Federal Magistrate Nicholls erred in failing to find that the Tribunal had failed to comply with its obligations pursuant to ss 424A(1) and 425 of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act').
3 In the course of the hearing, the Appellant articulated two further grounds of error, namely, a failure on the part of the Federal Magistrate to find that the Tribunal failed to reach a 'fair decision' and secondly, a failure on the part of the Federal Magistrate to find that the Tribunal was biased.
As to these further grounds, the contention is that the Tribunal failed to properly consider the Appellant's claim that if he returned to the People's Republic of China ('PRC') he would be arrested and thus the Tribunal failed to properly consider the Appellant's claims of a well-founded fear of persecution for a Convention reason.
4 As to the bias ground, the Appellant contends that the presiding Tribunal member was biased because the member failed to consider important factual elements making up the claim of a well-founded fear of persecution, failed to consider the serious consequences for the Appellant of returning to the PRC and failed to consider the factual content of the Appellant's claim of engagement in and provision of funding for an 'anti-Government party' designed to resist the Chinese Communist Party and thus provide the foundation for an emergent multi-party democratic political framework within at least a part of the PRC.
5 A further contended element of either bias on the part of the Tribunal or a failure of the Tribunal to make a fair decision, is said by the Appellant to be procedural confusion on the part of the Tribunal in failing to maintain a separate and discrete record of the Appellant's papers and documents evidenced by the provision to the Appellant of documents relating to his own application before the Tribunal mixed with documents relating to another claimant's application.
6 In reply to these matters, the First Respondent says this.
7 As to the contention of errors of law constituting jurisdictional error and procedural errors constituting a denial of natural justice, both allegations are unparticularised and therefore reflect no underlying content.
As to the question of bias, there is nothing on the face of the Tribunal's decision to suggest actual bias nor any ground of apprehended bias.
As to the question of the consideration by the Tribunal of the factual content of the claims made by the Appellant, the First Respondent says the Tribunal considered each of the claims made by the Appellant in support of the application for a protection visa and all material and evidence provided to the Tribunal by the Appellant for consideration in the review of the delegate's decision.
8 As to the question of confusion in relation to the documents, the First Respondent acknowledges that there was a mixing of documents as contended.
That matter is addressed by Federal Magistrate Nicholls in his decision.
Importantly, the mixing of documents occurred after the Tribunal reached its decision and therefore did not affect the Tribunal's consideration of the issues or its reasoning in reaching a decision to affirm the decision of the Minister's delegate.
9 As to the contention that the Tribunal failed to comply with obligations cast upon it pursuant to ss 424A(1) and 425 of the Act, the First Respondent concedes that these grounds raise matters of substance but says that ultimately the Tribunal discharged all its obligations arising under those sections of the Act.
The essence of the Appellant's contention is that in reaching its decision, the Tribunal had regard to inconsistencies between the oral evidence provided by the Appellant to the Tribunal and statements made by him in his application documentation for a protection visa submitted to the Department; that these inconsistencies proved to be a part of the reason for the Tribunal affirming the decision under review; and the Tribunal failed to give the Appellant particulars of the inconsistencies thus giving rise to a failure by the Tribunal to provide 'particulars of information' to the Appellant as required by s 424A(1)(a).
10 The First Respondent contends that by force of the Appellant's letter to the Tribunal dated 12 March 2004, the Appellant republished to the Tribunal the content of the claims made to the Department contained in documentation lodged with the Department in support of the protection visa application and thus the Tribunal was entitled to have regard to statements made in that documentation and contrast and compare those statements with the Appellant's oral evidence; without the necessity of giving the Appellant particulars of the inconsistencies; without ensuring the Appellant understood why the inconsistencies were relevant to the Tribunal review; and without inviting the Appellant to comment on the inconsistencies.
11 In other words, the obligations arising under s 424A(1) of the Act had no application by reason of s 424A(3)(b) of the Act to information contained in the Appellant's protection visa application for the purposes of the review before the Tribunal because the Appellant elected to invite the Tribunal to consider that information and all statements, facts and contentions put by the Appellant to the First Respondent in connection with the Appellant's protection visa application.
12 The First Respondent says that since the Appellant 'republished' the relevant information to the Tribunal for the purposes of the application before the Tribunal, the Tribunal acted in a way entirely consistent with the principles identified in the following decisions of the Full Court of the Federal Court; Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Al Shamry [2001] FCA 919 ; (2001) 110 FCR 27; and SZEEU v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] FCAFC 2 ; and the principles identified by the High Court in SAAP v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2005] HCA 24 ; (2005) 215 ALR 162; and notions of 'republication', discussed in the following decisions of the Federal Court; SZDMJ v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2005] FCA 1034 ; and SZHIB v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] FCA 611.
The Background Facts 
 
13 The Appellant was born in the PRC and is a citizen and national of China.
14 The Appellant arrived in Australia on 7 December 2003.
15 On 7 January 2004, the Appellant lodged an application with the First Respondent for a protection visa.
In support of that application, the Appellant lodged a statutory declaration made on 6 January 2004 setting out the factual foundation for the Appellant's claim of a well-founded fear of persecution should he return to the PRC.
On 6 February 2004, the First Respondent wrote to the Appellant advising that his application had been refused.
That letter attached a copy of the decision record setting out the Respondent's reasons for rejecting the Appellant's application.
16 On 15 March 2004, the Appellant lodged an application for review of that decision with the Tribunal.
The Appellant lodged with that application a five page letter signed and dated 12 March 2004.
