
 
1 The circumstances revealed in this application for preliminary discovery suggest there is a need for the Minister administering the Australian Federal Police Act 1979 (Cth) ("the AFP Act ") and the Commissioner of Police to address the procedures and protocols followed by members of the Australian Federal Police ("AFP") when providing information to the police forces of another country in circumstances which predictably could result in the charging of a person with an offence that would expose that person to the risk of the death penalty in that country.
Especially is this so where the person concerned is an Australian citizen and the information is provided in the course of a request being made by the AFP for assistance from that other country's police force.
This said, the application to this Court must be rejected.
It reveals no basis for a reasonable cause to believe that the applicants may have a right to obtain relief in this Court.
Any later proceedings brought on the bases foreshadowed in this application would be purely speculative in character or else would have no prospects of success.
2 The four applicants, Scott Rush, Renae Lawrence, Michael Czugaj and Martin Stevens, are members of a group of Australian citizens known as the "Bali nine".
All were arrested in Bali for alleged involvement in heroin trafficking to Australia, the arrests resulting from action taken by the Indonesian police in consequence of precise details provided to that police by members of the AFP.
Each of the applicants is now exposed to death penalty if convicted of the offences with which they respectively have been charged.
It is the action of AFP members in providing that information to the Indonesian police and its foreseeable consequence that has prompted the bringing of this application.
THE APPLICATION FOR PRELIMINARY DISCOVERY 
 
3 Order 15A rr 3 and 6 of the Federal Court Rules provide respectively for what is colloquially known as "identity discovery" and "information discovery": see generally Hooper v Kirella [1999] FCA 1584 ; (1999) 96 FCR 1.
I am empowered by our Rules to order identity discovery where (i) an applicant, having made reasonable inquiries, is unable to ascertain the description of a person sufficiently for the purpose of commencing a proceeding in this Court against that person; and (ii) it appears that some other person has, has had, or is likely to have knowledge of facts or possession of any document tending to assist in ascertaining who that person is.
4 Information discovery in contrast is discovery against the very person against whom relief may be sought.
It is tightly circumscribed in the requirements to be met before discovery may be ordered.
These are that:
 
 
 "(a) there is reasonable cause to believe that the applicant has or may have the right to obtain relief in the Court from a person whose description has been ascertained; 
 
 (b) after making all reasonable inquiries, the applicant has not sufficient information to enable a decision to be made whether to commence a proceeding in the Court to obtain that relief; and 
 
 (c) there is reasonable cause to believe that that person has or is likely to have or has had or is likely to have had possession of any document relating to the question whether the applicant has the right to obtain the relief and that inspection of the document by the applicant would assist in making the decision.
" 
 
 

5 Common to both species of discovery is a prospective proceeding which may be commenced in this Court.
Inherent in this possibility are the requirements that the proceeding will be (a) within federal jurisdiction and (b) in respect of a cause of action known to law which is not purely speculative in character and which is not devoid of prospects.
There is no difficulty in this matter in relation to the former of these requirements, some at least of the prospective causes of action being said to arise under Commonwealth legislation: see Judiciary Act 1903 , s 39B(1A)(c).
It is the latter requirement, which requires the identification of a possible cause of action (in this case a legal wrong done to the applicants), that is problematic.
6 It is unnecessary for me to refer in detail to the growing body of case law on preliminary discovery.
It is sufficient for present purposes to refer to the following.
The O 15A r 3 power to order identity discovery is not to be used in favour of a person who intends to commence merely speculative proceedings.
A material factor in the exercise of the Court's discretion is the prospect of the applicant succeeding in proceedings against the person wished to be sued: Hooper v Kirella at [33].
Information discovery under O 15A r 6 is significantly limited by the conditions imposed in subpars (a), (b) and (c) of that rule.
Subpar (a) requires that there be reasonable cause to believe that the applicant has or may have the right to obtain relief in the Court.
While the threshold test under this subrule may be set at quite a low level: see Gull Petroleum (WA) Ltd v Tah Land Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 1531 at [59] ; the test for determining whether the applicant has a reasonable cause to have the requisite belief is an objective one: see Hooper v Kirella at [39].
Though it is not necessary to demonstrate a prima facie case, it is not enough merely to assert that there is, or is the mere possibility of, a case against the prospective respondent: Hooper v Kirella at [39].
Importantly, as Hely J observed in St George Bank Ltd v Rabo Australia Ltd (2004) 211 ALR 147 at [26]:
 
 "(d) belief requires more than mere assertion and more than suspicion or conjecture.
Belief is an inclination of the mind towards assenting to, rather than rejecting a proposition.
Thus it is not sufficient to point to a mere possibility.
The evidence must incline the mind towards the matter or fact in question.
If there is no reasonable cause to believe that one of the necessary elements of a potential cause of action exists, that would dispose of the application insofar as it is based on that cause of action: John Holland Services Pty Ltd v Terranora Group Management Pty Ltd [2004] FCA 679 ; BC200403021 at [13], [14], [17] and [73].
" 
 

7 While O 15 r 6 expressly contemplates "fishing", it equally requires that each of the limiting conditions prescribed in subpars (a), (b) and (c) must be established.
Preliminary discovery cannot itself be used to remedy deficiencies in the satisfaction of the conditions themselves: Airservices Australia Ltd v Transfield Pty Ltd [1999] FCA 886 ; (1999) 92 FCR 200 at [5] .
8 Before outlining the factual setting of this matter I should indicate that it has undergone a significant transformation since the hearing of the application.
I gave the applicants leave to file supplementary submissions directed primarily to the prospective causes of action they might wish to pursue.
They have acted upon this leave and, in quite some degree, have recast their cases for present purposes.
This explains why matters which received some attention at the hearing are only dealt with cursorily in these reasons.
FACTUAL SETTING 
 
9 Much in the detail of what follows relates only to the first applicant, Scott Rush, and gives rise to potential claims unique to him.
As will become apparent, the cases of the other three applicants arise from their involvement in events in which Scott Rush as well was implicated.
The evidence in this matter was given by way of affidavit and without cross-examination.
In relation to Rush's case I should also indicate that a number of affidavits have been read which expose significant conflicts of evidence between witnesses.
I should indicate that I have not been asked in the circumstances to make findings in relation to contested issues of fact in the material before me, the respondent being prepared to accept that their resolution is for another day, if at all.
10 The annexures to several of the affidavits contain documents derived from the Dossier (or book of documents) relied upon by the prosecutor as evidence in the prosecution of the second applicant, Renae Lawrence, in the criminal proceedings in the Denpasar District Court in respect of an offence under Art 82(1) of the Law of the Republic of Indonesia No 22 of 1997 concerning Narcotics.
The Dossier contained documents obtained by Indonesian Police as part of their investigation and has been made a public document by order of the Indonesian Court.
Reference will be made below to translations of a number of these documents.
11 The four applicants are Australian citizens.
On 6 April 2005, Renae Lawrence and Martin Stephens travelled to Bali.
Scott Rush and Michael Czugaj travelled to the same destination on 8 April 2005.
12 Prior to Rush's departure from Australia, his father, Lee Rush, became aware he may have been travelling to Indonesia.
Lee Rush was concerned that Scott might have been travelling to Bali to be involved in illegal activity and, according to his evidence, he was determined to help save him from committing any offence in Bali.
13 Lee Rush contacted a barrister and family friend, Robert Myers, to seek advice.
Myers had acted for Scott Rush on a number of minor criminal prosecutions concerned, in the main, with dishonesty offences.
Myers in turn contacted a friend of his, Damon Patching, a member of the Queensland Police Service who was at the relevant time seconded to the AFP.
Before referring to the evidence of Mr Myers and Mr Patching, I foreshadow that there are important differences between each's account of their several conversations particularly in relation to what Mr Patching is alleged to have said would be done, and had subsequently been done, by the AFP at Sydney Airport in relation to Scott Rush.
14 Myers' evidence is that he requested that Rush be detained at Sydney airport and prevented from leaving Australia.
He referred to Rush's prior convictions.
It was the case that Rush was on bail at the time.
Myers went on that if the AFP could not detain Rush he should be stopped at his point of exit and be advised that the AFP were aware he was "up to no good", that he would be watched in Bali and that it would be foolish for him to participate in illegal activity there.
15 Patching, according to Myers, said the AFP would talk to Rush if a passport alert ("a PACE alert") was activated.
He was later told by Patching that this had occurred and that Rush had been spoken to at the airport.
Myers then spoke to Lee Rush and told him that, given what the AFP had done, he and Lee Rush had done all they could conceivably do and there was no necessity for Lee Rush to go to Bali to stop Scott.
16 Lee Rush's evidence of his conversations with Myers corroborated Myers' accounts and it was because of those conversations that he desisted from going immediately to Bali to stop his son committing any offence.
17 Mr Patching's evidence was that in one of his conversations with Myers he indicated he would contact Ashley Durre, another Queensland Police Service Officer on secondment with the AFP.
It was agreed with Durre that Patching should arrange for a PACE alert to be placed on Scott Rush.
Patching contacted Federal Agent Osseily who handled PACE alert matters at Sydney Airport, who activated the alert.
Osseily, Patching said, informed him he did not think "it was a goer" for the AFP to approach Scott and to warn him he was of interest to the police.
Patching said he knew at the time it would be unusual for police to make such an approach.
When he later rang Robert Myers and was asked whether Scott Rush would be approached and spoken to by the police, Patching deposed he said that "may be looked at as a possibility ... depending on the circumstances".
He denied he gave any assurance that Rush would be approached.
The next day Patching received a call from Federal Agent Collins at Sydney Airport.
Collins asked him whether Rush's bail conditions would prevent him leaving the country.
After enquiries in Queensland, Patching informed Collins they would not.
He also told Collins that Lee Rush wanted Scott to be approached.
Collins commented this was not usual practice.
Patching denied he gave Myers an assurance or undertaking at any stage that Scott Rush would be approached.
18 Mr Durre's affidavit corroborated Patching's evidence in his recall of conversations with Patching to the extent he was present at and overheard telephone conversations Patching had with others including Myers.
19 Mr Osseily's evidence described the PACE alert system.
It is maintained by the Australian Customs Service.
It is used by particular Federal and State agencies both as a means of gathering intelligence on persons entering or leaving Australia and also as a means of preventing certain targeted individuals from entering or leaving the country.
20 Mr Osseily said he created the PACE alert on Scott Rush on the basis of information that his bail conditions prevented him from departing Australia.
He derived this information from Patching.
21 Mr Collins, who was on duty at the AFP office at Sydney Airport on 8 April, gave evidence that he was informed that morning of the alert on Scott Rush and that the basis of it was that Rush's bail conditions stipulated he was not allowed to depart Australia.
He spoke to Patching and was told of Lee Rush's concern about Scott's visit to Bali.
Collins then contacted the relevant Queensland State Police and ascertained that there were no bail conditions preventing him leaving the country.
This evidence is not consistent with Patching's.
By that time the passengers would have commenced boarding the flight to Bali.
As he said in his own words:
 
 
 "16.
My conclusion at this stage was that there was no reason for Scott Rush to be detained and that he should be allowed to leave without being disturbed.
My view was that despite the concerns of Lee Rush, Scott Rush was an adult and there was no basis for detaining Scott Rush.
I recall running my decision past my supervisor after outlining the results of my investigations and that my supervisor agreed with my decision.

 
 17.
I then contacted the Customs and advised the officer on duty that the AFP would be taking no further action.
" 
 
 

22 On 8 April 2005, Paul Hunniford, who was the AFP Senior Liaison Officer in Bali, sent a letter (translated into Indonesian) to the Indonesian National Police ("the INP") in Denpasar.
It said (omitting formal and irrelevant detail)"
 
 "Subject: 
 
 Heroin couriers from Bali to Australia --- Currently in Bali 
 
 Dengan hormat, 
 
 The AFP in Australia have received information that a group of persons are allegedly importing a narcotic substance (believed to be Heroin) from Bali to Australia using 8 individual people carrying body packs strapped to their legs and back.
More specifically the information received that: 
 
 The group planned to conduct an importation in December 2004.
The group travelled to Bali in December 2004 but the importation was cancelled because there was not enough money to buy 'the stuff' and that they would be travelling again in 3-6 months.
The group returned to Australia.

 
 The couriers were given instructions not to smoke cigarettes for two weeks prior to travel as they would not be allowed to smoke on the return flight as they may appear nervous.
They were to carry body packs (containing white powder) back to Australia by using packs on both legs and the back supports.
They were also supplied back supports.
The packs were to be tightly taped to the person's body.
Members of the group were given expense money and told to change the money into local currency to allow them to buy oversized clothes and thongs.
The clothes and thongs were not to have any metal on them to avoid the metal detectors at the airports.
The couriers received pre-paid mobile telephones.
On return through Customs they were told to be carried [sic] a wooden carving for declaration to Quarantine to by-pass Customs.

 
 Couriers --- 
 
 YANG, Alice dob 9 Dec 1985 
 NGUYEN, Thanh Nhan dob 30 Nov 1986 
 LEE, Francis dob 14 March 1983 
 CAO, Shaode dob 26 Sep 1986 
 HUANG, Danny dob 7 Dec 1986 
 LAU, Ina Yuk Teng 3 Feb 1986 
 LAWRENCE, Renae 11 Oct 1977 
 NORMAN, Matthew 17 Sept 1986 
 
 Enquiries reveal that Andrew CHAN bn: 12/011984 [sic] (21) ... Sydney (NSW D/L) organised travel for some of the December 2004 couriers.
Travel movements show that CHAN has travelled previously to Bali in August 2004 (11 days) and October 2004 (7 days).

 
 On Sunday 3 April 2005 CHAN departed Sydney for Denpasar, Bali.
His travel itinerary indicates that he is booked to stay at the Hard Rock Caf Kuta and is due to return on Friday 15 April 2005.

 
 On Wednesday 6 April 2005 four suspected couriers departed Sydney for Denpasar on AO7829: 
 
 Renae LAWRENCE bn: 11/10/1977 
 Matthew NORMAN bn: 17/09/1986 
 Martin STEPHENS bn: 13/04/1976 
 Si Yi CHEN bn: 19/03/1985 
 
 They are due to return to Australia on Friday 15 April 2005, the day after CHAN returns.
At this stage it is unknown who is the source of the narcotics in Bali.
If identified by INP it is strongly requested that no action is taken until interdiction commences in Australia as early interdiction will hamper the identification of the organiser/recipients in Australia.
Also until the possible narcotics are located on the couriers it is possible that the syndicate is still in the organisational phase.

 
 About 0900 hrs this date Friday 8 April the AFP have received information that a further 3 suspect couriers departing on Australian Airlines flight no AO7829 to Denpasar.
Return date not confirmed at this stage.

 
 Tan Duc Thanh NGUYEN bn: 30/10/1982 
 Michael William CZUGAJ bn: 21/06/1985 (Russian) 
 ... 
 Scott Anthony RUSH bn: 03/12/1985 
 ... 
 
 Request 
 
 The AFP would like to identify the source of the drugs and the organisers (other that CHAN) in Australia.
We would also like to gain evidence of association between CHAN and the suspected couriers .
To do this it I ask that 
 
 
 
 1.
That the suspected couriers due to arrive this date be oversighted to identify their intended address in Australia.

 2.
INP obtain as much evidence/intelligence as possible to assist AFP identify the organisers in Australia and source of narcotics in Indonesia.

 3.
We request surveillance to be carried out on CHAN and the couriers (if possible) until departure .

 4.
should they suspect that CHAN and/or the couriers are in possession of drug at the time of their departure that they take what action they deem appropriate .

 5.
Could INP make enquiries to establish if CHAN is staying at the Hard Rock Hotel and to identify any associates, especially meetings with the above mentioned or the identity of other possible couriers.

 6.
Could copies of all passenger arrival cards be obtained.

 7.
Request photos to be taken of any meetings for possible use in proceedings here.

 8.
If possible obtain phone records of any numbers being called in Australia by either CHAN or the couriers.
This may assist AFP identify the organisers in Australia and possible telephone interception:" emphasis added.

 
 
 

23 On 12 March Mr Hunniford sent a further letter to the INP.
It stated, insofar as presently relevant: 
 
 " Subject: 
 
 Suspected Heroin couriers from Bali to Australia --- Additional intelligence 
 
 Dengan hormat 
 
 Enquiries reveal that: 
 
 Andrew CHAN bn: 12/011984 [sic]
 Renae LAWRENCE bn: 11/10/1977 
 Matthew NORMAN bn: 17/09/1986 
 Martin STEPHENS bn: 13/04/1976 
 Si Yi CHEN bn: 19/03/1985 
 
 are due to return to Australia on Thursday 14 April 2005, on the Australian airlines flight AO7830 scheduled to depart at 22.40 hrs.
Intelligence suggests that CHAN may not be in possession of narcotics but will possibly act as oversight on the flight.
It is also suspected that CHAN would take possession of the narcotics after they arrived in Australia.

 
 Enquiries reveal that: 
 Tan Duc Thanh NGUYEN bn: 30/10/1982 
 Michael William CZUGAJ bn: 21/06/1985 (Russian) 
 ... 
 Scott Anthony RUSH bn: 03/12/1985 
 ... 
 
 are due to return to Australia on Saturday the 16 th of April 2005, on the Australian Airlines flight AO7830 scheduled to depart at 22.40 hrs.
Intelligence suggests that NGUYEN may also not have narcotics in his possession and may only oversight/organise the couriers.

 
 Request 
 
 If arrests are made on 14 April it is likely that NYUYEN [sic], CZUGAJ and RUSH will become suspicious of the arrest and decide not to attempt to board the Saturday flight with narcotics.
I therefor [sic] request that you consider searching NYUYEN [sic] , CZUGAJ and RUSH soon after the first group are intercepted :" emphasis added.

 
 

24 James Watson, an AFP member and legal adviser to the Commissioner and to AFP members, has given the following evidence in relation to these two letters:
 
 "5.4 contrary to what has been widely reported in the media, the information concerning Scott Rush which is reflected in the abovementioned letters dated 8 and 12 April 2005 was not based upon information received from Mr Meyers [sic] or Mr Lee Rush via Senior Constable Patching.
Quite apart from the PACE alert placed by Senior Constable Patching, prior to Scott Rush's departure overseas on 7 April 2005 he (i.e.
Scott Rush) activated another PACE alert, which was handled by the AFP's case officer (Federal Agent Hingst) who had carriage of the AFP's extant investigation into members of the so-called 'Bali 9'.
It was the triggering of this alert which connected Mr Rush with eight other already identified persons of interests.
It was information obtained in the course of this extant AFP investigation (including as a result of the activation of the PACE alert handled by Federal Agent Hingst) which caused Mr Rush's details to be included in the AFP letters of 8 and 12 April.
" 
 

25 Mr Watson also has stated that in sending the two letters to the INP the AFP were acting pursuant to what I will describe as the Police Cooperation Memorandum of Understanding with Indonesia.
26 Between 9 pm 17 April 2005 and 2 am 18 April 2005, the four applicants were among the nine Australians who were detained by the INP.
They were found in possession of what was alleged to be significant quantities of heroin.
A process of investigation had previously been initiated by the INP on 13 April in consequence of the 8 April letter.
27 On 17 April 2005 the INP issued a formal "Investigation Order".
This was done "in the interests of a criminal investigation".
I have in evidence the order that relates to Renae Lawrence.
Similar orders, apparently, were issued in respect of the other applicants.
The Lawrence Order directed named officers to:
 
 
 "1.
Conduct a criminal investigation concerning narcotics under the name of the suspect RENAE LAWRENCE, in accordance with Primary Article 82, Clause (1) sub-clause (a) and Supplementary Article 78, Clause (1) sub-clause (b) of Republic of Indonesia Law No 22, 1997 on Narcotics.

 
 2.
Prepare a Plan of Investigation.

 
 3.
Report every development in the implementation of the criminal investigation at the first opportunity.
" 
 
 

The Order was effective from 17 April.
28 On 18 August 2005, the INP wrote to the Australian Consul in Bali formally informing the consulate that Renae Lawrence had been arrested and detained.
The arrest warrant of 17 April and the Detention Order of 18 April were enclosed.
The letter went on to state that Ms Lawrence's arrest was made because it was strongly suspected that she was involved in a narcotics matter.
The heroin was referred to.
And it was stated that she was arrested in accordance with Primary Art 82(1)(a) and Supplementary Art 78(1)(b) of Republic of Indonesia Law No 22 of 1997 on Narcotics ("the Narcotics Statute").
Seemingly, like letters were sent to the consulate concerning the other applicants.
29 It would appear from Mr Watson's evidence that the INP completed its investigation into the applicants on 15 August and on that day delivered the Dossier of evidence to the office of the Prosecutor for consideration of the evidence.
On 27 September 2005 the Prosecutor delivered the Dossier to the Denpasar District Court for consideration by the judge.
Beginning with Scott Rush on 13 October 2005, the applicants were brought before the Court and each was charged upon the Court's reading of the charges against him or her.
30 It is an agreed fact for the purposes of this application that no request has been made by the Indonesian Government to the Australian Government or by the Australian Government to the Indonesian Government in relation to any investigation, arrest or prosecution of the persons now known as the Bali nine under the provisions of the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 1987 (Cth).
31 After referring below to statutory and other materials relevant to this case which do or are said to govern the conduct of the AFP in this matter, I will refer to what are agreed facts as to Australian Federal Police practice in relation to police to police cooperation particularly in matters which could expose a person to the death penalty.
RELEVANT STATUTES, TREATIES, INSTRUMENTS AND AGREEMENTS 
 1.
Statutes 
 (i) The Death Penalty Abolition Act 1973 (Cth) 
 
32 This Act provides the backdrop to the causes of action that might be relied upon in any prospective proceeding to be brought by the applicants.
This Act abolished capital punishment in respect of offences under the laws of the Commonwealth and the Territories and, within the limits of Commonwealth legislative power, under Imperial Acts.
(ii) The Australian Federal Police Act 1979 (Cth) 
 
33 The significance of this Act to the applicants' case only became apparent in their supplementary written submissions.
For present purposes I would emphasise the following features of this legislation.
First, it constituted the Australian Federal Police: s 6; and defined its functions and powers: ss 8 and 9.
Amongst its functions are the provision of police services in relation to laws of the Commonwealth and the safeguarding of Commonwealth interests: s 8(1)(b)(i) and (iii); and to do anything incidental or conducive to the performance of these functions: s 8(1)(c).
The Act created the position of Commissioner of Police: s 6 and s 17; it conferred on the Commissioner, subject to the Act, the general administration of, and the control of the operations of, the AFP: s 37(1); it empowered the Commissioner to issue orders, in writing, in the exercise of his or her s 37 powers and AFP employees were obliged to comply with such orders, as they were with any lawful direction given by (inter alia) the Commissioner: ss 38, 39 and 40.
34 The Minister administering this Act was likewise empowered to give written directions to the Commissioner with respect to the general policy to be pursued in relation to the performance of the functions of the AFP: s 37(2).
The Commissioner was obliged to comply with such directions: s 37(4).
On 31 August 2004 such a direction was given.
It indicated that one of the expectations the Government had of the AFP was:
 
 "to be active in pursuing opportunities for cooperation and strategic alliances with ... international partners in law enforcement, to support effective action against multi-jurisdictional crime.
" 
 

The AFP was to give "special emphasis" to (inter alia):
 
 
 " preventing, countering and investigating transnational and multi-jurisdictional crime, illicit drug trafficking ... 
 
 meeting Commonwealth interests in a safe and secure Australia by actively fostering relationships with other law enforcement agencies ... within Australia and overseas, where the provision and exchange of information is consistent with AFP functions ..." 
 
 

35 The AFP Act and the Australian Federal Police Regulations made under it apply both throughout and also "outside Australia": the AFP Act , s 5A.
Finally, in abolishing the "independent discretion" rule exemplified in Enever v The King [1906] HCA 3 ; (1906) 3 CLR 969, s 64B provided (insofar as presently relevant) that: 
 
 
 "(1) The Commonwealth is liable in respect of a tort committed by a member in the performance or purported performance of his or her duties as such a member in like manner as a person is liable in respect of a tort committed by his or her employee in the course of his or her employment, and shall, in respect of such a tort, be treated for all purposes as a joint tortfeasor with the member.
" 
 
 
 
 (iii) The Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Act 1987 (Cth) ("the Mutual Assistance Act") and the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters (Republic of Indonesia) Regulations 1999 ("the Regulations") 

36 This Act assumed its presently relevant form as a result of amendments made to it in 1996.
The 1996 legislation aimed (to quote the "Outline" to the Explanatory Memorandum to the 1996 Bill) to:
 
 
 " clarify the areas in which mutual assistance in criminal matters may only be sought by the Attorney-General and the areas in which assistance may be sought using other channels 
 
 enable the Attorney-General to grant or request assistance without the Act having to be applied by regulation to a particular country 
 
 give the Attorney-General a discretion to refuse assistance where the request relates to the prosecution or punishment of a person for an offence in respect of which the death penalty could be imposed or carried out 
 
 enable the Attorney-General to refuse assistance where he considers it appropriate in the circumstances of a particular request.
" 
 
 

37 The areas in which a request was required to be made by the Attorney-General, or to the Attorney-General in respect of a request by a foreign country, for international assistance in a criminal matter, were specified in the Act.
Put shortly, they related to matters that would require either Australia (in respect of a foreign request) or the foreign country (in respect of an Australian request) to exercise coercive powers: see ss 5, 7, 10 and 11 and Parts II to VIIA of the Act; see also Second Reading Speech, Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Legislation Amendment Bill 1996, House of Representatives, Wed 26 June 1996, 2831-2832.
38 Though the applicants initially placed considerable reliance upon the Mutual Assistance Act at the hearing, it is clear that (a) no request for assistance was made by the Governments of either Australia or Indonesia under this Act in this matter and (b) the assistance sought and given was not "of a kind that may be provided or obtained under this Act": s 6.
The applicants in consequence cannot rely directly on the Act in their search for a possible cause of action.
39 It is also clear that the Mutual Assistance Act was not intended to prevent the provision or obtaining of international assistance in criminal matters other than assistance of a kind specified in the Act: s 6.
Nonetheless, the Act within its scope does address the giving of assistance at a foreign country's request in death penalty contexts.
40 The 1996 amending Act referred to above inserted the following paragraphs into s 8 of the principal Act:
 
 
 "(1A) A request by a foreign country for assistance under this Act must be refused if it relates to the prosecution or punishment of a person charged with, or convicted of, an offence in respect of which the death penalty may be imposed in the foreign country, unless the Attorney-General is of the opinion, having regard to the special circumstances of the case, that the assistance requested should be granted.

 
 (1B) A request by a foreign country for assistance under this Act may be refused if the Attorney-General: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) believes that the provision of the assistance may result in the death penalty being imposed on a person; and 
 
 (b) after taking into consideration the interests of international criminal co-operation, is of the opinion that in the circumstances of the case the request should not be granted :" emphasis added.

 
 

41 In consequence of the provisions of s 7 and of the Regulations, the Act applied subject to the limitations, conditions, exceptions or qualifications as were necessary to give effect to the Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters Treaty with Indonesia ("the Mutual Assistance Treaty"): the Mutual Assistance Act, s 7(3)(a).
42 The Regulations applied the Act to Indonesia "subject to the Mutual Assistance Treaty": reg 4.
That Treaty was done at Jakarta on 27 October 1995.
A copy of the English text was a schedule to the Regulations.
43 Article 2 of the Treaty echoed the terms of s 6 of the Act in providing:
 
 "This Treaty shall not derogate from obligations subsisting between the Contracting Parties whether pursuant to other treaties or arrangements or otherwise nor prevent the Contracting Parties providing assistance to each other pursuant to other treaties or arrangements or otherwise.
" 
 

44 To anticipate matters, the actions taken by AFP officers in this matter in providing information to the Indonesian Police was pursuant to a Memorandum of Understanding between Australia and Indonesia entitled "Memorandum of Understanding Between the Government of the Republic of Indonesia and the Government of Australia on Combating Transnational Crime and Developing Police Cooperation ("Police Cooperation MoU").
The Commissioner has indicated that this MoU would not be produced on this application first, because it is information of the type the application is designed to elicit if an order for information discovery was made and secondly, because its disclosure would be resisted on grounds of public interest privilege.
45 The Mutual Assistance Treaty also contemplated (in Art 4.2(d)) that assistance might be refused if the request related to "the prosecution or punishment of a person for an offence in respect of which the death penalty may be imposed or carried out".
46 Amongst the criminal matters in which the Treaty contemplated assistance could be granted was "an offence against the law relating to dangerous drugs or narcotics".
2.
Treaties and Agreements 
 
47 Reference has been made above to Australia's Mutual Assistance Treaty with Indonesia and to its undisclosed MoU with Indonesia which, apparently, provided the basis for the actions of the AFP officers in this matter.
48 The applicants also rely in this application upon Australia's ratification both of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights on 13 November 1980 ("the ICCPR") and, more importantly for present purposes, of the Second Optional Protocol to that Covenant on 2 October 1990 ("the Protocol"), it coming into force on 11 July 1991.
Under the Protocol, Australia agreed that no one within its jurisdiction would be executed: Art 1.
Under the Covenant, Australia agreed (inter alia) that "Every human being has the inherent right to life": Art 6.1; see also Art 3, Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
3.
Guidelines 
 
49 Under reg 4 of the Australian Federal Police (Discipline) Regulations 1979 an AFP member is obliged to have regard to any official guidelines that apply to the performance of his or her duties.
In their original submissions and at the hearing considerable reliance was placed by the applicants on the "AFP Practical Guide on International Police to Police Assistance in Death Penalty Charge Situations" ("the Death Penalty Charge Guide").
It is now acknowledged in the applicants' supplementary submissions that this Guide is not directly relevant in this proceeding.
50 Nonetheless, the terms of the Death Penalty Charge Guide warrant quotation:
 
 "The Attorney-General in consultation with the Minister for Justice has determined that in future Australia will exercise a discretion when considering foreign requests for mutual assistance in criminal matters where the request relates to a charge attracting the death penalty under the law of the requesting country.
In the exercise of that discretion, assistance may be refused in the absence of an assurance from the requesting country that the death penalty would not be imposed or carried out.
The Attorney-General has decided that this policy will also apply to police to police requests.
