
 
1 Before me is a notice of motion brought by the respondents to this matter seeking the following orders:
 
1.
That the applicant's proceeding against the respondents be dismissed.
2.
Alternatively, that the applicant's proceeding be permanently stayed.
3.
That the applicant pay the respondents' costs of and incidental to the proceedings to be fixed and paid forthwith.
2 The respondents are legally represented in this matter.
The applicant is a bankrupt, and is self-represented.
3 Although the respondents to the substantive matter are applicants to this notice of motion, for convenience I shall continue to refer to them as 'the respondents'.
Similarly, although Mr Rogers is the respondent to this notice of motion, I shall continue to refer to him as 'the applicant'.
APPLICATION BEFORE GREENWOOD J 
 
4 The factual background to this matter is set out at some length in the judgment of Greenwood J in Rogers v Asset Loan Co Pty Ltd  Ors [2006] FCA 434 at [8] ---[27].
The applicant and the respondents before his Honour were the same parties as are currently before me.
Before his Honour, the applicant sought various orders, including interlocutory relief restraining the respondents from exercising a power of sale, and in respect of a number of loan agreements, deeds of settlement, mortgages and other instruments relating to various properties.
5 At that hearing the respondents submitted, and Greenwood J found, that the majority of Mr Rogers' claims for final relief involved claims related to the legal or beneficial interest of the applicant in property which vested in the trustee in bankruptcy, and accordingly in respect of which the applicant had no standing to institute legal proceedings ([2006] FCA 434 at [35]).
However his Honour noted that s 116(2) Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) (' Bankruptcy Act ') excised categories of property from the interests, rights, capacities and powers divisible among the bankruptcy's creditors, including:
 
 '... 
 (g) any right of the bankrupt to recover damages or compensation; 
 
 
 (i) for personal injury or wrong done to the bankrupt, the spouse of the bankrupt or a member of the family of the bankrupt; 
 ... 
 And any damages or compensation recovered by the bankrupt (whether before or after he or she became a bankrupt) in respect of such an injury or wrong.
' 
 

6 Mr Rogers claimed that the matters he sought to agitate before his Honour by way of final relief and interlocutory relief fell within the exemption contemplated by s 116(2)(g) Bankruptcy Act because, properly understood, the claims constituted a claim with respect to a 'wrong done to the bankrupt' and the right to recover damages or compensation for each wrong remained with the applicant.
As his Honour summarised:
 
 'In effect, Mr Rogers says a claim based upon conduct on the part of the respondents that bears the statutory character of misleading or deceptive conduct or unconscionable conduct on the part of ALC or ALCPL (or the respondents more generally) in connection with the supply of financial services reflected in the various deeds, is a claim for compensation for a wrong which Mr Rogers is entitled to assert.
' ([2006] FCA 434 at [40]) 

7 Before Greenwood J the respondents said that, to the extent that such a claim, however it might be formulated, is one with respect to a legal or beneficial interest of the bankrupt in land or involves any right, power or capacity in relation to such an interest, the claim vests in the trustee in bankruptcy.
8 After considering each of the applicant's claims for relief and the meaning of the phrase 'wrong done to the bankrupt' in the context of s 116(2)(g) , Greenwood J held that:
 
 'Where the claim for final relief arising out of the conduct of a respondent reflects a claim with respect to both the rights of the bankrupt in property and a claim with respect to a wrong done to the bankrupt characterised as a claim by reference to the anxiety, stress and pain felt by the bankruptcy, the rights of action in respect of the bankrupt's interests in property vest in the trustee and those rights of action where the essential cause is emotional injury done to the bankrupt (in respect of a recognised cause of action) remain with the bankrupt.
' (at [47]) 

9 His Honour continued:
 
 'It may be that when Mr Rogers or his advisers formulate a statement of claim in the proceeding, a claim might emerge which, in terms of its material facts, reflects a claim within the exemption reliant upon conduct which involves a contravention of ss 52 , 51AC or 60 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) independently of any of the former rights of the bankrupt in property which have become vested in the trustee.
At the moment the material does not establish any such right.
The alleged contraventions of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) which are mere conclusionary assertions are relied upon as the basis for final orders with respect to the interests of the bankrupt in property which interests have become vested in the trustee.
' (at [48]) 

10 Similarly a claim by the applicant for interlocutory relief in the form of 'an order that the respondents do not harass, intimidate or coerce the applicant, his family or neighbours' was not a claim called in aid of a claim for final relief within the scope of s 116(2)(g) Bankruptcy Act , but rather was in connection with an injunction to restrain an exercise of power of sale in relation to a particular property by a secured creditor in aid of final relief in relation to that property.
The applicant's interest in the property was an interest vested in his trustee.
However his Honour left open the possibility that the applicant could properly formulate a claim for final relief within the exemption in s 116(2)(g) , and a claim for interlocutory relief in respect of relevant conduct, which claim might well be made by the applicant independently of his trustee in bankruptcy (at [48] and [51]).
PLEADINGS 
 
11 In the notice of motion before me, the respondents seek orders in respect of what is, in essence, the applicant's attempt to take on board the comments of Greenwood J in Rogers v Asset Loan Co Pty Ltd , namely an attempt by the applicant to formulate his statement of claim so as to plead claims coming within the exemption in s 116(2)(g) Bankruptcy Act .
12 After the decision of Greenwood J was handed down, the applicant filed a statement of claim on 15 June 2006, and an amended statement of claim on 19 June 2006.
13 When I heard this notice of motion on 29 June 2006, it became apparent that the applicant required leave to further amend his statement of claim filed 19 June 2006.
Mr Coulsen on behalf of the respondents consented to an adjournment of the matter to allow the applicant to be given an opportunity to re-plead.
In making this suggestion Mr Coulsen said that this would be the last time his clients would so consent.
Consequently, the matter was adjourned until 4 August 2006 and the applicant was ordered to file and serve an amended statement of claim by 21 July 2006.
14 When this matter came back before me on 4 August 2006, it became apparent that the applicant had in fact filed two further amended statements of claim during the adjournment period, one on 10 July 2006 and one on 20 July 2006.
Nonetheless, and notwithstanding the inconvenience to the respondents as it appeared that the further amended statement of claim of 20 July 2006 had not been served on the respondents, in order for the matter to be heard the respondents did not object to the hearing proceeding on the basis of the statement of claim filed 20 July 2006.
I adjourned the hearing for a short time to allow Mr Coulsen the opportunity to compare the two documents and if necessary amend his submissions.
THE CASE OF THE APPLICANT 
 
15 The second further amended statement of claim filed by the applicant on 20 July 2006 is 67 pages in length.
It contains 29 'Counts' (claims) and a claim described as 'Special pleadings --- Special circumstances'.
In the 'Special pleadings' the applicant asks the Court to have regard to the provisions of Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) (' Trade Practices Act '), in particular s 87(1D) , when determining the issues.
The applicant also claims the sum of $45 million in respect of personal injury, harm or wrongs or such other amount or orders determined by the Court.
16 The statement of claim contains paragraphs numbered 1 to 706 --- although there are a number of paragraphs with letters appended (for example, pars 40a, 43a and indeed there is a par 701n).
