
 
1 This is an appeal from the decision of Federal Magistrate McInnis delivered 14 August 2006 dismissing an application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ('the Tribunal') made on 20 December 2005 handed down on 12 January 2006.
The Tribunal had affirmed a decision of a delegate of the Minster for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs to refuse to grant a protection visa to the appellant.
PROCEDURAL BACKGROUND AND THE APPELLANT'S CLAIMS 
 
2 The appellant, a citizen of the People's Republic of China ('China'), arrived in Australia on 3 May 2005.
On 16 June 2005 he lodged an application for a protection (Class XA) visa with the Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs under the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act').
On 8 September 2005, a delegate of the Minster for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs refused to grant the appellant a protection visa and on 10 October 2005 the appellant applied for review of that decision by the Tribunal.
3 On 20 December 2005 the Tribunal decided to affirm the delegate's decision not to grant the appellant a protection visa.
The appellant filed an application for judicial review of the Tribunal's decision in the Federal Magistrates Court on 8 February 2006.
His application for judicial review was dismissed by McInnis FM on 14 August 2006.
4 The claim made by the appellant before the Tribunal was that he had a well-founded fear of persecution due to his religious beliefs.
The appellant claimed to be a Christian who attended secret meetings and was involved in illegal church activities.
The appellant claimed to have attended these meetings since a child and that in 1984 his parents were arrested and imprisoned for a year.
The appellant claimed that in 2004 he was arrested and interrogated at a meeting at his neighbour's house because the authorities thought he was contacting overseas churches.
5 The Tribunal did not accept the appellant's parents were Christian because the appellant was unable to name the church and nature of religious practice, information the Tribunal expected the appellant would have known if he had practised Christianity as a child.
The Tribunal did not accept that the appellant was a Christian or attended Christian groups in China or Australia as he demonstrated almost no knowledge of Christian belief.
In relation to the appellant's claims of detention, the Tribunal did not accept these either.
The Tribunal noted that the evidence as to his detention was lacking in detail.
Furthermore, the Tribunal found the appellant's evidence regarding the three years prior to his departure from China was inconsistent.
The Tribunal found the appellant's claims to be fabricated and that there was no evidence the appellant would be at risk of harm for the claimed reasons.
THE FEDERAL MAGISTRATE'S DECISION 
 
6 Before the Federal Magistrate, the appellant raised only one ground, namely that the Tribunal failed to carry out its statutory duty.
The appellant provided particulars in support of this ground which raised various claims, including: a breach of s 424A of the Act; that the Tribunal did not consider the appellant's claim of membership of an underground church; and that the Tribunal was biased.
The Federal Magistrate considered s 424A(1) of the Act had no application to the information impugned by the appellant --- information in the appellant's passport --- as it was information provided by the appellant.
The Federal Magistrate found no jurisdictional error and dismissed the application.
