
 
1 The first applicant, Prismex Technologies Pty Ltd ('Prismex Technologies'), is the owner of Australian Patent No 647834 ('the patent') for an invention referred to as a display system ('the invention').
In 1995, Prismex Technologies granted to Interium Pty Ltd ('Interium') an exclusive licence to exploit the invention, and Interium did so until June 2006, when it went into liquidation.
The principal question in this proceeding is whether the licence is revocable by Prismex Technologies, or whether it cannot be so revoked and is an asset assignable by the liquidator of Interium.
The question is important because the liquidator purported to assign all the property of Interium, including intellectual property, to the first respondent, Keller Industries Pty Ltd ('Keller'), which was in competition with Interium, and which is still in competition with interests which were associated with Interium and which remain associated with Prismex Technologies.
2 The primary claim in the patent specification is for ---
 
 '... an illuminated display system composing a transparent medium having two opposing surfaces to be illuminated, wherein both of said surfaces to be illuminated have a matrix of dots substantially covering said surfaces to be illuminated resulting in an increased illumination of the surfaces to be illuminated.
' 
 

The invention is claimed to improve the evenness and brightness of the appearance of a sign, especially a large sign, illuminated by means of light sources at one or (on large signs) both of its edges, where the light radiates inwards over the surface of the transparent medium referred to.
3 The display system was invented by the fourth cross-respondent, Mr John Ashall ('Ashall') in about 1991, in which year the patent was applied for by Ashlar Screenprints Pty Ltd ('Ashlar'), a company with which Ashall was then associated.
In July 1992, Ashlar assigned its interest in the patent application to a company called Illumination Research Group (Properties) Pty Ltd ('IRG'), which used the invention in the manufacture of an edge-lit diffusion system called 'Prismex'.
Also in the early 1990's, Mr John Matyear ('Matyear') was in a separate business in the manufacture of edge-lit signs, called 'Interium'.
In July 1994, he was approached by Mr Garry Buick ('Buick') of IRG who said that IRG was in financial difficulties, and suggested that they establish a new venture which would purchase the rights to manufacture the 'Prismex' panel.
Whether or not connected with these developments, on 27 January 1995, IRG assigned its interest in the patent application, and in the then prospective patent, back to Ashlar.
The patent was sealed only four days later, on 31 January 1995, in the name of IRG.
The transfer to Ashlar was registered on 15 February 1995.
By the time of important events in June and July 1995 to which I shall refer, Ashlar was the patentee.
4 Matyear and Buick commenced to develop their new business.
They needed larger premises than were then available to them, and some factory space in Bayswater was offered by someone with whom Matyear had worked in the 1980's, the third cross-respondent, Mr Colin Taggert ('Taggert').
A little later, it seems, Matyear was told by a representative of Ashlar that the patent could be purchased for $150,000.
Thus was born the idea of a business making edge-lit signs using the invention, which was referred to as the 'Prismex technology'.
Taggert joined Matyear and Buick in the venture, as did Ashall himself, who had the technical skills required for the project.
5 The corporate structure for the business was discussed by the four venturers (Matyear, Buick, Taggert and Ashall) at a critical meeting in the office of their accountant, Mr Peter Mews ('Mews') on 9 June 1995.
I was told that Buick is now deceased.
Mews was not called to give evidence, a circumstance for which no explanation was offered by any party.
The other three participants in the meeting gave evidence, but their recollections of the meeting were very general, and understandably influenced by their concept of what was the general plan at the meeting, rather than by any recollection of what was actually said or agreed.
However, all were clear that there were to be two companies involved in the business, one to trade and the other to hold the patent.
On 13 June 1995, Mews wrote a memorandum the stated purpose of which was 'to record the matters discussed' at the meeting on 9 June.
Each witness accepted that this memorandum did accurately summarise what was discussed at the meeting.
6 Under the heading 'Purpose of the Meeting', Mews' memorandum stated:
 
 'The meeting was called to consider the issues surrounding the formalising of the business associated with Edgelight Signs which is the sign system incorporating extruded aluminium framing, special lighting and the transfer of light through the Prismex Technologies Pty Ltd screens.
The work has been done by John Matyear and Garry Buick to a point where a market for the product has now been established.

 
 The business is to incorporate the acquisition of Asher screens, the screening company which produces the Prismex Technologies Pty Ltd panels, and by way of a separate company will acquire the patent for Australia for the Prismex Technologies Pty Ltd screen technology.

 
 The business will also incorporate the design, manufacture and installation of special signage such as the New South Wales rail project where a contract is about to be awarded to the group.
' 
 

Under the heading 'Name and Entities', Mews' memorandum stated:
 
 'The business is to trade under the company known as Interium Pty Ltd and the patent is to be held by a separate company known as Prismex Technologies Pty Ltd.
The purpose of separating the operations and the patent is to protect the value of the patent in the event of any litigation or law suits which may arise to Interium Pty Ltd. 
 
 Two new companies are to be formed and the business name currently held by Metage Pty Ltd, John Matyear's trustee company, is to be transferred to the new company Interium Pty Ltd.
The arrangement for the incorporation of the companies and the transfer of the name is to be between Garry Buick and John Matyear.
' 


 
7 Mews then recorded the agreed capitalisation of Prismex Technologies and Interium.
Prismex Technologies was to have paid-up capital of $150,070, $150,000 of which was required to purchase the patent from Ashlar.
That was raised by each of Matyear and Buick contributing $30 (30 x $1 shares), by Ashall contributing $10 (10 x $1 shares) and by Taggert contributing $150,000 (30 x $1 shares at a premium of $149,970).
Interium was to have paid-up capital of $100, which was raised by contributions of $30 (30 x $1 shares) from each of Matyear, Buick and Taggert, and of $10 (10 x $1 shares) from Ashall, together with a 'premium issued' (as Mews described it) of $99,960, giving total capital of $100,060.
All four men were to be directors of Interium, in addition to having various working roles in that company: Taggert was to be General Manager and responsible for accounts and finance, and record-keeping; Buick was to be responsible for sales in Victoria; Matyear was to be responsible for sales elsewhere; and Ashall and Matyear together were to be responsible for research and development, and production.
8 Mews set out various 'action steps' that needed to be taken, and under the heading 'Other Matters', he stated:
 
 'Prismex Technologies Pty Ltd will also licence its patent to Interium Pty Ltd who will hold the master licence for Australia.
Interium Pty Ltd may then issue sub licences to other parties.
' 
 

9 Prismex Technologies was registered on 15 June 1995, and Interium was registered on 30 June 1995.
10 On 12 July 1995, two significant agreements were executed.
Each was drafted by solicitors engaged by Ashlar.
The first was an agreement to assign the patent, certain formulae and other property from Ashlar to Prismex Technologies ('the assignment agreement').
The sealing of the assignment agreement by Prismex Technologies was witnessed by Buick and Taggert.
The second was an agreement for the sale of business from Ashlar to Interium ('the sale of business agreement').
The sealing of the sale of business agreement by Interium was also witnessed by Buick and Taggert.
By these two agreements Ashlar, which had previously owned the patent and exploited the invention in its business, divested itself of the patent and the business, but each to a separate party.
