
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 In these proceedings, the applicant Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) alleges that the conduct of the respondents was in breach of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) (the Act) in various respects.
The cases against the corporate respondents, Global Prepaid Communications Pty Ltd (Global) and In Touch Networks Pty Ltd (In Touch) are, firstly, for breach of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) (the Act) and, in respect of representations relating to future matters, for breach of s 51A.
Secondly, the ACCC alleges contraventions of the Trade Practices (Industry Codes --- Franchising) Regulations 1998 (the Franchising Code ) in relation to agreements said to constitute franchising agreements.
2 It is alleged that the individual respondents were involved with certain of the breaches of s 52 by the corporate respondents by virtue of s 75B of the Act.
It is also alleged that in certain cases, s 6 of the Act applies to extend the operation of the Act to individuals.
The two relevant extensions are:
 
 (a) Section 6(2)(a) and (h): interstate trade and commerce.
(b) Section 6(3): postal telegraphic and telephonic services.


3 The ACCC seeks final injunctions, declarations and orders pursuant to ss 80, 86C and 87(1A) of the Act and s 21 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) in respect of this conduct.
In particular, it seeks compensation on behalf of a number of third parties whom it alleges suffered loss by reason of the contravening conduct.
GENERAL BACKGROUND 
 
4 The essential allegations are that the corporate respondents engaged in two separate businesses --- one related to vending machines (Vending Machines) and the other to Swisscom mobile telephone Subscriber Identity Module (SIM) cards known as Global easyRoam (Swisscom).
The fourth respondent, Frank Yates, and his son the third respondent, Nicholas Yates, are alleged to be the principals in the businesses.
The fifth respondent, Nicholas Rhodin, the sixth respondent, Daniel Albert, and the seventh respondent, Russell Fielding, were employees of the companies and lieutenants in the enterprise.
VENDING MACHINES 
 
5 In early 2001 Frank Yates perceived an opportunity to purchase second hand vending machines from a company called Travelex.
The idea for the business came from Nicholas Yates.
The machines had been used by Travelex during the Sydney Olympics in 2000 to sell Telstra prepaid phone cards.
Frank Yates approached Travelex and purchased a quantity of vending machines for $6,000 each which he proposed to sell to distributors for $12,250 each.
The machines purchased from Travelex were manufactured in Canada by a company known as Opal Manufacturing Limited.
At about that time, Frank Yates also arranged for Barry MacNamara to manufacture additional vending machines in Queensland.
6 From 10 March 2001, Global (and less frequently, In Touch) placed newspaper advertisements around Australia for a business opportunity involving the sale of prepaid telephone cards from vending machines.
The advertisements stated, inter alia, that distributors could make significant profits from the operation of their vending machines and that Global would assist distributors in securing successful locations for the placement of their vending machines.
7 A number of potential distributors found the statements in the advertisements appealing and contacted Global.
The vending machine distributors involved in this proceeding, together with their geographical location are set out in the following table:
 Distributor Location Eddie Arida Adelaide, South Australia Keith Bartlett Melbourne, Victoria Kim Russell Bloom Perth, Western Australia Sandra Bloom Perth, Western Australia Phillip Huy Bu Melbourne, Victoria Tony Chaina Adelaide, South Australia Graham Crispin Perth, Western Australia Pashalis Douglas (aka Tekirdaglis) Sydney, New South Wales Dalibor Drazetic Adelaide, South Australia Elizabeth Garcia Wollongong, New South Wales Joe Garcia Wollongong, New South Wales Sanjeev Kapoor Sydney, New South Wales Ante Loncar Adelaide, South Australia Bruce MacKenzie Bathurst/Greater West, New South Wales Lorraine MacKenzie Bathurst/Greater West, New South Wales Vachagan Petrosyan Sydney, New South Wales Allen James (Casey) Radcliffe Melbourne, Victoria Pierre Raphael Perth, Western Australia Selda Raphael Perth, Western Australia Elisabeth Remme Bathurst/Greater West, New South Wales Tony Savino Sydney, New South Wales Bhupinder Singh Grewal (aka Bob Singh) Sydney, New South Wales Zerighaber Woldemichael Sydney, New South Wales 

 
8 The first three deponents to respond to the advertisements were Bartlett, Bu and Radcliffe.
Each responded to an advertisement placed in the Melbourne Age newspaper on 10 March 2001.
They were the first three distributors to purchase vending machines and enter into distribution agreements with Global.
9 Representatives of Global dealt with potential distributors in a largely formulaic manner.
The individual respondents who principally dealt with distributors on behalf of Global were Frank Yates, Nicholas Yates, Nicholas Rhodin and Russell Fielding.
10 The evidence of the distributors involved in the proceedings demonstrates that irrespective of which representative of Global the distributor dealt with, the procedure adopted was much the same.
The evidence relied upon in the Swisscom part of the case demonstrates that the formula was not only used but it was also taught to distributors and circulated as a written document.
11 The pattern of dealing with distributors was in substance as follows:
 
 (a) providing them with some additional information about the business over the telephone (when they called in response to an advertisement) --- usually concerning the ease with which money could be made from the business, the quality of the vending machines and the availability of quality locations for placing the vending machines;
 (b) requiring the potential distributor to complete an application form, thereby highlighting the exclusivity of the business opportunity and implying that the potential distributor would be fortunate to be selected to deal with Global;
 (c) providing the potential distributor with a promotional brochure which contained information about the vending machine business including representations such as the following: 
 
 
 (i) the distributor would be provided with an exclusive territory in which to operate his or her vending machines;
 (ii) a two year warranty would be provided for the vending machines;
 (iii) the vending machines were high tech and good quality (described as the 'world's finest') and the dispensing system in the vending machines was designed to eliminate jamming and delivery of more than one card at a time; 
 (iv) there were thousands of good locations for the placement of the vending machines and Global would appoint a locations company who would help with the process of securing locations;
 (v) if the distributor signed up, he or she would be provided with seven or eight of the best possible locations within a designated area for the placement of his or her vending machines; 
 (vi) various brands and values of prepaid telephone cards would be able to be sold through the vending machines, including Optus cards;
 (vii) the annual profit per vending machine that would be made from the vending machine business would be, as a guide, between $19,310 (based on 10 card sales per day) to $57,635 (based on 25 card sales per day) or $89,720 (based on 40 card sales per day).
Most potential distributors were encouraged to purchase at least eight vending machines, although some purchased significantly more.

 
 
 (d) inviting the potential distributor to visit Global's office to discuss the business opportunity further.
During such a meeting, a vending machine would be demonstrated to the potential distributor, representations consistent with those in the promotional brochure would again be made as well as other representations typically concerning: 
 
 
 (i) the sales and profits that would be made from the business;
 (ii) the distribution area that would be made available to the potential distributor;
 (iii) the locations that would be available for the placement of the vending machines as well as the cost involved in placing the vending machines at locations;
 (iv) the profit margins that would be available on prepaid telephone cards to be purchased and on-sold by the distributor; and
 (v) the reliability of the vending machines and availability of servicing; 
 

12 Although there was some slight variation in the representations made by the respondents to different potential distributors, the topics covered were almost universal and the substance of the representations did not alter significantly.
