
 THE FACTS 
 
1 The second respondent, Peter Smyth, is the registered proprietor of Glen Oban Farm, located on Mokine Road, York, Western Australia.
The farm comprises approximately 1200 acres, and is contained in five separate certificates of title.
From about 1996, the farm was leased to a family which has no connection with this proceeding, but in early 2002 their lease was coming to an end, and they decided not to renew.
The applicants, Christopher and Melody Chipper, were and are farmers in the area.
By agreement with Peter Smyth and his wife Robin, and with the then lessees of the farm, the Chippers had operated the farm for about the last year of that lease.
2 In about March 2002, Christopher Chipper had a number of conversations with Peter and Robin Smyth, in which he told them that he and his wife were interested in taking a lease of the farm.
During one of these conversations, Smyth told Chipper that he would lease the farm for a rent of $25,200 per annum.
There was some discussion about the rent, but Smyth was not prepared to negotiate, and the parties did agree on that rent.
The conversation ended with Smyth saying that he would ask a farm management consultant based in York, Ken Sevenson, to prepare a lease document on his behalf.
3 On 29 April 2002, Sevenson met with Robin Smyth at his office in York.
Mrs Smyth said that a lease of the farm had been agreed with the Chippers.
She said that her husband, Peter Smyth, was having health issues, and they wanted the lease to be 'secure'.
She said that she wanted a long lease, and instructed Sevenson to draft a lease of the farm to Chippers.
Sevenson contacted Christopher Chipper, and made an arrangement to inspect the farm.
The inspection took place on 1 May 2002, on which day also Sevenson spoke to the Smyths about the lease, including the proposed term of the lease, an extension to the lease, and a proposed first right of refusal.
On 6 May 2002, Sevenson had a further conversation with Chipper, in which he obtained his, and Melody Chipper's, details for insertion into the lease agreement.
As a result of these conversations, Sevenson drafted a lease agreement between Peter Smyth of the one part and Christopher and Melody Chipper of the other part.
The agreement was in standard form, and contained a provision for the lessee to have a first right of refusal to buy the freehold.
Sevenson did not keep a copy of that draft lease.
4 A little later in May 2002, Sevenson spoke to Robin Smyth, who told him that there may be a GST issue with the lease, and suggested that he contact the Smyth family accountant, Mr Hall.
On 24 May 2002, Sevenson did contact Hall, and during the conversation which followed, Hall said that, rather than having a lease between Peter Smyth and the Chippers, the lease should be structured so that there was a lease between Smyth and the first respondent, Octra Nominees Pty Ltd ('Octra'), and a sub-lease between Octra and the Chippers.
Octra was and is a private company owned by the Smyths, and the trustee of the Peter Smyth Family Trust.
Hall said that the rent payable under the lease between Smyth and Octra would be nominal, and that the rent payable under the sub-lease between Octra and the Chippers would be a commercial rent.
Hall said that this would be tax efficient for the Smyth family.
As a result of that discussion, Sevenson prepared two documents, a lease and a sub-lease as instructed by Hall.
5 On 5 June 2002, Smyth and Octra executed a lease of the farm at a rent of $100 per annum.
The common seal of Octra was affixed to the lease in the presence of Peter and Robin Smyth.
On the same day, Octra executed a sub-lease of the farm to the Chippers at a rent of $25,200 per annum.
Again, the affixation of the seal was witnessed by Peter and Robin Smyth.
On 24 June 2002, the sub-lease was executed by the Chippers.
6 By the lease, Peter Smyth leased the farm to Octra for a period of 4 years commencing on 1 May 2002, and granted to Octra an option of a further 4-year term commencing on 1 May 2006.
Clause 6(d)(ii) of the lease provided as follows:
 
 If at any time during the lease period (which is inclusive of the optional lease period, if one is written into in this lease agreement), the Lessor wishes to sell the freehold of the Property subject to this lease agreement, the Lessor must first give notice of the intention to sell the Property to the Lessee one month prior to advertising the Property for sale.
Prospective purchasers of the Property will be able to inspect the Property if the Lessor gives the Lessee notice.
The Lessee will have the first right of refusal to purchase the land for the same consideration and conditions as the Property is offered for sale to any other proposed purchaser.



By the sub-lease, Octra leased the farm to the Chippers for a period of 4 years commencing on 1 May 2002, and granted to the Chippers an option of a further 4-year term commencing on 1 May 2006.
Clause 6(d)(ii) of the sub-lease provided as follows:
 
 
 If at any time during the Sub-Lease period (which is inclusive of the optional Sub-Lease period, if one is written into in this Sub-Lease agreement), the Sub-Lessor wishes to sell the freehold of the Property subject to this Sub-Lease agreement, the Sub-Lessor must first give notice of the intention to sell the Property to the Sub-Lessee one month prior to advertising the Property for sale.
Prospective purchasers of the Property will be able to inspect the Property if the Sub-Lessor gives the Sub-Lessee notice.
The Sub-Lessee will have the first right of refusal to purchase the land for the same consideration and conditions as the Property is offered for sale to any other proposed purchaser.


7 The Chippers occupied the farm, and little which is presently relevant occurred for more than 2 years.
The one event in that period which is relevant was that, as a result of Peter Smyth's infirmity, his affairs were placed under the joint administration of his son David Smyth and one Robert Avery by order dated 6 May 2003 under the Guardianship and Administration Act 1990 (WA).
From that time forward, and for the purposes of all subsequent relevant events, it was David Smyth who effectively represented, and made decisions for, his father, although Avery's participation was necessary for any act of Peter Smyth to have legal effect.
I should add that, notwithstanding his infirmity, it appeared that Peter Smyth remained conscious of the events which later became relevant in this proceeding, and that David Smyth made important decisions on his behalf only after discussion with him.
8 In late 2004, Peter Smyth decided to put the farm up for sale.
Once he learnt of his father's intentions in this regard, David Smyth effectively took over responsibility for the arrangement of the sale.
On 17 November 2004, he and Avery appointed agents for the sale, Elders Real Estate of York.
The sale was handled by their Branch Manager, Brian Woolcock.
Thereafter, the Smyths dealt with the Chippers as though the latter had a first right of refusal to buy the freehold.
That is to say, they dealt with the Chippers in exactly the same way as would have been appropriate if the farm were leased directly to the Chippers, without the interposition of Octra.
9 On 8 November 2004, David Smyth informed Christopher Chipper of the intended sale of the farm.
On 23 December 2004, Smyth confirmed that in writing, and told Chipper that the price being sought by the vendor was $1,450,000, or about $1,200 per acre.
The Chippers regarded that price as excessive.
In February 2005, they signed an open offer to purchase the farm for the price of $1,100,000.
This was rejected by David Smyth, who countered with a price of $1,445,000.
The Chippers increased their offer to $1,200,000, but Smyth would not move from the price he last nominated.
In all of the discussions involving the Chippers and Smyth (or Woolcock on behalf of Smyth) at about this time, the Chippers had left him (and Woolcock) in no doubt but that they considered that the asking price of $1,445,000 was excessive.
10 Nothing presently material happened in relation to the proposed sale of the farm between about February and about August 2005.
During that time, the farm continued to be listed with Elders.
It was in August that the third respondent, Red Valley Pty Ltd ('Red Valley') came into the picture.
Red Valley was (and is) a company controlled by Warren Anderson, and of which he and his wife were directors.
Anderson had been a farmer and a property developer for many years although, since the early 1990's, not actively involved in the latter.
It seems that Red Valley was used by Anderson to own properties in which he was interested.
Anderson gave evidence that, in about early 2005, a farming property near York owned by Red Valley was given to his sister.
However, he was concerned that that property might be too small to support her, her husband and their three sons.
Anderson was looking for a further property which his sister could use as pasture, and possibly for one of her sons to use as his own farm.
He asked one Colin King, a friend, and an estate agent with L J Hooker of York, to look out for properties close to the one which Red Valley had given to his sister.
In August, King (who did not give evidence) told Anderson that Elders had advertised the farm, that it was reasonably priced and was 'just what you're after'.
Anderson was interested, and asked King to arrange an inspection.
King contacted Woolcock, and an inspection was arranged.
11 Woolcock gave evidence that, during the inspection, he told Anderson that the farm was under lease, and that there was a further 4-year option, and that the lessee had the first right of refusal.
He said that Anderson said that he would have preferred to have had access to the property at the end of the first term (30 April 2006), but that that was not vital.
For his part, Anderson said that, at or about the time of the inspection, King said to him:
 
 Warren, there's a problem.
Smyth, the owner, has leased the farm to Mr and Mrs Chipper until April next year and they have an option for another four years.
But I think they will surrender the lease if you pay them a reasonable amount.
They're not running much of a farm and can't be making much money out of it.
They might accept a buy-out of the lease but it won't cost much.
If they're not sensible about it, I can always get you out of the property.
It's on 6 titles and I can sell the separate lots to Investors from Perth who are after a country property which they might use as a hobby farm in the future.


Anderson was given a copy of the lease and of the sub-lease, but did not read them at that stage.
12 In anticipation of an offer to buy the farm being made by Red Valley, on 27 August 2005 David Smyth told Christopher Chipper that he expected such an offer to be made, and asked him to indicate if he was interested in purchasing the farm.
13 On 29 August 2005 Red Valley offered to buy the farm for a price of $1,400,000, and subject to various conditions set out in the offer.
On 2 September 2005, David Smyth countered with an offer to sell for $1,445,000, together with certain adjustments to the conditions originally proposed.
Red Valley agreed to pay the higher price, but rejected one of the adjustments to the conditions.
On 16 September 2005, David Smyth accepted the most recent amendments proposed by Red Valley and signed the contract, and on 19 September 2006 Avery too signed.
14 As a result of those signatures, on 19 September 2005 there came into existence a contract for the sale of the farm to Red Valley.
Apart from the agreed price of $1,445,000, some of the conditions in the contract are presently material.
The contract provided for a deposit of $140,000, of which $10,000 was payable immediately and the balance, $130,000, was payable within 60 days.
Settlement was to be 12 months from acceptance (ie 19 September 2006).
In addition to the conditions printed on the standard form, the contract contained the following conditions:
 
 
 10.
This offer is subject to the vendor completing the subdivision application 120216 creating 6 locations as shown on Annexure 'A' attached to this contract and this shall be completed prior to settlement.
11.
The purchaser is aware and accepts the current lease arrangements on the said property.
12.
See Annexure 'B' 
 13.
See Special Conditions Addendum 
 14.
See Annexure 'C' 
 15.
This contract is subject to and conditional upon the purchaser being satisfied with the terms  conditions of the existing lease.
Such satisfaction or otherwise to be confirmed in writing to the vendor or his agent within 28 days of acceptance of this contract.

 
 
 

I should say something about these conditions.
As to condition 10, at the start of these reasons, I indicated that the farm was on five separate certificates of title.
There was, apparently, a proposal to create a sixth, but, at the time of trial before me, this had not been completed, and the farm remains on five titles.
As to condition 11, I have noted above that, by the time of the execution of the contract, Anderson had received a copy of each of the lease and of the sub-lease.
At the time he executed the contract, he had not had an opportunity to consider the lease and the sub-lease, and King suggested to him that it become a condition of the offer to buy the farm that Red Valley be satisfied with the terms and conditions of the existing lease.
Anderson agreed with the suggestion, King drafted condition 15, and that was accepted by David Smyth.
As to conditions 12, 13 and 14, they are presently relevant only for the fact that they existed as annexures (or the like) to the written contract.
Why they are relevant will appear presently.
15 In the period immediately following the execution of the contract, it would appear, Anderson used King to speak to the Chippers on the question whether they would be prepared to be bought out of the sub-lease, including the optional term.
King told him that the Chippers had named the price of $50,000 a year, down to the end of the optional term, to be bought out.
Anderson was not prepared to consider paying such a sum.
16 Towards the end of September 2005, Anderson read the lease and the sub-lease for the first time.
He noted the clauses giving the Chippers a first right of refusal, and was unsure whether that affected the contract which Red Valley had signed.
He told King to make sure that Peter Smyth offered the farm to the Chippers, adding 'I don't want this to become bogged down in another court fight'.
King said that he would speak to Woolcock about the matter.
The first instalment of the deposit under the contract, $10,000, which was due upon execution, had not been paid.
17 As I have indicated above, the Chippers were informed of the proposed sale of the farm to Red Valley, but they did not then take any step to buy the farm under their first right of refusal.
Whether or not because of representations made by King as a result of Anderson's concerns, the fact is that Woolcock provided the Chippers with a blank pro-forma confirmation by which they were invited to indicate that they did wish, or did not wish, to exercise their first right of refusal to purchase the farm at the cash price of $1,445,000.
By this stage, the only details of the Red Valley contract which had been provided to the Chippers consisted of the first page of that contract (which included the price and the deposit terms, but not the special conditions).
On 28 September 2005, Melody Chipper's brother, Christopher Stevenson (a legal practioner), wrote to Woolcock advising that there had not been proper compliance with the lessor's obligation to give the Chippers a first right of refusal.
He requested Woolcock to provide the Chippers with 'proper documentation for their consideration'.
This was apparently not promptly forthcoming, at least to the Chippers' satisfaction.
18 The 28-day period within which, under condition 15 of the contract, Red Valley had the opportunity to withdraw if it was not satisfied with the terms and conditions of the existing lease expired on 17 October 2005.
As this date was approaching, and Anderson still had not resolved his concerns about the lease, he asked King to obtain an extension of time for the operation of condition 15.
King spoke to Woolcock about the matter, and on 17 October 2005 Woolcock prepared a written form of variation to the contract which would have done two things: first, extend the period referred to in condition 15 to 15 December 2005, and secondly, provide for the deposit to be paid in full within 7 days of that condition being satisfied (ie, by 22 December 2005 at the latest).
19 Two days later, on 19 October 2005, David Smyth telephoned Christopher Chipper.
He asked why the Chippers had not signed the form indicating that they did not wish to buy the farm at the price of $1,445,000.
He said that their failure to do so was delaying the sale.
Chipper said that he had still not been shown the whole contract, which he required before exercising his first right of refusal one way or the other.
On 20 October 2005, Woolcock visited the Chippers' farm, and spoke to Melody Chipper.
He gave her a memorandum addressed to the Chippers and signed by Peter Smyth, in the following terms:
 
 We thank you for your attention to this matter, and the other matters in terms of the sale of the farm.
The Owner Peter Smyth of the above farming property, of which you are the current Sublessee, wishes to advise that further to earlier advice to you that the property is for sale, he has now received a cash offer to purchase the entire farming property at the full listed price of $1,445,000.00.
Thus in accordance with Clause 6 item d(ii) of your lease, he is extending to you the first right of refusal to purchase the property on the same terms, for the same cash consideration.
A copy of the terms are attached for your information.
We note the purchaser has received a copy of the lease agreement.
As per your discussion with David Smyth please confirm your intention not to purchase the property, (or purchase) by signing the copy of this letter and sending to us by return by 27/10/05.
If we do not receive a reply by this date we will assume you do not wish to exercise your right.


The memorandum concluded with a prepared statement, to be signed by the Chippers, to the effect that they did not wish to exercise their first right of refusal to buy the farm for the cash price of $1,445,000.
They did not sign that statement.
20 It seems that, by the end of October 2005, the Chippers had been provided with a copy of the Red Valley contract, but not with the annexures, or the addendum, referred to in conditions 12, 13 and 14.
On their behalf, on 7 November 2005, Stevenson wrote to Woolcock protesting about those omissions.
Woolcock immediately brought the complete contract, including the annexures and the addendum, to the Chippers' attention.
Having perused these documents, the Chippers decided that they did not wish to purchase the farm for the consideration, and on the conditions, specified in the Red Valley contract.
On 16 November 2005, Melody Chipper delivered a notice, signed by herself and her husband the previous day, to Woolcock, in the following terms:
 
 Christopher John Chipper and Melody Jane Chipper of Jimbin Farm, Mokine Road, York hereby give notice to Octra Nominees Pty Ltd of 2 Avon Place, Northam that they do not wish to exercise their right of first refusal to purchase the farming property the subject of the sub-lease agreement dated 1 May 2002 ("the Sub-lease") on the basis that the farming land the subject of the agreement is purchased, and only purchased, by Red Valley Pty Ltd ("the Purchaser") on the terms and conditions set out its offer and acceptance dated 2 September 2005 ("the Offer and Acceptance").
And further take notice that Christopher John Chipper and Melody Jane Chipper have relied upon the representations made to them by David Smyth and Brian Woolcock at various times that the Purchaser is aware of the Sub-lease and agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Sub-lease and that the farming property will only be sold to the Purchaser on the terms and conditions set out in the Offer and Acceptance.


Woolcock notified King, and King notified Anderson, of this communication.
21 The variation to the contract between Peter Smyth and Red Valley which had been prepared by Woolcock, at King's request, on 17 October 2005, was executed by both parties in the days following the delivery of the Chippers' notice referred to in the previous paragraph.
It was executed by Anderson on behalf of Red Valley on 17 November, and by David Smyth (and, it appears, Avery) on behalf of Peter Smyth on 22 November 2005.
It bore the date 17 October 2005.
22 There is a question whether the Chippers knew of the proposed extension under condition 15 of the contract before they signed off on their first right of refusal on 16 November 2005.
In his witness statement, David Smyth said that he told Christopher Chipper (in a phone conversation on 7 November 2005) that Red Valley wanted an extension on the time for the lease review.
Chipper denied being told any such thing, and was not cross-examined on that denial.
Smyth's recollection of the timing and length of this conversation was assisted by his later referral to his mobile phone accounts.
His actual recall of the order and detail of events at about this time was not good, and in a number of respects I was left with the impression that his evidence involved a reconstruction of events in a form now perceived to be favourable to his father's case.
I am not prepared to find that Smyth informed Chipper of Red Valley's request for an extension of time allowed under condition 15 of the contract.
I should add that the other, possibly more significant, element of the variation proposed by Red Valley at about this time was the extension of the time for the payment of the deposit under the contract, and there is no suggestion, even by Smyth, that the Chippers were told about that at any time before they signed off on their first right of refusal.
23 In December 2005, Anderson travelled overseas.
While in Moscow, he received a phone call from King, who told him that the time on the condition in the contract of sale was about to expire, and asked him what he was going to do about it.
This was a reference to the fact that the time for Red Valley to express its satisfaction (or otherwise) under condition 15 had been extended to 15 December 2005.
Anderson asked King whether the Chippers were going to accept 'a sensible offer on their lease', by which he referred to earlier proposals for Red Valley to buy the Chippers out from the remaining term of the lease, including the extended term.
King said that he had heard nothing from the Chippers, adding: 'if you buy it I can on-sale the blocks for a profit.
And you never know, Chipper might still come to the party.
' Anderson said, 'put it in motion', and left it up to King.
24 Woolcock too was concerned that 15 December was approaching.
Apparently after contact with King and at King's request, on 12 December 2005 he drafted a further variation to the contract to the effect that a first instalment of the deposit, $90,000, would be paid within 7 days, and the balance, $50,000, would be paid on 31 March 2006.
At the same time as he prepared that draft variation, Woolcock also prepared, in draft, a waiver of condition 15, to be signed on behalf of Red Valley.
However, King was unable to have Anderson execute this variation and the waiver in December 2005.
As I have mentioned, Anderson was overseas until shortly before Christmas, but it seems that, even on his return, King was unable to contact him.
Eventually, King advised Woolcock to contact Anderson directly.
On 30 December 2005 Woolcock prepared a 3-page facsimile which was addressed to Anderson.
The cover sheet contained the following memorandum:
 
 Warren please find copies of variation and waiver forms for your signing.
Also deposit of $90,000 is payable to Elders Trust account and post it to our office at Box 178 York.
Thanks.


The second page of the facsimile was the draft variation which Woolcock had prepared on 12 December 2005, and the third page was the draft waiver.
The facsimile was sent to Anderson at about the end of December 2005.
However, Woolcock had no greater success prompting Anderson to execute the variation, and the waiver, than had King.
As it appeared to Woolcock, Anderson was simply unavailable.
25 As I have mentioned, in December 2005 Anderson still held on to the prospect that the Chippers might agree to be bought out of the remaining term of their lease.
That he was, in his words, 'still attempting to sort out the lease', was a reason why he requested that there be a split in the deposit.
He said that he was not going to commit himself for anything until 'any arrangements had been made about the lease', and that 'I didn't decide to proceed.
' From this point, his evidence (in cross-examination) proceeded as follows:
 
 And you were deciding throughout that period from December up until 22 February 2006 whether or not you would proceed?---Well, the whole - the whole situation was in limbo, because there was so many ifs and buts about the contract and about the lease and it was a over a period - the Christmas period and I didn't just apply myself to it.
But can I just get a short answer to my question, you were deciding whether or not to proceed over that period?---Yes, you could say that.
And it wasn't until 22 February, when you signed the document which appears at 248, exhibit R, that you did decide to proceed?---That's correct.
And that was subject to, turnover please to 249, to having seven days to complete your due diligence with regard to the lease term?---Yes, that's correct.
So you didn't finally commit until 1 March, when you served the notice which waived that term?---That's correct, yes.


I do not accept Anderson's evidence that the reason he did nothing about the variation and waiver proposed in December 2005 was simply that he did not apply himself.
From about the first half of December until at least the beginning of February, Anderson's failure to respond to Woolcock was no accident.
His original idea of buying the farm as an additional resource for his sister was being frustrated by the Chippers' refusal to consider being bought out of the lease, and the extended term, on Anderson's terms.
From the outset, King had proposed, as a fall-back position, the sale of individual lots to third parties.
Unless Anderson could achieve either his preferred position, or King's fall-back position, the purchase of the farm would have been pointless.
I consider that Anderson's conscious objective at around this time was to avoid committing Red Valley to the purchase until one of those positions had been achieved.
26 I would reject any suggestion that Red Valley's failure to pay the deposit, and its failure to come to terms with the variation and waiver which had been drafted by Woolcock, was due to absent-mindedness, preoccupation or even incompetence.
I find that these failures were the result of decisions consciously taken by Anderson on Red Valley's behalf.
27 In early February 2006, certain events occurred which, it seems, renewed Red Valley's interest in executing the variation and waiver prepared by Woolcock in December 2005.
At the time, Woolcock knew nothing of these developments.
On 4 February 2006 King received a written offer for so much of the farm as was contained on one of the certificates of title, Lot 99, from two of the fourth respondents, Riggindale Pty Ltd and Adina Enterprises Pty Ltd (as trustee for the Two-Acre Trust).
On the same day, he received a written offer for Lot 97 from Riggindale Pty Ltd.
The receipt of these offers caused Anderson to decide that he would proceed with the purchase of the farm.
Immediately following the series of questions and answers in cross-examination to which I have referred in par 25 above, the following exchange occurred:
 
 Now, the thing that caused you to commit was the fact that Mr King had told you that he had managed to on sale two or three blocks of Glen Oban Farm, wasn't it?---Yes, that's correct.


28 King contacted Woolcock (which contact was made, I infer, on the instructions of Anderson) with a view to arranging for the execution of the variation and waiver.
The variation (as amended at King's initiative) was executed by Anderson on 22 February 2006, by David Smyth on 28 February 2006, and by Avery on 1 March 2006.
It contained the following term:
 
 The vendor agrees to the deposit of $140,000 being paid in two instalments being $90,000 within 7 days of this request and the balance of $50,000 to be paid on 31 May 2006.


On 22 February 2006 Anderson, on behalf of Red Valley, signed a form of waiver in the following terms:
 
 The purchaser requires 7 days from the signing of this waiver form to complete his due diligence with regard to the lease term and should he be satisfied with this this clause shall be waived.


On 1 March 2006, Anderson notified Woolcock in writing that he was satisfied with his inquiries regarding the lease as shown in cl 15 of the contract, thereby waiving that condition.
Red Valley paid the first deposit instalment on 9 March 2006.
29 The events to which I have referred involving Red Valley and the non-performance of its contract with Peter Smyth were originally unknown to the Chippers.
In January 2006, Christopher Chipper happened upon Woolcock in the street in York, and asked him if the contract with Red Valley had been finalised.
Woolcock said that the deposit was 'in the mail', that Anderson was in Russia and that that was holding things up.
Chipper said that people were driving over the farm, and that he assumed that they were considering a purchase from Red Valley.
He told Woolcock that that had to stop, but Woolcock said that it was not his problem.
Also in January 2006, or possibly in early February, and possibly also as a result of his conversation with Woolcock to which I have just referred, Chipper spoke to David Smyth about the purchase of the farm by Red Valley.
This was in the course of a conversation otherwise concerned with the negotiation of the rent for the 4-year extension of the sub-lease.
Smyth told Chipper that he was still waiting on Red Valley 'to finish on concluding the deal'.
According to Melody Chipper, 'in or about February 2006' she asked Woolcock whether Red Valley had paid the deposit under the contract, and Woolcock said that the deposit had not been paid because Anderson was overseas.
According to Mrs Chipper, she told Woolcock that she considered that, if the deposit had not been paid, 'there had to be a different contract'.
Mr Woolcock disagreed with that, and said that the Red Valley contract had been 'finalised'.
30 It would seem that, at about this time, the Chippers were reconsidering their original refusal to pay $1,445,000 for the freehold of the farm.
According to Christopher Chipper, having found out that Red Valley had not paid the deposit under the contract, he 'presumed the contract was void'.
He discussed the position with his wife, and they decided to make an offer to purchase the farm for the sum of $1,445,000, and otherwise on the same terms as contained in the Red Valley contract (as then known to them).
He said that he called David Smyth on his mobile phone, and left a message for Smyth to call him back.
Chipper said that a couple of days later, Smyth telephoned him.
He said that he asked Smyth whether Red Valley had paid the deposit, and was told that it had not.
He said that he and his wife could purchase the farm for the price being offered by Red Valley, and that Smyth responded that he did not care who bought the farm --- he just wanted it sold.
31 Smyth, for his part, gave evidence that it was not until 12 March 2006 that Chipper first told him that his circumstances had changed and that he could then afford to purchase the farm.
According to Smyth, Chipper referred to the new (higher) rental which they would be paying under the extended sub-lease, and said they might as well buy the farm if it was still available.
Smyth said that he would need to check with Elders to see if the deposit had in fact been paid.
He said that, on 13 March 2006, he rang Woolcock, and was told that Red Valley had paid the first instalment of the deposit, $90,000, by the due date.
He said that he then rang the Chippers, and spoke to Melody Chipper.
He told her that the farm had been sold.
According to Smyth, Mrs Chipper said that she and her husband were aware of the variation to the Red Valley contract, and of the fact that the deposit had not been paid.
According to Smyth, he told Melody Chipper that 'it was the original contract to Red Valley ... it was the same price ... and the same people'.
32 In the meantime, King was continuing his efforts to sell the lots constituting the farm to third parties.
As I have mentioned, he received offers for two of those lots in the first week of February 2006.
On 17 March 2006 a written offer for Lot 203 was made by Peter and Angela Robinson, trustees for the Robinson Superannuation Fund, and Adina Enterprises Pty Ltd, trustee for the Two-Acre Trust.
On 21 March 2006, a written offer for Lot 202 was made by Garden Valley Pty Ltd.
The four offers were all accepted by Red Valley on 21 March 2006.
Each contract thus coming into existence was subject to settlement with Peter Smyth.
In each case there was an acknowledgement by the purchaser that settlement would be without vacant possession because of 'a long term lease' and that the purchaser had previously received a copy of each of the lease and the sub-lease.
33 In late March 2006, Melody Chipper asked Woolcock for a copy of the then current contract of sale between Peter Smyth and Red Valley.
She did not receive the contract, and again asked Woolcock for a copy of it in early April 2006.
She visited Woolcock in his office in York on 10 April 2006, and was provided with a copy of the contract, together with a copy of the variation (but not of the waiver) executed on 1 March 2006.
34 The Chippers consulted Stevenson about these developments.
On 16 April 2006, he spoke to David Smyth.
He said that he had been informed about the variation to the contract and, according to Smyth, 'wanted to sort it out'.
Smyth said that he told Stevenson that he had been more than happy to sell the farm to the Chippers, but they had declined to purchase it.
He said that Stevenson replied that he had told the Chippers to pay the full amount for the farm, but that they had not wanted to do so.
35 Over the ensuing five weeks or thereabouts, it seems that the Chippers were taking legal advice.
On 5 May 2006, they lodged a caveat over the farm to protect what was said to be an 'option to purchase and/or right of first refusal pursuant to lease agreement dated May 1 2002'.
On 26 May 2006, the Chippers' solicitors wrote to Octra, with a copy to Peter Smyth, referring to the variation to the contract with Red Valley which had recently come to their clients' attention.
They asserted that, in relation to the deposit, the contract had been renegotiated and was now 'substantially more favourable to the purchaser'.
They said that the Chippers wished to exercise the 'right of pre-emption over the freehold of the property' on the terms of the contract, as varied.
They sought an acknowledgement of the Chippers' right to purchase the freehold on the terms of the contract as varied, and asked that Red Valley be informed thereof.
The solicitors added that they were preparing a form of contract for the purchase of the property, which would shortly be sent, together with the Chippers' cheque for the deposit of $140,000.
A similar letter was sent to Red Valley.
36 On 30 May 2006, the Chippers' solicitors again wrote to Octra, enclosing a copy of a form of contract for the sale of land executed by the Chippers as purchasers, together with a trust account cheque in the sum of $140,000.
The form of contract purported to be on the same terms and conditions as the contract made between Peter Smyth and Red Valley in September 2005 as amended on 1 March 2006, save that the deposit of $140,000 was payable forthwith.
The form of contract also contained a waiver of condition 15 in the original contract.
37 On 13 July 2006 the Chippers commenced the present proceeding against Octra, Peter Smyth and Red Valley.
38 On 10 August 2006, the Chippers' bank, National Australia Bank Ltd, advised them in writing that they had unconditional approval for a $1.3 m finance package for the funding of the purchase of the farm, subject to their execution of the bank's standard security and loan documentation.
THE CLAIMS AND THE DEFENCES 
 
39 In their Statement of Claim (as amended to the date of the trial) the Chippers allege that it was an implied term of the sub-lease that Octra would do all things necessary to ensure that the Chippers had a first right of refusal to purchase the freehold of the farm for the same consideration and on the same conditions as that freehold was offered to any other proposed purchaser; to ensure that, if they exercised their first right of refusal under the sub-lease, Octra would exercise its own first right of refusal under the lease, with the result, ultimately, that the freehold would be transferred to the Chippers; and, if the first right of refusal under the lease were triggered, to exercise that right if requested to do so by the Chippers.
They allege, both additionally and in the alternative, that, on a proper construction of the sub-lease, Octra was obliged to do all things reasonably necessary on its part to enable them to have the benefit of the first right of refusal in the lease.
This last allegation is admitted by Peter Smyth, Octra and Red Valley: indeed, each of them asserts that such is the effect of the sub-lease.
Otherwise, the thrust of the Chippers' allegations to which I have referred in this paragraph is denied by those respondents.
Additionally, Smyth and Octra allege in their Defence that the effect of the sub-lease was to assign to the Chippers the whole of Octra's proprietary interest arising under the lease, such that Octra was left with its contractual rights and obligations only, including those relating to its, and the Chippers', first rights of refusal.
40 The Chippers allege that Octra held the benefit of the first right of refusal under the lease on trust for them.
That is denied by Smyth, Octra and Red Valley.
41 The Chippers refer to the contract of sale of the farm to Red Valley made in September 2005, but do not allege that that event, of itself, triggered the operation of their first right of refusal.
Rather, they focus upon the amendments to that contract made on 1 March 2006.
They say that, by those amendments, Peter Smyth agreed to vary the contract such that the deposit was payable in two instalments, $90,000 due on 1 March 2006 (it was in fact due within 7 days of that date) and $50,000 due on 31 May 2006, and such that there was a relaxation of the time specified in condition 15 within which Red Valley was obliged to indicate its satisfaction, or otherwise, with the terms of the lease.
They allege that, upon becoming aware of the variation, they exercised their first right of refusal (on 26 May 2006) to the effect of indicating a desire to buy the freehold of the farm.
Peter Smyth and Octra admit the factual circumstances alleged with respect to the variation of 1 March 2006, but deny that they were, or that either of them was, obliged to notify the Chippers thereof because, they allege, Smyth had previously offered to sell the farm to the Chippers for the same consideration, and on 'materially' the same conditions, as the farm was offered to Red Valley, because the variation was not a 'material' variation to those conditions, and because the variation was made in good faith, and Red Valley remained obliged to purchase the farm on reasonable and 'appropriately adapted' conditions.
By way of reply, the Chippers admit that, on 22 October and 8 November 2005, Peter Smyth offered to sell the farm to them on the same terms and conditions, and for the same cash consideration, as the farm was then offered for sale to Red Valley.
They join issue on the contention that the circumstances of the variation of 1 March 2006 were not such as to trigger their first right of refusal, and they allege that Smyth and Octra did not disclose, but rather endeavoured to conceal, the terms of that variation.
Red Valley admits the making of the contract in September 2005, but alleges that, prior to that contract being entered into, the Chippers were offered the farm on the same terms as were then offered by it itself.
Red Valley admits the fact of the variation of 1 March 2006, but contends that, as at 26 May 2006, the Chippers had no right to acquire the farm on the terms set out in the contract between Peter Smyth and Red Valley as varied.
42 The Chippers allege that, in breach of the implied terms of the sub-lease to which I have referred, Octra did not do all things necessary to ensure that they had the benefit of the first right of refusal over the freehold, did not exercise that right, and did not respond to their request to acknowledge their entitlement to a transfer of the freehold on the terms being offered to Red Valley as varied.
They allege that Octra's failure to exercise the first right of refusal constituted a breach of trust.
They allege that Octra did not do all things reasonably necessary on its part to enable them to have the benefit of the first right of refusal.
These allegations are denied by Peter Smyth, Octra and Red Valley.
However, there is no suggestion that Octra took any step of the kind referred to in these allegations either after the variation of 1 May 2006, or in response to the Chippers' solicitors' correspondence of 26 and 30 May 2006.
I take it that the denials refer not so much to the primary facts embodied in the Chippers' allegations as to the proposition that, for Octra to have failed to act as alleged, constituted a breach of contract and a breach of trust.
43 The Chippers allege that they are, and at material times were, ready, willing and able to perform their obligations under the sub-lease, and under the terms of the contract between Peter Smyth and Red Valley as varied, in so far as it imposed obligations on the purchaser.
They say that they are entitled to an order requiring Octra to exercise the first right of refusal under the lease, and to transfer the freehold of the farm to them.
These allegations are denied by Peter Smyth, Octra and Red Valley.
As the case was conducted at trial, a significant question was whether the Chippers were ready, willing and able to perform the purchasers' obligations under the contract of sale.
44 The Chippers allege that, after the making of the variation on 1 March 2006, Red Valley purported to make contracts to sell portions of the farm to other parties (the fourth respondents).
They say that each of those on-contracts is conditional on the settlement of the Red Valley contract as varied, and is subject to the lease, and to their own right to continue possession under the sub-lease.
Red Valley admits that it has contracted to sell each of the five lots registered under its own certificate of title and which together constitute the farm, but otherwise denies these allegations.
45 The Chippers next allege that they exercised the option to renew the sub-lease for a further term of 4 years.
Both Octra and Red Valley admit that allegation, and accept that the Chippers are entitled to a declaration that they are entitled to a further sub-lease of the farm for the extended 4-year term under the existing sub-lease.
46 In their Application as amended, the Chippers seek declarations that they are entitled to a transfer of the freehold of the farm on the terms of the contract between Peter Smyth and Red Valley as varied on 1 March 2006 and that they are entitled to an extension of their sub-lease.
They seek orders requiring Smyth, alternatively Octra, to transfer the freehold of the farm to them on the terms of that contract as so varied.
They seek damages for breach of contract.
They seek a declaration that their entitlement to a transfer of the freehold of the farm takes priority over the rights of Red Valley and of the fourth respondents.
They also seek various other remedies which, for reasons which I need not relate, have now become irrelevant.
47 Red Valley contends in its Defence that, as purchaser of an estate in fee simple of the farm, it has acquired an equitable proprietary interest in the farm in priority to any interest held by the Chippers, or which is superior to, and has extinguished, the Chippers' interest in the farm.
In reply to that allegation, the Chippers say that Red Valley has not purchased an estate in fee simple in the farm; that, at the latest immediately before the contract between Peter Smyth and Red Valley was made in September 2005, Octra and/or the Chippers (by virtue of their respective first rights of refusal) acquired an equitable interest in the freehold of the farm; that the contract between Smyth and Red Valley was subject to the terms of the lease and the sub-lease, including the first rights of refusal; that Red Valley was aware of the first rights of refusal held by Octra and the Chippers; that they were not informed of all of the terms of the contract between Smyth and Red Valley prior to 8 November 2005; that their notice dated 15 November 2005 waived their right to acquire the freehold in the farm only in respect of the offer then made by Red Valley, and not otherwise; that the offer involved in the variation completed on 1 March 2006 was not made known to them; that that offer gave rise to an equitable interest in the freehold on the part of Octra and/or the Chippers themselves, as purchasers of the freehold under the terms of a conditional contract; that that offer terminated or modified the equitable interest which Red Valley may have had and, to the extent that it created a new equitable interest, did so not earlier than 1 March 2006; that Red Valley had at least constructive notice of all of the Chippers' rights to, or in respect of, the farm; and that it was not until 10 April 2006 that they became aware of all of the terms of the variation to the contract effected on 1 March 2006.
The Chippers say that, to the extent that Red Valley had an equitable interest in the freehold of the farm, it was subject to the first right of refusal in each of the lease and the sub-lease, and that it would be unconscionable for Red Valley now to contend that its contract with Peter Smyth was not subject to the first right of refusal or took priority as against the Chippers' interest.
48 Red Valley cross claims for the removal of the caveat, and for a declaration that the Chippers do not have an interest in the farm such as would enable them to prevent Red Valley being registered as proprietor, or conveying its interest to any other person.
It alleges that the Chippers do not have an interest in the farm arising from their first right of refusal, or that any interest which they do have ranks behind that of Red Valley.
In their Defence to the Cross Claim, the Chippers admit that Red Valley has an equitable interest in the farm, but say, relying on their Statement of Claim and Reply, that that interest does not have priority over their own.
49 On 4 August 2006, the first four of the fourth respondents were added as parties.
On 16 August 2006, the fifth of the fourth respondents was so added.
Their interests stand to be affected by the Chippers' claims, but no relief is sought against them specifically.
As it happened, they did not appear at the trial.
50 Originally, the Chippers alleged that the execution of the sub-lease by Octra constituted a representation that it would and could cause the transfer of the farm to the Chippers if they exercised their first right of refusal and that the first right of refusal in the sub-lease was valid and effective to ensure that the Chippers had the right to purchase the farm for the same consideration and on the same conditions as the farm was offered to another proposed purchaser; that those representations were made in trade or commerce and were as to future matters; and that the representations were likely to mislead or deceive, in contravention of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
As the case developed, however, the Chippers did not consider it necessary to persist with those allegations, and the case proceeded without further reference to the Trade Practices Act .
THE TRUST CLAIM 
 
51 I consider first the Chippers' allegation that Octra held the benefit of its first right of refusal under the lease on trust for them.
The promise in question was contained in the lease, and it is to the intentions of the parties to that document that one must turn.
In doing so, however, I should be aware of all the circumstances which existed at the time, including the terms of the sub-lease, which was a contemporaneous document manifestly intended to mirror the substantial terms of the lease.
52 All relevant parties agree that the express terms of cl 6(d)(ii) of the sub-lease give rise to an implication as between the Chippers and Octra that Octra was obliged to do all things reasonably necessary on its part to enable them to have the benefit of the first right of refusal contained in cl 6(d)(ii) of the lease.
The Chippers, however, go further and contend that Octra held the benefit of cl 6(d)(ii) of the lease on trust for them.
They characterise the present proceeding as one in which beneficiaries under a trust join the trustee in an action against the promisor (see Starke, 'Contracts for the Benefit of Third Parties, Part III ' (1948) 21 ALJ 455, 458-459).
The respondents deny the trust.
They say that the Chippers' rights against Octra are purely contractual, and if it be the fact that Octra did not do everything reasonably necessary to enable them to enjoy the first right of refusal under the lease, the Chippers' remedy would sound in damages only.
53 There is, of course, nothing novel about treating the benefit of a contractual promise as a species of property that may be held on trust: see Heydon and Leeming, Jacobs' Law of Trusts in Australia , 7 th ed, 2006, p 22-23.
The authors say:
 
 In most cases, however, there is no direct expression of intention as to whether the benefit of A's promise to B is or is not to be held on trust; in these cases, it becomes a question of determining whether, from the words actually used in the contract, and in the light of all admissible surrounding circumstances, the promisee evinced an intention to be a trustee of the benefit of the covenant.
The trust property is the benefit of the promisor's promise.
That was certainly the view adopted by Fullager J in Creamoata Ltd v Rice Equalization Association Ltd [1953] HCA 40 ; (1953) 89 CLR 286, 319.
By "the benefit of the promisor's promise" is meant the promisee's right to sue at law for damages or in equity for an injunction or specific performance, should such an occasion arise.


There is no reason why the court should be especially cautious in its task of considering whether the circumstances are such as to justify the inference that a trust was intended: Wilson v Darling Island Stevedoring and Lighterage Co Ltd [1956] HCA 8 ; (1956) 95 CLR 43, 67; Trident General Insurance Co Ltd v McNiece Bros Pty Ltd (1988) 165 CLR 107, 120-121; Re Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust (1991) 30 FCR 491, 502-503.
Indeed,
 
 [if] the inference is to be drawn that the parties intended to create or protect an interest in a third party and the trust relationship is the appropriate means of creating or protecting that interest or of giving effect to the intention, then there is no reason why in a given case an intention to create a trust should not be inferred.


 Bahr v Nicolay [No 2] [1988] HCA 16 ; (1988) 164 CLR 604, 618-619 per Mason CJ and Dawson J.
And, 
 
 ... the courts will recognise the existence of a trust when it appears from the language of the parties, construed in its context, including the matrix of circumstances, that the parties so intended.


 Trident, 165 CLR at 121 per Mason CJ and Wilson J.
54 In order to understand the submissions made on behalf of Peter Smyth and Octra apropos the Chippers' suggestion that the benefit of Octra's first right of refusal under the lease was held on trust for them, it is necessary to refer to the position that those respondents take about the legal effect of the sub-lease.
It is pointed out on behalf of Smyth and Octra that, with insignificant exceptions, the sub-lease was the same as the lease, and that the effect of the sub-lease was to vest in the Chippers everything which Octra itself had under the lease.
It is then said that the consequence in law was that the sub-lease operated as an assignment of the leasehold interest, such that Octra no longer had any interest in the land: Milmo v Carreras [1946] 1 KB 306, 310-311; Lee v Ferno Holdings Pty Ltd (1993) 33 NSWLR 404, 410-411.
It is submitted on behalf of those respondents that the sub-lease still has contractual force, such that Octra could sue for rent, exercise a contractual power of forfeiture, or re-enter for breach of a condition.
It is submitted that, when the lease and the sub-lease were executed, Octra's first right of refusal under the lease was a contractual right, did not involve any interest in the farm as such, and did not 'touch and concern' the interest in land conveyed by the lease: Sandhurst Trustees Ltd v Australian Country Cinemas Pty Ltd [2006] QSC 165.
Accordingly, it is submitted, when the sub-lease was executed, the Chippers received the interest in land which was conveyed to Octra by the lease, but the first right of refusal under the lease, being a contractual right only, remained with Octra.
Smyth and Octra accept that Octra was obliged to do all things reasonably necessary on its part to enable the Chippers to have the benefit of that right, but no trust thereof was intended.
It is said that the parties to the sub-lease did not 'actually' intend that the leasehold interest thereby be assigned to the Chippers: that occurred by operation of law (ie, under the principle in Milmo v Carreras ).
55 I am prepared to accept that, in the circumstances of the present case, by execution of the sub-lease, Octra made itself a stranger to the land in the way described by Lord Greene MR in Milmo v Carreras .
I consider that that circumstance, however, is irrelevant both to the present question whether Octra held the first right of refusal on trust and to other questions which have become controversial in this proceeding.
As to the trust aspect, the question for the court is whether the contractual promise in the lease was held on trust for the Chippers.
That question remains to be answered, by a conventional analysis, whether or not Octra's relevant interest in land was effectively assigned to the Chippers.
Indeed, the question would be the same even if the capacity in which Smyth made that promise to Octra were not that of a lessor to his lessee.
Smyth and Octra accept that, at all relevant times, Octra was the promisee under the lease in relation to the first right of refusal.
The present question is whether it held that benefit absolutely, or on trust for the Chippers.
56 On behalf of Red Valley it is contended that the result of the execution of the lease and the sub-lease was wholly contractual.
Peter Smyth leased the farm to Octra, and Octra sub-leased it to the Chippers.
Counsel contended that the common law alone would be sufficient to define the obligations arising from those transactions, and that 'equity does not need to intervene'.
He pointed out that the present case was not one in which the putative beneficiaries were devoid of any direct contractual basis for enforcing their rights, as was the situation in Trident .
He relied upon the express terms of the lease and the sub-lease, and upon the implied term requiring Octra to do all things reasonably necessary.
57 I consider that, essentially, the propositions advanced by counsel for Red Valley beg the question.
Merely to assert that the lease and the sub-lease contain a full suite of obligations that would be enforced at law does not come to grips with the question whether the nature of those obligations, and the factual context in which they arose, justify taking the next step of inferring that a trust was intended.
Indeed, counsel's propositions about the sufficiency of remedies at law are confounded by his own submission, elsewhere, that the Chippers never had a first right of refusal under the sub-lease because the triggering event, that Octra wished to sell the freehold, did not and could not occur.
Counsel submitted:
 
 At no time has Octra wished to sell the freehold of Glenoban Farm.
It does not own the freehold.
It cannot form a wish to sell that which it does not own.


That the Chippers' rights under the sub-lease might have been defeated by the self-evident circumstance that Octra did not own the freehold is a result so unrealistic and so manifestly unjust that I have no hesitation in finding that it was not intended, either by Octra or by Peter Smyth.
Whether the implied best endeavours term for which Red Valley contended would be sufficient to overcome the anomaly involved in a literal reading of the sub-lease is a matter to which I shall turn presently.
58 On the other hand, in the facts of the present case, there are several indications of an intention that the benefit of cl 6(d)(ii) should be held on trust.
First, there is the nature of Octra itself and its relationship with Peter Smyth.
Octra is the Smyths' family trust company.
It is inherently improbable that Smyth and Octra contemplated that Octra itself might have desired to take beneficially under the first right of refusal.
Had it exercised that right other than in the interests of the Chippers, the persons beneficially entitled would have been Smyth and the other members of his family.
In other words, Smyth would effectively have been giving himself a first right of refusal --- an outcome which must be regarded as curious.
59 Secondly, there are the circumstances in which Octra was introduced into the relationship between Smyth and the Chippers.
This was done, it seems, because of taxation benefits that would accrue to the Smyth family.
I infer that Smyth would not have intended that the Chippers would be any worse off as a result of the arrangement than if they had been the lessees directly (in which case, of course, they would have had the direct benefit of the first right of refusal in the lease).
Such an inference is confirmed by the way David Smyth dealt with the Chippers during the period in which he was originally seeking a buyer for the farm and later pressing the Chippers as to whether they were prepared to buy the farm for the price and on the conditions agreed with Red Valley.
60 Thirdly, there are the terms of cl 6(d)(ii) of the sub-lease.
They speak of the sub-lessor wishing to sell the freehold.
That could occur only if the sub-lessor had the freehold and, given the subject-matter of the provision and the contemporaneity of the execution of the lease and the sub-lease, it is a small step to infer that the parties had in mind that the most obvious means by which Octra would come by the freehold would be by exercising its own right of first refusal under the lease.
I can think of no other reason for the reference to the freehold in cl 6(d)(ii) of the sub-lease than to require Octra to hold its own rights under the corresponding provisions of the lease for the benefit of the Chippers.
61 Fourthly, there is the implied obligation upon Octra to do all things reasonably necessary on its part to enable the Chippers to have the benefit of the right of first refusal of the lease (upon which all parties are agreed).
Although it is true that such an obligation does not point uniquely to a trust, it is descriptive of a duty which a trustee would have in the circumstances.
Octra was in effect under a contractual obligation to exercise its own right of first refusal under the lease for the benefit of the Chippers.
That Octra should have been willing to accept a contractual obligation of this kind strongly bespeaks an intention to create a trust.
Put another way, the existence of the implied obligation effectively excludes the possibility that Octra might have exercised (or chosen not to exercise) its right to buy the farm in priority to other intending purchasers in its own interests only; and if so, the only other parties in whose interests it might have done these things were the Chippers.
If the legal position arising from such a conclusion is something short of a trust, it is a distinction which I find difficult to follow.
62 It may be useful to consider the implied term to which I referred in the previous paragraph in a little more detail.
As formulated, it sounds reasonable enough, but what would it mean in practice?
What would Octra have been required to do to give the Chippers the benefit of the first right of refusal in the lease?
If a situation arose in which Peter Smyth proposed to offer the land for sale for a particular price and on particular conditions, presumably (absent a trust) it is suggested that Octra would exercise its own first right of refusal under the lease (so that the land was not, by Octra's inaction, sold to a third party).
Having entered into a contract to purchase the land with Smyth, what was Octra to do next?
Perhaps it was obliged to assign its rights under that contract to the Chippers.
Or perhaps it was obliged to purchase the freehold and then to re-transfer to the Chippers.
Or perhaps there might have been other outcomes.
The fact is that, if the Chippers had no more than contractual rights against Octra in relation to the implied term, the practical working out of those rights, and the identification of precisely when Octra would have been in breach of the term by having failed to take precisely what step, would have been problematic to say the least.
The inference that a trust was intended is, I consider, strengthened somewhat by reason of the simplicity and obviousness of such an outcome.
63 For the above reasons I hold that Octra held the benefit of Peter Smyth's promise under cl 6(d)(ii) of the lease on trust for the Chippers.
CONSTRUCTION OF THE LEASE 
 
64 I shall turn next to the construction of cl 6(d)(ii) of the lease, by which Peter Smyth granted Octra a first right of refusal over the freehold of the farm.
Clause 6(d)(ii) contains three sentences.
The first sentence requires the lessor to give the lessee one month's notice of intended sale, prior to advertisement.
The purpose of this is twofold.
First, the giving of such notice is a pre-condition to the lessor's right to bring prospective purchasers onto the farm for inspection as provided for in the second sentence.
Secondly, the notice will give the lessee an interregnum, as it were, during which to consider the exercise of the first right of refusal for which the third sentence provides.
That right is expressed in the following terms:
 
 The Lessee will have the first right of refusal to purchase the land for the same consideration and conditions as the Property is offered for sale to any other proposed purchaser.


This provision raises two issues as a matter of construction: first, what is the event which brings the provision into operation (or the 'trigger' as it is often referred to); and secondly, once brought into operation, how does the provision operate?
I shall consider each in turn.
65 Superficially, identifying the trigger under cl 6(d)(ii) is a simple matter: it is the lessor's offer of the property for sale to another proposed purchaser.
At this level, there was no controversy about the construction of the provision in this proceeding.
The real controversy in the present case concerns the operation of the provision in circumstances where the vendor has complied with the primary obligation to give the lessee the first right of refusal, where the lessee has refused, where the vendor has entered into a contract of sale with a third party, and where that contract is later varied, before settlement, to the advantage of the third party.
Does the vendor then have to return to the lessee with the contract as varied, or as proposed to be varied, and give the latter another opportunity to refuse, or to accept, the vendor's offer on the newly-established terms?
66 Peter Smyth and Octra (supported by Red Valley) contend that, where the lessee has been given, and has rejected, the opportunity to purchase under terms being offered to another purchaser, only a second or subsequent offer to that other purchaser which differs materially from the original offer which was rejected by the lessee need be the subject of a further opportunity to refuse under this provision of the lease.
They contend that the draftsman could not have intended that the lessee would be presented with the opportunity to purchase at a price, or under conditions, which did not differ materially from those previously offered, and rejected.
It was submitted on behalf of the Chippers, by contrast, that to require a departure from a previous offer to be 'material', would be to introduce uncertainty, and great scope for disputation, into the terms of an otherwise uncomplicated provision.
67 I must confess to a difficulty with the proposal to introduce, by implication, a requirement of materiality into cl 6(d)(ii).
The word itself is of flexible content; if it were expressly in the provision, the court's first task would be to give it a meaning in context.
It may be thought a curious approach to the construction of an uncomplicated provision to introduce a word by implication, only then to face the task of construing that word.
The problem is demonstrated by the facts of the present case.
It became clear that the respondents' purpose in having the court construe cl 6(d)(ii) as though it were limited by an implied requirement of materiality was not so much the achievement of that implication in itself as the assignment of a particular connotation to the word 'material' which suited their case.
Thus, to make the implication would be only the first, and manifestly the less contentious, of the two steps in their argument.
68 If the word 'material' were by implication read into the third sentence of cl 6(d)(ii), on one view it would mean no more than 'relevant' and would present no problems for the Chippers in this proceeding.
Even without any implication, in a situation where the property in question has been offered to the lessee for a particular consideration, and on particular conditions, I would hold that it should not be regarded as being subsequently offered to another purchaser for a different consideration, or on different conditions, where --- 
 
a) the combination of consideration and conditions offered to the other purchaser is manifestly inferior (from the purchaser's point of view) to those previously rejected; or
 
b) the subsequent offer differs from a previous, rejected, offer only in a way that could have no application to the position of the lessee.
An example of the latter may be seen in the facts of the present case.
Condition 15 of the contract between Peter Smyth and Red Valley gave Red Valley a period of grace within which to consider the acceptability of the terms of the lease to which the farm was then subject.
Such a condition would have made no sense in a contract in which the lessee was the purchaser.
If the concept of materiality is given a connotation which goes no further than the two provisos to which I have referred, there could be little harm in making the implication.
For my own part, I would prefer to reach the same result by a direct process of construction in the manner suggested.
If it is suggested that the concept of materiality should have a wider role than this, I would reject the suggestion that it should be used.
In particular, I think it would be out of harmony with the scheme of the provision to render it inoperative when a later court might be persuaded that the substantive difference between terms now being offered and terms previously rejected was immaterial only in the sense of being somewhat unimportant.
The scheme of the provision is that relative importance is a matter for the lessee.
69 Peter Smyth, Octra and Red Valley also submit, in effect, that the third sentence of cl 6(d)(ii) is exhausted once a contract of sale is entered into with a purchaser other than the lessee (assuming always that the lessee will have been offered, and will have rejected, the opportunity to buy under the relevant price and conditions).
They submit that, short of making a new contract with the other purchaser, any subsequent variation of the existing contract with that purchaser will not give rise to a fresh 'offer for sale' within the meaning of the provision.
70 I would accept that, in its most obvious setting, the third sentence of cl 6(d)(ii) is intended to operate prior to a contract of sale being executed.
Indeed, execution of a contract under which the land is sold to 'any other purchaser' without the lessee first having been given a right of refusal would be the clearest instance of a breach of the provision.
To identify what might be regarded as the paradigm case, however, does not necessarily confine the operation of the provision to those circumstances.
The question is not whether the land is offered for sale simpliciter --- it is whether the land is offered for sale for a consideration, and under conditions, which were rejected by the lessee when given the first right of refusal.
I do not believe that this question is necessarily to be answered only by reference to the existence or otherwise of a binding contract for sale.
The answer in a particular case will depend on the facts, and should not, in my view, be approached a priori on a particular jurisprudential basis that would deflect attention away from those facts and the application to them of the words used in the provision.
71 The third sentence in cl 6(d)(ii) of the lease appears to contemplate, not unreasonably, a vendor wishing to maximise the price for which, and to optimise the conditions under which, he or she would sell the land in question.
It contemplates that the vendor might, at first at least, find purchasers unwilling to accept the terms thus proposed.
It contemplates, in other words, a situation in which alternative, or successive, purchasers would refuse to accept the vendor's terms.
The vendor may have to reduce the price, or make the conditions more attractive to a purchaser, in order to achieve a sale.
In this process, it is the lessee who must, at each stage, be given an opportunity to be the first in line to refuse the vendor's price and conditions.
That such a cascading series of offers, or opportunities to purchase, is contemplated by a provision such as this was the construction adopted in reaction to a similar provision by Madgwick J in White Property Developments Pty Ltd v Richmond Growth Pty Ltd [1998] FCA 26 , and it is a construction with which I respectfully agree.
Consistently, it seems to me, if a contract of sale is made with a third party, but is later terminated before settlement, any new contract with the same or another third party on terms more favourable to the purchaser ought to be regarded as another offer for sale.
Whether a variation to the original contract (rather than a termination thereof) on terms more favourable to the purchaser would be regarded as another offer for sale will, in my view, be a question of fact.
The prospect that there might be an affirmative answer to that question should not be excluded a priori on the mere basis that there had been a variation, rather than a termination followed by another contract.
72 I would hold that the vendor's obligation to offer the lessee the opportunity to be the first to refuse is not necessarily forever brought to an end by the execution of a contract of sale between the vendor and a third party purchaser.
73 I turn now to the second issue to which I referred in par 64 above: once brought into operation, how does the third sentence in cl 6(d)(ii) operate?
What rights does the lessee have upon the operation of the provision being 'triggered'?
There are two Australian judgments which are frequently cited in this general area.
The first is that of Street J in Mackay v Wilson (1947) 47 SR (NSW) 315.
Under a sale of business agreement, the purchasers were given a 'first option for purchasing the property'.
When subsequently they sought to exercise what they regarded as an option, the vendors (who by then did not wish to sell the property for the price agreed) claimed that the agreement gave the purchasers no more than a right to be first in line when there were two or more prospective purchasers.
The actual outcome of the case has little to do with first rights of refusal, since a majority of the Full Court held that the agreement gave the purchasers an option which could be exercised at any time.
However, the following observations of Street J have received widespread support in the jurisprudence relating to first rights of refusal (47 SR at 325):
 
 Speaking generally, the giving of an option to purchase land prima facie implies that the giver of the option is to be taken as making a continuing offer to sell the land, which may at any moment be converted into a contract by the optionee notifying his acceptance of that offer.
The agreement to give the option imposes a positive obligation on the prospective vendor to keep the offer open during the agreed period so that it remains available for acceptance by the optionee at any moment within that period.
It has more than a mere contractual operation and confers upon the optionee an equitable interest in the land, the subject of the agreement: see, for example, per Williams J in Sharp v The Union Trustee Co of Australia Ltd [1944] HCA 35 ; (1944) 69 CLR 539 at 558.
But an agreement to give "the first refusal" or "a right of pre-emption" confers no immediate right upon the prospective purchaser.
It imposes a negative obligation on the possible vendor requiring him to refrain from selling the land to any other person without giving to the holder of the right of first refusal the opportunity of purchasing in preference to any other buyer.
It is not an offer and in itself it imposes no obligation on the owner of the land to sell the same.
He may do so or not as he wishes.
But if he does decide to sell, then the holder of the right of first refusal has the right to receive the first offer, which he also may accept or not as he wishes.
The right is merely contractual and no equitable interest in the land is created by the agreement.


74 The second judgment is that of Fullagar and Kitto JJ in Woodroffe v Box [1954] HCA 22 ; (1954) 92 CLR 245.
There, a landowner and his tenant were parties to an agreement in which the landowner covenanted that, after his death and that of his wife, his executors would give to the tenant 'the right of first refusal to purchase' the land in question for a stated price.
Their Honours held that, although a 'right of first refusal [meant] a right of pre-emption', they did not regard the expression 'as bearing any very strong or clear prima facie meaning' (92 CLR at 260).
They noted, in the facts before them, 'quite strong indications that something real and immediately effective is intended to be given as at a fixed point in time' (at 261) and held that, on the death of the survivor of the landowner and his wife, there was an offer to the tenant for the sale of the land which could be accepted.
In the course of their judgment, Fullagar and Kitto JJ undertook an extensive review of the authorities to that point, and said (at 257):
 
 The position revealed by the cases and by what is said in them is precisely what one would, in the absence of authority, have supposed it to be.
The term "first refusal" is not a technical term.
It is a colloquial term, and indeed a somewhat inept term, because what the potential offeree wants is an opportunity of accepting an offer rather than an opportunity of refusing an offer.
It may, and does, occur in various phrases, such as "give the first refusal", "have the first refusal", "give the right of first refusal", "have the right of first refusal", etc. And these phrases may be found in various contexts.
It seems clear that a mere promise to give the first refusal should be taken prima facie as conferring no more than a pre-emptive right.
If I promise to give you the first refusal of my property, I am making prima facie only a negative promise: I am saying: "I will not sell my property unless and until I have offered it to you and you have refused it".


Summarising the position, their Honours said (at 258):
 
 The truth is, indeed, that, in dealing with such a loose and colloquial expression, it may often be a mistake to cling strongly to a preconceived meaning.
The safer and sounder course is to regard it as an expression of fairly flexible import, to look at the whole of what the parties to an instrument have said, and in the light of that whole to determine whether they have or have not conveyed an intention that an immediate offer is being made or is to be made.


75 The position is, therefore, that the mere use of the expression, 'first right of refusal', or some cognate expression, does not yield a unique outcome pre-defined by the law: Pata Nominees Pty Ltd v Durnsford Pty Ltd [1988] WAR 365, 372; Goldmaster Homes Pty Ltd v Johnson (2004) 12 BPR 23,167, [34].
Everything will depend on the terms of the instrument by which the right is granted.
Not infrequently, a promise of a first right of refusal will be made with less definition that might be ideal, or in terms that are 'so loose and colloquial that it could not be supposed that they would be employed in a professionally drafted document unless the means by which effect is to be given to them are also carefully spelt out': Goldmaster Homes at [39].
On the other hand, once it be accepted that the terms of the instrument of grant will govern the content of the grantor's obligation, there seems no reason why, where the instrument is well-drawn, it might not produce a result which is not only unambiguous but in which it is possible to identify the timing and nature of the grantee's rights in particular circumstances.
76 In cl 6(d)(ii) of the lease in the present case, the lessee's right of 'refusal' is, I consider, a right to refuse (or, necessarily, to accept) an offer to purchase the freehold.
The lessor's corresponding obligation has both a negative aspect and a positive aspect.
In its negative aspect, it involves an implied covenant that the lessor will not sell the land to a third party without first offering it to the lessee for the same price and on the same conditions as are involved in the sale, or proposed sale, to the third party.
I do not hold that a mere offer to the third party without an earlier offer to the lessee would involve a breach of the implied negative covenant.
The use of the present tense in the subordinate clause shows that such an offer may be made.
However, as between the lessor and the lessee, it would be a breach of the clause for the lessor to put it beyond his or her power to prevent a contract of sale with the third party coming into existence without the lessee being given a right to refuse or accept on the same terms.
Thus a conditional offer to the third party, in which that party's rights were subordinated to those of the lessee, would not involve a breach of the implied negative covenant.
However, the authorities (to which I shall turn in another context) demonstrate that the execution of a contract of sale with another person, without any offer having been made to the lessee, should generally be regarded as a breach of the negative covenant.
77 In its positive aspect, the provision in the lease requires the lessor, on the occurrence of the triggering event, to make an offer to the lessee for the same price, and on the same conditions, as are involved in the sale, or proposed sale, to the other.
The question may arise in some cases whether the lessor is under an implied obligation to leave the offer open for a reasonable period of time.
However, if a contract for sale is entered into with another person without an offer having been made, generally it would be held that a failure to make an offer at all constituted a breach of the positive aspect of the provision.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE LEASE BY PETER SMYTH 
 
78 It is necessary next to return to the facts of the present case.
I commence with condition 15 of the contract between Peter Smyth and Red Valley executed on 19 September 2005.
Fairly clearly, the first sentence thereof makes the existence of the contract subject to Red Valley's satisfaction with the terms and conditions of the lease.
An issue arises concerning the second sentence, however.
What happens if, within the 28 days, Red Valley did not provide any confirmation as to its "satisfaction or otherwise"?
On one view, there can be no contract unless and until Red Valley provides that confirmation, albeit that Red Valley might be in breach of the single obligation which did have contractual force, namely, to provide confirmation within 28 days.
On another view, Red Valley had 28 days within which to examine the lease and the sub-lease, after which the contract would be unconditional.
The dynamics of the relationship between those representing Peter Smyth on the one hand and those representing Red Valley on the other hand in the period between October 2005 and February 2006 suggests that each side may have perceived a risk that an outcome adverse to its own interests might ensue as a result of the operation of condition 15.
The subsequent acts of the parties, however, do not resolve the question of construction.
I consider that the second construction to which I referred is the correct one, namely, that Red Valley had 28 days within which to express its satisfaction or otherwise, and if it did not do so, the contract became unconditional after the 28 th day.
In part I so conclude because condition 15 was requested, and drafted, by King on behalf of Red Valley.
In part I am influenced by the purpose of the condition: to give Red Valley an opportunity to peruse the lease and the sub-lease, not an opportunity by procrastination to defeat the intent of the contract as a whole.
And in part I base my conclusion on the oddity of the alternative construction --- that, on 19 September 2005, the only contract which the parties made was one in which Red Valley promised to confirm its satisfaction or otherwise within 28 days.
79 It follows that the contract of 19 September 2005 would have become unconditional on 17 October 2005.
That was, however, the date of the first variation to the contract signed on behalf of the parties on 17 and 22 November 2005.
Although not signed until about a month later, the date of the document itself, together with the coincidence of the expiry of the 28 days under condition 15, leads me to conclude that the parties intended that the variation should be operative from 17 October 2005.
It follows that the contract remained conditional at that stage.
80 However, although the conduct of Anderson may be regarded as bespeaking a different view, I consider that, when 15 December 2005 passed, the contract became unconditional and Red Valley lost its opportunity to avoid the contract on the ground of its non-satisfaction with the lease pursuant to condition 15.
Red Valley was then obliged to pay the deposit by 22 December 2005.
It did not do so.
Under the General Conditions for the Sale of Land (2002 Rev) published by the Law Society of WA and the Real Estate Institute of WA, which were incorporated, Smyth had the ability to require Red Valley to pay the deposit within 48 hours and, in default of payment, to terminate the contract.
This was not done.
It was apparent from the evidence of David Smyth that he regarded Red Valley as presenting the only realistic prospect of a sale at that time.
However that may be, in circumstances where his father could have terminated the contract, he instead procured Woolcock to do what he could to hold Red Valley to the contract it had signed.
81 But David Smyth did not seek to hold Red Valley to the contract in its then terms.
To the contrary, he pressed Red Valley for a variation to the contract.
Under the variation executed on 1 March 2006, a first instalment of the deposit ($90,000) was payable within 7 days, and the balance by 31 May 2006.
The question which arises is whether in the circumstances that variation involved an offer of the farm to Red Valley --- and, should it matter, an agreement to sell the farm to Red Valley --- distinct from that which had been rejected by the Chippers in November 2005.
Under the agreement of 19 September 2005, a payment of $10,000 was due on that day and a further $130,000 was due by 18 November 2005.
For a purchase under which settlement was not due until 19 September 2006, to have been denied the use of the deposit moneys for about 10 months would, I infer, have been regarded by Red Valley as being commercially detrimental.
In chief, on the subject of splitting the deposit, Anderson said that he did not like "having $140,000 sitting around in an agent's trust account doing nothing for so long".
Under cross-examination, he made it clear that he did not like the idea of having $50,000 of his own money in an Elders' trust account "so it can sit there for the next year when there is litigation on hand".
82 I consider that the obligation to pay $90,000 by 8 March 2006 and a further $50,000 by 31 May 2006 was, for Red Valley, a very different thing from its obligation under the agreement of 19 September 2005 --- to pay $10,000 then and a further $130,000 by 18 November 2005.
Both because of the clearly more beneficial (for the purchaser) terms of the agreement of 1 March 2006, and because, as a matter of commercial reality, that agreement was sufficient to restore Anderson's commitment to the purchase, I consider that Smyth's assent to the variation should be characterised as an offer for sale in its own right.
Both legally and commercially, what arose from the transaction concluded on 1 March 2006 was a consensus quite different from that of the previous September: should it be necessary, I would go to the extent of saying materially different.
83 The Chippers were entitled to be given a first right of refusal to purchase the farm on the same conditions as were involved in the Red Valley contract of 1 March 2006.
Manifestly, this did not occur.
To the contrary, Peter Smyth not only failed to offer the farm to the Chippers on those conditions: he bound himself to sell it to Red Valley.
He was in breach, therefore, of both the negative and the positive aspects of his contractual obligations under the first right of refusal in the lease.
AVAILABILITY OF AN INJUNCTION 
 
84 Although the Chippers have not sought an injunction in this proceeding, I think that an analysis of the legal issues involved, and of their application to the facts, will be assisted by considering first whether the Chippers, or Octra as their trustee, would succeed in an action for an injunction to restrain Peter Smyth from completing the sale of the farm to Red Valley.
Ignoring for a moment the position of Red Valley itself, it is hard to see why an injunction would not go in the circumstances.
As noted above, one aspect of the first right of refusal in the lease is the negative covenant.
The contract of sale with Red Valley was a breach of that covenant.
The performance of that contract could be restrained before registration of the transfer.
As between Octra (and therefore, beneficially, the Chippers) and Smyth, the case for an injunction would seem to be unanswerable.
85 The real problem, of course, is that the making of such an injunction would oblige Smyth to break his contract with Red Valley.
Smyth could not, of course, be heard to complain about that circumstance.
But what of Red Valley, considered as a third party seeking to uphold its own contractual rights?
86 Here one finds the applicable principle in the judgment of the English Court of Appeal in Manchester Ship Canal Co v Manchester Racecourse Co [1901] 2 Ch 37.
In that case the canal company and the racecourse company owned adjoining lands.
They entered into an agreement (which was validated by Act of Parliament, a circumstance which is presently irrelevant) that contained a provision in the following terms:
 
 If and whenever the lands ... belonging to the racecourse company, and now used as a racecourse, shall cease to be used as a racecourse, or should the ... lands ... be at any time proposed to be used for dock purposes, then and in either of such cases the racecourse company shall give to the canal company the first refusal of the ... lands ...
 

The canal company indicated to the racecourse company that it desired to purchase some of the racecourse land.
