
 
 1 Before the court are two appeals on questions of law pursuant to s 46 of the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 (Cth) ('the Complaints Act') arising out of a decision of the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal ('the tribunal') published on 13 May 2005.
On 14 June 2005 Auspine Superannuation Pty Ltd ('the trustee') appealed from certain determinations, made in the course of the decision, in which appeal Philip Henderson ('the complainant') was named as respondent.
On 5 September 2005, the complainant cross-appealed from another determination made in the course of the decision, in which appeal the trustee and AMP Life Ltd ('the insurer') were named as respondents.
2 The decision of the tribunal and the determinations which it made disposed of a complaint pursuant to s 14(2) of the Complaints Act by the complainant, in which he asserted that he had been unfairly and unreasonably denied payment of a total and permanent disablement ('TPD') benefit from the Auspine Staff Superannuation Fund ('the fund') of which he was a member and of which the trustee was the trustee.
The trustee had taken out a policy with the insurer to cover itself for the payment of TPD and other benefits out of the fund, and the insurer had denied payment in the circumstances of the case.
Following the lead of the insurer, the trustee denied the complainant a payment by way of TPD benefit from the fund.
3 The complainant was born in 1946.
In 1991, he commenced employment as credit manager with a company which, by the time of events relevant to this proceeding, was called Auspine Limited ('the employer').
On 1 July 1997, he became a member of the fund.
According to his claim for a TPD benefit, in 1998 and early 1999 he became affected by work-related stress which, he claimed, had been caused by two general managers.
He consulted a general practitioner, Dr P C Nelson, on 3 March 1999, and took a period of leave (which appears to have been covered by workers compensation payments).
The complainant returned to work, but the stress returned, and he was obliged to cease working again.
The last day upon which he worked was 19 May 1999.
The complainant continued to be covered by workers compensation payments.
On 8 December 2000, the complainant ceased employment with the employer, but there is no evidence of the act or circumstances which constituted this event.
The workers compensation payments ceased on 4 May 2001.
On 26 June 2001, the complainant made a claim for TPD benefits from the fund.
It was that claim which commenced the series of events which has lead to the present appeal.

 THE FUND RULES 
 
 4 On 31 October 1994, the employer and the trustee executed a deed to which were annexed rules.
The fund had been in existence for some time, but the previous rules were wholly replaced by the rules annexed to the deed of 31 October 1994.
Those rules were divided into a series of articles.
Article 1 contained definitions; art 2 dealt with the subject of eligibility for, and membership of, the fund; art 3 dealt with contributions, both by members and by the employer; art 4 dealt with the subject of 'benefit, entitlement and determination'; art 5 was concerned with the payment of benefits; art 6 dealt with the administration of the fund; art 7 was concerned with the assets, expenses and investments of the fund; art 8 covered records, accounts and evaluations; art 9 contained provisions governing the appointment, removal and functions of the trustee; art 10 provided for the admission to the fund of an 'associated employer', and provisions relevant to that matter; art 11 was concerned with the winding up of the fund; and art 12 dealt with the replacement of the employer, should it be unable or unwilling to continue as a contributor.
There were thirteen schedules to the rules, and I shall refer to them only as necessary in my reasons which follow.
5 Article 4 of the rules was divided into seven separate rules, the heading to each of which was, for the most part, explanatory of the subject matter dealt with therein.
Those headings were: normal retirement benefit; late retirement benefit; permanent disablement benefit; death in service benefit; death in retirement benefit; other termination of service and other benefits.
Rule 4.3, 'permanent disablement benefit', provided as follows: 
 
 "A Member who retires from Service on the grounds of Permanent Disablement shall be entitled to receive a Permanent Disablement Benefit determined in accordance with Schedule 10 hereto.

 
 Where a Member is not acceptable at standard rates under any insurance policy which the Trustees may effect for the purposes of reinsuring a portion of a Permanent Disablement Benefit the amount of any Benefit otherwise payable under this Rule may be reduced by such amount as the Trustees may consider appropriate.
The Member shall be advised of any such reduction.
" 


 
 6 Schedule 10 provided that the 'permanent disablement benefit' would be 'the member's accrued benefit as at the date of permanent disablement'.
The term 'member's accrued benefit' was not defined in the rules, but item (b) of Sch 7 provided that the 'accrued benefit' would be 'the sum of the accrued member benefit and the accrued employer benefit'.
The accrued member benefit had two parts.
The first part was the 'accumulated member contributions' at the beginning of the financial year, increased by contributions made by the member during the year and by the proceeds of any individual insurance policies on which premiums, funded out of member contributions, had been paid, and decreased by the amount of those premiums and by benefits paid in respect of the member during the year.
The second part required that there be added to the first part an amount representing a share of the profit for the financial year, determined in accordance with provisions there set out.
The accrued employer benefit likewise had two parts.
The first part was the 'accumulated employer contributions' at the beginning of the financial year, increased by contributions made by the employer during the year and by the proceeds of any individual insurance policies in respect of the member on which premiums, funded out of employer contributions, had been paid, and decreased by the amount of those premiums and by benefits paid in respect of the member during the year, to the extent that they could not be dealt with under the corresponding provisions of 'accumulated member contributions'.
The second part required that there be added to the first part an amount representing a share of the profit for the financial year, determined in accordance with provisions there set out.
What was significant (in the context of the present case) about these provisions of Sch 7 and Sch 10 was the circumstance that a part of the permanent disablement benefit was the proceeds of insurance policies received in respect of the member in question.
7 Although, as I have noted above, the rules provided for the payment of a benefit in the event of 'permanent disablement', that term was not defined.
Instead, the rules contained a definition of 'total and permanent disablement', as follows: 
 
 "Total and Permanent Disablement: In relation to a Member means a Member who, is the absolute and final opinion of the Trustee is by reason of permanent incapacity or permanent invalidity unlikely to engage in any occupation for which the Member is reasonably qualified by eduction, training and experience and which provides an equivalent level of remuneration to that Member as if the Member were gainfully employed PROVIDED THAT if the Trustee has effected a Policy in relation to the Member the Trustee may determine that the meaning of Total and Permanent Disablement shall, subject to a Relevant Requirement, in respect of a Member be modified so as to be identical to the circumstances in which an amount is payable by the insurer under such Policy.
The term "Totally and permanently Disabled" has a corresponding meaning for the purpose of this Deed.
" 
 

It was uncontroversial, both before the tribunal and before the court, that the entitling event under cl 4.3 --- 'permanent disablement' --- was the same as the event defined in the rules as 'total and permanent disablement'.

 8 The other provision of the rules which should be noted was r 4.7, which provided as follows: 
 
 "Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein contained the Trustee in its absolute discretion may pay to a Member at any time any amount provided that such payment will not prejudice Government Approval of the Fund.
" 
 
 
 9 The rules annexed to the deed were further amended, in respects not presently relevant, on 1 July 1996.
The rules as so amended remained in those terms, including the terms to which I have referred above, when the complainant joined the fund in 1997 and when he ceased working on 19 May 1999.
10 In August 1997 --- ie just after the complainant joined the fund --- the trustee published a 'member booklet'.
Although it was implicit in the trustee's submissions that this booklet received at least some distribution amongst fund members, that was not a relevant fact, and the tribunal made no finding about it.
The terms of certain explanations contained in the booklet were, however, relevant.
