
 
1 This matter concerns an application by Mr Tolcher as Liquidator of Lloyd Scott Enterprises Pty Ltd ("LSE") seeking payment of monies from Capital Finance Australia Limited ("Capital Finance") and Capital Corporate Finance Limited ("Capital Corporate") (together "the Capital companies").
This application is made pursuant to the voidable transaction provisions of Part 5.7B of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) ("the Act ").
2 Mr Tolcher was appointed Liquidator of LSE on 24 July 2001.
The payments sought to be avoided were made between 14 February 2001 and 31 May 2001, and total $3,751,861.40.
The central issue in this case is whether the amounts sought to be recovered should be characterised as preferential, uncommercial or insolvent transactions as covered by ss 588FA , 588FB , 588FC , 588FE and 588FF and, if so, whether the statutory defence in s 588FG is available to the Capital companies on the basis that they had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that LSE was insolvent.
THE STATUTORY FRAMEWORK 
 Section 588FA: Unfair Preferences 
 
3 Section 588FA provides that a transaction is an unfair preference given by a company to a creditor if the company and creditor are parties to a "transaction" and as a result of the transaction the creditor receives from the company in respect of an unsecured debt, a greater amount than the creditor would have received if the transaction were set aside and the creditor were required to prove for that debt in a winding up of the company.
The relevant "creditor" in this case is said to be the Capital companies with LSE in the role of "debtor.
"
 Section 588FB: Uncommercial Transactions 
 
4 Section 588FB concerns uncommercial transactions and provides that a transaction of a company is uncommercial if it may be expected that a reasonable person in the company's circumstances would not have entered into the transaction, having regard to: (a) the benefits (if any) to the company of entering into the transaction; (b) the detriment to the company; (c) the respective benefits to other parties to the transaction, and (d) any other relevant matter.
The important question here is whether a reasonable person would have entered into the transaction in the light of the above factors.
Whereas s 588FA requires that the relevant company and creditor both be parties to the relevant transaction, s 588FB does not require that the creditor be a party to the transaction for the provision to apply.
Section 588FC: Insolvent Transactions 
 
5 Section 588FC outlines the circumstances under which a transaction is an insolvent transaction for the purpose of Part 5.7B.
It provides that a transaction is an insolvent transaction if it is either an unfair preference or uncommercial transaction of the company and (a) the transaction is entered into or given effect at a time when the company is insolvent; and (b) the company becomes insolvent because of matters including entering the transaction or a person giving effect to that transaction.
Section 588FE: Voidable Transactions 
 
6 Section 588 FE provides that if a transaction is voidable if it is an insolvent transaction.
Section 588FF: Courts may make orders about voidable transactions 
 
7 This section empowers the Court to make orders in respect of payments or transfers of monies where the Court is satisfied that a transaction is voidable.
Section 588FG: Transaction not voidable as against certain persons 
 
8 The statutory defence provision in s 588FG(b) applies if it can be demonstrated that a person who has received a benefit had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that the company was insolvent and that a reasonable person in this position would have had no such grounds for so suspecting.
THE TRANSACTIONS 
 
9 The payments in question were made to Capital Finance from a National Australia Bank ("NAB") account which was the office suspense account ("Office Suspense Account") for the use of a Business Manager at the NAB Business Banking Centre, Hamilton, New South Wales.
A table of the NAB payments is as follows:
 
 Payment 
 
 Date 
 
 Payment Sum 
 
 17 
 
 14 Feb 2001 
 
 $929,927.17 
 
 18 
 
 14 Feb 2001 
 
 $837,986.18 
 
 19 
 
 14 Feb 2001 
 
 $968,853.83 
 
 94 
 
 18 May 2001 
 
 $420,768.52 
 
 95 
 
 31 May 2001 
 
 $74,911.78 
 
 96 
 
 31 May 2001 
 
 $148,494.29 
 
 97 
 
 31 May 2001 
 
 $62,742.70 
 
 98 
 
 31 May 2001 
 
 $308,176.93 
 Total 
 
 
 $3,751,861.40 
 
 

10 It is common ground that at the time each of the payments was made, LSE was in fact insolvent.
It is also agreed that the payments were made from the NAB Office Suspense Account to CFAL on or about the dates specified.
The parties are similarly in agreement that immediately prior to each of the above payments being made, the then existing liabilities of LSE to the NAB, as secured by a charge to NAB by LSE, exceeded the reasonable value of all assets of LSE.
BACKGROUND 
 
11 The contractual arrangements between LSE and the respective Capital companies were governed by Principal and Agency Agreements ("P  A Agreements").
On 7 July 1995, LSE entered into a P  A Agreement with Capital Corporate.
This Agreement provided that Capital Corporate would provide "vendor finance" to LSE, which supplied office equipment to a range of end users in the region of Newcastle and north of Newcastle.
This involved LSE approaching Capital Corporate as financiers to buy office equipment, which was then leased to an end user such as a local council, a university or hospital.
The equipment was purchased by Capital Corporate and leased to the end user by LSE as lessor pursuant to a lease agreement between the end user and LSE, with the equipment being owned by Capital Corporate at all times and with Capital being the undisclosed principal in the leasing transaction.
12 On 1 July 2000, another P  A Agreement was entered into between LSE and Capital Finance.
For all practical purposes, this second Agreement provided for a similar arrangement between LSE and Capital Finance.
LSE would receive inquiries from persons who wished to lease equipment and would then request Capital Finance to purchase the equipment and lease it to the end user with LSE acting as agent for Capital Finance.
LSE would then collect the rentals from the end users and hold the monies on trust for Capital Finance.
From time to time, LSE would account to Capital Finance after deduction of monies owing to it.
13 It was acknowledged in the Agreements that lessees, from time to time, may seek to pay out liabilities under the leasing agreements prior to the due date.
In these circumstances, Capital Finance would quote a payout amount for the particular leasing agreement.
It was the responsibility of LSE to notify the lessee of the amount of the payout fee.
The Agreement also provided for sale of the equipment in circumstances where Capital Finance would agree to sell the equipment to LSE and LSE would agree to purchase it from Capital Finance on the "sale date" for the sale price.
The "sale date" was defined as the date on which the leasing agreement relating to that equipment expired at the completion of the contracted rental period, and the "sale price" was the price as agreed between the parties at the time Capital Finance approved the leasing proposal.
The sale price included the equipment's residual value plus GST.
14 Problems concerning the management of LSE came to light in mid-December 2000.
On 15 December 2000, an unrelated company known as Leasetec Australia Pty Ltd obtained orders against LSE and its principal, Mr Lloyd Scott, in the form of a preservation order restraining LSE from dealing with assets up to an amount of approximately $3.61 million.
Leasetec had also been involved for some time in financing LSE in respect of hiring agreements.
15 The making of this order came to the attention of the Capital companies and led to a series of meetings between the representatives and advisers of LSE and the Capital companies to discuss the future of the relationship between the parties and financiers, including Leasetec.
These discussions resulted in two Deed Agreement being executed on 12 January 2001 involving the Capital companies, Leasetec and LSE.
The agreement of central importance in relation to the characterisation of the transactions and payments the subject of this proceeding is that between the Capital companies, LSE and Mr Scott ("the Second Deed").
The evidence indicates that in December 2000, the full value of the business equipment leases between the Capital companies as lessor with LSE as agent amounted to an amount in the order of $11 million.
16 There is evidence that Mr John Vendrell, Assistant General Manager at Capital Finance, was concerned in mid-December 2000 that LSE was in difficulties.
This was apparent from the investigations which commenced following the preservation order obtained by Leasetec.
Moreover, it became clear that there had been double financing of equipment by Mr Scott and LSE as well as financing of equipment that did not exist.
Mr Tolcher claims that this series of events brought to light the serious possibility of fraud by LSE.
This concern ultimately proved to be correct, with Mr Scott being made bankrupt and later pleading guilty to fraud charges, a consequence of which he went to gaol.
THE SECOND DEED 
 
17 In its recitals, the Second Deed records that under earlier agreements LSE acted as the agent of Capital Corporate on an undisclosed basis to acquire and lease equipment to persons throughout Australia desirous of renting office equipment; that pursuant to another agreement between Capital Finance and LSE, the latter had acted as the agent of Capital Finance as an undisclosed principal to acquire and lease or rent equipment throughout Australia; and that under each of these agreements, LSE had collected rents as agent for the principal and held the rents on trust for the principal and before their remittal to the Capital companies.
18 Finally, the recitals of the Second Deed record that Capital Finance and Capital Corporate no longer wished to provide finance to the lessees under the hiring agreement and that over a period of three months they wished to "reduce the Exposure to nil".
The term "Exposure" was defined in the Second Deed as the aggregate at any given time of the Payouts under all the Leasing Agreements plus all amounts otherwise owed by LSE or Lloyd Scott to Capital Finance or Capital Corporate pursuant to the deed or any other agreement between the parties.
The expression "Payout" refers to the sum of money required to be paid by a lessee under a leasing agreement to terminate the obligations of the lessee under that agreement.
19 Clause 3 of the Second Deed requires payment of certain sums in respect of rent by specified dates.
This clause specifies that on or before 15 January 2001, LSE is to pay Capital Finance $318,053.09 as monthly rental for December 2000.
On or before 24 January 2001, there is a further rental payment due in the sum of $298,487.32 as a monthly rent for January 2001.
This clause also outlines that until the exposure is reduced to zero, LSE is obliged to remit monthly rental to Capital Finance commencing on 1 February 2002.
20 Clause 4 of the Second Deed requires LSE to reduce the "exposure" and pay out the LSE leases by payment to Capital Finance in cleared funds of amounts on specified dates as follows: the sum of $3 million plus the amount required to be paid by LSE to terminate its obligations to Capital Finance under the LSE leases (which at 12 January 2001 totalled $323,032), on or before 11 February 2001; the further sum of $3 million which was required to be paid on or before 11 March 2001; and thereafter $4 million which was to be paid by LSE before 11 April 2001.
The clause specified that following this payment, the balance was to be paid on or before 11 May 2001.
21 The Second Deed, and in particular Clause 4, are central to the case advanced for the liquidator, Mr Tolcher, in relation to recovery of payments which are the subject of this proceeding.
NAB statements illustrate that amounts equal to the first three challenged payments were debited to the account of LSE in respect of three leases, and that corresponding credits were recorded in the Office Suspense Account.
These amounts were then deposited to the account of Capital Finance on 14 February 2001.
An email from Ms Katherine Foreman of Capital Finance to Mr Vendrell dated 15 February 2001 records that the three "payouts" were deposited on 14 February 2001.
The amounts due were shown by "Payout Quotes" sent by Capital Finance to NAB on 12 February 2001.
There is also in evidence an NAB Office Suspense Account statement in relation to later payments made in a similar manner in May 2001 in respect of the payout of the other leasing agreements with LSE.
All payments noted in the above table are the payments which are challenged as voidable in this proceeding.
22 The dispute can be considered by reference to the headings as set out below.
EXISTENCE OF A DEBTOR-CREDITOR RELATIONSHIP 
 
23 The Capital companies contend that the payments in this case did not give rise to a preference because there was never any debtor-creditor relationship between LSE and Capital Finance.
It is submitted that that when the dealings between the Capital companies, LSE and the NAB are considered as a whole, there was no debtor-creditor relationship between LSE and Capital Finance at the time of the payments.
The Capital companies say that the payments represented a "sale" transaction between NAB and Capital Finance, where NAB agreed to buy out and pay for the equipment and rights which were the property of the Capital companies.
It is then submitted that because the true characterisation of the transaction was a "sale," a failure to comply with an obligation to acquire goods or property at a specified price can only give rise to an action for damages: see McDonald v Dennys Lascelles Limited [1933] HCA 25 ; (1933) 48 CLR 457 at 475; Box Valley Pty Limited v Kidd [2006] NSWCA 26.
An action for damages is not a "debt": Jelin Pty Ltd v Johnson (1987) 5 ACLC 463 at 464; Molit (No.
55) Pty Ltd v Lam Soon (Australia) Pty Limited (1996) 21 ACSR 157 at 159.
The Capital companies say that the payments in question were part of the purchase price and were made by NAB on its own account as purchaser of the leased equipment from Capital Finance.
24 Central to the characterization of the payments is the Second Deed as executed between the Capital companies, LSE and Mr Scott and the transactions which resulted in the payments in suit.
25 The expression "transaction" is defined in s 9 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) to include the disposition of property, payments made and obligations incurred.
The case law indicates that the term "transaction" is a word of wide connotations.
A transaction in its totality may include a series of events in a course of dealings initiated by a debtor intended to extinguish the debt: Re Emanuel (No.
14) Pty Ltd (in liq) ; Macks  Anor v Blacklaw  Shadforth Pty Ltd (1997) 147 ALR 281 at 288.
The events can occur at different points of time and need not occur simultaneously.
The Court must consider the transaction in its entirety so that it can determine the ultimate effect of the transaction.
26 In V.R.
Dye  Co v Peninsula Hotels Pty Ltd (in liq) [1999] VSCA 60 ; [1999] 3 VR 201, Ormiston J at [39] pointed out that to properly characterise a transaction, it is necessary to look at the totality of the business relationship between the parties in order to see whether there is a true preference in favour of a creditor by the insolvent company.
The Court will look at what the parties are intending to effectuate and how that was effectuated in part or in whole by the transactions in question: see also Mann v Sangria Pty Ltd (2001) 38 ACSR 307.
