
 
 1 This application for judicial review is brought under s 5 of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review Act 1977 (Cth) in relation to a decision made by the Companies Auditors and Liquidators Disciplinary Board ("the Board") on 12 April 2006 to order that the applicant's registration as a liquidator be suspended for a period of twelve months pursuant to s 1292(2) of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).
2 The Australian Securities and Investment Commission ("ASIC") applied to the Board on 31 May 2005 for an order that the applicant's registration be cancelled.
On 22 December 2005, the Board decided that it was satisfied that the applicant had failed to carry out or perform adequately and properly the duties or functions required by Australian law to be carried out or performed by a registered liquidator.
The Board made no order on that date.
On 12 April 2006, the Board made the challenged decision.
On 18 April 2006, an application was filed for the Board's order to be reviewed.
The operation of the Board's decision was suspended by me on 20 April 2006 until twenty-eight days after judgment in this application.
3 The applicant submits that the Board: (a) wrongly construed s 1292(2)(d)(ii) of the Corporations Act and therefore had no jurisdiction to make the decision; (b) applied the wrong test to determine whether the applicant was in a position of conflict when he accepted appointments as administrator of Freedom Pools (NSW) Pty Ltd ("Freedom"), Holilop Pty Ltd  W  C Callen Electrical Pty Ltd ("Holipop and Callen") and MailTV Pty Ltd ("MailTV"); (c) applied the wrong test to determine whether sufficient disclosure of the applicant's previous involvement with the shareholders and secured lenders of MailTV had been made; (d) applied the wrong test to interpret the relevant professional standards; (e) did not take into account the evidence of Mr Lombe, the expert relied on by ASIC, in concluding that the applicant was in a position of conflict; (f) did not take into account relevant factors when making its decision, including consideration of comparable penalties handed down by the Board in other cases.

 THE LEGISLATIVE PROVISIONS 
 
 4 The complaint in this case against the applicant is that he failed to perform adequately and properly the duties or functions of a liquidator.
Section 1292(2) of the Corporations Act is as follows: 5 " 1292: Powers of Board in relation to auditors and liquidators... 
 
 (2) The Board may, if it is satisfied on an application by ASIC for a person who is registered as a liquidator to be dealt with under this section that, before, at or after the commencement of this section: 
 (a) a person has: 
 (i) contravened section 1288 ; or 
 (ii) ceased to be resident in Australia; or 
 
 (d) that the person has failed, whether in or outside this jurisdiction, to carry out or properly perform adequately and properly: 
 (i) the duties of a liquidator; or 
 (ii) any duties or functions required by Australian law to be carried out or performed by a registered liquidator; 
 
 or is otherwise not a fit and proper person to remain registered as a liquidator; 
 
 by order, cancel, or suspend for a specified period, the registration of a person as a liquidator.
" 
 
 6 Section 9 of the Corporations Act defines "the Board" in this provision to mean the Companies Auditors and Liquidators Disciplinary Board.
The expression "Australian law" is also defined by s 9 as a law of the Commonwealth or of a State or Territory.
7 The Board is assigned functions under s 204 of the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001 (Cth) ("the ASIC Act ") conferred on it by the ASIC Act and the Corporations Act .
8 Under s 203 of the ASIC Act , the Board comprises a Chairperson, a Deputy Chairperson, three members selected by the Minister from a panel of seven persons nominated by the Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in Australia, three members selected by the Minister from a panel of seven persons nominated by the Board of Directors of CPA Australia, and six business members selected by the Minister who are eligible under s 203(2A) for appointment.
The constitution of the Board can therefore be said to reflect characteristics of a body acquainted with the expectations of the accounting and business communities, which is informed by experience with the practices of those communities.

 THE BOARD'S DECISION 
 
 9 The relevant findings made by the Board were that Mr Dean-Willcocks: (a) accepted an appointment as an administrator where there existed a prior continuing professional relationship of a related practice with the appointee company during the two years prior to appointment, displaying a lack of professional independence and actual or apparent conflict of interest within the meaning of paragraph 4 of the IPAA Code of Professional Conduct and paragraph 22 of the ICAA Code of Professional Conduct F1 --- "Professional Independence" in relation to the administrations of: 
 
 
 i.
Freedom; and
 ii.
Holilop and Callen.

 
 
 (b) did not adequately disclose within the meaning of the ICAA Code of Professional Conduct, F.1 paragraph 21 and the IPAA Code, paragraph 3, the extent of his and/or his firm's relationship with Crosbie Warren Sinclair Pty Ltd ("CWSPL") and or Crosbie Warren Sinclair Partners ("CWS Partners") and the joint venture company Star Dean-Willcocks Crosbie Insolvency Administrators ("SDW") in either the circular to creditors and/or at a creditors' meeting convened under s 436E in relation to the administrations of the two corporations noted in (a); (c) had a conflict of interest within the meaning of paragraph 3 of the IPAA Code of Professional Conduct and paragraph 21 of the ICAA Code of Professional Conduct F.1 --- "Professional Independence," in that he accepted appointment as administrator where there was an existing relationship with a creditor of the appointee company in relation to the administration of Freedom; (d) did not adequately disclose within the meaning of the ICAA Code of Professional Conduct, F.1 paragraph 21, and the IPAA Code, paragraph 3, the extent of his and/or his practice's professional relationship with the shareholders of the appointee company in either the circular to creditors and/or at the creditors' meeting under s 436E in relation to the administration of MailTV.
10 The first question raised is the correct construction of s 1292(2).
The Board saw the dispute as turning on a difference between the parties as to the role, if any, which professional standards played in constituting or defining the "duties" under s 1292(2)(d)(ii).
11 As summarised by the Board, ASIC's contention is that having regard to the existence and nature of the commercial relationships between SDW and CWSPL, the acceptance by the applicant of appointments as administrator of clients of CWSPL or CWS Partners contravened the professional standards and therefore constituted a failure by the applicant to carry out his duties properly and adequately.
The Board noted the contention of the applicant that a contravention of professional standards is not a breach of a duty or function of any administrator required by the Corporations Law or any other legislative or common law duty, and that if professional standards had been breached, these breaches could not be taken into account under the section in determining whether s 1292(2) had been contravened.
12 The Board decided that the words "required by an Australian law" do not confine the meaning of the word "duties," but rather serve to identify the relevant duties and functions as being those which attach to an office (such as administrator) required by Australian law to be performed and observed by a registered liquidator.
The duties and functions are those which the administrator must carry out to perform that office.
It is not essential to identify a specific statutory provision as to the source of that duty.
Failure to carry out the function and office of an administrator in an adequate and proper manner constitutes a breach of that section.
13 The Board observed that in s 1292(2)(d)(i), the term "duties" is not confined by reference to Australian law.
The Board referred to decisions in Re Wylie and CALDB (1998) 54 ALD 523; Re Vouris [2003] NSWSC 702 ; (2003) 47 ACSR 155 and Goodman v ASIC [2004] FCA 1000.
After considering these decisions, the Board concluded that it is permissible to have regard to professional standards in deciding whether the office has been "adequately and properly" carried out or performed.
The Board considered it is artificial to confine "duties" to matters required by an Australian law because there exist a large number of matters governing proper professional practice which are not dealt with by specific statutory prescriptions.
Therefore, guidance can be obtained from relevant material published by professional bodies and other evidence, including expert evidence, in determining the terms, nature and content of the relevant duties to assess whether there has been an adequate and proper performance.
Moreover, the expressions "adequate" and "proper" call for an evaluation of the way in which, and the extent to which, the functions have been performed.
This indicates that it may be appropriate to consider professional standards or guidelines.
14 The Board relied on evidence from Mr Lombe, who was accepted by the Board as an expert.
Although the Board noted that some criticism could be made of Mr Lombe's evidence, it did not accept that he was lacking in independence or objectivity.
The Board took his opinion into account and gave weight to it.
15 In relation to the Codes regarding professional conduct, the Board accepted that the published professional standards do not override the law and that where there is inconsistency between professional standards and the law, the law must prevail.
The Board also accepted that references in the professional standards to conflicts and apparent conflicts meant that there must be a real possibility of conflict or potential conflict and not simply a theoretical, fanciful or speculative conflict.
16 In construing the expression "related practice," the Board concluded that if the arrangement between CWSPL and SDW was capable of impairing the independence of SDW (from the viewpoint of a client of SDW), then CWSPL was a related practice of SDW and the joint venture was an ongoing financial or commercial relationship.
The Board considered that if, on an objective view, the relationship when created resulted in a real possibility of impairment of independence, then the definition of related practice applied.
This did not depend on being able to identify particular circumstances of any appointment or administration as giving rise to a possibility of impairing independence.
Acceptance of an appointment where the relationship existed was sufficient to contravene s 1292(2).
17 The Board concluded that the existence of a prior relationship (between SDW and CWSPL) was such that where there were known circumstances (e.g.
the fact that CWS had previously acted as auditor, external accountant or was a creditor of the company concerned) which could potentially give rise to a conflict, then that in itself was sufficient to create the perception at the time of acceptance of the appointment that the independence of the applicant could be impaired.
In considering the circumstances of the present case, the Board accepted that there had been a breach of s 1292.
18 In relation to the joint venture, the Board considered that the existence of the relationship between SDW and CWSPL was crucial, not because the creation of the relationship was itself a breach of duty, but because of its impact on the possible acceptance by the applicant of each appointment.
