
 
 Introduction 
 
1 These proceedings arise out of a valuation of a waterfront home unit at Cammeray, New South Wales (the Valuation).
The Valuation was made on 4 January 2000 by Stanley Thompson Valuers Pty Limited (STV) which is now in liquidation.
It was made for mortgage security purposes on the instructions of Colonial State Bank (Colonial).
2 The Valuation stated that in the valuer's opinion the property had a value of $5.1m.
The valuer was Mr John Ewing who signed the Valuation in that capacity.
3 The Valuation also bore the name, in two places, of Mr Michael McDonald who was described as: 
 
 'Michael McDonald Director Reg No 2205 Certified Practising Valuer --- AAPI.
' 

4 A signature appears over Mr McDonald's name and description on pages 5 and 31 of the Valuation.
It appears from evidence filed on the present motion that the signature is not that of Mr McDonald but is in fact that of Mr Rory O'Boyle, another STV employee.
5 The Statement of Claim alleges that the true market value was very substantially lower than the figure of $5.1m and that the Commonwealth Bank of Australia suffered loss and damage as a result of advancing money in reliance upon a negligent valuation.
Other causes of action including claims under s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) are also pleaded.
6 STV was initially named as first respondent to these proceedings.
However, the CBA has discontinued against it.
The CBA is the successor in law to all of the rights and liabilities of Colonial.
Whilst discontinuing its claims against STV, the CBA seeks to continue the proceedings against Mr McDonald and Mr Ewing.
7 The claim against Mr McDonald is brought only in negligence.
No claim under s 52 of the Trade Practices Act or s 42 of the Fair Trading Act 1987 (NSW) is pleaded.
8 Mr McDonald seeks to strike out those paragraphs of the Statement of Claim which are pleaded against him.
These paragraphs are [24], [29] and [37].
9 Paragraph [24] alleges that the Valuation was prepared and signed by Mr McDonald and Mr Ewing.
Paragraphs [29] and [37] allege that Mr McDonald owed a duty of care to Colonial and that the duty was breached.
10 Mr McDonald also seeks to strike out those parts of a cross-claim brought by Mr Ewing against Mr McDonald which are said to give rise to a claim for contribution or damages against him.
11 The motion is brought under O11 r 16 and O20 r 2.
The principles which apply to the summary dismissal of a cause of action are well known.
However, they are now to be considered in light of s 31A of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) which provides that a proceeding need not be hopeless or bound to fail for it to have no reasonable prospect of success.

 The Issues 

12 Three issues arise on Mr McDonald's motion.
13 The first issue is whether the claim in [24] of the Statement of Claim that Mr McDonald signed the Valuation can go to trial.
In support of his contention, Mr McDonald relies upon his sworn denial that he did not sign the Valuation and that he did not prepare it.
14 The issue turns upon whether further facts surrounding the circumstances in which Mr O'Boyle apparently came to sign the Valuation give rise to a triable issue.
Those facts are deposed to in an affidavit of Mr Ewing.
15 The second issue is whether there is an arguable claim that Mr McDonald owed a duty of care to Colonial, independently of the duty of care owed by STV.
16 The third issue is whether Mr Ewing's cross-claim against Mr McDonald gives rise to an arguable case on two bases.
The first basis is a claim for contribution under s 5 of the Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1946 (NSW).
This depends solely upon whether the claim that Mr McDonald owed a duty of care to Colonial can go to trial.
17 The other basis on which the cross-claim is attacked is that it claims accessory liability under s 75B of the Trade Practices Act without satisfying the requirements of knowledge of the falsity of the representation which is said to underpin the claims.
Thus, it is said that this aspect of the cross-claim cannot establish the necessary ingredients of the cause of action as stated by the High Court in Yorke v Lucas [1985] HCA 65 ; (1985) 158 CLR 661.
The evidence on the motion 
 
18 The evidence included a copy of the Valuation bearing the signature of Mr Ewing and the description of Mr McDonald below the signature purportedly of Mr O'Boyle as I have described above.
19 Mr McDonald's affidavit states in [5]:
 
 'The signature appearing above my printed name is not mine.
I did not sign the valuation report.
I did not prepare the valuation report.
' 

20 After Mr McDonald's affidavit was filed, Mr Ewing swore an affidavit which describes his capacity at STV and the manner of his supervision by Mr McDonald.
He also sets out some evidence as to the circumstances in which the Valuation was signed.
21 In summary, Mr Ewing's affidavit discloses at [2] that Mr McGarva, a director of STV, introduced Mr McDonald to Mr Ewing when he joined STV as the "Director of the Valuation Department".
When he was an employee, Mr Ewing was supervised by Mr McDonald who reviewed most of his valuations.
22 Paragraph [2] continues by stating that from October 1999, ie three months before the Valuation was prepared, Mr Ewing became a contractor to STV.
The practice from then on was that his draft valuations were sent to STV and that Mr McDonald signed the valuations in the capacity of "Director".
23 I will set out [4], [5] and [6] of Mr Ewing's affidavit in full.
The references in [5] to "December" appear to be an error.
It seems that Mr Ewing intended to refer to "January".

 
 '4.
To the best of my recollection, the draft report was by me completed in late December 1999.
I left the report at the office of STV and I recall signing the valuation on 4 January 2000 at which time, Mr McDonald was absent on leave.

 5.
Prior to me submitting the draft valuation in late December 1999, I had the following conversations with Michael McDonald:- 
 JE: Manny's (an STV client) bought a waterfront in Cammeray Road for $5 million.
It's a lot of money although it's over two levels, great fit out, great location and it's got a jetty.
My concern is that it is strata titled.
The top floor unit has also sold, the solicitor is faxing through the front page of the contract.

 MM: I'll have a look at that when I get time to.

 Then in early December [sic January] : --- 
 JE: The valuation report for Manny on the waterfront in Cammeray Road is finished.
It's on your desk, can you check it and sign it?

 Early December [sic January] : --- 
 JE: Colonial State Bank are chasing the report and Manny keeps on ringing me to see if the valuation report is ready.

 MM: I'll get to it.

 6.
When I attended the offices of STV on 4 January 2000, I observed that the valuation had not been signed.
I rang McDonald and he said to get Rory to sign it and get it out.
I put the report on Rory's desk, told him that Michael asked for him to sign off on this for him, which he did.
I assumed that it had been checked by McDonald in accordance with the previous practice for directors to sign off on valuation reports as discussed above.
The report would not have been issued without McDonald's authorisation.
' 
 

 Issue 1 --- whether [24] gives rise to a triable issue 
 
24 In considering this issue it is important to bear in mind that the proceedings are at a comparatively early stage.
The affidavits of Mr McDonald and Mr Ewing were not filed in response to a direction to file evidence for the final hearing.
They were filed only for the purpose of this motion.
25 Discovery has not yet been ordered.
My ordinary practice is not to order discovery until the true issues are elucidated after the affidavit evidence is complete.
26 Mr McDonald's evidence consists of a bare denial of the allegations in [24] of the Statement of Claim.
It fails to deal with the description given by Mr Ewing of the background and factual circumstances in which the Valuation came to be signed by Mr O'Boyle.
27 In my view it is plain from Mr Ewing's affidavit that a triable issue of fact is disclosed.
It is true that [6] of his affidavit is not in admissible form for a final hearing.
But that paragraph, read in the light of [2] and the conversation recorded in [5] gives rise to an arguable case that Mr McDonald reviewed and approved the Valuation and that he authorised Mr O'Boyle to sign it on his behalf.
28 If these facts are made good at the trial it would probably be sufficient to make out a case of preparation, within its ordinary meaning, as well as signature.
At the very least it would be sufficient to make out a case that Mr McDonald supervised and authorised the release of the Valuation over his name.
29 Counsel for Mr McDonald sought to take a narrow approach to the meaning of [24] of the Statement of Claim and to what was to be gleaned from [6] of Mr Ewing's affidavit.
30 In my view this is not a proper approach to the present application.
The authorities relating to the proper construction and effect of s 31A of the Federal Court of Australia Act were exhaustively reviewed by Rares J in Boston Commercial Services Pty Ltd v GE Capital Finance Australasia Pty Ltd [2006] FCA 1352 at [31] --- [48].
