
 (COSTS) 
 
1 These proceedings were dismissed on the first day of hearing on the Commissioner's concession.
This followed a motion by the applicants in each case to strike out certain allegations in the Commissioner's Amended Statement of Facts, Issues and Contentions as irrelevant.
2 The applicants are entitled to their costs of the proceedings.
They submit that these costs should be taxed and paid on an indemnity basis.
They submit that the Commissioner has not acted as a model litigant in pursuing these actions.
Issues raised by the Commissioner in them were not part of the objection decisions and are inconsistent with the income in question, being that of Raftland Pty Ltd, the applicant in Q173 of 202, the case which the Commissioner pursued.
They allege that the Commissioner has not acted with propriety and that this is shown by the lateness of the concession.
3 I do not consider there is any evidence of impropriety.
It is regrettable that costs were incurred on unnecessary issues and that they were not conceded at an earlier point.
On the other hand if the actions were plainly not maintainable one would have expected the applicants to apply to strike them out at an early point.
Litigation is often conducted on alternative bases and upon issues which cannot all be successful.
A successful party may sometimes be deprived of costs on unmeritorious issues.
I do not however think that it is suggested that, in every case where alternative claims are made, that an order for indemnity costs should follow.
In the present case there are no matters in the Commissioner's conduct of the litigation which suggest that that course is appropriate.
4 There will be orders in each proceeding that the Commissioner pay the applicants' costs of the proceedings.
I certify that the preceding four (4) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Kiefel.
Associate:

Dated: 17 February 2006


 IN THE MATTER OF Q125 OF 2002 
 IN THE MATTER OF Q126 OF 2002 
 IN THE MATTER OF Q127 OF 2002 
 IN THE MATTER OF Q157 OF 2002 

 Counsel for the Applicant: Mr D G Russell QC with Mr H Alexander 
 
 Solicitor for the Applicant: Tobin King Lateef 
 
 Counsel for the Respondent: Mr P E Hack SC with Mr P A Looney 
 
 Solicitor for the Respondent: Australian Government Solicitor 
 
 Date of Hearing: 19 October 2005 
 
 Date of Judgment: 17 February 2006 

 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2006/110.html 
 
 
