
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 1 I have before me an application made by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ('ASIC') for an order that the Green Pacific Energy Limited ('GPEL') a Stock Exchange listed entity be wound up in insolvency on the ground that GPEL is insolvent as it has failed to discharge, on all the evidence, the onus it bears of proving that it is not insolvent (see: s 459C(3) of the Corporations Act 2001 ('the Act') having regard to the presumption arising by operation of s 459C(2)(a) of the Act arising out of GPEL's failure on 6 June 2006 to comply with a statutory demand (meeting the requirements of s 459F of the Act) served upon it by TechComm Simulation Pty Ltd ('TechComm').
2 Further, ASIC seeks an order for the winding up of GPEL on the ground that the 'directors have acted in the affairs of the company in their own interests rather than in the interests of the members as a whole, or in any manner whatsoever that appears to be unfair or unjust to other members' (s 461(1)(e) of the Act) and on the further ground that the court is of the opinion that 'it is just and equitable that the company be wound up' (s 461(1)(k)).
3 The applicant plaintiff also seeks an order for the winding up of the second defendant, Green Pacific Energy Capital Pty Ltd ('GPEC') on the just and equitable ground.
4 On the question of insolvency, the essential contention made by ASIC is that GPEL cannot pay its debts as and when they fall due either by reference to its own cash flows or by reference to a timely realisation of assets or by recourse to secured or unsecured funding facilities which can be demonstrated to be both available to meet the obligations of GPEL as and when they fall due and made available to GPEL by entities that have a demonstrated capacity to provide the necessary funds as and when required.
5 GPEL contends that having regard to the essential character of the undertaking conducted by the company which involves the promotion and development of renewable energy power generation projects (through subsidiary entities) utilising green waste fuel to produce heat energy which can be converted into electricity through a process known as 'Fluidised Bed Combustion' ('FBC') technology and the development of a 5 megawatt (MW) pilot power plant at Staplyton in Queensland, the capital requirements of GPEL as to both debt and equity, necessarily varied according to the projects to be undertaken and, in part at least, depended upon GPEL establishing the optimised success of its pilot plant and particularly sustainable budgeted cash flows.
The contention is that once the success of the pilot plant, both in terms of the technology and economic efficiency could be established, the technology would then be deployed in conjunction with a further power generation project (13.5MW) at the Staplyton site thus generating economies of scale and positive budgeted cash flows.
The technology would also be deployed at other sites throughout Australia.
6 GPEL contends that although proving up the optimisation of the pilot plant confronted a series of particular technical difficulties thus impacting upon cash flows, GPEL was at all material times additionally supported by the foundation shareholders and entities related to GPEL by the provision of debt finance.
Moreover, having regard to relevant terms and conditions of some of those facilities, the debt was capable of being converted to equity.
Those entities, it is said, continue to provide enduring financial support in terms of both debt and equity to GPEL.
Accordingly, GPEL contends that, at the date of the hearing of the application and looking forward as 'a matter of commercial reality' consistent with Lewis (Doran Constructions in (Liq)) v Doran  Ors [2005] NSWCA 243 , GPEL can pay its debts as and when they fall due.
In addition, particular financial arrangements relating to the entity promoting the pilot plant, namely, Green Pacific Energy Staplyton No.
1 Pty Ltd ('GPES No 1') were 'project specific' without recourse to GPEL and therefore do not bear upon the solvency of GPEL.
7 As to the just and equitable ground, ASIC contends that a director and chairman of GPEL, Mr Alfred Chi Wai Wong, who through companies related to him controls approximately 20% of the issued share capital of GPEL, engaged in misconduct which had the effect of prejudicing the interests of investors in and creditors of the company.
The foundation contention is that Mr Wong, without a resolution of the Board of Directors of GPEL, authorised the payment to entities related to him, namely, Richland Investment (Australia) Pty Limited ('Richland') and G P Energy Pty Ltd ('G P Energy') of approximately $5M in the period 19 November 2004 to 9 December 2004 out of capital ($6.3M) subscribed by J F Capital Partners Ltd ('JFCP').
That capital, 31.5 million shares in GPEL at $0.20 per share was subscribed, ASIC contends, by JFCP on or about 18 November 2004 as a result of a presentation made to JFCP by GPEL and was contributed expressly on the footing that the subscribed capital would be utilised by GPEL to enable it to secure the attraction of debt finance from Investec Bank (Australia) Limited ('Investec') for the acquisition and construction of new plant at the Staplyton site (Staplyton No.
2).
8 The new site was to be the first economically efficient green power project promoted by GPEL and thus GPEL's foundation positive cash flows.
The use by Alfred Wong of the capital subscribed by JFCP to retire debt to entities related to him in the face of the representations made to JFCP is said by ASIC to demonstrate that the undertaking of GPEL 'cannot be carried on consistently with candid and straightforward dealings with the public, from whom further capital must be obtained if its existence is to be prolonged' ( Re Producer's Real Estate  Finance Co Ltd [1936] VLR 235 of 246) and to reflect a willingness on the part of Alfred Wong to prefer the interests of Richland (and thus his own interests) to that of the members and creditors of GPEL.
9 GPEL contends that capital subscribed by a shareholder can properly be used for the commercial purposes of GPEL and the application of the funds subscribed by JFCP to reduce debt and eliminate interest was both orthodox and prudential .
10 A second contention which is said by ASIC to lead to a conclusion that the court ought to be satisfied that it is just and equitable that GPEL be wound up is that notwithstanding a decision on the part of the Board of GPEL on 11 May 2005 to place 'a freeze' upon raising money from the public by the issue of promissory notes, Alfred Wong caused a 'Second Information Memorandum' to be developed and published pursuant to which further promissory notes were issued by GPEC and monies raised from the public without the authority of the Board of Directors.
11 Alfred Wong concedes that the Board did place a freeze upon taking steps to cause GPEC to issue further promissory notes.
However, in a process of introducing GPEL to the market as part of a high level 'soft' presentation of GPEL's activities and those of GPEC, a number of participants at particular presentations conducted by Mr Andris Lielkajis 'under the banner of Great Pacific Investment Services Pty Ltd' ('GPIS'), a company related to Alfred Wong, took up a 'Second Information Memorandum', completed an application form for the notes bearing a maturity date of 31 March 2007 or 30 September 2007 or two years from the issue date at an interest rate of 11.5% per annum and subscribed particular funds which were accepted by GPEC.
Alfred Wong contends that he elected not to return the monies raised through the issue of the notes on advice from Andris Lielkajis as it would have had, in his judgment, an adverse market impact upon GPEL to do so.
12 In reliance upon these contentions, ASIC seeks a winding up order on the just and equitable ground in respect of both GPEL and GPEC.
13 ASIC further contends that the application by Alfred Wong of the funds raised by the subscription from JFCP, to retire debt due to Richland in circumstances where, upon a proper construction of the terms and conditions of the facility, the debt was open to conversion to equity at the election of GPEL thus extinguishing the debt, was conduct contrary to the interests of the members of GPEL as a whole and had the effect of preferring the interests of Alfred Wong and entities related to him.
Accordingly, ASIC seeks a winding up order in reliance upon s 461(1)(e).
Alfred Wong contends that the application of the funds was orthodox and prudential and does not represent conduct in the affairs of the company on his part designed to serve his own interests rather than the interests of members as a whole.
14 A considerable body of affidavit evidence has been filed in the application.
The question of whether GPEL is at the date of the hearing insolvent is conditioned by the history of events from the date of acquisition of control of GPEL by the current shareholder group on 15 April 2003 and the various financial arrangements struck in order to enable the company to continue as a going concern.
Other questions going to the just and equitable ground and whether the directors have acted in the affairs of the company in their own interests rather than the interests of the members as a whole involves an examination of the governance of the company and the conduct of individuals.
15 I find the facts to be these.

 THE FACTUAL EVENTS 
 
 16 GPEL was previously known as Envirostar Energy Limited.
The company was placed in administration on 3 October 2002.
On 21 February 2003, Great Pacific Financial Group Pty Limited ('GPFG') entered into a Heads of Agreement with the administrators pursuant to which GPFG on behalf of a syndicate of investors agreed to contribute $1.76 million in exchange for the issue of shares representing 77% of the issued capital upon completion of the issue.
$1M was to be available to the administrators and creditors of the company under a proposed Deed of Company Arrangement ('DOCA') and $500,000 was to be applied as future working capital.
The deed proposal was approved by creditors on 27 February 2003 and the parties entered into the DOCA on 18 March 2003.
On 15 April 2003 the shareholders resolved to approve the issue of the relevant shares to the GPFG syndicate members, change the company name to GPEL and appoint Alfred Wong, Mr Richard Gerald Nott and Mr Danny Au-Yeung as Directors of the company.
Mr Edwin Yeung was appointed company secretary on the same date.
17 On 25 August 2003, upon performance of the terms of the DOCA, the Deed Administration came to an end.
18 Alfred Wong is a Director and Chairman of the Board of GPEL.
Alfred Wong is also the Sole Director and Company Secretary of Richland which is the trustee of the Richland Property Trust.
Alfred Wong is a beneficiary of that trust and has complete authority to act on behalf of the Richland Property Trust.
Alfred Wong says that he has complete authority to deal with the trust and its assets.
Richland does not trade other than in its trustee capacity.
Alfred Wong is the Sole Director of GPEC which is a wholly owned subsidiary of GPEL and a Director and Shareholder in GPFG.
GPFG has a minimal shareholding in GPEL.
Alfred Wong concedes that although he does not have any direct shareholding in GPEL, he controls approximately 20% of the issued share capital in GPEL through companies related to him.
19 Alfred Wong and Andris Lielkajis are Directors of GPIS.
Mr Ivan Wong is the other director of GPIS.
Both Alfred Wong and Andris Lielkajis are also directors of Great Pacific Securities ('GPS'), a financial services licensee.
Alfred Wong controls 51% of GPS.
GPIS has a strong relationship with another company controlled by Andris Lielkajis (of which he is the Sole Director and Shareholder), namely, A.B.L Global Spectrum Pty Ltd ('ABL').
Andris Lielkajis says that GPIS 'lends its name to ABL'.
20 Other individuals who have had a role to play in GPEL include Peter Gan who was appointed Managing Director of GPEL on 14 May 2004 having commenced employment with GPEL as its chief operating officer in June 2003.
Peter Gan was formerly employed as the commercial development manager of Energy Australia where he was in charge of implementing that company's green energy strategy.
He resigned in mid July 2005.
Robert Patterson was appointed a director of GPEL on 1 July 2004 and resigned in August 2005.
William Lamont was appointed as a director on 16 September 2005.
Richard Nott resigned as a director on 25 August 2005.
Mr Edwin Yeung has been the company secretary of GPEL since 15 April 2003 and the company secretary of GPEC since 21 December 2005.
Danny Kam Yun Au-Yeung has been a director of GPEL since 15 April 2003.
Heymala Eardley was the assistant company secretary of GPEL from 1 June 2004 to 30 December 2005.
21 GPEL has had, since 15 April 2003, a number of power generation projects under consideration most of which were in the planning and development stage by Envirostar Energy Limited prior to the GPFG proposal.
Those projects include: 
 
 (a) The construction of a 5MW power plant at Staplyton which was completed and commissioned on 23 March 2004.
That project encountered a range of difficulties and the shares in the operating subsidiary GPES No.
1 were sold to BMI Group Pty Ltd on 5 July 2006;
 (b) A proposal to develop a 13.5MW power plant at Staplyton in Queensland.
In January 2006 GPEL purchased a second hand power plant located in Altona in Victoria through a wholly owned subsidiary;
 (c) A proposal to develop a 100MW clean coal power generation plant at Morwell in Victoria;
 (d) A proposal to develop a 20MW power plant at Kemerton in Western Australia;
 (e) A proposal to develop a power plant at Bell Bay in Tasmania;
 (f) A proposal to participate in a project in China called the 'Dalian Environmental Coal Gasification Project'.

 
 22 From 15 April 2003 when Alfred Wong became involved with GPEL, he accepted that it would be necessary for a company or companies related to him to financially stand behind GPEL and provide financial facilities to allow the company to function as a going concern and implement steps in the development of the projects under consideration.
Alfred Wong accepted that Richland would provide loan facilities to GPEL to enable it to meet cash flow demands.
In June 2003, Richland began providing financial assistance to GPEL.
No written loan facility agreement was brought into existence at that time to document the terms and conditions of the Richland GPEL financial facility.
23 However, on 17 December 2003, a document was brought into existence (a 'Term Sheet') between GPEL and Richland which referred to a principal sum of $2.5M 'to provide working capital for the Borrower' with a maturity date of 30 June 2004 .
The 'credit facility' was to be supported by a 'registered fixed and floating charge over the borrower's assets to be ranked behind the loan facility from Investec Bank (Australia)' attracting an interest rate at 7% above the 30 day bank bill rate with an establishment fee of 3% of the facility.
Interest was to be capitalised.
The brief Term Sheet describes the repayment term in this way: 
 
 ' Principal Repayment 
 
 The credit facility may be extended for a further term based on similar terms and conditions subject to mutual agreement.
In the event that the facility is not extended, the borrower has the discretion of repaying the principal sum and all accrued interest in cash or in the form of fully paid ordinary shares in the Borrower.
The issue price of these shares will be calculated at a 15% discount of the weighted average trading price of the company shares over the five days prior to the Maturity Date.
[30 June 2004] ' 
 
 
 
 24 The reference in the Security Clause of the Term Sheet to the Investec loan facility was a reference to a facility dated 30 September 2003 by which Investec provided a loan facility of $3.5M in two tranches to GPES No.
1 to enable that company to develop a new 3.3MW renewable energy power plant at Staplyton in Queensland involving design, construction, testing and completion, defects rectification and operation and maintenance activities.
The facility involved a pre and post commissioning facility comprising structured senior debt of $2.9M and subordinated debt of $600,000 on particular terms and conditions.
The facility had to be supported by particular fixed and floating charges, step in rights to cure potential breaches in relation to a Power Purchase Agreement and Lease Agreement and 15 conditions precedent including confirmation from the sponsor (GPEL) and its directors that the Borrower was not subject to any outstanding claims, nor in default of any facilities and that no material adverse change had occurred since the formulation of the Term Sheet between Investec, the sponsor (GPEL) and the Borrower.
In addition, the Borrower was required to establish particular accounts from which the debt servicing costs were to be paid.
The Borrower was required to maintain particular defined 'ratios' described as the ratio of 'Available Cash Flow to Debt Servicing Costs' (called 'DSCR') and a ratio of 'Forecast Available Cash Flow to Forecast Debt Servicing Costs' (called 'FDSCR').
25 On 9 January 2004, Investec issued a letter to GPEL submitting an 'in principle' offer to provide and syndicate construction and term finance for five power generation projects --- Staplyton Stage 2, Nowra, Morwell, Bell Bay and Kemerton.
The Borrower would be GPEL.
The facility amount was to be $20.4M per project subject to financial modelling demonstrating that the facility could be fully repaid on commissioning by means of a 'Senior Construction Facility' by which particular coverage and debt servicing ratios could be maintained by the Borrower.
The purpose was to fund 60% of the construction cost of each project with the Borrower subscribing 40% although that proportion might partly be accommodated through draw down of a 'Junior Construction Facility' also provided by Investec.
The Senior Construction Facility contemplated a construction period of 24 months, capitalisation of interest, an elevated default interest rate, the provision of detailed securities, 'step in rights' upon default in relation to particular agreements, and 20 conditions precedent.
Some of those conditions precedent involved syndication of the facility by Investec to banks, Investec's satisfaction with off-take agreements and fuel supply contracts, Investec's satisfaction with financial projections, the passing of a defined 'completion test' (and the meeting of operational targets) for the pilot project plant at Staplyton, project construction to be undertaken by an experienced Engineer, Procurement  Commission ('EPC') contractor satisfactory to Investec and approval of the EPC contract by Investec.
26 The Junior Construction Facility contemplated a borrowing by GPEL of a facility amount of $3.2M subject to particular 'loan life coverage ratios' and 'forward debt servicing ratios' to fund a further 10% of the construction costs of any particular project which would leave the sponsor borrower GPEL to raise 30% of the proposed or anticipated total construction cost for each project.
Similar conditions applied to the Junior Construction Facility as those governing the Senior Construction Facility.
27 Between June 2003 and June 2004, Richland provided financial facilities to GPEL by transfer of monies to the bank account of GPEL and direct payment of creditors.
At 30 June 2004, the principal sum owed to Richland by GPEL was $3,370,857.60.
On 30 June 2004, Alfred Wong on behalf of Richland wrote a letter confirming the extension of the existing facility for an additional term.
The extended or new principal facility was a $5M facility with a maturity date of 30 June 2005 .
The remaining elements of the 'Term Sheet' are identical to the terms of the previous Term Sheet.
The principal repayment term provided that in the event the facility was not extended, GPEL had a discretion to repay the principal sum and all accrued interest either in cash or by issuing fully paid shares in GPEL at a discount price to market determined by the same methodology as the earlier Term Sheet.
28 In June 2004, Alfred Wong had a conversation with Mr Edgar Yan Kai Hung.
Edgar Hung is a Director of Austcorp Group Limited ('Austcorp') and has held that position since 13 April 1992.
In June 2004, Alfred Wong asked Edgar Hung whether Richland could borrow $2.27M from Austcorp.
Edgar Hung agreed subject to the provision of security by Richland for the loan.
Alfred Wong suggested that Richland could assign to Austcorp the debt owed by GPEL to Richland.
Alfred Wong told Edgar Hung that the Richland loan to GPEL was secured by a fixed and floating charge over GPEL's assets.
On 1 July 2004, Richland entered into a Deed of Assignment with Austcorp pursuant to which in consideration of the payment of $2.27M by Austcorp to Richland, Richland assigned to Austcorp 'all of its rights, title and interest in the loan agreement between Richland and GPEL dated 17 December 2003' .
The funds were to be paid within 30 days.
Edgar Hung describes the assignment document as 'security' for the Austcorp---Richland loan of $2.27M.
The Deed of Assignment appears to be an out and out assignment to Austcorp of all of Richland's rights and interests in the GPEL/Richland 'Loan Agreement'.
If the assignment was simply an assignment by way of security, it was subject to defeasance upon discharge of the debt.
The assignment did not operate to cast an obligation upon Austcorp to provide further loan funds to GPEL.
Accordingly, at 30 June 2004, the Richland GPEL $2.5M facility had been extended by Richland as to both the term (30 June 2005) and the amount ($5M).
29 On 22 July 2004, GPEL's company secretary Edwin Yeung wrote to Austcorp and confirmed that Richland 'has notified us of its intention to assign the loan to your company.
Effective immediately, all of Richland's rights and obligations under the said loan agreement will be transferred to your company.
As at 30 June 2004, the outstanding loan amount (including accrued interest) is approximately $3.37M' .
30 As to the possible defeasance of the security, or other reversion arrangement, Alfred Wong on 22 July 2004 wrote to Austcorp to set out the following arrangements: 
 
 'I refer to the above loan agreement between Richland and GPEL and the subsequent assignment of loan to your company dated 1 July 2004.

 
 I hereby agree to grant your company a put option to be exercised from 30 September 2004 onwards.
The consideration price of this put option is the aggregate of $2.27M plus all interest accrued at 25% per annum from the date of the agreement less any interim payments paid by GPEL to your company in accordance with the loan assignment.

 
 Upon exercise of this put option I will be entitled to all loan proceeds received by your company from GPEL that are in excess of $2.27M plus the accrued interest (at 25% per annum).
' 
 
 [abbreviations and emphasis added]
 
 
 31 Upon Austcorp's exercise of the put option, Richland would be entitled to all loan proceeds received by Austcorp from GPEL in excess of the debt due to Austcorp of $2.27M plus the accrued interest at 25% per annum.
32 On 22 July 2004, Alfred Wong wrote to Austcorp referring to the Deed of Assignment of 1 July 2004 and instructed Austcorp to transmit $2M to the bank account of Ms Apiang Woong and the balance of the $2.27M to Richland's account at National Australia Bank Limited.
Those transfers took place on 22 July 2004.
The balance funds paid to the Richland account constituted $27,637.77.
33 On 7 May 2004, Alfred Wong had defaulted under the terms of a loan facility between Apiang Woong and Alfred Wong having a commencement date of 8 May 2003 pursuant to which Apiang Woong advanced $3M to Alfred Wong for 12 months with interest payable at a 'Fixed Interest Lower Rate' ('FILR') of 35% per annum to be paid on 7 November 2003 and 7 May 2004.
The Agreement provided that in the event of default, interest would be payable at a 'Fixed Interest Higher Rate' ('FIHR') of FILR plus 10% (45% per annum).
The principal was repayable on 7 May 2004.
The loan was secured by a fixed and floating charge over the assets of Pacific International Consolidated Pty Ltd ('PICPL'), a wholly owned subsidiary of Richland in support of a guarantee of the loan by PICPL; a first ranking mortgage of land owned by G P Energy in support of G P Energy's guarantee of the loan; and other mortgages over property.
Alfred Wong is the Sole Director and Secretary of G P Energy.
Lisa Wong is the sole shareholder.
34 On 13 October 2004, a further amount of $1,366,197.96 was paid to the account of Apiang Woong.
Alfred Wong conceded in giving evidence that most of the $2.27M raised by Richland was used to repay the debt to Apiang Woong and that Alfred Wong was the Borrower.
Although the debt was due for repayment in May 2004, Alfred Wong gave evidence that there was no demand for repayment of the loan from Apiang Woong at that date.
35 At paragraph 34 of Alfred Wong's affidavit filed 19 July 2006, Alfred Wong said that the purpose of assigning the debt to Austcorp, from Richland's point of view, was 'part of its treasury management' and that it was Alfred Wong's intention that 'the facility provided by Richland being a related party be replaced by an arms length facility from Austcorp.
Also, I perceived there to be a potential for a long term strategic relationship between GPEL and Austcorp and I saw this as an opportunity to start to establish such a relationship' .
It seems much more likely that Richland entered into the relationship with Austcorp to raise funds to enable Alfred Wong to pay Apiang Woong (as occurred) a substantial amount of the monies that had become due by him on or about 8 May 2004.
36 In October 2004, Edgar Hung asked Alfred Wong to provide him with a copy of the fixed and floating charge obtained by Richland over GPEL's assets pursuant to the Richland GPEL Term Sheet.
Approximately 7 to 10 days after the request, Alfred Wong told Edgar Hung that there was no charge in place.
Edgar Hung told Alfred Wong that the GPEL debt to Richland was a key security in support of the Austcorp advance to Richland and that Austcorp expected the loan to be secured by a charge over GPEL's assets.
Edgar Hung suggested to Alfred Wong that either a demand ought to be made upon Richland or GPEL of sufficient monies to reduce any substantial risk to Austcorp or, alternatively, Austcorp might step into Richland's shoes and require GPEL to grant a fixed and floating charge over GPEL's assets under the Richland GPEL loan facility.
37 Some time after those discussions in October 2004, Alfred Wong told Edgar Hung that GPEL had funds available to repay the Austcorp Richland loan so as to 'clean up the default of not having the charge in place' .
38 The significance of these events is said to be this.
39 Richard Nott , a Director independent of the GPFG syndicate, contends that the continuing financial support of Richland and Alfred Wong was fundamental to the status of GPEL as a 'going concern' because Richland was a friendly foundation shareholder and therefore unlikely to act, so far as the Richland GPEL debt facility was concerned, in a way that would prejudice GPEL's 'liquidity', that is, access to needed cash flows.
The assignment of the debt to Austcorp introduced a third party unconstrained by those concerns and therefore the assignment was a material matter.
Moreover, Richard Nott and ASIC contend that although the assignment occurred in July 2004 , the Board was not informed of the assignment until Peter Gan advised the directors at a Board meeting, in the absence of Alfred Wong, on 15 December 2004 .
Richard Nott contends that his concern about the impact of the changed circumstances was compounded by Peter Gan's advice at the same meeting of directors that a substantial part of the JFCP subscription of $6.3M had been applied to discharge debts due to Richland and Austcorp notwithstanding the Board's view of 17 November 2004 that the Richland GPEL loan be converted to equity at the maturity date, or, alternatively, be restructured as 'long term debt' because GPEL did not have the capacity to repay the loan.
40 Alfred Wong contends that GPEL was told of the assignment, Richard Nott knew of it well before 15 December 2004, and, in any event, Richland continued to support GPEL with financial facilities thus ensuring GPEL's access to required cash flows to meet its obligations.
41 Accordingly, it is necessary to examine GPEL's dependence upon Richland, the circumstances of payments to Richland and Austcorp, and the conditions of Richland's continuing support.
42 By the meeting of directors of GPEL on 20 May 2004 (attended by directors, Alfred Wong, Richard Nott and Danny Au Yeung; and others, Edwin Yeung, Ms Helen Ho (GPEL Management), and Peter Gan (Chief Operating Officer of GPEL at that time)) the second tranche of the Investec loan [$3.5M facility] had been drawn down, the pilot plant was exhibiting particular 'sensitivity' to diverse green waste fuel (thus requiring engineering changes) and a possible capital raising was under consideration.
The Board resolved to appoint Peter Gan as Managing Director.
At the Board meeting on 16 June 2004 (attended by the same individuals) the Chief Operating Officer reported that the pilot plant was experiencing problems and that the ' five MW plant at Staplyton was never meant to be a stand-alone plant, and was designed to share the infrastructure and sophisticated processes of the second stage 20MW on site.
There are three key areas that need to be addressed --- fuel handling system, sensitivity to fuel quality, and the plant's general handling of ash '.
A capital raising of $10---15M was under consideration and because the delayed capital raising had affected GPEL's 'cash flow projections' GPEL would proceed with a private placement of shares in the form of convertible notes.
Peter Gan was asked to prepare an analysis of projected capital requirements, an operating budget, an estimate of overhead expenses, etc, to 30 June 2005.
The Board Minutes of that meeting recognised that 'a key perimeter of the loan facility from Investec Bank is the debt cover ratios.
This will be addressed in the quarterly review which is due shortly' .
The Minutes also note, 'Alfred presented the possibility of acquiring three of the power plant sites (ie.
Kemerton, Bell Bay and Nowra).
Taking into account the company's current financial constraints, he would like the Board's approval to purchase the properties through a related company.
No decision was made'.
43 At the meeting of directors on 21 July 2004 (attended by the same individuals), Peter Gan reported that fuel quality for the pilot plant would remain a ' standing agenda item until a long-term, cost effective solution could be found '.
As to the capital raising, the response had been lukewarm.
GPEL elected to consider a different form of convertible note issue and third party debt funding arrangements.
As to the financial issues, the Board assessed the cash flow projections and considered, assuming the convertible note issue raised $10M and TechComm took up an equity placement of $7-8M and funding was secured from LM Investment for the Staplyton No 2 project, GPEL was 'financially sound'.
The financial projections were to be reviewed at the next Board Meeting.
44 At the meeting of directors on 18 August 2004 (attended by the same individuals) Alfred Wong reported that investor interest in the convertible notes had waned.
Peter Gan reported that optimal revenue from the pilot plant had not been achieved and ash-handling costs had increased overheads.
As to the financial matters, the minutes record: 
 
 
 ' Financial Matters 
 
 (a) The Company's cashflow projections and operating budget were tabled.

 
 (b) Richard expressed concern over the Company's liquidity.
The Company's working capital is currently funded by a related company loan.
It was agreed that Alfred will review the loan terms, with the aim of increasing the principal amount.
' 
 
 
 
 
 45 On 26 August 2004, the Audit  Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors met.
Present were Richard Nott (Chairman), Alex Breen, (Consultant), Robert Patterson (Independent Director), three representatives of GPEL's auditors, 'BDO' - Chartered Accountants (Ian Fergusson --- Audit Engagement Partner, Ralph Goodman --- Client Service Partner, and Henry Duggan --- Audit Engagement Manager), Peter Gan, Edwin Yeung (Company Secretary), and Heymala Eardley (Assistant Company Secretary).
The Audit Committee considered the basis for a correction to the carrying value of the 5MW pilot plant having regard to the cash flows and the appropriate discount rate to be applied, as Ian Fergusson and Henry Duggan strongly felt that the pilot plant was over valued.
Richard Nott considered that the assets should be carried at values consistent with the methodology adopted by GPEL's lenders.
The minutes record: 
 
 'Edwin confirmed that the Board had approved the Cash Flow forecast at their last meeting when asked by Ian.
An extension of credit facility, for $5m maturing 30 th June 2005, from Richland Investment (Australia) Pty Ltd was also tabled at the meeting.
Henry also requested a copy of the original loan agreement that was assigned to Austcorp Group Limited from Richland Investment (Australia) Pty Ltd.' 
 
 
 46 At the meeting of the Board Audit  Risk Management Committee Meeting on 20 September 2004 (attended by the same individuals attending the meeting on 26 August 2004), the annual report for the year ending 30 June 2004 was reviewed.
The valuation of the 'recoverable amount' of the pilot plant was determined by discounting cash flows at the discount rate of 12.5% thus resulting in a write down of $1.34M of the capitalised costs.
The auditors reported that a particular financial comment would be included in the report.
The minutes record: 
 
 '(a) Review of 2004 Annual Report 
 
 
 
 The auditors have also included an 'Emphasis of Matter' with respect to the going concern of GPEL in the Independent Auditor's Report.
The note explains that the company is dependent on the continuing support of its shareholders and lenders to raise sufficient finance to build more economically feasible power plants in the 20 MW range.

 
 
 
 
 
 (b) External Audit 
 
 
 
 
 
 It does not mean the accounts are qualified, but Henry [Duggan --- BDO] drew to the Committee's attention to the Emphasis of Matter paragraph with respect to going concern in the BDO Report to the Board.
' 
 
 
 
 
 47 The BDO Report to the Board considered by the Audit and Risk Management Committee on 20 September 2004 for the financial year ended 30 June 2004 contained the following comment: 
 
 'Based on our work, we plan on issuing an unqualified audit report.

 
 However, given the current financial position of the Group, we consider it appropriate to include a paragraph regarding the inherent uncertainty regarding continuation as a going concern.
The following paragraph will be included in the audit report: 
 
 Inherent Uncertainty Regarding Continuation as a Going Concern 
 
 
 
 Without qualification to the opinion expressed above, attention is drawn to the following matter.
As disclosed in Note 1 of the financial report and having regard to the extent of the consolidated entities excess of current liabilities over current assets at the reporting date, the ability of the company to continue as a going concern is dependent upon the director's ability to attract further equity investment into the company; the ongoing financial support of its shareholders and lenders and its ability to derive sufficient future income from its existing and proposed Green Energy Power Plants.

 
 
 
 
 
 In the event that the company becomes unable to continue as a going concern, it may be required to realise assets and extinguish its liabilities other than in the normal course of business and at amounts different from those currently stated in the financial report.
' 
 
 
 
 48 BDO reported that the Group's operating loss before income tax for the financial year was $5,836,067.
The Group incurred a gross margin loss due to the fact that the 5MW power plant was not running at full capacity although operating and maintenance costs were still being incurred at normal rates.
49 The BDO Report also contains the following observations: 
 
 'After discussions with management it was agreed that a discount rate of 12.5% should be applied to the cash flows of the 5MW plant.
This resulted in the capitalised costs relating to the 5MW plant of $9,475,906 being written down by $1,382,299 to $8,093.607.

 
 We considered it appropriate that the financial statements disclose that the recoverable amount of the projects under construction is dependent upon the group receiving the continued support of its shareholders and lenders and the successful raising of finance to fund the construction of the next phase of plants.

 
 Going Concern 
 
 The Group has now built and conditioned the 5MW Staplyton Plant.
This resulted in the Group drawing the second tranche of financing of $3,5m from Investec.
The Group has secured a right to $100M debt to finance the construction of a number of 20M plants which is dependent upon the Group obtaining equity finance of 30% of project costs.
The Group has continued to be financially supported by Great Pacific Finance through Richland Investments.
The Group is dependent upon going to the market to raise finance to build a more economically feasible plant in the 20MW range.
Our audit report is not qualified but it does contain an 'emphasis of matter'.

 
 With respect to going concern.

 
 We believe that adequate disclosure of the facts has been given in Note 1 of the financial statements.
This note states that the Group is dependent upon the company being able to raise sufficient finance to fund construction of the 20MW plant and the ongoing financial support of the company's shareholders and lenders.
' 
 
 
 
 50 Note 1 to the BDO Report contains the 'going concern' comment.
Note 5 to the BDO Report notes the entities related to Alfred Wong namely, GPFG, Richland, G P Energy and Great Pacific Finance Pty Limited.
Note 5(iii) is in these terms: 
 
 'GPEL obtained a loan facility from Richland for a working capital purpose.
The interest started to accrue from 1 July 2003 on the outstanding principal at 12% p.a.
and an establishment fee of $75,000 was charged.
It is secured by a fixed and floating charge over GPEL's assets.
As at 30 June 2004, GPEL owed Richland $3,370,858 (2003 $24,065) and $298,507 as loan principal and borrowing costs payable respectively.

 
 After balance date Richland assigned all its right and obligations under the facility agreement to an unrelated party.
Richland has granted a put option exercisable from 30 September 2004 onwards to the unrelated party whereby Richland would acquire this loan including accrued interest for the amount the loan was stated at the date the option is exercised.

 
 GPEL has secured a further $5 million loan facility from Richland, which has not been used as at balance date.
The interest charge is 7% per annum above the 30 days bank bill rate and the facility is secured by fixed and floating charge over GPEL's assets.
' 
 
 
 
 51 The accounts for the financial year ending 30 June 2004 were signed by Alfred Wong on 28 September 2004.
52 At the meeting of directors on 22 September 2004 (attended by those individuals attending the meetings on 20 May 2004, 21 July 2004 and 18 August 2004), the Board considered in detail the operating cash flows available to GPEL and the requirement for additional capital.
The minutes of the meeting record these matters: 
 
 ' Operating Cashflows 
 
 
 
 (i) Peter reported that accounts payable are ageing quickly.
The most substantial amount is the accumulated fees payable owing to TechComm, some of which date back to the commissioning period.

 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) Richard expressed his concern over the Company's current gearing ratio (approximately 3:1), in particular its impact on the loan facility from Investec.
Alfred explained that the loan is project specific with recourse only to the project's SPV (ie Green Pacific Energy Staplyton No 1 Pty Limited).
The loan should not be affected by the parent company's balance sheet.
Of greater significance are the plant's performance and revenue generation capacity.
It is vital for the plant to be able to operate at its optimal capacity and substantiate the cash flow projections.

 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) Peter explained that the 5MW plant is gradually overcoming its teething problems and should achieve 90% availability by the end of 2004.
By first quarter of 2005, the 5MW project is expected to achieve the required debt coverage ratio of 1:2 --- 1:3.
' 
 
 
 
 
 53 As to additional capital, the minutes record these matters: 
 
 ' 5.
Additional Capital 
 
 In addition to the $3-4 million capital required to construct each plant, the Company requires a few $million as working capital.
Peter reported that both Citigroup and Multiplex have now declined to participate in the project.
The Board discussed ways to improve the Company's liquidity and to raise additional capital.
' 
 
 
 54 The Board discussed the proposal of Viridis Energy Capital Pty Ltd ('Viridis') to acquire 100 % of each of the projects upon completion with the result that GPEL would, in effect, act as a project developer and receive a development profit.
The Board also discussed the possibility of Viridis acquiring the 5MW plant at Staplyton.
The Board discussed the in-principle proposal from Investec Bank to fund projects with GPEL providing a 30% equity contribution to the capital cost of each project, the possibility of issuing debentures to raise additional funds and the possibility of a rights issue.
55 The following further matters are recorded in the minutes of that meeting: 
 
 
 ' 5.
Additional Capital 
 
 ... 
 
 (c) Richard emphasised the need to have a definitive plan to resolve the Company's capital issues before the Annual General Meeting in November.
The plan should address the capitalisation of Richland's inter-company loan, and ways of raising additional working capital and funds to roll out phase 2 projects.

 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 (e) Alfred advised that Richland Investment will continue to provide funds to ensure that the Company has sufficient working capital.
He is also prepared to convert the inter-company loan into subordinated equity to improve GPEL's gearing ratio.
This may be in the form of renounceable rights issue with an underwriting agreement from Richland for the amount of the loan.
Other shareholders would then have the opportunity to participate.

 
 
 
 
 
 (f) Edwin reminded the Board that the gearing ratio will inevitably be reduced with the issue of shares in payment of the EEA acquisition.
The final instalment is currently recorded as a liability in the Company's balance sheet, but will be converted to equity when the shares are issued upon shareholder approval at the AGM.

 
 
 
 
 
 Bob suggested that the Richland loan could be converted to subordinated equity at the same price as the share issue to James Kwok .
' 
 
 
 
 
 56 At the meeting of directors on 18 October 2004 (attended by directors, Alfred Wong, Danny Au-Yeung, Peter Gan and Bob Patterson; and others, Edwin Yeung and Helen Ho), the Board discussed the augmentation to the pilot plant to render it 'relatively stable', the in-principle agreement for Viridis to take over the pilot plant once a 'steady operational state' was achieved, and the range of potential EPC contractors that might participate in projects.
The directors agreed that securing an acceptable EPC contractor was of 'utmost priority' particularly in negotiations with Investec.
As to funding options, the minutes record that: 
 
 'Great Pacific Securities, a related entity, would be able to arrange a promissory note issue of up to $6-7 million which would provide sufficient equity funds for one plant, or half equity for two 10MW plants.
' 
 
 
 The notes would be likely to incur interest between 12%-15% subject to the maturity date.
Most of the issue proceeds would not be available to GPEL until April 2005.

 
 57 On 17 November 2004, a meeting of Directors of GPEL occurred.
The directors present were Richard Nott (Acting Chairman), Robert Patterson and Peter Gan.
Ms Helen Ho, Edward Yeung and Heymala Eardley also attended.
The Board considered the capital augmentation expenditure ($400,000) required to solve problems at the pilot plant.
The Board also considered an in-principle proposal from Investec to lend GPEL $21M for the construction of a 10MW plant at Staplyton and the terms of the proposal.
The Board discussed the requirement to secure a contract for the acquisition of the new 10MW plant immediately upon completion as a condition of Investec's participation.
The minutes note that the original offer from Investec of 70% debt funding with 30% equity contribution by GPEL remained available to finance further 10MW plants.
58 The Board discussed the relationship between the Investec proposal and the potential contract with Viridis, in relation to both the pilot plant and the proposed Staplyton No 2 project.
The minutes note these matters: 
 
 
 ' Financing of the Staplyton Plants 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 (b) Investec will lend GPE $21 million in principal and charge us a set up fee of $2 million and a margin of 5.2% on BBSY (Bank Bill Rate) for the construction of the 10MW plant at Staplyton.

 
 
 
 Viridis Energy has made an offer for both the 5MW and 10MW plants at Staplyton for $29 million.
The Investec loan is conditional on a take out, post construction.

 
 The Viridis Energy offer is conditional on the 5MW plant operating at a steady satisfactory state (approximately three months at 90% availability).

 
 Jardine Fleming will be taking up an equity investment in the GPE parent company for about $6 million.
' 
 
 
 
 
 
 59 The proposed subscription by JFCP in GPEL is noted in these minutes expressly in the context of a subscription directly related to the financing of the Staplyton Plants.
The discussion of the Investec proposal at the meeting on 17 November 2004 was consequent upon an email on 27 October 2004 from Peter Gan to the members of GPEL's Board of Directors advising that Investec was formalising a proposal for an in-principle offer to finance construction of a 13.5MW plant at Staplyton of $19M which in the letter of offer of 18 November 2004 was described as a $21M facility less $3M of 'construction equity' to be contributed either by GPEL or construction vendors.
60 The minutes of 17 November 2004 further record these matters: 
 
 
 '... 
 
 (e) Robert raised the issue that after spending all this money on the 5MW plant, it still may not reach the desired level of availability and therefore was concerned that the future funding and sale of the 5MW and 10MW plants was dependent on an event that may not eventuate.
This may in turn jeopardise the Company's ability to meet the Investec and Viridis' funding prerequisites.

 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 (i) Robert was concerned that even after spending $400,000 on the 5MW plant, the time frame it is going to take to prove a steady satisfactory state would mean that the conditions to satisfy Investec and Viridis Energy would not be met until April 2005.
And if the plant still does not achieve the notional availability level, it isn't worth anything to GPE and we lose both contracts.

 
 
 
 
 
 (j) Peter agreed that his preference would be for equity funding from the likes of Jardine Fleming or the Malaysian Group as referred to by Robert rather than be tied to contracts from Investec and Viridis Energy that are conditional on the 5MW plant being on a steady satisfactory performance level.

 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 (m) Robert also raised the issue of Alfred's loan to the Company via Richland.
Presently, the Company does not have the finance to repay the loan, and it was suggested that the loan should either be converted to equity or recorded as a long-term debt.
Peter to discuss this arrangement with Alfred.

 
 
 
 
 
 (n) Peter confirmed that the Jardine Fleming's Acceptance/Advice Form has already been signed and received by us and therefore approximately $6 million increase in equity is confirmed, which is expected to reach our account over the next 1-2 days.
Robert queried the items on the cash forecast and reiterated that an extra $3-5 million is still required to cover equity for the 10MW plant despite the extra injection of funding from Jardine Fleming.
' 
 
 
 
 
 61 As to the financial matters, the minutes record: 
 
 Financial Report (r) 
 
 'It was agreed that the results for October were very disappointing due mainly to the plant problems mentioned earlier.

 
 ... 
 
 Comments were made on the budgeting and forecasting process and the lack of confidence that can currently be placed on this information, seeing as the budget is already $1 million out and in all likelihood it will end up being $2 million out by the end of the financial year.
Robert suggested that the projection should be recalculated in a more realistic forecast produced at least for the second half of the financial year.
' 
 
 
 
 62 The terms upon which Investec would provide or alternatively procure construction finance for GPEL for a 10MW power generation plant at Staplyton are set out in Investec's letter to Peter Gan dated 18 November 2004.
The proposal required Investec to be satisfied that the 5MW pilot plant had ' reached " steady state " that is, it is performing in accordance with the project model and achieving the coverage ratio specified in the original loan facility' and that 'a key condition precedent will be the execution of a sale and purchase agreement with Viridis Energy Capital Pty Ltd for the acquisition by Viridis of both the pilot and the project ... on the commissioning of the project.
' As to the earlier arrangements, Investec said, ' The mandate previously given by GPEL to (Investec) to provide or syndicate finance for projects totalling 83 megawatts in aggregate [remains] in place notwithstanding that the project may now be separately funded as set out in this note.
We expect that the earlier mandate will still apply to the next 83MW of capacity developed by GPEL beyond the project itself.
' The terms and conditions of the offer of 18 November 2004 recited a facility amount of $21M including interest capitalisation less $3M of 'construction equity' to be contributed either by GPEL or construction vendors to enable GPEL to fund the construction (and Investec's establishment fee of $2M) of a 10MW plant at Staplyton.
Investec required the securities, mortgages and step-in rights and conditions precedent reflected in Investec's terms and conditions for the earlier facilities and particular undertakings.
The events of default on the part of GPEL in respect of the new Staplyton facility included any event of default by GPES No.
1 as the Borrower in respect of the pilot plant.
63 On 15 December 2004, the Directors of GPEL met.
Present were directors, Richard Nott (Acting Chairman), Robert Patterson, Danny Au-Yeung and Peter Gan and others, Helen Ho, Edwin Yeung and Heymala Eardley.
Alfred Wong was unable to attend.
The minutes record these matters: 
 
 
 ' 3.
