
 
1 A young postal worker died in a motor vehicle accident.
He was a member of the Australia Post Superannuation Scheme.
Under that scheme, a payment was to be made if he died though he had not nominated who should receive any payment in the event of his untimely death.
A dispute then arose between his parents and a young woman who was the mother of his child, about how the payment should be made.
The trustee of the scheme decided the mother of his child was his de facto spouse and the payment should be made to her (as to 75%) and their child (as to 25%).
No payment was to be made to his parents.
The parents challenged this decision in the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal.
In effect, the Tribunal decided not to disturb the decision of the trustee.
The parents contend in this Court that in making its decision, the Tribunal fell into legal error.
2 The proceedings take the form of an "appeal" from the determination of the Tribunal reflected in determination number D05-06/121 dated 17 January 2006.
The appeal is under s 46(1) of the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 (Cth) ("the Complaints Act ") which enables an appeal to this Court from the Tribunal on a question of law.
The first respondent is the trustee of the Australia Post Superannuation Scheme.
The Tribunal has been joined as second respondent and has filed a submitting appearance.
Background 
 
3 The appellants were the parents of Jason Edwards ("the deceased"), who died in a motor vehicle accident on 6 March 2003.
At the date of his death, the deceased was 25 years of age and, on the finding of the trustee and the Tribunal, was in a de facto relationship with Hayley Ifield (though this has been challenged by the parents).
On 13 May 2003, a daughter was born of that relationship.
4 As noted earlier, the deceased was a member of the Australia Post Superannuation Scheme ("the scheme").
He did not complete a 'Nomination of Beneficiary form' for the scheme and died intestate.
The total amount of the superannuation death benefit as at 2 December 2004 was $221,509.65.
The Australia Post Superannuation Trust Deed in effect at the date of the deceased's death was that amended to 1 July 2000.
Clause 11.6(a) of the trust deed provided as follows:
 
 Clause 11.6 Payment of Death Benefits 
 
 
 
 (a) Any benefit payable from the Fund on the death of a person who was a Member at the time of his or her death shall be paid or applied by the Trustees to or for the benefit of such one or more of: 
 
 
 
 (i) The Member's Dependants; 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) The Member's legal personal representative; 
 
 (iii) if applicable, any other person but only on the terms and in the circumstances permitted under Superannuation Law 
 
 
 
 to the exclusion of others or other of them or in such proportions between them and in such form, manner, and subject to such conditions as the Trustees shall determine.

 

5 The words "Dependant" and "Spouse" were defined in Clause 2.
"Dependant" was defined as follows:
 
 "Dependant" means in relation to a Member or Beneficiary: 
 
 
 (i) the Spouse or Child of a Member or Beneficiary; and 
 (ii) any other person whom in the opinion of the Trustee is, or in the case of a deceased Member or Beneficiary was at the time of his or her death, in any way dependent on the Member or Beneficiary.

 

6 "Spouse" was defined as follows:
 
 "Spouse" means a person who at the date of death of a Member was in the opinion of the Trustee: 
 
 
 (i) legally married to the deceased Member; or 
 (ii) not legally married to the deceased Member and in the opinion of the Trustee ordinarily living with the deceased Member as his wife or her husband on a permanent and bona fide domestic basis.

 

7 On 21 April 2004, the trustee notified the appellants that it had decided to pay 75% of the death benefit to Ms Ifield and the remaining 25% to the deceased's daughter.
Proceedings before the Tribunal 
 
8 On 30 July 2004, the appellants lodged a complaint about the trustee's decision with the Tribunal.
The complaint was made pursuant to s 14(2) of the Complaints Act , which enables a person to make a complaint about certain decisions made by a trustee to the Tribunal "that the decision was unfair or unreasonable".
The appellants sought a decision that 75% be paid to the appellants and the deceased's siblings instead of Ms Ifield, with the remaining 25% still to go to the daughter.
Ms Ifield and the daughter were joined as parties in the Tribunal proceedings.
9 The Tribunal conducted the review on the papers.
The second appellant and Ms Ifield were both granted requests to be legally represented.
The daughter was represented by her grandmother.
The request of the first appellant to be legally represented was refused.
Submissions were received from the appellants, Ms Ifield and the daughter.
10 The appellants' case before the Tribunal was that they were financially dependent on the deceased.
They said that they were seriously disabled and unable to work and that the deceased provided them with $50 per week towards rent and had assisted them financially in other ways.
He had also assisted one of his siblings to buy a boat.
The appellants claimed they had been very close to the deceased and saw him daily, and that had he not died, the deceased would have continued to provide emotional and financial support to his parents and siblings.
11 The appellants claimed that Ms Ifield was not a potential beneficiary, being neither his spouse nor financially dependent on him.
They disputed that Ms Ifield and the deceased had lived together as husband and wife, even though they had shared a house.
Evidence relied by the appellants included that Ms Ifield was receiving the sole parent pension at the time she claimed to have been in the de facto relationship and that the deceased had not nominated her as a spouse on his tax returns.
12 Ms Ifield claimed that she was the deceased's de facto, having lived with him as his wife for two years prior to his death.
She disputed that the appellants were financially dependent on the deceased and that he had given them $50 per week.
She submitted that the evidence showed that the appellants and siblings were merely recipients of the deceased's generosity but not that they depended upon him.
Tribunal's decision 
 
13 The Tribunal identified the issue it had to address as whether the trustee's determination was fair and reasonable in relation to the appellants and other parties, and not whether the Tribunal would have made the same decision on the evidence.
In considering the submissions of the parties, it said:
 
 "It is clear that there is considerable antipathy on the part of some of the parties involved.
In the submissions, there were many disputes of fact on minor issues, as well as accusations.
The Tribunal does not propose to involve itself in these issues as they are of little relevance in the determination of this complaint.
" 

 The Tribunal said that it viewed as relevant to its determination the wishes of the deceased member, the financial circumstances and needs of the potential beneficiaries and the nature of the deceased's relationship with Ms Ifield.
14 The Tribunal was not satisfied that the appellants or his siblings were financially dependent on the deceased and found that there was no evidence that he had provided them with regular monetary support.
Although it accepted that the deceased had made many gifts to his family, the Tribunal did not accept this as evidence that the appellants were financially dependent on him.
The Tribunal concluded that both Ms Ifield and the daughter were financially dependent on the deceased, and that he would have wished to support them.
It was satisfied that the deceased member and Ms Ifield were in "a loving, committed relationship" at the time of his death.
Pursuant to s 37(6) of the Complaints Act , the Tribunal found that the trustee's decision was "fair and reasonable in the circumstances" and affirmed the decision.
Grounds of appeal and submissions 
 
15 The amended notice of appeal filed 16 August 2006 identified five grounds of appeal.
The written submissions of the appellants articulated the grounds differently.
They identified five issues.
I will address the grounds as they emerge from the written submissions.
The first issue 
 
16 The first issue concerned the Tribunal's alleged misconstruction of the term "Dependant" in the trust deed.
The appellants submitted that the Tribunal had failed to consider whether the term "Dependant", which included "any other person whom in the opinion of the Trustee is ... in any way dependent on the Member or Beneficiary" (emphasis added), included not only financial dependence but also encompassed either or both emotional dependence and other forms of dependence, such as financial contribution to the appellants' outgoings on a frequent but not necessarily regular basis.
17 The failure to consider or give reasons whether emotional dependence or other dependence was sufficient to constitute dependence for the purposes of the scheme was framed as a failure to take into account a relevant consideration and a failure to make a finding on a material question of fact.
18 The appellants submitted that the Tribunal had narrowly and unreasonably focussed on whether the appellants, as potential beneficiaries, could establish financial dependency.
It had narrowly construed the term "in any way dependent" to require evidence of financial dependency and thereby posited a test which was incorrect as a matter of law.
19 The appellants relied on the decision of the Court of Appeal of New South Wales in Petrohilos v Hunter (1991) 25 NSWLR 343.
The appellants submitted that, in that case, in a different but related context, Hope AJA (with whom Clarke and Sheller JJA agreed) refused to confine the term "Dependent", "as used in the statute or otherwise", to the "very limited meaning" of financial dependence (at 386).
Hope AJA instead adopted the definition applied by Samuels JA in Ball v Newey (1988) 13 NSWLR 489 at 491, namely that 'Dependent' in the ordinary sense of the word, means the condition of depending on something or someone for what is needed".
The appellants submitted that dependence may arise by reason of expectations of support as manifested by patterns of behaviour which may or may not have monetary value: see Petrohilos at 346.
They submitted that their evidence to the Tribunal confirmed that they were in need of both emotional and financial support from the deceased, and that he was the only person in the family who was employed and who provided constant comfort, gifts, financial support and contributions.
The appellants also relied on the decision of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal in Re Cornish and Commissioner for Superannuation (1987) 18 ALD 418.
20 The respondent resisted the appellants' contention that the term "Dependant" as defined in the trust deed extended to emotional dependence and contended that the notion of dependency in the trust deed was limited to financial dependency.
It is unnecessary to detail this argument.
The second issue 
 
21 The second issue was whether the Tribunal fell into jurisdictional error by constructively failing to exercise its statutory review powers and obligations as contemplated by the Complaints Act , in particular, whether it did so by failing to conduct a hearing de novo which was required by s 37(1) of the Act.
The Tribunal said that "[t]he issue is not what the decision of the Tribunal would have made on the evidence before it".
The appellants submitted that the intention of the Complaints Act is to place the Tribunal in the shoes of the trustee when making a determination in respect of a complaint and, under s 37(1) of the Act, the Tribunal was vested with all the powers, obligations and discretions of the trustee.
The Tribunal had also erred by affirming the decision of the trustee as fair and reasonable in circumstances where it was not fair and reasonable.
22 The respondent submitted that, contrary to the appellants' submission, the Tribunal was not required to conduct a hearing de novo and had approached its task in accordance with the authorities.
It relied on the Full Court in Cameron v Board of Trustees of the State Public Sector Superannuation Scheme [2003] FCAFC 214 ; (2003) 130 FCR 122 where it was held that the Tribunal's task in reviewing a decision pursuant to s 37 of the Complaints Act was not to determine whether the decision complained of was the correct or preferable decision but to form a view, from the perspective of the trustee, as to whether the trustee's decision was fair and reasonable having regard to the framework of the governing rules and terms of the applicable fund.
It held also that the Tribunal could be satisfied that a trustee's decision was fair and reasonable without reaching its own preliminary view of the issues on the material before it.
It relied also on the decisions of Mansfield J in Hornsby v Military Superannuation  Benefits Board of Trustees No 1 [2003] FCA 54 ; (2003) 126 FCR 484 and Lykogiannis v Retail Employees Superannuation Pty Ltd [2000] FCA 327 ; (2000) 97 FCR 361 at [48] .
The third issue 
 
23 The third issue concerned the Tribunal's conclusions that Ms Ifield was the deceased's spouse and was dependent on him.
The appellants submitted that the Tribunal had erred by giving undue weight to irrelevant matters and failing to give adequate weight to relevant matters.
