
 Context to the fiscal issue the subject of dispute 
 
1 In or about the month of May 1993, the applicant Lend Lease Custodian Pty Limited ('Custodian'), being at all material times a wholly owned subsidiary of Lend Lease Corporation Limited ('Lend Lease'), purchased approximately 172.6 million fully paid ordinary shares in the capital of Westpac Banking Corporation ('Westpac') at a cost of $3.53 per share.
At that time and at all material times thereafter, the ordinary shares in the capital of Westpac were listed on the stock exchange conducted by Australian Stock Exchange Limited.
Shortly thereafter, Custodian acquired a further 3 million fully paid ordinary shares in the capital of Westpac funded through Westpac's dividend reinvestment plan.
By mid to late 1995, discussion was underway at Lend Lease executive and board levels to the effect that Custodian might 'exit from that shareholding' over an extended period of time, the same having by then increased in value, though having remained in Custodian's ownership as a 'passive' investment.
The Lend Lease board decided by November 1995 to consider proposals for a staged realisation of Custodian's Westpac shareholding in order to protect the unrealised gain in value which by then was evident from the stock market price for Westpac shares, and to redeploy the capital profit anticipated to result from any such realisation.
Accordingly Lend Lease developed by April 1996, at managerial and ultimately at board level, a scheme for the implementation of a staged profitable realisation of its Westpac shareholding, in the first place by the mechanism of a warrant granted over 100 million shares, out of that total holding of 172.6 million shares, in favour of County NatWest Securities Australia Limited ('County Natwest'), a major Australian merchant bank.
That scheme of realisation to be undertaken comprised what was described by Lend Lease executives, for instance in a memorandum to the directors of 17 May 1996, as 'a public bookbuild selling process', being '... a method of selling securities through a well-publicised competitive tender...', whereby '... we would invite separate bids for shares and warrants'.
It is apparent that such process of competitive bidding of investors, by way of individual participation in that so-called 'public bookbuild', was conducted at arm's length between Lend Lease and County Natwest.
County Natwest subsequently changed its name to Salomon Smith Barney Australia Securities Pty Limited, but the convenient course is to continue to use the abbreviation County Natwest.
2 Earlier on 28 March 1996, two of Lend Lease's executives made a report to the parent Lend Lease Board of Directors, headed 'Advantages For Lend Lease', in relation to the structure of the transaction thus proposed to be implemented; part of that report is set out below:
 
 'We will receive an estimated NPV of approximately $5.55 per share comprising $3.95 cash now and $1.60 estimated value of Westpac dividends over the next 5 years (assumes Westpac share price of $6.00).

 The $3.95 initial payment (just under $700m in total) will be tax free as our indexed cost base will be approximately $4.00 per share after the inflation adjustment for the June quarter.

 Receipt of $3.95 per share will entitle us to report abnormal profits of $75 million, (current book value of $3.52) in the June 1996 results.
There is no tax expense relating to this profit.

 We will be entitled to receive Westpac dividends until shares are transferred.
Market expectations are for Westpac dividends of: 
 
 
 cents per share 
 received by LLC 
 $m 
 
 June 96 
 16 
 28 
 
 Dec 96 
 17 
 30 
 
 June 97 
 19 
 33 
 
 Dec 97 
 19 
 33 
 
 
 We have assumed dividend growth of 10% p.a.
in subsequent years, supported by Westpac's current low payout ratio.
We expect all dividends to be fully franked.

 
 ... 
 
 Risks 
 
 
 Tax: The Australian Taxation Office (ATO) could attempt to assess us for Capital Gains Tax on the current market value of the shares ($6) rather than the sale price under the forward sale agreement ($4.00).
They could also disallow rebates on future dividends from Westpac.
Greenwoods  Freehills advice is that the ATO would have no justification in law to do this and this will be confirmed with counsel.

 
 Westpac Dividends: More than 30% of the value of the transactions depends on Westpac's dividend payments over the next 5 years.
If Westpac does not meet our dividend expectations we will lose value.
We will also lose value (not quantified in our calculations) if Westpac reduces its franking.

 
 ... 
 
 Takeover of Westpac: ... 
 
 The commercial effect of the transaction is that we are selling our Westpac holding at the current market price....' 
 

The reference to 'NPV' was to so-called net present value.
It will be seen that Lend Lease acknowledged thereby that any immediate realisation of 100 million out of Custodian's total holding of 172.6 million Westpac shares meant that there was an apparency of market risk in relation to the price, which it might derive from the realisation of the remaining 72.6 million Westpac shares to be retained by Custodian during the ensuing five year period.
3 That report was attached to a covering senior Lend Lease executive's report also bearing date 28 March 1996, and which comprised the following:
 
 'Attached is a paper setting out the basis of a proposal from County NatWest to allow the Group to secure the existing capital value of its investment in Westpac whilst retaining the right to future dividends for the next 5 years.

 
 The effects of the proposal can best be summarised as follows: 
 
 1.
Market value of current asset @ $6 $1,050 
 
 2.
Value if sell today @ $6 
 Market discount 50 
 CGT 110 890 
 
 3.
Value of "County Deal" 
 Proceeds 700 
 p.v.
of dividends and option 270 970 
 
 The explanation to our shareholders and the market is as follows: 
 
 
 1.
Lend Lease has secured the major part of the gain from the restructuring of Westpac and now believes it is appropriate to lock in that value.

 
 2.
The arrangements with County have allowed Lend Lease to take back its original capital of $625 million plus an abnormal gain of $75 million.
This capital will be invested to generate further shareholder value.
Lend Lease has already taken significant initiatives in this regard such as its property investments in Asia and Bluewater where, because of the nature of these projects, profits will not start to flow for 3 to 5 years.

 
 3.
At the same time Lend Lease would disclose the provisioning it proposes to make against property revaluations.

 
 4.
The shareholders will participate in the major part of the increase in value of the Westpac shares through fully franked dividends over the following 5 years prior to the emergence of profits on investments currently being undertaken.

 
 5.
In the event of a takeover of Westpac in the meantime, Lend Lease would receive the balance of the discounted value of the dividends less any tax payable.

 
 
 We are seeking the Board's approval to proceed to obtain the approval of the RBA and to allow County to test market support.
Accordingly, the Board's approval is sought at this stage to the arrangements in principle to authorise County together with Management to make the appropriate approaches to the Authorities and Westpac on a confidential basis.
County's firm commitment to the arrangements will not be given prior to all approvals being obtained and the setting of the final pricing.
' 


The references above to RBA were to the Reserve Bank of Australia, and to County of course to County Natwest, and to p.v.
to present value.
4 A report was subsequently provided to Lend Lease on 9 April 1996 by KPMG Chartered Accountants, which discussed and made recommendations concerning the accounting issues which arose in relation to the County Natwest 'forward sale' proposal, if it was to be implemented.
Under the heading '[t]he accounting issues to be resolved', the following appeared in that KPMG report (the references to LLC in reports and communications which are subsequently extracted were to Lend Lease generally --- though in context in most instances to Custodian in particular --- and the references therein to WBC were of course to Westpac):
 
 The basis of sale of the LLC shares in WBC requires three alternative methods of accounting to be considered: 
 
 
 
 (a) immediately recognise a profit of 50 cents per share ($4.00 sum certain less cost of $3.50 per share) on the sale of the WBC shares, the sale proceeds to eliminate the LLC investment asset in WBC, and to recognise as income in future years, the dividends as and when received from WBC; 
 
 (b) no profit to be recognised on sale because of the uncertain amounts to be received in the 5 years in the form of WBC dividends, to continue to account for the WBC shares as an investment by LLC in the LLC balance sheet and to record the $4.00 received per share plus the WBC dividends as received as a payment received on a future sale (liability), possibly displayed as a deduction from the LLC investment in WBC in the LLC balance sheet, with the profit on sale being accounted for at the conclusion of the 5 years when the total sum certain is known for the sale of the WBC shares; and 
 
 (c) account for the forward sale agreement as a financial instrument and calculate a current fair value comprising the sum certain and discounted estimated future dividends.
This would recognise the profit on sale immediately and amortise into future years income the discount applied.
' 
 
 

5 After subsequently explaining that '[t]here is currently no Australian Accounting Standard which covers the above issues', and discussing the implications of the so-called 'Statement of Accounting Concepts SAC4', the foregoing KPMG report of 9 April 1996 to Lend Lease articulated a recommendation in favour of the alternative the subject of par (b) above for the following reasons, which are further appropriate to reproduce below:
 
 '... 
 
 We do not believe alternative (b) above is applicable in this case since LLC has by its agreement with County sold its beneficial interest in the WBC shares and hence to continue to record the investment in WBC as an asset of LLC would , in our opinion, not reflect the substance of the transaction.

 
 In considering alternatives (a) and (c) we advise that, in our opinion, either method could be used.
