
 
 1 By notice of motion dated 2 October 2006, the first, second and third respondents have applied for an order restraining Wakefield  Vogrig Lawyers ('WVL') from acting for the first applicant, Geelong School Supplies Pty Ltd ('GSS'), in these proceedings.
The application is not based on any contention that there is a danger that WVL will misuse confidential information belonging to the first, second or third respondents or upon any contention that WVL previously acted as their solicitor.
The application is founded on the Court's inherent jurisdiction to control the conduct of its own officers so as to ensure the due administration of justice and the integrity of the judicial process.
2 These proceedings, and the present application for injunctive relief, arise out of the breakdown of a joint venture relationship that previously existed between the second applicant, Landmark School Supplies Pty Ltd ('Landmark') and the fourth respondent, Gee Dee Investments Pty Ltd ('GDI').
GDI is the trustee of the Dean family trust.
The joint venture business was previously conducted through GSS.

 THE JOINT VENTURE BUSINESS 
 
 3 The joint venture was created pursuant to an agreement between Landmark and GDI that was entered into in October 1992.
Landmark and GDI agreed to establish a new company and trading trust which would be owned 50 per cent by the Dean family trust and 50 per cent by Landmark.
The joint venture business involved the sale and distribution of text books and stationery, principally to schools, students and parents of students, in the Geelong region.
Pursuant to the joint venture agreement, new products were supplied and sold by Landmark to GSS for on sale to GSS' customers.
GSS also acquired and resold second hand text books in the Geelong region.
4 GSS has two issued shares and a paid up capital of $2.
One share is held by Russell Porch, a director of Landmark, in trust for Landmark.
The other share is held by Geoffrey Dean on trust for GDI.
At all relevant times GSS has had four directors: Russell Porch and Sandra Porch ('the Porchs') are the directors appointed to represent Landmark; and Geoffrey Dean and Maria Dean ('the Deans') are the directors appointed to represent the Dean family trust.
5 GSS is the trustee of a unit trust known as the Geelong School Supplies Unit Trust ('the GSS Unit Trust') which was established by a trust deed entered into on 19 November 1992.
There are only two issued units in the GSS Unit Trust.
One unit is held by Landmark; and the other unit is held by GDI in its capacity as trustee of the Dean family trust.
6 GSS carried on business as a seller and distributor of educational products in the Geelong area from about 23 September 1992 until about 1 June 2005.
The business was managed by Geoffrey Dean.
It appears that in 2004 various disputes arose between the joint venture partners.
On 28 October 2004, Landmark, the Porchs, GDI and the Deans participated in a voluntary mediation with a view to resolving their differences.
The mediation resulted in a settlement agreement under which the parties agreed that the joint venture business would be terminated by 1 June 2005 and GSS would be wound up as soon as practicable after that date.
The terms of settlement are set out in a handwritten document entitled 'Heads of Agreement'.
7 The joint venture business has come to an end and the joint venturers have gone their separate ways.
The evidence contains a set of financial statements for GSS and the GSS Unit Trust for the 12 months ended 30 June 2006 which were prepared at the instigation of Landmark.
Not surprisingly for a bare trustee company, the accounts show that GSS has total equity of $2.
The profit and loss statement for the GSS Unit Trust shows that it made a net loss after trading and the sale of its assets of $6005 for the year ended 30 June 2006.
There were no distributions to beneficiaries in the year ended 30 June 2006.
The balance sheet shows that the trust has a net deficiency in assets of $6004.
In the previous year, the trust made a net loss of $346 350.
The accounts therefore show that GSS has no funds of its own to finance its participation in this litigation.
8 The statement of claim indicates that the proceedings arise from events that occurred after Landmark, the Porchs, GDI and the Deans agreed to terminate the joint venture business in October 2004 and during the course of winding up the business.
The statement of claim alleges that the Deans breached duties which they owed to GSS as directors by, inter alia, providing confidential information pertaining to the operation of GSS' business to the fifth respondent, Hedley Educational Book Centre Pty Ltd ('Hedley'), and by assisting Hedley to obtain the business of former clients of GSS.
The statement of claim also alleges that the Deans owed a fiduciary duty to Landmark as one of the two unit holders in the GSS Unit Trust.
It is alleged that the Deans breached this fiduciary duty by the same course of conduct.
The applicants seek an account of profits, alternatively damages, from the Deans.

 LANDMARK AND WVL 
 
 9 In August 2005, Anthony Vogrig ('Vogrig') was a partner in the firm of O'Halloran Davis ('OHD').
It appears that by about March 2006 Vogrig had become a partner of WVL whose offices were located in Drouin, Victoria.
Since at least 1 August 2005, Vogrig has acted as solicitor for Landmark and its two directors, the Porchs, in relation to disputes between them and the Deans, including the disputes which are the subject of these proceedings.
10 By a letter dated 1 August 2005, which bears Vogrig's reference, OHD advised the solicitors acting for the Deans, Harwood Andrews Lawyers ('HAL'), that they had received instructions to act on behalf of the Porchs in their capacity as members of GSS.
The letter alleged that Geoffrey Dean had improperly used his position as a director of GSS to gain an advantage for himself and in the process had caused a detriment to GSS.
The letter threatened that proceedings would be commenced against Mr Dean in the Supreme Court of Victoria based on alleged breaches of director's duties.
11 I infer from other correspondence which is in evidence that OHD wrote a second letter dated 1 August 2005 on behalf of GSS that was in substantially similar terms and made the same allegations against Mr Dean.
This letter was not exhibited to Mr Anderson's affidavit of 29 September 2006.
In its response dated 15 August 2005, HAL referred to two letters dated 1 August 2005 from OHD: one written purportedly on behalf of GSS and the other on behalf of the Porchs.
In their letter, HAL denied the allegations against their client.
In addition, they informed OHD that it did not have authority to act on behalf of GSS.
It stated that the Deans were not consulted by their fellow directors of GSS in relation to any appointment of OHD and that, in any event, OHD had a clear conflict of interest in acting on behalf of GSS when it had previously acted, and still acted, on behalf of the Landmark interests.
12 Counsel for the first to fourth respondents ('the Dean interests') submitted that Vogrig and OHD had also acted for the Landmark interests at the voluntary mediation on 28 October 2004.
There is, however, nothing in the affidavit material to support that submission.
So far as the evidence before me goes, there is no evidence, one way or the other, as to whether OHD or Vogrig acted for the Landmark interests at the time of the voluntary mediation in October 2004.
However, nothing turns on this as it is clear that Vogrig and OHD were acting for the Landmark interests and the Porchs from at least 1 August 2005.
13 The fact that OHD was purporting to act for GSS in August 2005 is confirmed by its letter of 9 August 2005.
In this letter, it advised HAL that unless Mr Dean immediately takes certain steps the only option the company and its directors will have is to issue the proposed proceedings.
OHD also sent a letter dated 8 September 2005 to Walter L Carr  Sons Pty Ltd, a firm which conducted a clearing sale of GSS' plant and equipment, which explicitly stated that OHD acted for GSS.
In its letter of 9 September 2005 to OHD, HAL referred to this letter and again pointed out that OHD had no authority to act for GSS.
The letter added that OHD appeared to be purporting to act for GSS on instructions from Mr Porch without any authority from the Deans.
14 By letter dated 30 September 2005, OHD responded to HAL.
The letter bears Vogrig's reference.
The final paragraph of the letter stated: 
 
 '[F]inally, we advise that we have never received instructions to act for GSS in any capacity.
' 


It is impossible to reconcile this statement with the earlier correspondence in which OHD claimed to act for GSS and made various demands on behalf of GSS.
Throughout October 2005, HAL continued to complain to OHD that OHD had purported to act on behalf of GSS when it had no proper authority to do so.

 15 The exchanges of allegation and counter-allegation between OHD and HAL came to a temporary end in October 2005.
The next development occurred on 7 June 2006 when WVL wrote to HAL enclosing a notice of a meeting of directors of GSS.
The notice stated that the meeting would be held at 9.30am on 16 June 2006 at Warragul and stipulated that the business of the meeting would be '[t]o consider a resolution that the Directors approve the company commencing legal proceedings in the Federal Court of Australia forthwith, in the form of the attached Statement of Claim and Application'.
The notice of meeting was signed by Russell Porch in his capacity as a director of GSS.
The attached statement of claim was in substantially the same form as the statement of claim filed in these proceedings.
Although the notice of meeting was forwarded on 7 June 2006, the attached draft statement of claim was dated March 2006.
16 By letter dated 14 June 2006, HAL responded to WVL on behalf of the Deans.
They advised that the appointed time for the meeting of Friday 16 June 2006 at Warragul did not give the Deans sufficient time to arrange their attendance, especially as Mr Dean was interstate and would not be returning before approximately 20 July 2006.
They requested that the meeting be adjourned until 20 July 2006 or soon after.
The letter also noted that the statement of claim attached to the notice of meeting was dated early March and had clearly been under consideration for some time and the Deans needed time to consider it.
17 On 15 June 2006, WVL wrote to HAL rejecting the request to adjourn the meeting.
Their letter asserted that the fact that the institution of proceedings against the Dean interests had been under consideration by Landmark for some time was irrelevant.
18 HAL immediately responded by letter dated 15 June 2006.
They objected that the Deans were entitled to reasonable notice of the meeting and the proposed meeting allowed inadequate time for them to attend.
HAL also drew attention to the fact that the Heads of Agreement had provided that GSS would be wound up as soon as practicable after 1 June 2005.
They said that the Deans had been pressing for the appointment of a liquidator but this had been resisted by the Landmark interests.
HAL concluded by saying that, in the event the meeting proceeds, they anticipated receiving instructions to apply to the Court for an order restraining any party from acting on any purported resolution of GSS to the extent that it enables GSS to institute the foreshadowed proceedings, and for a further order that GSS be wound up.
19 On 19 June 2006, WVL forwarded a notice pursuant to s 237(2) of the Corporations Act 2001 to HAL.
The notice was directed to the Deans and was signed by the Porchs.
The notice said that the Porchs intended to apply to the Federal Court for leave to issue proceedings on behalf of GSS in the form tabled at the directors' meeting conducted on Friday 16 June 2006.
The notice concluded by stating: 
 
 'The directors having failed to reach agreement on the resolution put to the Meeting of Directors, it is therefore probable that the company will not itself bring the proceedings, or properly take responsibility for them, or for the steps in them.
' 


This notice suggests that no resolution was passed at the meeting on 16 June 2006.

 20 On 26 June 2006, WVL wrote to HAL and advised that at the meeting of directors on 16 June 2006 the two directors present, the Porchs, unanimously passed a resolution that GSS commence proceedings in the Federal Court.
The letter forwarded minutes of the meeting recording that the resolution was put to a vote and carried unanimously by the two directors in attendance.
21 The contradictory nature of WVL's letters of 19 and 26 June raises questions as to what actually transpired at the meeting and why the earlier notice under s 237(2) of 19 June 2006 was signed by the Porchs and forwarded to HAL.
22 By letter dated 28 June 2006, HAL wrote to WVL and drew attention to the conflicting explanations given in the letters of 19 June and 26 June.
The letter also objected that WVL faced a position of inherent conflict in acting for the Landmark interests and GSS as the dispute was in substance one between the Deans and the Porchs.
The letter concluded with a statement that HAL anticipated being instructed to make application to the Court to stay the proceeding pending an application to wind up GSS in accordance with the mediation agreement.
23 Despite the position adopted in its various letters, the Deans have not made any application, as yet, to restrain GSS acting on the resolution of 16 June 2006.
Nor have they made any application to the Court to stay the proceedings pending an application to wind up GSS in accordance with the mediation agreement.
Instead, the Deans have filed the present motion.

 RELEVANT LEGAL PRINCIPLES 
 
 24 In Spincode Pty Ltd v Look Software Pty Ltd [2001] VSCA 248 ; (2001) 4 VR 501 ( 'Spincode' ) at 521-524 [52]-[58], Brooking JA identified three possible grounds for restraining a solicitor or counsel from acting for a particular party to litigation: the danger of misuse of confidential information; a breach of a fiduciary duty of loyalty not to act against a client, or against a former client in the same matter or a closely related matter; and the inherent jurisdiction of the court to control the conduct of solicitors and counsel as officers of the court.
These three grounds represented the orthodox legal position in Australia prior to the decision of the House of Lords in Prince Jefri Bolkiah v KPMG (a firm) [1998] UKHL 52 ; [1999] 2 AC 222 ( 'Bolkiah' ) which held that the duty of loyalty did not survive the termination of the relationship with the client.
Brooking JA's analysis in Spincode has been consistently followed and applied in Victoria: see Sent v John Fairfax Publication Pty Ltd [2002] VSC 429 ; Pinnacle Living Pty Ltd v Elusive Image Pty Ltd [2006] VSC 202 ; and Adam 12 Holdings Pty Ltd v Eat  Drink Holdings Pty Ltd [2006] VSC 152.
But it has not been followed in New South Wales.
25 In Belan v Casey [2002] NSWSC 58 ( 'Belan' ) at [15]-[21], Young CJ in Eq held that since the House of Lords decision in Bolkiah the overwhelming weight of authority establishes that the jurisdiction of the court to intervene at the suit of a former client to restrain a solicitor from acting is founded solely on the real risk of disclosure of confidential information, and is not connected with some principle of conflict of interest.
The decision in Belan has been followed and applied in New South Wales: British American Tobacco Australia Services Ltd v Blanch [2004] NSWSC 70 (Young CJ in Eq) at [97]-[104]; Asia Pacific Telecommunications Ltd v Optus Networks Pty Ltd [2005] NSWSC 550 (Bergin J) at [51]-[55].
26 Although the Supreme Court of New South Wales has declined to follow Spincode , insofar as Brooking JA held that the equitable obligation of loyalty owed by a solicitor to his or her client survives the termination of the retainer, the decisions in New South Wales do not cast any doubt upon the court's inherent power to restrain solicitors from acting in a particular case having regard to the interests of the administration of justice.
Similarly, the court's inherent supervisory jurisdiction over solicitors and counsel was not relevant to the House of Lords decision in Bolkiah .
27 For the purposes of this case, the controversy concerning the duty of loyalty, and whether it extends beyond termination of the retainer, can be put to one side.
Counsel for the Dean interests does not contend that his clients were formerly clients of Vogrig or WVL.
No question arises of confidential information or its potential misuse.
As I have already mentioned, the sole ground for injunctive relief is the third ground identified in Spincode , namely the inherent power of the court to restrain its officers from acting for a particular client in litigation when such a restraint is required by the interests of justice.
There is, accordingly, no need for me to consider whether the weight of authority in the Federal Court supports the Victorian approach rather than that adopted in New South Wales: see Wan v McDonald (1992) 33 FCR 491 at 512-513; PhotoCure ASA v Queen's University at Kingston (2002) 56 IPR 86 ( 'PhotoCure' ); Waiviata Pty Ltd v New Millennium Publications Pty Ltd [2002] FCA 98 at [10] ; Bureau Interprofessionnel Des Vins De Bourgogne v Red Earth Nominees Pty Ltd (t/as Taltarni Vineyards) [2002] FCA 588 at [18] ; and Lincoln v Holmesglen Institute of TAFE [1999] FCA 601 ( 'Lincoln' ).
28 In mounting a case based on the inherent powers of the Court to control the conduct of solicitors and counsel, counsel for the Dean interests relied on the principle enunciated by Mandie J in Grimwade v Meagher [1995] 1 VR 446 ( 'Grimwade' ) at 452: 
 
 'In my view it cannot be doubted that this court likewise has an inherent jurisdiction to ensure the due administration of justice and to protect the integrity of the judicial process and as part of that jurisdiction, in an appropriate case, to prevent a member of counsel appearing for a particular party in order that justice should not only be done but manifestly and undoubtedly be seen to be done.
The objective test to be applied in the context of this case is whether a fair-minded reasonably informed member of the public would conclude that the proper administration of justice required that counsel be so prevented from acting, at all times giving due weight to the public interest that a litigant should not be deprived of his or her choice of counsel without good cause.
' 


In Grimwade , the restraining order was directed to senior counsel who had previously prosecuted the plaintiff in criminal proceedings and who proposed to act against him in civil proceedings.
There was no question of the plaintiff being a client or former client of the senior counsel.
In what Mandie J described as unique, extraordinary and highly exceptional circumstances, he made an order restraining senior counsel from acting in the civil proceedings.
He did so on the basis that there was a real and sensible risk of a lack of objectivity by the first defendant which not only gave rise to an undue risk of unfairness or disadvantage to the plaintiff but also gave rise to a substantial concern that a fair trial would not be had: at 455.

 29 Counsel for Landmark argued that there is no proper basis for granting an injunction in this case as Vogrig and WVL have never acted for the Dean interests, and there is no risk of misuse of confidential information.
Landmark relied on Goldberg J's judgment in PhotoCure and the New South Wales decisions to which I have referred.
This argument is misconceived.
It is based on the false premise that the authorities that have rejected Brooking JA's view that a solicitor's duty of loyalty survives termination of the solicitor's retainer also rejected the third ground for judicial intervention.
This is not the case.
A long line of authorities makes it very clear that the third ground for judicial intervention remains in full force and effect, both in New South Wales and elsewhere in Australia.
30 In Kallinicos v Hunt [2005] NSWSC 1181 ; (2005) 64 NSWLR 561 ( 'Kallinicos' ), Brereton J undertook a comprehensive examination of the authorities concerning the court's supervisory jurisdiction over solicitors.
His Honour concluded that there are many authorities which maintain the same view of the court's supervisory jurisdiction as that which had been expressed in the cases prior to Bolkiah : see eg McVeigh v Linen House Pty Ltd [1999] VSCA 138 ; [1999] 3 VR 394, Oceanic Life Ltd v HIH Casualty  General Insurance Ltd (1999) 10 ANZ Ins Cas 61-438; Newman v Phillips Fox (a firm) (1999) 21 WAR 309; Bowen v Stott [2004] WASC 94 (Hasluck J) ( 'Bowen v Stott' ); see also Westgold Resources NL v St Barbara Mines Ltd [2002] WASC 264.
31 In the course of his examination of the authorities, Brereton J referred to the observations of Bergin J in Mitchell v Pattern Holdings Pty Ltd [2000] NSWSC 1015 ( 'Mitchell' ), Heenan J in Holborow v MacDonald Rudder [2002] WASC 265 ( 'Holborow' ) and Hasluck J in Bowen v Stott .
In Mitchell , Bergin J stated that, as an incident of its inherent jurisdiction, the court may decide upon the propriety of a legal practitioner representing a party in a particular case to ensure justice and the appearance of justice: at [34].
In Holborow , Heenan J said that this power had been invoked in cases where there was a potential that the legal practitioner might be a witness; where the subject matter of the litigation was likely to involve an evaluation of the conduct of the solicitor; and where the efficacy of documents prepared by the solicitor was likely to be in issue: at [23].
In Bowen v Stott , Hasluck J said that it may be appropriate to invoke the inherent power in cases where the solicitor had some direct pecuniary interest in the outcome of the case, where the solicitor might feel impelled to justify or defend his conduct in representing a client, or where the practitioner's credibility is at stake as a potential witness: at [47], [53] and [55].
32 Brereton J concluded his discussion of the authorities by enunciating the following principles (at 582-583 [76]): 
 
 '... the court always has inherent jurisdiction to restrain solicitors from acting in a particular case, as an incident of its inherent jurisdiction over its officers and to control its process in aid of the administration of justice ( Everingham v Ontario ; Black v Taylor ; Grimwade v Meagher ; Newman v Phillips Fox ; Mitchell v Pattern Holdings ; Spincode Pty Ltd ; Holborow ; Williamson v Nilant ; Bowen v Stott ; Law Society v Holt ).
Prince Jefri Bolkiah does not address this jurisdiction at all.
Belan v Casey and British American Tobacco Australia Services Ltd are not to be read as supposing that Prince Jefri Bolkiah excludes it.
Asia Pacific Telecommunications Ltd appears to acknowledge its continued existence.
