
 
1 The plaintiff claims pursuant to letters of administration ad colligendum bona of the estate of Prudence Teng Fong Goh (his sister) against their sister, Judith Goh (the second defendant), various relief concerning the affairs of the first defendant (the Company).
3 Judith Goh's defence is that by a Minute of the Company dated 31 March 2004, she was appointed as a director and provided with a share allocation.
She also claims that some of her earnings as a gynaecologist were paid directly into the bank account of the Company and that as a result she was to be given a share allocation.
4 On 2 November 2006 the plaintiff filed a notice of motion seeking orders that discovery be made of Judith's taxation returns and any documents from the Company's accountant relating to the preparation of its taxation returns and financial reports.
At the hearing of the motion, counsel for the plaintiff indicated that the documents from the Company's accountant had been received and that only Judith's tax returns would be pursued at that time.
5 It is apparent from the affidavit of Judith Goh that a substantial part of her case rests on earnings she says she received and payments she says she made out of those earnings.
Her tax returns are basic financial records, and are inherently likely to provide information as to those matters.
I am, frankly, a little surprised that their production has been resisted.
There will be an order in terms of par 1 of the notice of motion.
6 The usual obligations, for which Harman v Home Department State Secretary [1983] 1 AC 280 is the leading authority, restrict the use to which a party that receives documents by way of discovery may put them.
They are to be used only for the purpose of the litigation.
There is no reason why any further restriction should be placed on use of them by the plaintiff.
The plaintiff's conduct of the litigation should not be restricted by confining access to the discovered documents in the way suggested by masking parts said to be irrelevant.
The plaintiff, as administrator, should be entitled to inspect the documents, along with his legal advisers and experts.
7 It has been necessary for the plaintiff to bring this proceeding and the plaintiff should get the costs of the motion, such costs to be taxed and paid forthwith.
I certify that the preceding seven (7) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Heerey.
Associate:

Dated: 28 November 2006


 Counsel for the Plaintiff: T DiLallo 
 
 Solicitor for the Plaintiff Russell Kennedy 
 
 Counsel for the Defendants: P G Lovell 
 
 Solicitor for the Defendants: Mason Sier Turnball 
 
 Date of Hearing: 16 November 2006 
 
 Date of Judgment: 16 November 2006 



 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2006/1637.html 
 
 
