
 
 1 Mr Upton has appealed from a judgment of Heerey J in which his Honour dismissed an application under the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth), the accrued common law jurisdiction of the Court and its associated jurisdiction under the Land Titles Act 1980 (Tas).
2 The primary judge rejected Mr Upton's claims that Tasmanian Perpetual Trustees Pty Ltd engaged in misleading or deceptive conduct and unconscionable conduct, breached its duty of good faith as a mortgagee and breached its overlapping duty imposed by the Land Titles Act .
3 His Honour held that Tasmanian Perpetual Trustees had acted in good faith as a mortgagee in selling the former property of Mr Upton, when he defaulted on his mortgage.
He rejected Mr Upton's submission that Tasmanian Perpetual Trustees sold the land for much less than its market value.
In the concluding paragraph of his judgment, Heerey J said: 
 
 
 'In my opinion this was a hopeless case, and should have been recognised as such from the outset.
Given the initial auction and the time the property was on the market, there was no arguable basis for contending that the sale to Mr Patmore was improper.
On that premise, the respondent could not have been expected to act other than in the way it did.
At the heart of Mr Upton's case is, I suspect, a belief that notwithstanding he was a mortgagor in default he had some kind of right of first refusal before the mortgagee could sell.
This is a misconception.
There should be an award of indemnity costs.
' 
 
 
 4 Mr Upton filed a notice of appeal from the judgment of Heerey J on 1 September 2006.
The grounds are lengthy, discursive and, in the main, take issue with findings of fact.
5 On 26 September 2006, Tasmanian Perpetual Trustees filed a motion seeking orders that Mr Upton provide security for Tasmanian Perpetual Trustees' costs of the appeal in the sum of $25 000 (based on a three day hearing) and that the appeal be stayed until such security is provided or until further order.
6 The Court's power to order security for costs is found in s 56 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth).
As Hely J said in Croker v Deputy Registrar of the High Court of Australia [2003] FCA 681 at [2] : 
 
 
 'It is clear from s 56 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth)...and from Order 52 Rule 20 of the Federal Court Rules , that a single judge of the Court has power to order the provision of security for the costs of an appeal, even though the appeal itself is to be heard before a Full Court.
' 
 
 
 7 The discretion to award security for costs is wide but must be exercised judicially; see Truth About Motorways Pty Limited v Macquarie Infrastructure Investment Management Limited [2001] FCA 1231 at [14] .
