
 

 
 1 This is an appeal which by the very nature of the subject matter of the controversy gives rise to difficult matters for each of the parties upon resolution.
The appellant is the trustee of the estate of the respondent in bankruptcy and contends that Federal Magistrate Coker made findings unsupported by the evidence that; actions taken by the trustee in the course of the administration of the estate were 'unprofessional'; costs, charges, expenses and remuneration incurred in the administration of the estate were 'extremely excessive'; and the refusal of the trustee to be satisfied of the matters contemplated by s 153A of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth) ('the Act') until complaints made by the respondent concerning the trustee's conduct of the administration were resolved, amounted to 'extreme and inappropriate bullying'.
2 The appellant further contends that Federal Magistrate Coker, by fixing the costs, charges, expenses and remuneration of the trustee at $15,000.00 (subject to adjustment for prior payments) for the period from 20 June 2003 (the date of the making of the sequestration order) to 10 February 2004 (the date when his Honour found that the administration ought to have been brought to an end), erred , because his Honour had no power to make such an order, or, if such a power subsists, the exercise of the power miscarried having regard to those factors that influenced the exercise of the discretion .
3 Accordingly, the appellant seeks to set aside the order fixing the costs, charges, expenses and remuneration of the trustee at $15,000.00 and the order that there be no costs of the proceedings in the Federal Magistrates Court and, in their place, seeks orders that:
 
 
 (a) the appellant is entitled to costs, charges, expenses and remuneration for the period 20 June 2003 to 5 November 2004 at $40,109.43 (less $15,000.00 received) and for the period 5 November 2004 to date, remuneration determined in accordance with s 162 of the Act and the recovery of costs, charges and expenses incurred by the trustee on an indemnity basis; and
 (b) the costs of the appeal.

 

4 The respondent confronts the consequences that flow from the making of a sequestration order and the administration of her estate for the purposes of the Act and contends that at all relevant times she was solvent; the sequestration order ought not to have been made; and many steps were taken by the trustee that were costly, unnecessary and had the effect of diluting the residual value of the estate for the beneficiary after the discharge of the debts due to creditors and payment of properly incurred costs, charges and expenses of the administration and the remuneration of the trustee.
5 Further, the respondent contends that costs (both remuneration and expenses) incurred by the trustee in responding to complaints made by the respondent concerning the conduct of the administration, ought not, in the circumstances, be paid by the estate and the insistence by the appellant of resolving a challenge to the conduct of the trustee, within the administration, rather than effecting an annulment of the sequestration order and then responding to a subsequent challenge (possibly pursuant to s 179 of the Act) by seeking security for costs, made the administration, unnecessarily expensive.
6 In the context of the issues raised on the appeal, the respondent contends that the above considerations provide a basis for the findings of Federal Magistrate Coker and result in the exercise of a discretion, conferred by s 30 of the Act, to fix the costs, charges, expenses and remuneration of the trustee on a basis thought appropriate.
Consistent with the familiar passage in House v The King [1936] HCA 40 ; (1936) 55 CLR 499 (and particularly the passage at p 505 of the judgment of their Honours Dixon, Evatt and McTiernan JJ), the exercise of the discretion ought not to be disturbed.
The respondent in oral submissions also relied upon s 179 of the Act as the source of the power to fix the amount of the costs (expenses and remuneration) at $15,000.00.
The appellant contends that s 179 was not relied upon by the respondent in the proceedings before Federal Magistrate Coker; was raised for the first time in oral submissions in the hearing of the appeal; and the respondent ought not to be allowed to now rely upon s 179 as that section contemplates a particular process which is inconsistent with the conduct of the respondent's application and had the respondent relied upon s 179 , the appellant would have conducted its response to the application differently.
Supplementary written submissions have been directed to the question of s 179.
7 In resolving these competing contentions it has been necessary to closely examine considerable material concerning the precise chronology of events inherent in the administration and the various propositions put to the trustee and the trustee's response.
In dealing with the questions raised on the appeal, it is not the role of the appellate court to resolve contested questions of fact.
However, in determining whether the exercise of a power or discretion (if conferred) miscarried, it is necessary to look at the evidence before Federal Magistrate Coker and consider the material in the context of the matters that influenced his Honour to exercise the power in a particular way or to reach particular conclusions.
The application for leave to amend the notice of appeal 
 
8 The appellant seeks leave to amend the notice of appeal and relies upon two affidavits of James Nicholas Conomos filed 23 November 2005 and 29 November 2005 respectively which exhibit an amended notice of appeal and a further amended notice of appeal.
Although Mr Laurie, counsel for the respondent, objects to the lateness of the amendments, Mr Laurie concedes that the respondent has suffered no prejudice by reason of the late notice of the proposed changes.
The proposed changes to the amended notice of appeal are not significant.
Accordingly, leave is given to amend the notice of appeal in terms of the document described as Exhibit 'JNC1' to the affidavit of James Nicholas Conomos filed on 29 November 2005.
Background to the respondent's application before Federal Magistrate Coker 
 
9 On 20 June 2003, the Registrar of the Federal Magistrates Court made an order for the sequestration of the estate of Ms Townsend.
The application was made by Ms Townsend's former partner as a result of an unpaid costs order made against Ms Townsend in family law proceedings.
It seems the solicitors for Ms Townsend's former partner were instructed to take all necessary steps to recover the amount of the assessed costs.
The affidavit evidence suggests that Ms Townsend's former partner did not anticipate that such action would result in a sequestration order.
Nevertheless, the amount of the costs remained unpaid after service of the certificate, service of a bankruptcy notice and service of an application for a sequestration order.
The costs remained unpaid at the date of the hearing of the application.
At the hearing, Ms Townsend contended that she was solvent as the value of her assets exceeded the amount due and payable to her creditors (including the amount of the costs order).
10 It is not clear whether any undertaking to discharge the debts within a particular period, or, by recourse to support from a third party, supported by an affidavit to that effect, was offered as an element of a request for an adjournment of the hearing of the application.
In any event, the Registrar was satisfied that there was a proper basis for making a sequestration order presumably on the ground that the material in support of the application and the history of a failure to pay or compromise the unpaid costs claim established that Ms Townsend could not pay her debts as and when they fell due for payment notwithstanding the contended surplus of assets over liabilities.
11 Federal Magistrate Coker concluded in his reasons published on 19 May 2005 in support of an order made by the court on 22 April 2005 annulling the bankruptcy of Ms Townsend that for the purposes of s 153B of the Act, the sequestration order ought not to have been made.
That finding is not challenged by the appellant.
12 The respondent says that on the material available to the trustee in the face of the sequestration order, it must have been apparent that Ms Townsend was, in fact, solvent; the order was made in the context of a relationship dispute; the amount of the unpaid costs order was approximately $6,000.00; and the administration of the estate was very likely to be uncomplicated and capable of resolution in a speedy way not attended by the incurring of significant costs, charges and expenses or significance remuneration on the part of the trustee.
13 The appellant says that all steps taken by him were reasonable and necessary either in the discharge of statutory responsibilities or as a function of the prudential administration of the estate.
14 On 25 June 2003, the trustee wrote to Ms Townsend and set out a number of important matters.
They included:
 
 
 (a) a statement of the purpose of the bankruptcy;
 (b) a statement of the obligation upon Ms Townsend to make out and file a Statement of Affairs (setting out full details of assets and liabilities) within 14 days of 20 June 2003, in the office of the Official Receiver and provide a copy of that document to the trustee.
A Statement of Affairs form was enclosed.
The letter advised Ms Townsend that she could either provide the original to the trustee for lodging with the Official Receiver or she could complete and file the original document with the Official Receiver and provide the trustee with a copy and a letter from the Official Receiver confirming the date of filing the original document;
 (c) the obligation to deliver books and records (including taxation returns, cheque butts etc) for the previous two years relating to Ms Townsend's financial affairs to the trustee;
 (d) the requirement to advise the trustee of material changes to the Statement of Affairs, changes in the address of the bankrupt, the provision of information as required to the trustee, the disclosure of property details and other matters.

 

15 The letter enclosed, apart from the Statement of Affairs form, a document entitled 'Written Information or Explanation Required', copies of ss 115 to 122 of the Bankruptcy Act and provisions from the Bankruptcy Act dealing with items of public examination, co-operation and disclosure.
16 On 14 July 2003, Ms Townsend wrote to the trustee explaining the circumstances that led to the costs order and the financial difficulties confronting Ms Townsend by reason of the costs order.
In the letter of 14 July 2003, Ms Townsend said this:
 
 'My financial circumstances have not improved although I do have considerable equity in my family home and a block of land.
This equity is well in excess of what is owed to my creditors.
However, I do not want my family home sold unnecessarily because it will cause undue stress to both my daughter and myself.
My block of land is attached to the same mortgage.

 
 In order that I may have the bankruptcy annulled in accordance with section 153A of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 a third party has offered to pay the creditors and your costs.
I undertake that this matter may be resolved, within 30 days, without the need for further expense being incurred on your part.
In accordance my obligations under the Bankruptcy Act I will provide you with a list of creditors with respect of debts that have been provided.
' 
 
 
 Ms Townsend then said this:
 
 
 'Take notice that any action taken by you to enforce the terms of the Bankruptcy Act before the expiration of that 30 days would cause me and my daughter unnecessary harm and on the basis of my undertaking that the matter may be resolved I require that you undertake that yourself and the employees or agents of ACP Insolvency will not take any further action that would result in further or unnecessary cost to me until I have had that reasonable opportunity unless you show cause why your intervention would not be both unnecessary and vexatious.

 
 In order to expedite the resolution of this matter I require, as soon as practicable, a particularised account of your costs to date for my consideration as well as details of the Applicant's taxed costs the subject of the Bankruptcy Notice.
' 
 
 

17 On 20 August 2003, the trustee sent Ms Townsend by email a draft Schedule of Remuneration and Expenses and said: 'It is subject to revision, may not include all costs to date, and does not provide for future costs, nor 8% ITSA fee charged on all receipts.
GST is to be added' .
ITSA is an acronym for Insolvency and Trustee Service Australia .
18 On 25 September 2003, the trustee wrote to Ms Townsend in these terms:
 
 'I understand you complain that you have on numerous occasions asked that I give permission for you to arrange for your creditors to be paid directly to reduce costs and the 8% ITSA realisation charge, I have failed to give such permission, and it is because of such failure that you are now chasing up such a letter.

 
 I deny this.
You do not need my permission to arrange for your creditors to be paid directly.
I have never said anything to the contrary --- see, for instance, my letter to you of 2 September 2003.
Your "divisible assets", however, are vested in me and you have no ability to sell or charge such assets to pay your creditors.

 
 I further understand you consider that the additional costs incurred by these telephone calls and letters should not be charged to the bankruptcy, and therefore not required to be paid.
The work properly carried out or yet to be carried out by me in this administration will be charged to the administration.
This includes your telephone call to this office earlier today, our subsequent telephone call and this reply.

 
 Could you please provide (a) written evidence that all creditors set out in my letter of 22 September 2003 have been paid (and provide a receipt from each creditor --- or preferably an express notice of withdrawal of their proof of debt --- that I can independently confirm with the relevant creditor), or (b) advise that you dispute the creditor's claim.
In which case I will consider what amount is properly due to such creditor.
' 
 
 

19 In a period from 25 June 2003 to December 2003 a number of exchanges occurred between Ms Townsend and the trustee that are particularly contentious.
