
 
1 The applicant seeks an extension of time in which to appeal a judgment of Driver FM delivered on 24 June 2004 ( SZAQI v Minister for Immigration [2004] FMCA 413).
The applicant has failed by more than two years to commence her appeal within the 21 day period prescribed by O 52 r 15(1) of the Federal Court Rules .
Accordingly, by O 52 r 15(2), special reasons must exist for the application to succeed.
2 The only explanation given by the applicant for her delay is that she did not know that she could appeal the judgment ' because the Federal Magistrate [s] Court or anyone else has NEVER clearly notified [her]' of her right to appeal (original emphasis).
3 That is not the end of the matter, however, as the Court has a discretion to grant or refuse the extension of time sought if special reasons exist.
Relevant factors include the importance of the question sought to be raised by the proposed appeal, the bona fides of the proposed appeal and the prima facie strength of the proposed grounds of appeal ( Jess v Scott (1986) 12 FCR 187; Howard v Australian Electoral Commission [2000] FCA 1767 at [7] ).
4 The applicant's proposed grounds of appeal are set out in her affidavit.
They are:
 
 1.
' The learned Federal Magistrate erred in law '.
2.
' The learned Federal Magistrate was wrong in finding that the Refugee Review Tribunal acted properly in its findings '.


No particulars of either ground are given.
Clearly, these grounds of appeal do not on their face disclose special reasons to grant an extension of time.
5 The applicant filed written submission in which she elaborated her position.
In that document she asserted that the Federal Magistrate ' ignored important issues in my application, and made a wrong finding as a result '.
The particulars relate to evidence that her migration agent, Ms Orchid Sit, gave to the Refugee Review Tribunal and a failure to consider evidence from the Migration Agents Registration Authority in relation to Ms Sit's conduct.
The applicant's affidavit annexed the Authority's decision in relation to Ms Sit but, as that decision is dated 10 October 2005, it is difficult to see how the Tribunal or the Federal Magistrate could have taken it into account.
6 The applicant also raises a failure to comply with s 424A(1) of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act').
The particulars of information that were not given to her in accordance with that section cite information as to her identity and, although it is not clear, can be taken to relate to other information in her application for a protection visa.
She also alleges that the Tribunal failed to ensure that she understood the relevance of the "information" and failed to give her ' a genuine chance ' to comment.
The Tribunal decision 
 
7 The applicant is a citizen of China.
Her application for a protection visa was refused by a Delegate of the first respondent and she sought review of that decision before the Tribunal.
In her application to the Tribunal, the applicant gave a name ('the first name').
Her authorised recipient for correspondence was her migration agent, Ms Sit.
In the application she said that she was a member of a group called "Shouters" and was involved in smuggling bibles to Fu Qing in Fujian, China.
She referred to a letter sent to her from the Department asking her questions concerning her identity and stated that her application had been refused because the Delegate did not believe her claims.
A letter that she submitted at the Tribunal hearing from an Elder of "The Church in Sydney" ('the Elder') in support of her application referred to a person of another name ('the second name').
Her application for a protection visa gave the first name.
8 The Tribunal's reasons record that the applicant told the Tribunal at the hearing that her "real name" was the second name.
She also said that her family had been involved with the Shouters church since she was a child.
She described the difficulties that she and her parents had in China since June 2001.
The Tribunal asked the applicant about discrepancies between her protection visa application form and her evidence at the hearing.
The applicant informed the Tribunal that the information in her application for a protection visa had been entered by her migration agent who made the claims on her behalf and that the agent had made a mistake.
9 The applicant gave evidence to the Tribunal about her regular attendance at church in Australia.
That evidence was contradicted by the Elder who gave evidence to the Tribunal for the applicant.
The discrepancies between her evidence and that of the Elder about the regularity of her attendance were put to the applicant by the Tribunal.
She said that the Elder didn't notice her and that he was forgetful.
10 The Tribunal decided to adjourn the hearing because of the confusion as to the applicant's identity and to reconvene with the migration agent present.
That occurred and Ms Sit gave evidence to the effect that the information in the protection visa application was information given to her by the applicant.
The applicant told the Tribunal that the adviser was lying and had told her to use the first name.
11 The Tribunal refused her application, made during the reconvened hearing, for an adjournment to obtain more evidence.
The applicant relies upon the denial of that adjournment but has not established that the Tribunal denied her procedural fairness.
She has not established that the Tribunal acted unreasonably in refusing the adjournment.
12 The Tribunal accepted the applicant's name to be her second name, the name she gave the Tribunal during the hearing.
However, the Tribunal did not accept the truth of the applicant's claims and was not satisfied as to her general credibility.
The Tribunal accepted Ms Sit's evidence that the information in the protection visa application was completed using information provided by the applicant.
It did not accept that the applicant had been involved in smuggling Bibles to Fujian.
The Tribunal did not accept as credible her claim that she has been a committed member of the Shouters.
That conclusion was based on a finding that she did not attend the church in Sydney regularly until one month before the hearing.
13 The Tribunal took into account inconsistencies between the information in the application for a protection visa and the information given to the Tribunal.
The Tribunal's findings on credibility referred to such inconsistencies and the inconsistencies between the evidence given by the applicant to the Tribunal at the hearing and the evidence of her migration agent and her witness.
The Federal Magistrate's judgment 
 
14 Federal Magistrate Driver concluded, correctly in my view, that the Tribunal decision turned on the credibility of the applicant because her claims, as presented, were ' hopelessly inconsistent and unreliable ' (at [6]).
His Honour considered that there was no denial of natural justice in the refusal of an adjournment as the applicant had had sufficient time to prepare her case for the Tribunal (at [8]).
His Honour did not consider whether there had been any breach of s 424A of the Act.
That ground was not raised before his Honour.
Consideration 
 
15 The Tribunal accepted that the applicant was a citizen of China of the second name.
It was not satisfied that her other claims were credible.
The Tribunal did not accept that the applicant had been involved in smuggling Bibles to Fujian because it formed the view that, if she had been so involved, she would have been able to remember what happened and provide a similar description of her circumstances throughout the processing of her application.
It also rejected her claim to have been involved with the Shouters throughout her life.
16 In disbelieving her claim, the Tribunal referred to inconsistencies in her account at the Tribunal and in her application for a protection visa.
In coming to this conclusion, the Tribunal accepted evidence from the applicant's adviser, whom the Tribunal had called to give evidence and whose evidence contradicted that of the applicant.
While the inconsistencies and the adviser's evidence were discussed with the applicant at the hearing, they were not provided to the applicant in writing.
If the information from the adviser and the information in the application for the protection visa formed part of the reasons for the Tribunal's decision, the Tribunal was obliged by s 424A(1) of the Act to give that information to the applicant in accordance with s 424A(2) and did not do so.
That failure would amount to jurisdictional error.
17 Ms Sit's evidence, as recorded by the Tribunal, concerned the fact that she had completed the application for a protection visa on instructions from the applicant.
