
 
 1 This is an appeal against an order of a Federal Magistrate made on 30 January 2006 dismissing an application for judicial review of a decision of the Migration Review Tribunal ('the Tribunal') given on 29 November 2004.
2 The Tribunal had affirmed a decision of a delegate of the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs to refuse to grant a Remaining Relative (Subclass 835) visa to the appellant.
3 The appellant and his wife are citizens of Fiji.
The appellant and his wife both entered Australia for the first time on 25 September 1995 on Tourist Short Stay visas.
They have since re-entered Australia on a number of occasions.
Relevantly, they both entered Australia on 9 August 2001 and were granted a Subclass 773 (Border) visa which authorised their stay until 8 September 2001.
On 30 August 2001 they were granted a Subclass 010 (Bridging A) visa on the basis that they would make application for an Other Family (Residence) (Class BU) visa which has as one of its subclasses Remaining Relative (Subclass 835) visa.
4 In order to satisfy the criteria for the grant of a remaining relative visa, the appellant had to satisfy the definition of 'remaining relative' in reg 1.15 of the Migration Regulations 1994 (Cth) ('the Regulations').
Relevantly, reg 1.15 then provided: 
 
 
 '(1) An applicant for a visa is a remaining relative of another person who is an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen if the applicant satisfies the Minister that: 
 (a) ... 
 (b) ... 
 
 
 
 
 (c) if the applicant or the applicant's spouse (if any) has an overseas near relative: 
 
 
 
 (i) the applicant and the applicant's spouse (if any) usually reside in a country, not being Australia, that is different to the country in which that relative resides; and 
 (ii) neither the applicant nor the applicant's spouse (if any) have had contact with that relative within a reasonable period before making the application; and 
 
 
 
 (d) the applicant and the applicant's spouse (if any) together have not more than 3 overseas near relatives; and 
 (e) ... 
 
 
 
 
 (2) In this regulation: 
 
 
 overseas near relative , in relation to an applicant, means a person who is: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) a parent, brother, sister, step-parent, step-brother or step-sister of the applicant or of the applicant's spouse (if any); or 
 (b) a child (including a step-child) of the applicant or of the applicant's spouse (if any), being a child who: 
 
 
 
 (i) has turned 18 and is not a dependent child of the applicant or of the applicant's spouse (if any); or 
 (ii) has not turned 18 and is not wholly or substantially in the daily care and control of the applicant or of the applicant's spouse (if any)-- 
 
 other than a relative of that kind who: 
 
 
 
 (c) is an Australian citizen, an Australian permanent resident or an eligible New Zealand citizen; and 
 (d) is usually resident in Australia.

 
 
 
 
 
 (3) For the purposes of paragraphs (1)(c) and (d), an overseas near relative is taken to reside in his or her last known country of residence unless the applicant satisfies the Minister that the relative resides in another country.
' 
 
 
 
 5 The appellant's application for the remaining relative visa was made on 29 August 2001.
In that application, the appellant disclosed that his parents were both deceased and his siblings were all resident in Australia.
He said that he and his wife had a child resident in Fiji.
6 The application also stated that the appellant's wife's father was deceased and her mother 'never known'.
A letter, under the letterhead of a migration agent, accompanied the application.
In relation to reg 1.15, the migration agent wrote: 
 
 'As per the Regulation 1.15 (1) The visa applicant is a remaining relative of an Australian citizen (a) who is the brother of the applicant.
(b) usualy (sic) resides in Australia.
and (c)(i) has no other relative overseas.

 
 My client has lost both of his parents and all the brothers and sisters are Australian citizen.

 
 Spouse of my client has been raised by her Father as her Mother left her and her Father when she was only 3 months old.
Mrs. Hassan has never seen her mother or heard about her.

 
 At later stage she knew from her father that her parents were only in a defacto relationship and therefore her maternal Grandparents never accepted the relationship nor (sic) the child.
They arranged there (sic) daughters (sic) marriage with someone else and later stage Mrs. Hassan's Mother left Fiji with her new husband.
She has never tried to be in touch with her daughter.

 
 Mrs. Hassan has lost her father on 17 th June 1994.

 
 Mr.  Mrs Hassan has (sic) only one child who is about fourteen years old and fully dependent on her parents.

 
 My client fulfills (sic) the requirements of the subclass as a Last remaining relative of the nominator.
' 
 
 
 7 Section 359A(1) of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act') provides: 
 
 '(1) Subject to subsection (2), the Tribunal must: 
 
 
 
 (a) give to the applicant, in the way that the Tribunal considers appropriate in the circumstances, particulars of any information that the Tribunal considers would be the reason, or a part of the reason, for affirming the decision that is under review; and 
 (b) ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, that the applicant understands why it is relevant to the review; and 
 (c) invite the applicant to comment on it.
' 
 
 
 
 
 8 On 16 March 2004 the Tribunal wrote to the appellant, pursuant to that subsection, setting out information that the Tribunal considered would be the reason or part of the reason for affirming the decision under review.
