
 
1 The applicant is a British National (Overseas) who was born in Hong Kong on 11 August 1981.
In 2003 the applicant enrolled in a Bachelor of Business degree at Edith Cowen University ('ECU').
On 19 March 2003 the applicant was granted a student visa ('visa') which was due to expire on 15 March 2006.
2 The applicant's visa was subject to Condition 8202 which in substance required the applicant to achieve an 'academic result that is certified by the education provider to be at least satisfactory' in respect of each semester.
In the first semester, the applicant passed one subject, failed one subject and withdrew from another.
Late in the first semester, the applicant discovered that she was pregnant, and in August 2003, early in the second semester, the pregnancy was terminated.
In that semester, the applicant passed one subject, failed one subject and did not complete another subject.
3 On 31 May 2004, a delegate of the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs ('the delegate') cancelled the applicant's visa under s 116 of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act') on the grounds that the applicant had breached Condition 8202 of her visa.
The Migration Review Tribunal ('the Tribunal') upheld the delegate's decision.
The applicant now seeks judicial review of the Tribunal's decision.
4 I join the Tribunal as the second respondent.
5 For the reasons which follow, the application is dismissed.
Statutory background 
 
6 Section 20 of the Education Services for Overseas Students Act 2000 (Cth) ('the ESOS Act') provides:
 
 'Sending students notice of visa breaches 
 
 
 (1) A registered provider must send an accepted student of the provider a written notice if the student has breached a student visa condition relating to attendance or satisfactory academic performance.

 
 
 
 (2) The registered provider must send the notice as soon as practicable after the breach.

 
 (3) The notice must be in a form approved by the Secretary of the Immigration Minister's Department.

 
 (4) The notice must: 
 
 
 
 a. contain particulars of the breach; and 
 
 b. state that the student is required to attend in person before an officer (within the meaning of the Migration Act 1958 ) at a specified place within 28 days after the day specified in the notice as the date of the notice, for the purpose of explaining the breach; and 
 
 c. state that the student must present photographic identification when so attending; and 
 
 d. set out the effect of sections 137J and 137K of that Act.



 Unincorporated registered providers 
 
 
 (5) If the registered provider is an unincorporated body, then it is instead the principal executive officer of the provider who must send the notice as required under this section.
' 
 
 

7 Section 137J of the Act provides:
 
 ' Non-complying students may have their visas automatically cancelled 
 
 
 (1) This section applies if a notice is sent to a non-citizen under section 20 of the Education Services for Overseas Students Act 2000 in relation to a visa held by the non-citizen (even if the non-citizen never receives the notice).

 
 
 
 (2) The non-citizen's visa is cancelled by force of this section at the end of the 28 th day after the day that the notice specifies as the date of the notice unless, before the end of that 28 th day: 
 
 
 
 (a) the non-citizen complies with the notice; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) the non-citizen, while attending in person at an office of Immigration (within the meaning of the regulations) that is either: 
 
 (i) in Australia; or 
 
 (ii) approved for the purposes of this paragraph by the Minister by notice in the Gazette ; 
 
 makes himself or herself available to an officer for the stated purpose of explaining the breach alleged in the notice.
' 
 
 

8 The general power to cancel visas is provided for in s 116 of the Act.
Of particular relevance is s 116(3) which states:
 
 'If the Minister may cancel a visa under subsection (1), the Minister must do so if there exist prescribed circumstances in which a visa must be cancelled.
' 
 

9 Regulation 2.43(2) of the Migration Regulations 1994 (Cth) ('the Regulatons') prescribes the following circumstances in which the Minister must cancel a visa:
 
 'For subsection 116(3) of the Act, the circumstances in which the Minister must cancel a visa are: 
 
 
 (a) each of the circumstances comprising the grounds set out in paragraphs (1)(a) and (b); and 
 
 (b) in the case of a Student (Temporary) (Class TU) visa, that the Minister is satisfied that the visa holder has not complied with: 
 
 (i) condition 8104 or 8105 (if the condition applies to the visa); or 
 
 (ii) condition 8202'.

 
 

10 Condition 8202 of Sch 8 of the Regulations relevantly provides:
 
 '(1) The holder (other than the holder of a Subclass 560 (Student) visa who is an AusAID student or the holder of a Subclass 576 (AusAID or Defence Sector) visa) must meet the requirements of subclauses (2) and (3).

 
 
 
 (2) A holder meets the requirements of this subclause if: 
 
 (a) the holder is enrolled in a registered course; or 
 
 
 (b) in the case of the holder of a Subclass 560 or 571 (Schools Sector) visa who is a secondary exchange student -- the holder is enrolled in a full-time course of study or training.

 
 
 (3) A holder meets the requirements of this subclause if: 
 
 
 (a) in the case of a holder whose education provider keeps attendance records -- the Minister is satisfied that the holder attends for at least 80% of the contact hours scheduled: 
 
 (i) for a course that runs for less than a semester -- for the course; or 
 
 (ii) for a course that runs for at least a semester -- for each term and semester of the course; and 
 
 (b) in any case -- the holder achieves an academic result that is certified by the education provider to be at least satisfactory: 
 
 (i) for a course that runs for less than a semester -- for the course; or 
 
 (ii) for a course that runs for at least a semester -- for each term or semester (which ever is shorter) of the course.

 
 ...' 
 
 

 Factual background 
 
11 On 16 December 2003, ECU issued a statement of academic record of the applicant.
ECU supplied a copy of this transcript to the Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs ('the department').
It read:
 

 'UNIT CODE UNIT TITLE YEAR/ 
 SEMESTER RESULT ACC2250 Accounting II 2003/1 N 41 Fail ACC2250 Accounting 11 2003/2 I 50 Incomplete-no- 
 cre [sic] ACC2350 Cost Accounting 11 2003/1 C 52 Pass MKT2100 Consumer Behaviour 11 2003/1 W 
 Withdrawn MKT2100 Consumer Behaviour 11 2003/2 C 56 Pass ACC2360 Managerial Accounting 11 2003/2 N 15 Fail CONDITIONAL STATUS 2003/1 
 
 
 SEMESTER AVERAGE = 40.33 COURSE AVERAGE 42.80' 

 
12 The applicant's course status was reviewed at the request of the applicant, by an independent review officer at ECU.
The independent review officer determined that there should be no variation.
The applicant then appealed to the Committee of Review at ECU.
13 By an internal memorandum dated 16 February 2004, an international student adviser at ECU, Mr Mitchell, wrote to the Assessment Support department at ECU in support of the applicant's appeal.
Mr Mitchell said that the independent reviewer had failed to focus on the main issue which was the validity of the applicant's contention that the termination of her unplanned pregnancy had adversely affected her academic performance.
He went on to say:
 
 'It is accepted that the student has not performed well.
The issue is whether that poor performance can be explained by the medical/personal issue that she faced.
' 
 

14 On 19 February 2004, the Committee of Review of ECU rejected the applicant's appeal.
The Committee of Review stated that the applicant's grounds were invalid and resolved that her course status remained unchanged.
15 On 31 March 2004 ECU sent the applicant a Non-Compliance Notification (s 20 Notice) pursuant to s 20 of the ESOS Act advising the applicant that she had breached a condition of her student visa in relation to satisfactory academic performance in the course in which she was enrolled.
The particulars of the breach were stated as follows:
 
 ' Excluded 6 months 
 Pursuant to section 137J of the Migration Act 1958 , your student visa will cease on the 28 th day after the date of this notice, unless you report to DIMIA by that time.
The day count begins on the first day after the date of this notice and ends on the 28 th day thereafter.
' 
 

16 The s 20 Notice also stated:
 
 'You must report personally to a compliance officer at the following Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs (DIMIA) office: 
 
 [Perth address] with photographic identification of yourself (preferably your current passport), and a copy of this Notice to explain the breach of your student visa condition as specified above.
If you fail to bring satisfactory identification to DIMIA the automatic visa cancellation process will continue and your student visa will be cancelled.

 
 If you report to DIMIA as required under this Notice, the automatic cancellation of your student visa will not proceed, but a decision will then be made whether or not to cancel your visa.
Your student visa will not be cancelled if you can show that no breach occurred.
' 
 

17 On 27 April 2004 the applicant attended before an officer of the department in response to the s 20 Notice.
At the end of the meeting the departmental officer issued the applicant with a notice of intention to consider cancellation (' s 119 Notice') of the student visa under s 119 of the Act.
Under the heading 'Possible grounds of cancellation' the notice stated:
 
 'On 31.3.2004 Edith Cowan University (ECU) reported to [the department] that you failed to meet academic requirements in semester 1 and 2 of 2003 (attached academic statement).

 
 Evidence shows that you breached Condition 8202 --- academic performance.
' 
 

18 The notice went on to invite the applicant to attend an interview at the department on 18 May 2004 to provide comments as to why her visa should not be cancelled.
19 By letter dated 27 April 2004, Mr Mitchell, the international student adviser from ECU assisting the applicant, advised the department that the applicant would be appealing to the Academic Appeal Committee within ECU against her six month exclusion.
The letter stated:
 
 '...By appealing she is seeking a ruling that the university has considered the personal issues faced and has deemed her performance, in all the circumstances, to be satisfactory.

 
 This is the final stage of academic appeal at the university.
I anticipate that the appeal could be prepared and lodged within the next few days.
I anticipate that the matter will be heard within the next 2 to 3 weeks.

 
 Would you kindly consider deferring a decision on this student's visa until this process has been completed.
' 
 

20 On 13 May 2004, Mr Mitchell sent a further letter to the department advising that the applicant had appealed to the Academic Appeal Committee and asked that the department defer making a decision on the applicant's visa until the outcome of the appeal.
The letter also stated that the pending appeal was the final stage of the appeal process at ECU.
The interview was rescheduled to 31 May 2004.
21 On 31 May 2004 the applicant attended an interview at the department with the delegate.
By that date the department had been advised that the applicant's ECU appeal had not been allowed.
The delegate cancelled the applicant's visa the same day.
The delegate's record of decision records the applicant as having advanced the following reasons why the applicant considered the ground for cancellation did not exist:
 
 'I had significant medical and personal problems which affected my studies.
I attempted to get a partial withdrawal or deferral from ECU but was denied this, so I had no choice but to continue studying when I was not well.
' 
 

22 In the record of decision to cancel the visa, the delegate provided the following summary of the reasons given by the applicant as to why her visa should not be cancelled.

 'Student had medical and personal issues which made study difficult in 2003.
She sought solutions with ECU unsuccessfully and feels her study results were adversely affected by the situation.
' 
 

23 The delegate's reasons for the decision to cancel the visa were:
 
 'Breach of visa condition 8202 --- failure to meet course requirement --- poor academic performance.
' 
 

 Proceedings before the Tribunal 
 
24 On 4 June 2004 the applicant lodged an application at the Tribunal for a review of the delegate's decision to cancel her visa.
25 In August 2004 the applicant's agent forwarded to the Tribunal a letter in support of the applicant's case.
It included a document entitled 'Agent's Overview' which contained two attachments.
One attachment was the internal memorandum from Mr Mitchell to the Assessment Support department referred to in [13] above.
26 Another attachment was a memorandum dated 2 March 2004 from a student counsellor, Ms Fiona Bartlett, to an officer in the Assessment Support department.
In this internal memorandum Ms Bartlett stated that she had seen the applicant and the applicant had presented with significant personal and medical issues that had affected her studies.
Ms Bartlett went on to say:
 
 'In my opinion her issues have significantly affected her ability to concentrate and focus on her studies throughout last semester.
I therefore believe she has valid grounds for a late withdrawal without academic penalty from the unit ACC2360 in light of these circumstances.
' 
 

27 Further the applicant's agent contended in his 'Agent's Overview' that the decision-maker had erred because she should have sought more information from ECU about the applicant's medical and personal circumstances.
