
 
1 The applicant seeks leave to appeal from a judgment of Weinberg J, given on 11 October 2006: see Bahonko v Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology [2006] FCA 1325.
Leave is necessary because the judgment was interlocutory in nature: see Vranic v Commissioner of Taxation (2002) 67 ALD 798, [2].
The application was brought out of time but no objection was raised to me considering the merits of the application as argued by Ms Bahonko.
His Honour had refused an application, by Ms Bahonko, for an enlargement of time within which to file an application and claim pursuant to s 46PO of the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('the Act').
The decision which provided the catalyst for Ms Bahonko's application had been made under s 46PH(1)(c) of the Act.
The President of the Commission had terminated a complaint made by her against the respondents because he considered that the complaints were 'trivial, vexatious, misconceived or lacking in substance'.
By s 46PO(1) of the Act, a complainant, whose complaint is terminated by the President, may make an application to this Court alleging unlawful discrimination by one or more of the respondents to the complaint.
Section 46PO(2) requires that any such application must be made within 28 days after the date of issue of the notice that the complaint has been terminated.
2 The relevant notices of termination were issued on 9 June 2006.
Ms Bahonko filed her application in this Court on 18 July 2006.
Since the application was made more than 28 days after the issuing of the notices, it was necessary for her to make the application which was considered by Weinberg J.
3 His Honour accepted that the claim was filed only a short time after the prescribed period had expired, that Ms Bahonko had an acceptable explanation (illness) for the late filing and that none of the respondents was prejudiced by the late filing.
He nonetheless rejected the application on the ground that it would be futile to allow the application to proceed because, for jurisdictional and evidentiary reasons, it was bound to fail against each of the respondents.
4 Having reviewed the relevant statutory provisions His Honour concluded that the Court lacked jurisdiction, under the Act, to hear complaints regarding religious and political discrimination.
The right to apply to the Court for relief under s 46PO of the Act is, as His Honour held, limited to applications in respect of complaints of 'unlawful discrimination' which are made to the Commission under Part IIB of the Act: see Charles v Fuji Xerox Australia Pty Ltd [2000] FCA 1531 ; (2000) 105 FCR 573 at 580-582.
Part IIB deals with complaints relating to age, disability, racial and sex discrimination.
It does not apply to religious or political discrimination.
I do not understand Ms Bahonko to have argued to the contrary before Weinberg J.
Rather, she submitted to His Honour that the Court should not be bound by technicalities or legal forms and should avoid, if possible, fragmentation of hearings.
On this application she did not argue that His Honour had erred in his ruling on the jurisdictional issues.
5 Each of the specific claims made against the various respondents which were based on allegations of race and disability discrimination were rejected because the applicant had failed to advance any evidence which directly, or by necessary inference, supported her claims.
6 Ms Bahonko's claims against the Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology ('RMIT') arose out of its refusal to pass her doctoral thesis.
His Honour said (at [85]) that:
 
 'There is not a scintilla of evidence in anything that she has, at anytime, said to warrant the conclusion that the decision of the examiners not to pass her thesis was actuated or influenced by her race.
Nor is there any evidence to support her contention that the examiners were motivated by any disability on her part, actual or imputed.
' 

7 Ms Bahonko's claim against the Victorian Institute of Teaching arose from some administrative confusion relating to her annual registration as a teacher.
Ms Bahonko had applied for a waiver of the annual registration fee.
It was granted on condition that she did not work and then refused when she made it plain that she wished to work.
Later she arranged for the relevant payment to be made and she was registered.
At no time did she lose her registration as a teacher.
His Honour held that there was 'not a skerrick of evidence' to support Ms Bahonko's assertion that these administrative decisions reflected any discrimination on the part of the Institute.
8 Ms Bahonko's complaint against the Minister for Education was, first, that the Minister was responsible for the Institute's discrimination against her.
Given his finding in relation to the Institute, His Honour rejected this part of Ms Bahonko's claim against the Minister.
The alternative basis of the applicant's claim against the Minister relied on alleged vicarious liability.
Having examined the relevant legislative provisions His Honour concluded that the conduct of the RMIT could not be attributed to the Minister.
He concluded that it would, therefore, be futile to extend time 'to enable her to pursue a hopeless case.
'
 
9 The principles to be applied on an application for leave to appeal from an interlocutory decision are well established.
They are stated and explained in Dcor Corporation Pty Ltd v Dart Industries Inc (1991) 33 FCR 397.
The principles were drawn to Ms Bahonko's attention before she commenced her submissions.
