
 
 1 Following orders of Deputy District Registrar Reynolds on 25 May 2005, four applicants to the substantive action QUD 279/2004 commenced QUD 389/2005, which is in the nature of a test case.
QUD 279/2004 is otherwise in abeyance until QUD 389/2005 is determined.
On 11 July 2006 the State of Queensland filed notices of motion in respect of both matters seeking orders that the proceedings brought by each of the applicants in each substantive matter be permanently stayed.
2 In respect of these two notices of motion, the submissions made by the parties, and the issues to be considered, are identical.
I propose to consider them together.
3 As the State of Queensland is the first respondent in the substantive action QUD 279/2004 and the only respondent in substantive action QUD 389/2005, it is convenient for the purposes of the notices of motion before me to refer to the State of Queensland as 'the respondent' although it is obviously the applicant in the present proceedings.
In turn, it is convenient to refer to the applicants in the substantive actions QUD 279/2004 and QUD 389/2005 as 'the applicants' for the purposes of this judgment.
4 The Christian Brethren of Australia Inc was not represented before me at the hearing of the notice of motion to which it is a respondent (QUD 279/2004).
From information provided in affidavits tendered on behalf of the State of Queensland, including searches of the Australian Securities and Investments Commission database, it is questionable whether such an entity continues to exist.
I shall refer in this judgment to the Christian Brethren of Australia Inc, and other relevant manifestations of the Christian Brethren, as 'the Christian Brethren'.

 BACKGROUND 
 History of Doomadgee Mission 
 
 5 The history of Doomadgee Mission is recounted in the affidavit of Mr Maxwell Smith affirmed 22 May 2006, which is clearly the product of extensive research by Mr Smith and Crown Law.
6 The involvement of the Christian Brethren at the Doomadgee Mission appears to date from the early 1930s.
In 1941 an Order of Council was published in the Queensland Government Gazette Vol CLVI, dated 14 June 1941, No 141, p 2181, a copy of which is annexed to the affidavit of Mr Smith.
By that Order the Doomadgee Mission was placed under the management and control of the Committee for the Doomadgee Aboriginal Mission pursuant to The Aboriginals Preservation and Protection Act of 1939 (Qld).
I understand that the Committee for the Doomadgee Aboriginal Mission was constituted by members of the Christian Brethren.
7 In 1958, Mr Allan Hockey was appointed Acting Superintendent of the Doomadgee Aboriginal Mission Reserve and Protector of Aboriginals assigned to the Aboriginal District comprising the Petty Sessions District of Burke, as from 1 November 1958.
Mr Hockey was a member of the Christian Brethren.
I understand that Mr Hockey remained in a senior management position until he left Doomadgee on 6 April 1983.
8 Mr Smith has deposed in his affidavit affirmed 22 May 2006 that, following Queensland Government Cabinet Decision 40190 dated 10 May 1983, a progressive take-over commenced by the State of Queensland, of staffing, administration, accountability, servicing and responsibility for the material wellbeing of the Doomadgee Aboriginal Community, from the Christian Brethren.
Mr Smith has further deposed that Cabinet Decision 40190 has not yet been released for public scrutiny and is the subject of the privilege afforded cabinet papers.
However I do not understand this evidence to be in contention.
9 I note that, as from 1 July 1986, employees of the Department of Community Services at Doomadgee were transferred to the Doomadgee Aboriginal Council.

 Claims of the applicants 
 
 10 In early 2003 FAIRA Aboriginal Corporation lodged complaints on behalf of the applicants with the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission ('HREOC').
A delegate of the President of HREOC terminated the complaint pursuant to s 46PH(2) of the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('the HREOC Act').
11 In the substantive matters the applicants have applied under s 46PO HREOC Act for orders including a declaration that the respondent discriminated against each of the applicants pursuant to s 9 and s 15 Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) ('the Act'); an apology, $500 000 in damages, interest and costs.
Their claims relate to the period 1975-1986 when they were allegedly paid wage rates lower than other employees at the time, or lower than the award.
The applicants claim that the reason for those lower payments was that they were Aboriginal.
14 The respondent in its Defence to QUD 389/2005 acknowledges a 'direct' relationship of employment between it and the first, second and third applicants at various times between 1975 and 1986 on the basis of a written communications regarding their employment, however no such relationship prior to 5 December 1986 in relation to the fourth applicant.
15 So far as I can ascertain from the pleadings and the submissions of the parties, the only manner in which the respondent is otherwise alleged to be the employer of the applicants was as a result of the connection with the Christian Brethren.
16 The period 1975-1986 encompasses the time from the commencement of operation of the Act in 1975 to the transfer of employees to the Doomadgee Aboriginal Council in 1986.
I understand that applicants also submit that they received award wages from 1986.
17 During that period the applicants claim that, although they received wages directly from the Christian Brethren, a relationship of employer and employee existed between the applicants and the respondent.
These decisions were made periodically between 1975 and 1986, and were normally made at intervals of approximately 12 months.
The applicants' claim that the amounts to be paid in wages were communicated to the Christian Brethren or the Aboriginal Council within a short time of the relevant Cabinet Decisions.
In particular: 
 
 
 o the applicants' wages were paid from grants provided to the Christian Brethren by the respondent
 o the Christian Brethren were required to annually submit audited financial statements to the Department to show that wages had been paid at the level set by the respondent
 o the Christian Brethren always paid the applicants at the rate prescribed by the respondent, and in paying the applicants' wages the Christian Brethren was acting on the notification it received from the respondent relating to the level of wages to be paid to Aboriginal/Islander persons not being paid at the award rate.

 PERMANENT STAY --- LEGAL PRINCIPLES 
 
 18 The applications for a permanent stay in respect of both matters are made pursuant to O 20 r 2(1)(c) Federal Court Rules .
19 Order 20 r 2 is as follows: 
 
 '(1) Where in any proceeding it appears to the Court that in relation to the proceeding generally or in relation to any claim for relief in the proceeding - 
 
 
 (a) no reasonable cause of action is disclosed; 
 (b) the proceeding is frivolous or vexatious; or 
 (c) the proceeding is an abuse of the process of the Court 
 
 
 the Court may order that the proceeding be stayed or dismissed generally or in relation to any claim for relief in the proceeding.

 (2) The Court may receive evidence on the hearing of an application for an order under sub-rule (1).
' 
 
 20 The basis of the applications by the respondent in the present case is that by reason of the effluxion of time since the period 31 October 1975 to August 1983, a fair trial is not possible for the respondent.
The respondent submits further that, because a fair trial is not possible due to effluxion of time, each proceeding would constitute an abuse of process.
21 The nature of the power to grant a permanent stay of proceedings itself reveals an important principle which confines its exercise --- namely that the power is, in essence, a power to refuse to exercise jurisdiction.
The power is to be viewed in light of the principle that the conferral of jurisdiction imports a prima facie right in the person invoking that jurisdiction to have it exercised (Gaudron J in Jago v District Court (NSW) [1989] HCA 46 ; (1989) 168 CLR 23 at 76).
This principle was itself elaborated by Deane J in re Queensland Electricity Commission; ex parte Electrical Trades Union of Australia [1987] HCA 27 ; (1987) 72 ALR 1 at 12 as: 
 
 'the prima facie right to insist upon the exercise of jurisdiction (as) a concomitant of a basic element of the rule of law, namely, that every person and organisation, regardless of rank, condition or official standing, is 'amendable to the jurisdiction' of the courts and other public tribunals.
' 
 [cf Gaudron J in Jago at 76] 
 
 22 It is clear that superior courts of justice, including the Federal Court of Australia, have the power to control and supervise proceedings brought within their jurisdiction, including the power to stay proceedings which are an abuse of process (cf Jago v District Court (NSW) [1989] HCA 46 ; (1989) 168 CLR 23 per Mason CJ at 25, 28, Deane J at 58, Gaudron J at 74, 76; Williams v Spautz [1992] HCA 34 ; (1991-1992) 174 CLR 509 at 518 per Mason CJ, Dawson, Toohey and McHugh JJ; Walton v Gardiner [1992] HCA 12 ; (1992-1993) 177 CLR 378 at 393; Lord Diplock in Hunter v Chief Constable of the West Midlands Police (1982) AC 529 at 536; Miller v University of New South Wales [2003] FCAFC 180 at [77-81] ; and note the consideration of this issue by the majority of the High Court in Batistatos v Road Traffic Authority of New South Wales [2006] HCA 27 at [5-8] and by Kirby J at [121-128]).
23 Proceedings which are an 'abuse of process' however are potentially a broad class, not limited to fixed categories.
As pointed out by the majority of the High Court in Batistatos at [9]: 
 
 'What amounts to abuse of court process is insusceptible of a formulation comprising closed categories.
Development continues.
' 


(Note similar comments of Lord Diplock in Hunter v Chief Constable of West Midlands Police at 536, Richardson J in Reid v New Zealand Trotting Conference [1984] 1 NZLR 8 at 9.
25 Applications for permanent stay based on effluxion of time appear to be rare (note comments of Bryson JA in Newcastle City Council v Batistatos [2005] NSWCA 20 at 56).
The issue has however been the subject of comment by the High Court of Australia in the context of criminal proceedings ( Jago ), in relation to tribunal deliberations ( Walton v Gardiner ), and recently in relation to civil proceedings ( Batistatos ).
26 For present purposes, it is important to note that O 20 r 2 Federal Court Rules , upon which the respondent relies, contemplates orders for permanent stay or summary dismissal arising from the grounds in O 20 r 2 pars (a), (b), (c).
At common law, different tests are traditionally applied by the courts in respect of permanent stay or summary dismissal, and indeed s 31A Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) (which is only effective in respect of claims commenced after 1 December 2005) establishes a new test for summary judgment for claims before this Court.
In relation to abuse of process however, the discussion in the cases has tended to consider similar principles, whether the application is for a stay of proceedings or summary judgment.
27 In the case before me the respondents have sought only a permanent stay of the applications, not summary dismissal.
Accordingly my comments in this judgment refer only to legal principles with respect to permanent stay.
28 In any event, the caution with which courts approach an application for a permanent stay of proceedings before them is also well-known.
It has been described as an exercise of discretion by a court in only the most exceptional circumstances.
As Dixon J said in Cox v Journeaux (No 2) [1935] HCA 48 ; (1935) 52 CLR 713 at 720: 
 
 'The inherent jurisdiction of the Court to stay an action as vexatious is to be exercised only when the action is clearly without foundation and when to allow it to proceed would impose a hardship upon the defendants which may be avoided without risk of injustice to the plaintiff.
The principle, in general paramount, that a claim honestly made by a suitor for judicial relief must be investigated and decided in the manner appointed, must be observed.
A litigant is entitled to submit for determination according to the due course of procedure a claim which he believes he can establish, although its foundation may in fact be slender.
It is only when to permit it to proceed would amount to an abuse of jurisdiction, or would clearly inflict unnecessary injustice upon the opposite party that a suit should be stopped.
' 
 [see also Batistatos at 71, Jago at 31] 
 
 29 This caution is paramount in the mind of the judge in considering an application for a permanent stay.
30 In the case before me the respondent relies on the recent High Court decision in Batistatos , where the Court considered Pt 13 r 5 of the NSW Supreme Court Rules .
In Batistatos , the majority of the High Court upheld a decision of the New South Wales Court of Appeal to impose a permanent stay on an action for damages which had accrued 40 years earlier.
It is useful to analyse the decision in Batistatos before turning in more detail to the notices of motion before me.

 BATISTATOS V ROAD TRAFFIC AUTHORITY OF NEW SOUTH WALES 
 Facts of Batistatos 
 
 31 The plaintiff in that case was born in 1932 in Sydney.
In 1938 he was 'scheduled' under the Lunacy Act 1898 (NSW) and committed to the Newcastle Mental Asylum, from where he was ultimately discharged in 1956.
On the evening of 20-21 August 1965 while returning from a party the plaintiff was involved in a motor vehicle accident in Stockton in New South Wales, as a result of which he was rendered quadriplegic.
The plaintiff pleaded that the accident occurred when he 'came upon an unmarked and unposted bend in the road in the vicinity of Meredith Street and its northern approaches'.
32 Legal representatives were instructed in 1993, and a statement of claim was filed late 1994.
33 The defendants, namely the Road Traffic Authority and the Newcastle City Council, applied to the Supreme Court of New South Wales for orders that the plaintiff's action be summarily dismissed or permanently stayed pursuant to Pt 13 r 5 Supreme Court Rules (NSW).
They also applied for the exercise of the Court's inherent powers to stay the proceedings permanently.

 Part 13 rule 5 Supreme Court Rules (NSW) 
 
 34 At relevant times during the Batistatos litigation, Pt 13 r 5 read as follows: 
 
 '(1) Where in any proceedings it appears to the Court that in relation to the proceedings generally or in relation to any claim for relief in the proceedings- 
 
 
 (a) no reasonable cause of action is disclosed; 
 (b) the proceedings are frivolous or vexatious; or 
 (c) the proceedings are an abuse of the process of the Court, 
 
 
 The Court may order that the proceedings be stayed or dismissed generally or in relation to any claim for relief in the proceedings.

 (2) The Court may receive evidence on the hearing of an application for an order under subrule (1).
' 
 [cf reg 13.4 Uniform Civil Procedure Rules 2005 ] 
 
 35 I also note that Pt 13 r 5 Supreme Court Rules (NSW) (prior to its repeal) and O 20 r 2 Federal Court Rules are almost identical.

 Bases of application in Batistatos 
 
 36 The bases of the defendants' application in Batistatos were: (i) The proceedings were an abuse of process.
(ii) The defendants were highway authorities at the relevant time and there was no evidence that they had created any relevant danger causing the accident.
(iii) The defendants were irretrievably prejudiced by reason of the delay in the proceedings being brought.

 First instance 
 
 38 Hoeben J at first instance rejected the submissions of the defendants in relation to ground (ii) that the plaintiff's claim was so obviously untenable that it could not possibly succeed or so manifestly faulty that it did not admit of argument ([2004] NSWSC 796 at [26]).
Accordingly, his Honour declined to make an order summarily dismissing the plaintiff's claim.
The conclusion of Hoeben J on this issue was endorsed by the NSW Court of Appeal ([2005] NSWCA 20 at [48]).
That particular aspect of the decision of the Court of Appeal was not appealed to the High Court.
39 However, at first instance Hoeben J also rejected the submissions of the defendants that the Court should grant a permanent stay of the proceedings on grounds (i) and (iii).
The essence of these submissions was that, as an objective consequence of the lapse of time since 1965, a fair trial was not possible for the defendants, and so the plaintiff's proceedings constituted an abuse of process.
40 Hoeben J noted that the defendants carried the onus in relation to the application, and that: 
 
 'It is not for the plaintiff to establish that a fair trial can be had but for the defendants to establish that their chances of having a fair trial are so low that to allow the proceedings to continue would be unjustifiably vexatious and oppressive to them .
' [[2004] NSWSC 796 at [41]] 
 
 41 His Honour was not satisfied however that the circumstances of the case were so exceptional that to allow the matter to proceed would be vexatious and oppressive to the defendants, and refused to permanently stay the plaintiff's claim either pursuant to Pt 13 r 5 or the inherent jurisdiction of the court.
42 The defendants appealed this aspect of the decision to the Court of Appeal of New South Wales.

 Court of Appeal 
 
 43 In delivering the lead judgment of the Court of Appeal, Bryson JA noted that, notwithstanding that the relevant limitation periods applicable to the plaintiff had not expired, it was nonetheless competent for the Court to entertain an application for a permanent stay on the proceedings due to effluxion of time ([2005] NSWCA 20 at 51-52, 57, citing McHugh JA in Herron v McGregor (1986) 6 NSWLR 246 at 253-255).
44 In relation to whether the effluxion of time had resulted in a deterioration of the available evidence to the extent that a continuation of the proceedings constituted an abuse of process, Bryson JA observed at [61]: 
 
 'It is always necessary to have in mind the object of an inquiry for information and evidence.
The question whether information is sufficiently available to the defendants, on their making reasonable inquiries, to make it possible for a fair trial on the plaintiff's allegations to take place has to be considered in association with what the plaintiff's allegations are.
The plaintiff's allegations are of the most general kind, and although they occupy some folios when written out they communicate next to nothing as particulars of negligence.
The object of inquiry by the defendants for evidence is not defined.
They have not been told by the plaintiff even to the decade when it was alleged that their negligent acts or omissions occurred; nor, in any real way, what those negligent acts or omissions were.
' 
 
 45 His Honour noted that the effect of the defendants' evidence was that for the period before 1965 up to the early-mid 1980s, most documents had been lost or destroyed, and there were no documents available which would enable the defendants to properly defend the claim which was being brought against them.
As a result, the defendants submitted that the proceedings were unfair and unjustifiably oppressive to them.
46 Although Hoeben J was persuaded by the plaintiff's location of three additional witnesses who had recollections of the road and the events which had happened in 1965, and affidavits of those witnesses, that the defendants had not taken steps reasonably open to them to identify and locate other persons with similar information, the Court of Appeal was not similarly influenced.
Bryson JA considered that the information in the affidavits of the three 'new' witnesses was 'extremely slight and goes no real distance at all to establishing in any concrete way the state of affairs in which the accident happened in 1965...
These three affidavits illustrate, to my mind rather fully, the process of degradation of the availability and quality of evidence where there are long delays' ([2005] NSWCA 20 at [65]).
Accordingly, the Court of Appeal considered that Hoeben J erred in concluding that the defendants had not taken steps reasonably open to them to elicit knowledge and evidence of what the position then actually was ([2005] NSWCA 20 at [67]).
47 In the view of the Court of Appeal: 
 
 'the simple and overwhelmingly clear position is that no useful evidence is available upon which to conduct a trial into the question whether the plaintiff's injuries were caused by the negligence of the defendants, and no further search or inquiry is in any way likely to locate any such evidence; so that a trial of the proceedings could not rise above a debate about the effect of scraps of information, and it is impossible to inform the debate with any realistically useful information.
' [[2005] NSWCA 20 at [79]] 
 
 48 Further, in the view of the Court: 
 
 '...it would manifestly be quite unjust to allow these proceedings to go to what would in form be a trial but in substance would be only a ceremonial enactment of an opportunity to establish whether or not the plaintiff has the rights he claims.
' [[2005] NSWCA 20 at [81]] 
 
 49 Accordingly, the Court of Appeal allowed the appeal from the decision of Hoeben J, and ordered that the proceedings be permanently stayed.

 High Court of Australia 
 
 50 The majority judgment was that of Gleeson CJ, Gummow, Hayne and Crennan JJ.
Their Honours observed that the appeals before them concerned abuse of process as understood in the exercise of the 'inherent jurisdiction' of superior courts to stay proceedings (at [5]).
51 There was no suggestion at any stage of the case that the plaintiff had acted vexatiously, or that there had been an abuse of process in any sense other than that the defendants had been irretrievably prejudiced by reason of the delay in the commencement of the proceedings.
The majority noted the application of s 52 Limitation Act 1969 (NSW) suspending the running of limitation periods for the duration of a person's disability.
They noted also however: 
 
 'the "right" of the plaintiff with a common law claim to institute an action is not at large.
It is subject to the operation of the whole of the applicable procedural and substantive law administered by the court, whose processes are enlivened in the particular circumstances.
This includes the principles respecting abuse of process.
' [[2006] HCA 27 at [65]] 
 
 52 In concluding that there was no error of principle in the decision of the Court of Appeal, the majority of the High Court said: 
 
 '... in the circumstance of the present case, attention must be directed to the burdensome effect upon the defendants of the situation that has arisen by lapse of time.
The Court of Appeal held that this was so serious that a fair trial was not possible.
The result was that to permit the plaintiff's case to proceed would clearly inflict unnecessary injustice upon the defendants.

 What Deane J said in Oceanic Sun Line Special Shipping Company Inc v Fay [1988] HCA 32 ; (1988) 165 CLR 197 at 247, with respect to the staying of local proceedings, is applicable also to a case such as the present one.
His Honour emphasised that there is no 'requirement that the continuance of the action would involve moral delinquency on the part of the plaintiff'; what was decisive was the objective effect of the continuation of the action.

 In assessing that effect there must be taken into account the consideration expressed by Dixon in Cox v Journeaux [No 2] [1935] HCA 48 ; (1935) 52 CLR 713 and set out earlier in these reasons.
Bryson JA in terms did so.
He went on to remark in that connection that the defendants had not shown that the plaintiff's action was "clearly without foundation".
But, he concluded that there was "in practical terms nothing of utility to place in the balance against the defendants' claim for a permanent stay.
' [[2006] HCA 27 at [69-71]] 
 
 53 Accordingly the Court dismissed the appeal, Kirby, Callinan and Heydon JJ dissenting.

 SUBMISSIONS OF THE RESPONDENT IN SUPPORT OF THE NOTICES OF MOTION 
 
 54 The respondent made a number of submissions in support of the notices of motion.
55 The affidavits sworn or affirmed by the deponents on corresponding days in respect of each notice of motion are substantially identical.
I shall return later in this judgment to the evidence in those affidavits.
56 The submissions made by the respondent can be summarised as follows: (i) By reason of effluxion of time since the period 31 October 1975 to August 1983 a fair trial is not possible for the respondent, and therefore each proceeding constitutes an abuse of process.
(ii) The case sought to be made out by the applicants can be gleaned from their pleadings, which are sweeping and imprecise.
(iii) The respondent has engaged in significant, time-consuming, expensive and exhaustive investigations in attempts to respond to allegations of the applicants, however despite this the respondent has been unable to obtain evidence as to many of the key factual allegations made by the applicants.
Another potential witness was Mr Bernie Bedford who assisted Mr and Mrs Hockey in relation to the Mission, however he is also deceased.
(viii) In relation to the alleged breach by the respondent of s 15 of the Act, there is now no-one who hired and fired Aboriginal mission workers at Doomadgee available to give evidence.
(ix) The applicants have provided little evidence supportive of their case.
(x) No relevant documents are now available at Doomadgee.
(xi) The entity the 'Christian Brethren Inc of Australia' cannot be located.
(xii) The lapse of time is particularly acute because the Christian Brethren, unlike other churches, do not adopt a diocesan or unified model of operation or ministry.
It is not possible to seek evidence from a central church body.

 SUBMISSIONS OF THE APPLICANTS 
 
 57 In essence, the applicants submitted that the proceedings should not be stayed because: (i) Although the three witnesses who could have given useful evidence were either deceased (Mrs Eunice Hockey and Mr Bernie Bedford) or elderly (Mr Allan Hockey), this would not prevent the respondent adequately presenting its case.
(ii) Limitations as to the evidence available would probably be more disadvantageous to the applicants as they bear the onus of proof, and (iii) A great deal of evidence is already filed with the court relating to the events in issue, which would enable the court to conclude that the respondent was in breach of the Act.
I shall deal with this issue later in the judgment.
59 The applicants submitted that the evidence already filed and served in this Court, as well as the oral evidence of Mrs Sutton given in a previous hearing, disclosed a very close financial relationship between the respondent and the Christian Brethren, and that the relationship between the respondent and the Christian Brethren was very similar to that between the respondent and other churches managing Aboriginal reserves.
The applicants also submit that the evidence indicates the details of the financial relationship between the respondent and the Christian Brethren.

 WHAT EVIDENCE IS BEFORE, OR LIKELY TO COME BEFORE, THE COURT?

 
 60 The key question is whether, on the facts of the case before me, the respondent has shown that the application before the Court constitutes an abuse of process within the meaning of O 20 r 2, and accordingly the Court should order a permanent stay.
61 Given the reliance of the respondent in this case on the findings of the majority of the High Court in Batistatos , the question may be narrowed to ask whether, in light of the claims of the applicants as detailed by their pleadings, there is in fact evidence of utility to place in the balance against the respondent's claim for a permanent stay, or whether because of the effluxion of time there is actually no useful evidence available upon which to conduct a trial into the question whether the respondent has acted in breach of s 9 and s 15 of the Act.
62 I note that, despite the considerable passage of time since the occurrence of the relevant events, the respondent is not raising any issue relevant to limitation periods (note for example TS 26 July 2006 p 29 ll 9-13).
63 In considering the question before the Court, it is important to keep in mind that an application for a permanent stay does not equate in any way to the trial of the substantive matter.
The Court has not had the benefit of being taken through the all the evidence by the parties or cross examination of the witnesses.
64 However, the terms of the application and the submissions of the respondent on the issue of abuse of process before me clearly do require me to give consideration to the evidence which is before me, to carefully consider whether there is useful material upon which a trial could be conducted into the claims of the applicants.
65 Although as a general rule the applicants are entitled to bring their claims before the Court and have their claims heard, as I have already noted this entitlement is subject to principles in respect of abuse of court process.
In reviewing the material before me however, I keep in mind the warning of Dixon J in Cox v Journeaux and approach the matter with caution.
66 Key questions of evidence before the Court, for the purposes of this analysis, may be summarised as follows: 1.
What is the likelihood of Mr Allan Hockey giving evidence?
2.
To paraphrase Bryson JA in Batistatos , is there useful evidence available upon which to conduct a trial, or is the position that a trial of the proceedings could not rise above a debate about the effect of scraps of information with the result that no more than a formal enactment of the process of hearing and determining the plaintiff's claim could take place?
This second question should be particularly considered in light of evidence to which the applicants refer, including: A) Records before the Court, as contained in the affidavit of Mr David Sutton sworn 22 November 2005, and the further evidence given by Mr Sutton arising from cross-examination on 17 July 2006.
B) The affidavit of Mr Patrick Killoran sworn 12 May 2006.
C) Affidavits of Sir Llewellyn Edwards, Hugh Lionel Fawsett and Sir Leo Arthur Hielscher.
d) Queensland Government Cabinet documents from the relevant period.
E) Affidavits of Bernadette Irene Albert, Evelyn May Barker, Shane Arthur O'Connor, Eric Michael Porter, Maxwell Athol Smith and Paul Toolis.

 1.
WHAT IS THE LIKELIHOOD OF MR ALLAN HOCKEY GIVING EVIDENCE?

 
 67 It is clear that obtaining evidence from Mr Hockey would be very important to the conduct of this case from the perspective of both the applicants and the respondents.
Mr Hockey was appointed Acting Superintendent of the Doomadgee Aboriginal Mission Reserve from 1 November 1958.
I understand he remained in that management position until some time in 1983, and that he eventually left Doomadgee on 6 April 1983.
His management role means that he would be able to give key evidence as to the role of the respondent in the conduct of the Doomadgee Mission over that period, and to explain relevant documents and records from that period.
The importance of that evidence is enhanced by the fact that a number of key witnesses involved in the management of Doomadgee mission, and liaison between the Doomadgee Mission and the respondent during the relevant period have died (for example, Mrs Hockey and Mr Bedford), or are elderly, frail and unable to give evidence (for example, Mr Killoran).
68 It is clear however that Mr Hockey himself is now elderly, and in frail health.
69 At the hearing on 14 July 2006 the ability of Mr Allan Hockey to give evidence at a hearing of the substantive matter was in dispute.
Counsel for the applicants indicated that he had spoken with a third party who had been in contact with acquaintances of Mr Hockey, and was able to provide evidence that Mr Hockey was capable of giving evidence relevant to the issues in dispute.
I indicated that, if this were the case, the best evidence would be that from Mr Hockey himself.
I adjourned the hearing to allow the parties the opportunity to contact Mr Hockey and ascertain his ability to give evidence, whether at the hearing itself, by a preservation of evidence hearing, by affidavit or otherwise.
70 In an affidavit of Mr Maxwell Smith affirmed 21 July 2006, Mr Smith deposed that: 1.
Following the hearing before this court on 14 July 2006 he made attempts to contact Mr Allan Hockey.
2.
He had been informed by Mr Hockey's elder son that Mr Hockey was spending the winter months in Cairns with his family.
3.
With the approval of Mr Hockey, he had contacted Mr Hockey's medical practitioner Dr Paul Illes who told him that Mr Hockey had become ill after Mr Smith's interview with Mr Hockey earlier this year; that Mr Hockey was not well enough to undergo cross examination; and that Dr Illes would prepare a medical report to that effect.
71 Annexed to Mr Smith's affidavit was a medical report prepared by Dr Paul Iles dated 20 July 2006.
72 Mr Hockey did not appear at the next hearing of 26 July 2006, nor was any evidence produced from him by affidavit or otherwise.
At the hearing of 26 July 2006, two witnesses were subject to examination and cross-examination by telephone.

 Ms Jones 
 
 73 Ms Jones swore an affidavit on 25 July 2006 in which she recounted a telephone conversation she had had with Mr Hockey on or about 20 July 2006.
74 The affidavit of Ms Jones was accepted by the respondents as admissible for the purposes of the interlocutory hearing, but the respondents did not concede that the affidavit would be admissible at trial.
75 In my view Ms Jones is an honest and credible witness, however she admitted during the course of cross-examination that she had never met Mr Hockey, and the only conversation she had ever had with him was a telephone conversation of 10 minutes to which she deposed in her affidavit.
In my view, her evidence as to the ability of Mr Hockey to give evidence, and the reliability of any evidence Mr Hockey could give, is of limited assistance.

 Dr Paul Iles 
 
 76 As I noted earlier in this judgment, Dr Iles has been the medical practitioner attending Mr Hockey for 15 years.
78 While Ms Jones' credibility is in no way in dispute, she does not know Mr Hockey, and has only ever spoken with him once on the telephone.
Accordingly, it appears that Dr Iles has had direct experience of the impact on Mr Hockey of participating in judicial proceedings, even those as remote as an interview outside court.
79 At the hearing on 26 July 2006 Mr O'Gorman for the applicants foreshadowed an application to the Court pursuant to s 46PR HREOC Act seeking permission for Mr Hockey to be examined and cross-examined in a non-traditional manner.
This would entail that 'each party be given the opportunity to gently ask Mr Hockey questions and in so doing take him to documents making it clear to him at the outset that no one at all is being critical of him, but rather he has been asked along to assist the court as far as he can and as far as his memory will permit as to what actually occurred in the relevant days when he was at Doomadgee' (TS 26 July 2006 p 43 ll 6-11).
No such application has yet been brought by the applicants.
80 Neither the applicants nor the respondent have asked me to make a finding as to the ability of Mr Hockey to give evidence.
However, it is necessary that I comment on this issue.
The parties have been at some pains to bring evidence to the Court of the ability --- or otherwise --- of Mr Hockey to give evidence in the substantive matters.
As I have already indicated, his evidence would be very important at the hearing.
81 I am not required at this stage to consider whether s 46PR HREOC Act would be of assistance to the applicants, or whether comments of the Full Court in Hagan v Trustees of the Toowoomba Sports Ground Trust (2001) FCA 123 at 20 would be relevant in relation to the evidence which the applicants would seek to elicit from Mr Hockey.
However it is, in my opinion, important to consider realistically what evidence is before or likely to come before the Court.
82 From the evidence of Dr Illes, it appears that even non-traditional questioning of Mr Hockey could be harmful to his health.
On the facts before me I am of the view that Mr Hockey would not be able to give evidence in any form capable of being used by this Court, whether by affidavit, elicited by examination and cross-examination or otherwise as foreshadowed by Mr O'Gorman, or in person, by telephone or otherwise.
83 The ability of Mr Hockey to give evidence could be critical in that he could potentially explain such documents as exist relating to the management and operations of Doomadgee Mission.
He appears to be the only person living with an intimate knowledge of the management of Doomadgee Mission during the relevant period, or who has the first hand knowledge to be in a position to explain documents relating to management of the Mission during that time.
84 I shall now turn to consider those documents.

 2.
IS THERE USEFUL EVIDENCE AVAILABLE UPON WHICH TO CONDUCT A TRIAL, OR IS THE POSITION THAT A TRIAL OF THE PROCEEDINGS COULD NOT RISE ABOVE A DEBATE ABOUT THE EFFECT OF SCRAPS OF INFORMATION WITH THE RESULT THAT NO MORE THAN A FORMAL ENACTMENT OF THE PROCESS OF HEARING AND DETERMINING THE APPLICANTS' CLAIMS COULD TAKE PLACE?

 
 85 This question is critical to the success or failure of the notices of motion brought by the respondent.
86 In my view the most appropriate way in which to answer this question is to consider the nature of the evidence before the court to which the parties referred during the hearing, and then to consider the value of that evidence in light of the claims of the applicants under s 9 and s 15.

 (a) The affidavit of Mr David Sutton sworn 22 November 2005 and the further evidence given by Mr Sutton arising from cross-examination on 17 July 2006 
 
 87 Mr Sutton held the position of Senior Accounting Officer or equivalent in the Department from 1971 until his retirement in 1988.
He deposed that during that time that he was responsible for the financial accounts relevant to the Department's operations, including the oversight of banking and financial record-keeping throughout the Department, and was engaged in regular consultation with the Director and the Deputy Director as to the financial affairs of the Department.
88 Mr Sutton has been in ill health, however he was able to be examined and cross-examined in relation to his affidavit at a preservation of evidence hearing held before me on 21 March 2006.
The evidence of Mr Sutton found in his affidavit and the annexures thereto is critical to the conduct of the case for a number of reasons: 1.
The position he held and his resultant knowledge, including the fact that most of the correspondence from the Department to the relevant churches during the period 1971-1980 on the subject of grants for wages and wage increases was drafted by Mr Sutton or under his supervision and direction.
2.
There is a large volume of relevant financial information annexed to his affidavit, which possibly only Mr Sutton can interpret from personal knowledge, as other key witnesses from Doomadgee Mission or the Christian Brethren are either deceased or unable for health reasons to give evidence.
3.
As conceded by counsel for the applicants, there do not appear to be any records remaining at Doomadgee (TS QUD 389/05 3 May 2006 p 5 l 14).
The Doomadgee Mission was one of those entities.
The purpose of these requests was to assist the Department to prepare estimates for Queensland Treasury of the Department's expenditure on cash grants for the next financial year.
The responses included Statements of Receipts and Expenditure.
This information was assessed by the Department to calculate estimates of the grants to the churches conducting Aboriginal communities for the next financial year.
The grants included wage increase components, although the Cabinet approval did not breakdown the total grant for each Church into particular components.
As a result of this process, on or about 5 November 1979 the Department provided the church with a suggested workforce structure for Doomadgee.
Assistance in kind was also provided.
Additional funds were given to churches to assist them to increase the wage rates of Aboriginal employees who were not in receipt of award wages.

 
 
 90 In contrast, the Department undertook all of these functions in respect of State-conducted Aboriginal communities.
During the relevant period the Mission engaged in income-earning activities including retail store sales, agency commissions, and cattle and beef sales.
Fortnightly wage rates applied to each Aboriginal Community worker from the time the Department became directly responsible were in accordance with the advice provided by the Departmental Manager at Doomadgee.
91 At the hearing of 26 July 2006, Mr Murdoch SC for the State of Queensland made a number of submissions based on the evidence of Mr Sutton, referable to the lack of information available upon which the State could defend the applicants' allegations.
These submissions included the following points: 1.
Fragmented time and wage records were annexed to Mr Sutton's affidavit, but otherwise there was no evidence as to amounts paid in wages to the applicants during the relevant period, and the key witnesses who managed the payment of wages --- Mr and Mrs Hockey --- are unable to give evidence.
2.
The corollary of the claim of the applicants that the State, through subsidies, determined the amount that was paid in wages to workers on the mission, and hence was the employer of the workers at Doomadgee, is that the church had no other source of funds that it could utilise to pay wages.
3.
The available records indicate that alternative sources of income were available, in particular the retail store at Doomadgee where the third and fourth applicants in QUD 389/2005 worked during the relevant period, and such material as is available suggests that the wages of the workers in the store weren't ever intended by the State to be covered by the subsidies that the State was giving the church to pay wages.
4.
However in relation to the store, there are no financial records or bank records, nor are Mr and Mrs Hockey available to give evidence as to money which was being made from the store.
5.
From such fragments as remains, it appears that the store was in profit at certain stages and that there were substantial accumulated funds.
6.
The Mission had an account or accounts which appeared to be the repository of the proceeds of commercial activities such as sale of cattle, sale of beef to community residents, sale of petrol, vehicle hire, commissions from Bush Pilot Airways, Mobil, Commonwealth Savings Bank and the Post Office and that there were substantial drawings on accounts which may have included payment of wages.
7.
That in, for example, the half year 1 July 1980 to 31 December 1981 the subsidy from the State Government was $230 000 but a schedule of operation costs sent by Mr Hockey to the Department shows that the deficit of $264 190 in operation costs was met from 'margin profits on Store Sales', indicating that the store was a very substantial profit centre.
8.
Documentation, including a letter of 8 May 1981 from Mr Hockey to the Department, suggests that wages for Aboriginal employees of the store, the bakery and the cattle business were paid from the fruits of those businesses, however without the evidence of the Hockeys to explain the documentation it is impossible to do other than hypothesise.
9.
Other documentation, including a letter containing estimated operation costs for the financial year ended 30 June 1982, included an amount described as '50% of Wages Erection New Homes', but no explanation exists as to the sourcing of that amount, or the sourcing of the balance of the wages for employees in that case.
10.
In a letter from Mr Hockey to the Department dated 20 October 2005, Mr Hockey wrote 'I now enclose copy of July wages for permanent employees as we do not calculate on a weekly basis'.
The July wages attached included named employees, their net wages, reference to the Departmental subsidy component of the wages, where they were employed, but no explanation as to the source of the balance of the wages.
Mr Murdoch submitted that this was a very strong signpost that there was money coming in from some source other than the State government subsidy, however the State was frustrated in its efforts to defend itself on this basis because, in spite of the signposts and pointers, there are no people available as witnesses to explain those signposts and pointers.
11.
None of the records located by the State broke down the subsidy into a per-employee, per-week or per-month amount.
12.
Attached to the letter dated 15 September 1979 from Mr Hockey to the Director of the Department are documents including one headed 'ABORIGINAL/ISLANDER WAGES SURVEY', with further detail 'Present Funding Source: Doomadgee Mission', 'Alternative Funding Source: Subsidising Wages DAIA', 'Work group responsibility --- brief overview of objectives of group', 'Functional Area: Stores  Supply', 'Work Group or Gang Description: Retail'.
Mr Murdoch drew the Court's attention to the fact that information relevant to the third and fourth applicants' wages was included in this survey.
From the information appearing on the face of the survey, it appears that both women were junior females, 18 years of age, single, grade 10 education, working in the store, and doing the same job, however they earned different weekly wages.
Mr Murdoch submits that the inference may be drawn that whoever fixed those wage rates was making some sort of work value assessment of the employee to the enterprise of the store, however the State is frustrated in establishing that it was not involved in handing down schedules of amounts that were to be paid to persons as their weekly wages, because of the unavailability of witnesses involved in managing the store at the time.
13.
Mr Murdoch submits that, as evidenced by a staff card for the first applicant for his employment in the public service effective 8.8.83 (Exhibit DEFS-22 annexed to Mr Sutton's affidavit) and similar document for the third applicant (Exhibit DEFS-23 annexed to Mr Sutton's affidavit), employees of the State received a Staff Card on commencing employment with the State.
The absence of a staff card before that date suggests that the first and third applicants were not employees of the State before August 1983.
14.
A letter from the Department to the Manager at Doomadgee dated 5 August 1983 advising that, with the transfer of responsibility for the payment of staff from Doomadgee Mission to the Department as of 8 August 1983, accounting procedures satisfactory to the State would need to be implemented.
The inference which could be drawn from this letter is that prior to 8 August 1983, the employment of the applicants and responsibility for payment of their wages as employer, rested with the Mission rather than the State.

 (b) The affidavit of Mr Patrick Killoran sworn 12 May 2006 
 
 92 Mr Killoran was Director of the Department during the period relevant to this claim.
He has provided an affidavit four pages in length.
I understand that Mr Killoran is not available for cross-examination on his affidavit for health reasons (TS 26 July 2006 p 34 ll 12-13).
As a result of the unavailability of the witness for cross-examination due to ill health, less weight may be attached to his evidence since it has not been tested in cross-examination (see JD Heydon Cross on Evidence Seventh Australian Edition Butterworths 2004 par 17480 and the cases referred to therein).

 (c) Affidavits of Sir Llewellyn Edwards, Hugh Lionel Fawssett, and Sir Leo Arthur Hielscher 
 
 Sir Llewellyn Edwards 
 
 94 During the relevant period, Sir Llewellyn Edwards was Minister for Health and subsequently Treasurer and Deputy Premier of Queensland.
He has provided an affidavit four pages in length.

 Mr Hugh Fawssett 
 
 95 Mr Hugh Fawssett was Principal of Doomadgee Mission School from 1956 until 1983.
He has provided two affidavits --- one sworn 17 March 2006 a little over three pages in length, and another sworn 19 May 2006, three pages in length.

 Sir Leo Hielscher 
 
 96 Sir Leo Hielscher was Under Treasurer in Queensland between 1974 and 1988.
His affidavit sworn 12 May 1984 is three pages in length.

 (d) Queensland Government Cabinet documents from the relevant period 
 
 97 At the preservation hearing of the evidence of Mr Sutton on 22 March 2006 Cabinet Submission 20160 dated 4 June 1975 and Cabinet Decision 22563 dated 10 June 1975 were tendered.
The Cabinet Submission refers to additional financial assistance sought by church organisations conducting Aboriginal Communities, including Doomadgee Mission.
The Cabinet Decision approved special and additional finance for church sponsored communities in budgetary problems.
98 In his affidavit affirmed 22 May 2006, Mr Maxwell Smith of Crown Law deposed as to the content of a number of Cabinet Submissions and Cabinet Decisions, the contents of which had not yet been released.
Mr Smith deposed that it had become clear to the Minister that the Management Committee of the Doomadgee Mission were faced with a management situation which in economic, staffing and practical terms was beyond that committee's ability to maintain, administer and effectively service (Affidavit par 59).
Following this Decision, a progressive take over by the Department from the Christian Brethren of staffing, administration, accountability, servicing and responsibility for the material wellbeing of the Doomadgee Aboriginal Community began (Affidavit pars 61-62).
Cabinet Decision 42170 was, presumably, made on that basis of that Submission.

 (e) Affidavits of Bernadette Irene Albert, Evelyn May Barker, Shane Arthur O'Connor, Eric Michael Porter, Maxwell Athol Smith, Paul Toolis 
 
 Ms Bernadette Albert 
 
 99 Ms Bernadette Albert is a human resource consultant employed in Payroll Services, Corporate and Professional Services, which is a shared service provider for Education Queensland.
She commenced employment with Education Queensland in January 1989.
There is no record of the third applicant's employment with Education Queensland prior to January 2000.
She has also deposed that the second applicant was entitled to receive and did receive the pay rates and benefits provided by that award.

 Ms Evelyn Barker 
 
 100 The affidavit of Ms Evelyn Barker is five pages in length plus annexures.

 Mr Shane O'Connor 
 
 101 The affidavit of Mr Shane O'Connor is four pages in length plus annexures.
Since 2002 he has conducted his own Industrial Relations Consultancy Business.
As part of that process he visited Doomadgee on 30 July 1986.

 Mr Maxwell Smith and Mr Lachlan Edmonds 
 
 103 Mr Maxwell Smith is an officer with Crown Law who has filed a number of affidavits in relation to this matter.
Mr Smith is a Senior Lawyer employed in the office of the Crown Solicitor for the State of Queensland.
104 I note that a number of affidavits have also been filed by Mr Lachlan Edmonds who is also a Senior Lawyer employed in the office of the Crown Solicitor.
For completeness I will also briefly consider this evidence.

 Affidavit of Mr Smith affirmed 22 May 2006 
 
 105 The affidavit of Mr Smith contains details of the history of the Doomadgee Mission from 1930, following clearly extensive research by Mr Smith and Crown Law.
106 In this affidavit, Mr Smith deposes to the contents of a number of Cabinet Submissions and Decisions which have not yet been released for public scrutiny and are the subject of the privilege afforded to Cabinet papers.
Those documents predominately related to cabinet decisions to approve further grants to the various church bodies conducting Aboriginal missions including Doomadgee.
Further, there is evidence that Mr Bernard Bedford, a member of the committee of the Christian Brethren based in Brisbane, liaised with the Department on behalf of the Doomadgee Mission during the relevant period, however Mr Bedford is deceased.
There is evidence that Mr Bedford kept a number of records relating to the Christian Brethren, however Dr Lennox could find only two letters relevant to this matter, one of which had already been discovered and the other of which was annexed to Mr Edmonds'affidavit.

 Mr Paul Toolis 
 
 109 Mr Paul Toolis was Executive Officer of the Department based at Doomadgee between July 1984 and August 1986.
During August 1983 he co-ordinated the institution of Departmental business processes.
While this work proceeded, an officer acting on behalf of the Christian Brethren Church closed its books and accounts.
He recalled handing letters of appointment to the first and third applicants in early August 1983, which meant that they would be paid by cheque from the Treasury payroll system ex Brisbane.
Another 15 or 20 former Church employees were also engaged at the time.

 SECTIONS 9 AND 15 
 
 110 I have detailed the evidence in QUD 389/2005 above because in order to ascertain whether there has been an abuse of process in terms submitted by the respondent it is necessary to consider such evidence as is available in terms of the claims of the applicants.
In doing so, I note that to date little evidence has been filed by the applicants themselves, other than information as to when they were working and allegations that they did not receive proper wages for that work.
111 The structure of the claims in QUD 279/2004 and QUD 389/2005 is such that, except to the extent that there is evidence relevant to a specific applicant's circumstances (for example, specific dates of employment and specific positions held), the evidence presented in QUD 389/2005 is, I understand, the same as that which would be before the Court if QUD 279/2004 proceeds.
112 The claims of the applicants are framed in terms of s 9 and s 15 of the Act.
Section 9 is a general provision whereas s 15 relates specifically to employment.
113 At the hearing of 26 July 2006, Mr O'Gorman for the applicants conceded that the applicants were perhaps on weaker ground in relation to the application for the permanent stay under s 15, on the basis that what is required there, among other things, is evidence as to the arrangement between the church and the individual employees and the like.
Mr O'Gorman also acknowledged that without the availability of witnesses involved in the management of Doomadgee, it could well be that I might think it appropriate to permanently stay that part of the application relating to s 15 (TS 26 July 2006 p 44 ll 11-19).
It is useful to first consider the applicants' claim with respect to s 15 and then to turn to the claim pursuant to s 9.
115 Section 15 provides as follows: 
 
 'It is unlawful for an employer or a person acting or purporting to act on behalf of an employer: 
 
 (a) to refuse or fail to employ a second person on work of any description which is available and for which that second person is qualified; 
 (b) to refuse or fail to offer or afford a second person the same terms of employment, conditions of work and opportunities for training and promotion as are made available for other persons having the same qualifications and employed in the same circumstances on work of the same description; or 
 (c) to dismiss a second person from his or her employment; 
 
 by reason of the race, colour or national or ethnic origin of that second person or of any relative or associate of that second person.
' 
 
 116 Section 3(1) of the Act defines 'employment' as including: 
 
 'work under a contract for services, and cognate expressions have corresponding meanings.
' 
 
 117 The reference to 'contract for services' in s 3(1) is to the traditional distinction at common law between an 'employee' who was employed under a 'contract of service', and an independent contractor who was engaged under a 'contract for services'.
Historically, employers could be liable for wrongs inflicted on a third party by an employee, but not where the worker was an independent contractor (see for example B Creighton and A Stewart Labour Law: An Introduction (The Federation Press, 2000) pars 7.02-7.06 and the recent discussion of these principles by the High Court in Sweeney v Boylan Nominees Pty Ltd [2006] HCA 19 ; (2006) 227 ALR 46 at 49).
This distinction is not relevant in the case before me --- the only point is whether the applicants were employees of the respondent at the relevant time.
118 Whether an employer/employee relationship exists between parties is determined by the nature of their relationship and whether indicia of employment are evident.
This issue has been the subject of much judicial comment.
119 In reviewing the evidence before me, three issues are clear.

 First issue 
 
 120 The first issue is that, using any of the above indicia of employment, such fragmentary evidence as exists shows no relationship of employment between the State of Queensland and the applicants in QUD 389/2005 between 1975 and 1983 to the extent that such relationship is based on any perceived control of the affairs of the Doomadgee Mission by the State of Queensland during that period.
121 While it is possible that further information could emerge in cross-examination, available evidence-in-chief which has been gleaned from the recollections of witnesses more than twenty years after the relevant events is consistent with the proposition that the Doomadgee Mission was under the control of the Christian Brethren, that the Aboriginal employees were in the employment of the Doomadgee Mission conducted by the Christian Brethren who determined their conditions of employment including wages, and that the State paid grants to the Mission as a subsidy to the Mission's operations with no direction as to the manner in which the Mission spent the money, and interest only to the extent that the Mission could justify receiving financial assistance from the State.
122 Evidence to this effect before me includes: 1.

 
 
 2.
The evidence of Mr Killoran that the Department did not inform or direct the Christian Brethren as to the amount or rate to be paid in wages to Aboriginal workers at Doomadgee.
3.
The absence of any indication in the evidence of Sir Llewellyn Edwards, Mr Fawssett or Sir Leo Hielscher supporting the claim that the applicants were employees other than in relation to the second applicant whose direct employment does not appear to be disputed.
In relation to these witnesses, it is difficult to see what further evidence these witnesses could provide given that they were not directly involved in the management of the Doomadgee Mission, and in light of the positions they held in government at that time.
4.
The inconclusive contents of the Cabinet Submissions and Cabinet Decisions in relation to this claim.
5.
The evidence of Ms Barker that the Aboriginal workers were directed in the performance of their work by the Hockeys or the staff of the Mission, and the Hockeys made all decisions as to which Aboriginal residents would be employed, their hours of work and their wage rates.
This evidence is supported by the fact that the third and fourth applicants received different weekly rates in 1979 despite being the same age, experience, gender, and education, and employed in the same position in the store, which indicates some value attributed to their performance in the store.
123 From the evidence provided, there is absolutely no indication of any indicia of an employer/employee relationship between the State and the applicants other than where the applicants were 'directly' employed by the State.
All evidence points towards control of the employees by the management at Doomadgee Mission.
To the extent that an emanation of the Christian Brethren was in control of Doomadgee Mission and an employer of staff, it appears that that entity was the Committee for the Doomadgee Aboriginal Mission, however it is difficult in the absence of further evidence, including Group Certificates from the relevant period, to determine this issue.

 Second issue 
 
 124 The second issue is that there is no further information available beyond the fragmentary evidence already before the Court and anything further that can be elicited from those witnesses who are in a position to give evidence.
This does not appear to be disputed.
125 Accordingly, a trial on this claim would proceed only upon such evidence as is already before the Court.

 Third issue 
 
 126 The third issue is that, because of the effluxion of time, such fragmentary evidence as does exist, in particular 'signposts' to evidence upon which the State could rely, cannot be properly interpreted or explained.
In particular, as submitted by Mr Murdoch SC at the hearing of 26 July 2006 there are many 'signposts' to evidence that Doomadgee Mission received substantial income from a variety of commercial activities.
This appears particularly from the material annexed to the affidavit of Mr Sutton.
127 These 'signposts' potentially negate the inference that wages for Aboriginal workers were determined by grants paid by the respondent to the Mission.
As already detailed in this judgment those alternative sources of income included the retail store, the bakery, commercial activities such as sale of cattle, beef and petrol, vehicle hire, and commissions from Bush Pilot Airways, Mobil, the Commonwealth Savings Bank and the Post Office.
128 I have already noted that it in the present circumstances Mr Hockey will almost certainly not be in a position to give evidence either elaborating on or explaining those 'signposts'.
Key witnesses are either deceased (for example Mrs Hockey and Mr Bedford) or cannot give evidence for health reasons (for example Mr Killoran).
131 In my view, it would be an abuse of the process of the Court under O 20 r 2(1)(c) to allow this part of the claim to proceed.
132 Accordingly, it would be appropriate to permanently stay the claim of the applicants against the State in terms of s 15 to the extent that the applicants' claim that the respondent discriminated against each of them through the respondent's payment to the Christian Brethren of grants for the payment of the applicants' wages that were based on race and resulted in the applicants receiving wages which were at a rate less than that to which they were entitled.

 Claim under section 9 
 
 133 The applicants also claim however that the actions of the respondent are in breach of s 9 of the Act.
134 So far as relevant, s 9 of the Act provides as follows: 
 
 '(1) It is unlawful for a person to do any act involving a distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent or national or ethnic origin which has the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, of any human right or fundamental freedom in the political, economic, social, cultural or any other field of public life... 
 ... 
 (2) A reference in this section to a human right or fundamental freedom in the political, economic, social, cultural or any other field of public life includes any right of a kind referred to in Article 5 of the Convention.
' 
 
 135 Article 5 of the Convention in s 2 is art 5 of the International Convention of the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination , and so far as relevant is as follows: 
 
 'In compliance with the fundamental obligations laid down in article 2 of this Convention, States Parties undertake to prohibit and to eliminate racial discrimination in all its forms and to guarantee the right of everyone, without distinction as to race, colour, or national or ethnic origin, to equality before the law, notably in the enjoyment of the following rights: 
 ... 
 
 
 (e) Economic, social and cultural rights, in particular: 
 
 
 
 
 (i) The rights to work, free choice of employment, to just and favourable conditions to work, to protection against unemployment, to equal pay for equal work, to just and favourable remuneration.
The inquiry is not one as to motive --- rather the inquiry is into whether the racial distinction is a material factor in the making of the relevant decision or the performing of the relevant act (Doyle CJ in Aboriginal Legal Rights Movement Inc v South Australia (No 1) (1995) 64 SASR 551 at 553).
137 The validity of s 9 of the Act was confirmed by the High Court in Koowarta v Bjelke-Petersen (1982) 39 ALR 417.
The grounds in s 9 of the Act have been described as a 'mini Bill of Rights' (P Bailey Human Rights: Australia in an International Contex t Butterworths 1990 p 188).
138 Section 9 is expressed in general terms, and in most cases is pleaded in association with other provisions of the Act including s 15 as was the situation in this case (another example of a case involving both s 9 and s 15 is Meka v Shell Company Australia Ltd [2005] FMCA 250).
As pointed out by Bailey: 
 
 'The purpose of s 9 is to provide a broad proscription of racial discrimination in almost any field...
It provides a basis for challenge to many forms of discriminatory action ...
However apart from Koowarta's case, s 9 has not so far been greatly used.
This is probably because of its generality, and also because many of the major discriminations will be caught by the particular provisions in the remainder of Part II of the Act.
' 
 [Peter Bailey Human Rights: Australia in an International Context Butterworths 1990 p 189] 
 
 139 This comment appears equally relevant today: one of the few cases considering s 9 in isolation is Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc v Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission (1998) 91 FCR 8 per Weinberg J, confirmed on appeal as Victoria v Macedonian Teachers' Association of Victoria Inc [1999] FCA 1287 ; (1999) 91 FCR 47.
141 At the hearing of 26 July 2006, Mr O'Gorman for the applicants submitted that it would be inappropriate to permanently stay the applicants' claim based on s 9 because of the volume of evidence which is already before the court, and in particular that of Sir Llew Edwards, Sir Leo Hielscher, Mr Killoran and Mr Sutton.
142 In relation to this point, Mr Murdoch SC for the respondent submitted that, in order for the applicants to succeed in relation to s 9, they must make good their assertion that it was the State that was determining the wage rates paid to individuals and that the church had alternative means of contributing to wage rates.
143 In my view, it is difficult to separate the claims of the applicants that the respondents have breached s 9 from their claims in respect of s 15.
The substantive claims of the applicants do not distinguish in any material respects between acts of the respondent said to breach s 9 and those said to breach s 15.
Both claims as framed by the applicants rely on the establishment of an employment relationship between themselves and the respondent.
144 This is demonstrated by the Application and the Statement of Claim.
The applicants seek a declaration that the respondent discriminated against each of the applicants pursuant to s 9 and s 15 of the Act in their employment with the respondent between 1975 and 1986 and/or a declaration that the respondent discriminated against each of the applicants through the payment, to the Christian Brethren, of grants for the payment of the applicants' wages that were based on race and resulted in the applicants receiving wages which were at a rate less than that to which they were entitled.
145 The nexus between: (a) the payment of the grant by the respondent to the Christian Brethren; and (b) the resultant payment by the Christian Brethren of wages to the applicants at a rate that was based on race and that was less than that paid to its non-Aboriginal employees.

 
 must be established in order for the applicants to succeed against the respondent.
I do not understand that the applicants are claiming that the payment of grants by the respondent to the applicants simpliciter is an 'act' of discrimination within the meaning of s 9.
Indeed the Christian Brethren no longer exist as an association.
147 In summary, because of the effluxion of time, the causal link between the payment of the grants, the sums involved, and the level of wages received by the applicants is not evident, and evidence which could be given on behalf of the respondent and witnesses who could provide insight into the management of the Doomadgee Mission and the employment of the applicants at the relevant time is no longer available.
148 Mr O'Gorman has submitted that a great deal of evidence has already been filed with the Court relating to the events in issue, which would enable the Court to conclude that the respondent was in breach of the Act.
However in my view that evidence is, again because of the effluxion of time, fragmentary, and of necessity, general (because of the nature of the witnesses involved and the positions they held), inconclusive, and likely to be of little assistance.
While there is clearly evidence that grants were made to Doomadgee Mission and that those grants subsidised the operations of the Mission including payment of wages, there is not, nor is there likely to be from further examination of witnesses identified by the applicants, further information forthcoming as to how the State grants had the result that the applicants received lower wages than non-Aboriginal workers at Doomadgee.
149 For these reasons I am also satisfied that it would be an abuse of the process of the Court to allow this part of the claim to proceed.

 CONCLUSION 
 
 150 The respondent in this case has sought a permanent stay of the applicants' claims in their entirety.
However, the submissions of the respondent in respect of these notices of motion have addressed the claimed 'indirect' relationship of employment between the respondent and the applicants for the period 1975-1983.
This is somewhat curious, given that the claim of the applicants is for the period 1975-1986.
I note that from August 1983 there was a transition period during which control of management functions passed from Doomadgee Mission to the Department and then to the Doomadgee Aboriginal Council (Affidavit of Maxwell Athol Smith 22 May 2006 pars 69-72).
The respondent has also stated that it ceased paying grants to the Christian Brethren in relation to the conduct of the Doomadgee Mission in August 1983 (Defence par 7(f)).
151 In light of the submissions and the evidence which could be available at trial, it would not be appropriate to permanently stay such of the applicants' claims as relate to discrimination by the respondent against the applicants in their 'direct' employment with the respondent between 1975 and 1986.
I do not understand that, given the record-keeping facilities of the State of Queensland and the records which have already been tendered in evidence, effluxion of time would result in a trial on this matter being an abuse of process as articulated in Batistatos .
Accordingly, I am not prepared to stay the claimants' applications to the extent that they claim that the respondent discriminated against each of the applicants pursuant to s 9 and s 15 in their 'direct' employment with the respondent between 1975 and 1986.
152 However, for the reasons I have already given, in my view it is appropriate to order a permanent stay of applications in QUD 279/04 and QUD 389/05 to the extent that the applicants are claiming that the respondent discriminated against each of them pursuant to s 9 and s 15 of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) through the respondent's payment to the Christian Brethren of grants for the payment of the applicants' wages that were based on race and resulted in the applicants receiving wages which were at a rate less than that to which they were entitled.



 THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 

 
 1.
The proceedings brought by each of the applicants in QUD 279 of 2004 and QUD 389 of 2005 be permanently stayed to the extent that the applicants are claiming that the respondent discriminated against each of them pursuant to s 9 and s 15 of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) through the payment by the respondent to any manifestation of the Christian Brethren, including the Christian Brethren of Australia Inc of grants for the payment of the applicants' wages that were based on race and resulted in the applicants receiving wages which were at a rate less than that to which they were entitled.



 I certify that the preceding one hundred and fifty-two (152) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Collier.
Associate:

Dated: 28 September 2006


 Counsel for the Applicant: D O'Gorman 
 
 Solicitor for the Applicant: Robert Bax  Associates 
 
 Counsel for the Respondent: JE Murdoch SC and CJ Murdoch 
 
 Solicitor for the Respondent: Crown Law 
 
 Date of Hearing: 26 July 2006 
 
 Date of Judgment: 28 September 2006 

 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2006/1288.html 
 
 
