
 
1 Johnson  Johnson ('Johnson') created a new market in a product called Johnson's Holiday Skin Body Lotion ('Holiday Skin'), which can be characterised as a tanning body lotion.
Johnson asserts that, prior to the launch of Holiday Skin, consumer skin lotions were moisturisers, self-tanning products or sunscreens.
Unlike previous products on the market, Holiday Skin works as both a moisturiser and a tanning lotion.
It gives a gradual rather than immediate tanning effect.
This created a new segment in the moisturising market and a new product category: a moisturising product with the ability to build a light tan.
2 Holiday Skin was launched in August 2005 and became very successful, in particular with consumers under 25 years of age.
It was sold as a moisturiser intended for regular use throughout the year, which has the added benefit of gradually giving a light tanning effect to the skin.
The product was largely sold through supermarkets.
3 Unilever launched a competing product, Dove Summer Glow Body Lotion ('Summer Glow'), in March 2006.
It was also distributed largely through supermarkets.
As part of the launch, Unilever advertised its product on television and in the print media.
The advertising and promotion was based upon a comparison between Holiday Skin and Summer Glow.
That comparison was said to be supported by market research that established that users of Holiday Skin preferred Summer Glow.
Johnson alleges that, in advertising its product in this way, Unilever engaged in conduct which contravened s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ('the Act').
4 Johnson applied to the Court for an interlocutory injunction to restrain Unilever from so advertising Summer Glow.
Justice Tamberlin granted interlocutory relief ( Johnson  Johnson Pacific Pty Limited v Unilever Australia Limited (2006) 69 IPR 232 (' Johnson (No 1) ').
5 The proceedings now are before the Court for final orders.
The issues that arise are:
 
 (1) What representations are made by the Summer Glow advertisements?
(2) Are those representations misleading and deceptive?
(3) Is Unilever liable for any contravention of s 52 of the Act?
