
 THE APPLICATION 
 
 1 This is an appeal by Mohinder Singh from a decision of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal ("the Tribunal") given on 3 July 2006.
The appeal, although said by Mr Singh to be brought pursuant to the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth), was actually brought pursuant to s 44 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (Cth) (" AAT Act "), and is confined to questions of law.
Though styled an "appeal" it is in fact an application brought in the original jurisdiction of the Court.
2 The Tribunal dismissed, as frivolous and vexatious, Mr Singh's application for review of a decision of the Social Security Appeals Tribunal ("SSAT") made on 22 March 2006.
It also directed that he not, without leave of the Tribunal, make any future application with respect to recovery of sickness allowance, disability support pension or wife pension paid between 28 October 1991 and 26 October 1999.
3 Mr Singh contends that the Tribunal did not have jurisdiction to make the decision that it did, or to give the direction that it gave.
4 Section 42B of the AAT Act is in the following terms: 
 
 " 42B Power of Tribunal where a proceeding is frivolous or vexatious 
 
 
 
 
 (1) Where an application is made to the Tribunal for the review of a decision, the Tribunal may, at any stage of the proceeding, if it is satisfied that the application is frivolous or vexatious: 
 (a) dismiss the application; and 
 
 
 
 (b) if the Tribunal considers it appropriate, on the application of a party to the proceedings, direct that the person who made the application must not, without leave of the Tribunal, make a subsequent application to the Tribunal of a kind or kinds specified in the direction.

 
 
 
 
 (2) A direction given by the Tribunal under paragraph (1)(b) has effect despite any other provision of this Act or a provision of any other Act.

 
 
 
 
 
 (3) The Tribunal may discharge or vary such a direction.
" 
 
 
 
 
 5 It is clear, beyond argument, that the Tribunal had the statutory power to dismiss Mr Singh's application, and to give the direction that it did.
When Mr Singh asserts that the Tribunal did not have "jurisdiction" to do either of these things, what he really means is that the Tribunal erred in law in exercising its undoubted powers.
