
 

 
 1 In this proceeding the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) seeks pecuniary penalties and other relief in respect of alleged price fixing and market sharing arrangements contrary to Pt IV of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
The respondents include three companies which are members of the Visy group and two individuals, Mr Richard Pratt and Mr Harry Debney, who are officers of that group (collectively, the Visy respondents).
The sixth respondent, Mr Rod Carroll, is a former officer of the group and is separately represented.
2 The ACCC alleges that these unlawful arrangements were made between Visy and companies in the Amcor group.
The genesis of this proceeding is an unrelated action which Amcor took in late 2004 against some of its former officers.
Amcor was granted an Anton Piller order.
On viewing some of the documents obtained on the resultant search Amcor and its solicitors took the view that they disclosed contraventions of Pt IV by Visy and Amcor.
Amcor reported the matter to the ACCC, which subsequently granted it and its officers an immunity.
3 The present proceeding was commenced on 21 December 2005.
The ACCC has filed an amended statement of claim but as yet no directions have been given for any pleading by the respondents.
4 Before the Court is a notice of motion filed on 9 February 2006 by the ACCC seeking an order against itself that it produce to the respondents the documents referred to in the amended statement of claim and that inspection of certain of those documents, identified in schedule A to the notice, be limited to counsel and solicitors for the respondents upon them executing undertakings as to confidentiality.
5 What provoked this motion was a notice to produce served on the ACCC by the Visy respondents under O 15 r 10 of the Federal Court Rules seeking production of all documents referred to in the amended statement of claim, without any restrictions as to confidentiality.
6 The real dispute on the motion is between Amcor, which was given leave to appear on this issue, and the respondents.
Amcor says that certain information contained in the documents is confidential and would be highly damaging to it if released to the Visy group which is its principal trade rival in the Australian market for the supply of corrugated fibre packing (CFP).
In a document which is an amendment to schedule A, Amcor identifies allegedly confidential information contained in 21 documents which it submits should be redacted (blanked out) from documents shown to the respondents.
Amcor says this information should only be shown to the respondents' counsel and solicitors.
7 To understand the issues that have arisen it is necessary to make brief reference to the amended statement of claim, a complex document extending to 134 pages.
