
 
 1 The appellant appeals from a judgment of the Federal Magistrates Court which dismissed his application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal.
The Tribunal had affirmed a decision of a delegate of the first respondent that the appellant was not entitled to a protection visa.
2 The Tribunal found that the appellant did not have a well-founded fear of persecution if returned to India in the reasonably foreseeable future.

 
 3 His Honour in the Court below correctly dismissed each of the appellant's submissions on the above issues.
The Tribunal's reasons did not lack logic but disclosed a reasoning process and were not internally inconsistent.
The Tribunal correctly assessed that the appellant was not a member of the social group constituted by members of the People's War Group.
In any event, that was a question of fact for it to determine.
4 The Tribunal's rejection of the letters was a matter going to the merits of its decision and did not involve any judicially reviewable error.
Further, the question of internal relocation did not arise on the basis of the reasoning of the Tribunal that the appellant was not at risk of persecution.
The Tribunal did not consider that the appellant was at risk of persecution from the People's War Group.
That was a question of fact for it to determine.
It found that the People's War Group would not consider the appellant to be a police informer, as he claimed it would.
5 The appellant's notice of appeal contends his Honour in the Court below erred in finding that the Tribunal's decision was not affected by a jurisdictional error.
He did not identify any such error in his oral submissions.
He failed to file any written submissions.
Having read the decision of the Tribunal, and the analysis of it in the Court below, I do not consider that the Tribunal made a jurisdictional error in its consideration of the appellant's claim for a protection visa.
6 The appeal is dismissed with costs.



 I certify that the preceding six (6) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Marshall.
Associate:


Dated: 23 August 2006



 The appellant represented himself.
Counsel for the Respondents: Mr E Heerey 
 
 Solicitor for the Respondents: Clayton Utz 
 
 Date of Hearing: 22 August 2006 
 
 Date of Judgment: 22 August 2006 



 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2006/1116.html 
 
 
