
 
1 I have before me a notice of motion brought by the first and second respondents seeking further security for costs in the amount of $200 000.
For the purposes of this application, I shall refer to the respondents to the substantive action as 'the respondents' notwithstanding that they are the applicants in this notice of motion.
Similarly, I shall refer to the applicants to the substantive action as 'the applicants'.
BACKGROUND 
 
2 In determining this application it is useful to outline background events which resulted in an application for abridgment of time for service of the notice of motion before me, and extensive written submissions in relation to this application following the hearing on Friday 24 November 2006.
3 This application for security for costs comes in the context of a dispute which has been the subject of multiple applications during the course of 2006 including adjournment of the original date of the trial ( Citrus Queensland Pty Ltd v Sunstate Orchards Pty Ltd [2006] FCA 920) , a recent unsuccessful application for security for costs brought by the respondents ( Citrus Queensland Pty Ltd v Sunstate Orchards Pty Ltd (No 3) [2006] FCA 1498) , and delays because of extensive objections to evidence (some of which have not yet been determined).
As a result of developments including extensive and complex argument concerning objections to evidence of witnesses of the applicants, the non-appearance of a key witness for the applicants and foreshadowed amendment to his evidence, and other unforeseen complications during the course of the two weeks of the trial (which re-commenced 13 November 2006 following the adjournment in July 2006), the hearing of the matter was not completed during the time allocated.
4 After I ordered the applicants to open their case on Wednesday 15 November 2006, the applicants requested that the Court adjourn for that day while they consulted their legal representatives.
The respondents consented to this adjournment.
However in Court on Thursday 16 November 2006, Mr Bell on behalf of the respondents indicated that if the hearing was adjourned to a future date prior to the applicants opening their case, his clients would be making another application for security for costs in the sum of $200 000.
Despite my reservations as to the applicants opening their case in light of the clear risk that the trial would not conclude at the end of two weeks, and problems faced by the lack of availability of Counsel after that time which would prevent the trial running beyond that time, both the applicants and the respondents indicated that they preferred the trial to commence.
Accordingly, I allowed Mr Perry on behalf of the applicants to make opening submissions on Thursday 16 November 2006.
5 By midway through last week it was clear that, despite lengthy hearing days commencing at 9.30 am and ending at times close to 6.00 pm and efforts by both Counsel and this Court, the trial would not conclude by Friday 24 November 2006.
Evidence in chief and cross-examination of the second applicant extended from Friday 17 November 2006 until Wednesday 22 November 2006.
Indeed by Friday 24 November 2006 although the applicants had closed their case, only three witnesses out of twelve had been called by the respondents.
Because of workload commitments of the Court and lack of availability of Counsel, the hearing of the substantive matter has now been adjourned until 8 May 2007.
6 At approximately 5.00 pm Wednesday 22 November 2006, Mr Bell on behalf of the respondents sought leave in Court to file and serve a notice of motion returnable at 2.15 pm on Friday 24 November 2006, by which the respondents sought further security for costs.
I granted leave for the notice of motion to be filed and served, but deferred until the following day a decision as to whether the notice would be returnable on Friday, to allow the applicants to consider their position in relation to an abridgment of time, and to formulate submissions.
