
 
 1 A Divisional Application for a patent by the first respondent, Imperial Chemical Industries PLC (ICI), has been accepted by a delegate of the second respondent, the Commissioner of Patents.
The applicant, E. I.
Du Pont de Nemours and Company (Du Pont), has filed a notice of opposition to ICI's application.
Du Pont contends that there are issue estoppels between ICI and Du Pont to the effect that the alleged invention as defined in all of the claims of the opposed application is not novel arising from: 
 
 (1) the reasons for judgment and orders of Branson J in Federal Court of Australia proceeding N1248 of 1999;
 (2) the reasons for judgment and orders of the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia (on appeal from Branson J) in proceeding N360 of 2002.


Du Pont seeks relief to give effect to those estoppels.

 2 ICI raises procedural and substantive issues in opposition to that claim for relief.
I do not need to deal with all of those issues as, in my opinion, the applicant's claim fails at the threshold--there is no identity between any issue decided by Branson J or the Full Court, on the one hand, and any issue which falls for determination in relation to this opposed Divisional Application, on the other.
It will be necessary to trace the various proceedings in a little detail in order to explain that conclusion.
3 On 12 March 2002 Branson J delivered reasons for judgment in two proceedings: N1248 of 1999, which related to Patent Application No 658005 and N1249 of 1999, which related to Patent Application No 654176.
Each was an 'appeal' against a decision of a delegate of the Commissioner of Patents.
Du Pont was the 'appellant' in each case and ICI was the respondent in each case, ICI being the applicant for each patent and Du Pont the unsuccessful opponent in each case.
Two 'appeals' were heard together and decided at the same time in the same set of reasons ( E I Dupont de Nemours  Co v Imperial Chemical Industries PLC (2002) 54 IPR 304; (2002) AIPC 97---788; [2002] FCA 230).

 Proceeding N1248 of 1999 --- Patent Application No 658005 
 
 4 The description of the invention in the complete specification commences: 
 
 'The present invention relates generally to working fluid compositions contained in heat transfer devices which comprise the lubricant and a heat transfer fluid.
' 
 
 
 5 Branson J dealt with the claims as follows (at [22]): 
 
 'All of the claims defining the invention are concerned with a "working fluid composition".
Claim 1 is the only independent claim .
It is expressed as follows: 
 
 "A working fluid composition comprising: 
 
 
 
 (A) a heat transfer fluid comprising a mixture of at least two hydrofluoroalkanes selected from the group consisting of difluoromethane, 1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane and pentafluoroethane; and 
 (B) a lubricant which is at least partially soluble in each component of the heat transfer fluid said lubricant comprising one or more compounds of general formula: 
 
 O 
 | | 
 R(O-C-R 1 ) n | | 
 
 wherein 
 
 R is the hydrocarbon radical remaining after removing the hydroxyl groups from pentaerythritol, dipentaerythritol, tripentaerythritol, trimethylol ethane, trimethylol propane or neopentyl glycol, or the hydroxyl containing hydrocarbon radical remaining after removing a proportion of the hydroxyl groups from pentaerythritol, dipentaerythritol, tripentaerythritol, trimethylol ethane, trimethylol propane or neopentyl glycol; 
 each R 1 is, independently, H, a straight chain (linear) aliphatic hydrocarbyl group, a branched aliphatic hydrocarbyl group, or an aliphatic hydrocarbyl group (linear or branched) containing a carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid ester substituent, provided that at least one R 1 group is a linear aliphatic hydrocarbyl group or a branched aliphatic hydrocarbyl group; and 
 
 n is an integer.
" ' 
 [emphasis added]
 
 
 6 It is also relevant to note claims 2, 3, 4 and 16, which were as follows: 
 
 '2.
A working fluid composition as claimed in claim 1 wherein the heat transfer fluid (A) is a binary mixture consisting substantially of 1,1,1,2-tetrafluoroethane and difluoromethane.

 3.
A working fluid composition as claimed in claim 1 wherein the heat transfer fluid (A) comprises a mixture of: 
 (1) 1,1,1,2-tetrapluoroethane 
 (2) difluoromethane; and 
 (3) pentafluoroethane.

 4.
A working fluid composition as claimed in any one of claims 1 to 3 wherein the linear and branched hydrocarbyl groups specified for R 1 are unsubstituted and the carboxylic acid or carboxylic acid ester containing hydrocarbyl group specified for R 1 contains no other substituents.

 ... 
 16.
A working fluid composition as claimed in claim 1 substantially as hereinbefore described with reference to any one of the examples.
' 
 
 
 7 Example 5 in the specification was as follows: 
 
 'In this Example a series of working fluid compositions were prepared comprising varying proportions of a lubricant comprising an ester of pentaerythritol and n-hexanoic acid and a heat transfer fluid comprising 50% by weight of R-134a, 30% by weight of R-32 and 20% by weight of R---125.
The lubricant is at least partially soluble in each of the components of the heat transfer fluid and also in the fluid itself.
The lower miscibility temperature of each composition was again determined.
The compositions were prepared and the lower miscibility temperatures determined using the procedure described in Example 1.

 The results are shown in Table 5.
In Table 5 it will be noticed that the lower miscibility temperature of some of the compositions is quoted as being less than -50deg.C.
This means that at -50deg.C phase separation was not observed.

 
 TABLE 5 
 
 Working fluid composition 
 
 % by weight of lubricant 
 % by weight of heat transfer fluid 
 Lower miscibility temperature (deg.C) 
 
 10.2 
 
 89.8 
 
 -50 
 
 22.0 
 
 78.0 
 
 -48 
 
 29.7 
 
 70.3 
 
 -50 
 
 41.6 
 
 58.4 
 
 -50 
 
 48.6 
 
 51.4 
 
 -50 
 
 60.7 
 
 39.3 
 
 -50 
 
 
 It will be appreciated that the binary mixtures of R-134a and R-32 and the ternary mixtures of R-134a, R-32 and R-125 which form the subject of the above Examples can also be used in combination with other neopentyl polyol ester type lubricants to yield viable working fluid compositions.
Moreover, binary mixtures of R-134a and R-32 and ternary mixtures of R-134a, R-32 and R-125 comprising different proportions of the constituent hydrofluoroalkanes to the mixtures exemplified above can also be used in combination with neopentyl polyol ester type lubricants to yield viable working fluid compositions.
' 
 
 
 8 It should be noted that refrigerants are classified according to a numbering system.
It is sufficient for present purposes to know that difluoromethane is known as R---32, 1,1,1,2---tetrafluoroethane is known as R---134(a) and pentafluoroethane is known as R---125.
9 Patent 54480/90, known as 'the Lubrizol Patent', was relied upon by Du Pont before the delegate as anticipating the patent under consideration.
Branson J adopted a summary of the specification of that Patent from the judgment of Emmett J in ICI Chemicals v Lubrizol Corporation (1999) 45 IPR 577, at [35]---[45] as follows: 
 
 'The specification states that the alleged invention relates to liquid compositions comprising a major amount of at least one fluorine containing hydrocarbon and a minor amount of at least one lubricant.
After describing the background of the alleged invention, referring to the ODP of CFCs, the patent states that HCFC-22 and HFC-134a are generally recommended as being alternatives to CFCs in refrigerant applications and that HFC-134a is particularly attractive because its ODP has been reported as being zero.
The specification refers to the need for any proposed replacement refrigerant to be compatible with the lubricant in the compressor and the fact that the proposed new alternative refrigerants have solubility characteristics different from the refrigerants presently in use.
The specification stated that the problem was particularly evident in automotive air conditioning since the compressors are not separately lubricated but a mixture of refrigerant and lubricant circulates throughout the entire system.

 The specification also states that, in order to perform as a satisfactory refrigeration liquid, the mixture of refrigerant and lubricant must be compatible and stable over a wide temperature range.
