
 
 1 The notice of motion filed by the applicants on 11 July 2006 in respect of file QUD 389/2005 seeks an adjournment of the hearing in that matter until after the publication of the decision of the Full Federal Court in the matter of Baird  Ors v State of Queensland (No 377 of 2005).
The hearing of QUD 389/2005 is currently scheduled to commence in Mt Isa on Monday 28 August 2006.
2 The respondent opposes the notice of motion.
3 As a general rule Courts are reluctant to vacate trial dates for a number of reasons, including that the parties are entitled to rely on trial dates which have been set, and that serious inconvenience to the parties, the Courts, and other litigants can arise because of the need to identify later trial dates.
However, the justice of the case is the paramount concern in considering this issue.
As was pointed out by Dawson, Gaudron and McHugh JJ in The State of Queensland v JL Holdings Pty Ltd [1997] HCA 1 ; (1996) 189 CLR 146 at 154: 
 
 'Case management is not an end in itself.
It is an important and useful aid for ensuring the prompt and efficient disposal of litigation.
But it ought always to be borne in mind, even in changing times, that the ultimate aim of a court is the attainment of justice and no principle of case management can be allowed to supplant that aim.
' 
 
 4 The applicants in this case have submitted that the case of Baird  Ors v State of Queensland (No 377 of 2005), which is currently on appeal to the Full Federal Court, is an application involving an almost identical application to the present except that it involved Aboriginal persons who had worked at the Hope Vale and Wujal Wujal reserves between 1975 and 1986.
The applicants also submit that a comparison of the applications and the statements of claim in the two cases clearly illustrates this.
5 In both Baird and this case before me, the primary proceedings involve an application pursuant to s 46PO of the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) for compensation for loss and damage suffered by the applicants as a result of the respondent breaching the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth).
6 Clear possible alternatives are that the hearing proceed, but judgment in this matter be reserved until the Baird appeal decision has been delivered, and/or the parties be given leave to make additional submissions after the hearing and in light of principles which may emerge from the Baird appeal.
As the respondent has submitted, many of the applicants and the witnesses are elderly, and postponing the hearing of the matter will potentially exacerbate an issue of availability of witnesses which has already arisen.
