
 
 1 The third respondent, the Cancer Research Institute Incorporated (CRI), was formed, under the Associations Incorporation Act 1987 (WA) for public charitable purposes and, in particular, for purposes related to cancer research and education.
It has evidently, by its former Board, reached a settlement with the applicant, the University of Western Australia (the University), although the validity of that settlement and the validity of the appointment of the members of the Board of CRI who were involved in its negotiation is in question.
The principal issue between the University and CRI in these proceedings has been the entitlement of the University to the ownership, via a constructive trust or otherwise, of shares in the second respondent, Sirtex Medical Ltd (Sirtex).
The shares, which evidently derive their value from the disputed technology, are the only substantial asset held CRI.
The asset is substantial.
One estimate of its value earlier in these proceedings was $11 million.
2 It is in the public interest that, if there be a resolution between the University and CRI, that asset not be dissipated in the litigation and that it be made available for the public purposes for which CRI was formed.
Since the settlement however, a new Board has evidently been appointed by resolution of a meeting of CRI.
It comprises the first respondent, Dr Gray, a member of the firm of legal practitioners representing him (Mr Sanders) and his sister, Ms Daebritz.
This has given rise to concerns about the extent to which the affairs of CRI may be conducted in the pursuit of interests other than those related to its objects.
3 Mr Bennett, on behalf of Dr Gray, maintains that there is no intention to pursue interests other than those of CRI.
His client however has a concern about the validity of the settlement agreement relied upon by the University which has filed a motion seeking its enforcement.
These concerns were discussed at the return of that motion on 3 October 2006 and at that time I raised the possibility that, because of the obvious governance difficulties affecting CRI, it might be necessary to consider the appointment of a receiver.
4 There has been debate today about how the matter should proceed.
Two alternatives are put before me: 
 
 1. by the University --- for the appointment of a receiver with extensive powers to, in effect, take over the functions of the Board of CRI whose members would cease to hold office and orders empowering the receiver to give effect to the agreement comprising the claims against CRI in these proceedings;
 2. by Mr Bennett on behalf of Mr Gray - for an order to tighten up the existing freezing order or to leave it in place in relation to the assets, so that CRI can have further discussions with legal advisers with a view to the possibility of convening a general meeting of members to determine what course should be taken.

 
 5 One course floated provisionally by Mr Bennett, was that the objects of CRI might be widened by resolution of the members in order to enable an agreement of the kind which has been made with the University to be put in place even if the original agreement itself were not to be ratified.
6 I have given anxious consideration to these proposals and the course which I propose to take represents something of a half-way house.
In essence, I propose, under s 57 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) (the Act), to appoint a receiver as a receiver of the shares in Sirtex which are held by CRI.
As receiver of those shares he will have the power to exercise all of CRI's rights as shareholder.
He will be entitled to investigate the enforceability of the agreement said to have been made with the University.
A meeting of CRI is to be convened by the receiver, who shall have all the powers of the Board and a member of CRI for that purpose in order to enable the meeting to consider and determine whether the agreement which has been made should be ratified or whether some alternative course should be taken in relation to the resolution of litigation.
I will authorise him to obtain independent legal advice in order to enable him to properly discharge his functions in that regard.
7 The receiver shall be entitled to reasonable remuneration and costs, and to an indemnity out of the assets of CRI in respect of those costs.
The freezing orders I made on 2 June and 7 July 2006 will be varied to the extent necessary to give effect to these orders and there will be liberty to apply to the Court for further directions by the receiver and by any other party.
This order is made under s 57 of the Act.

 
 
 I certify that the preceding seven (7) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable JusticeFrench.
Associate:
Dated: 5 October 2006


 Counsel for the Applicant: Mr M Green and Mr D Pratt 
 
 Solicitor for the Applicant: Jackson McDonald 
 
 Counsel for the First Respondent: Mr M Bennett 

 
 
 Solicitor for the First Respondent:

Counsel for the Second Respondent:

Solicitor for the Second Respondent:

Counsel for the Third Respondent: 

Solicitor for the Third Respondent: Lavan Legal


Mr J Elliot SC


Phillips Fox


Mr P Tottle


Tottle Partners 
 
 Date of Hearing: 3 and 5 October 2006 
 
 Date of Judgment: 5 October 2006 



 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2006/1350.html 
 
 
