
 
 1 I have before me an application whereby the applicant claims as follows: 
 A.
DETAILS OF THE CLAIM 
 

 
 1.
A declaration that claims 1, 2, 3 and 5 of Australian Innovation Patent No 200310063, ('the patent') has been infringed by the respondent.
2.
A permanent injunction restraining the respondent whether by itself, its directors, officers, servants, agents or otherwise howsoever during the term of the patent or any extension thereof from infringing the patent, including by the making, offering to make, selling, offering for sale, disposing of, offering to dispose of, importing, using or keeping for the purpose of doing any of those things, in relation to the product known as Super Bubble, or authorising the doing of any of those acts.
3.
Damages, or at the election of the applicant, an account of profits made by the respondent in respect of its infringements of the patent.
4.
All necessary accounts and inquiries, including so far as may be necessary, inquiries as to damages, and an order for payment of any sum found due on such count or inquiry by the respondent to the applicant.
5.
Delivery upon oath to the applicant by the respondent of all infringing articles in the possession, custody, power or control of the respondent.
6.
Delivery upon oath to the respondent of all documentation or any other material whatsoever (whether held in hard copy, electronic or any other form) in the possession, custody, power or control of the respondent depicting in any manner or advertising the Super Bubble product or any other infringing article.
7.
Pursuant to s 122(2) of the Act and rules of this court, an order for inspection of the alleged infringing articles upon such terms and directions as the Court sees fit.
8.
Pursuant to s 51A of the Federal Court Act 1976 upon such sum or sums as the respondent shall be adjudged to pay to the applicant at such time and at such rate as the Court may see appropriate.
9.
Such further or other orders, directions or relief as the Court may see appropriate.
10.
Costs.

 B.
CLAIM FOR INTERLOCUTORY RELIEF 
 

 
 1.
The applicant claims, until the trial of this proceeding, or further order, an interlocutory injunction restraining the respondent whether by itself, its directors, officers, servants, agents or otherwise howsoever during the term of the patent or any extension thereof from infringing the patent, including by the importing, making, offering to make, selling, offering for sale, disposing of, offering to dispose of, using, or keeping for the purpose of doing any of those things, in relation to the product known as Super Bubble or authorising the doing of any of those acts.
2.
Costs.
3.
Such further or other order, direction or relief as the Court may seem appropriate.

 
 2 When this matter came before me this morning at 10.15 am there was no appearance by or on behalf of the respondent, and no notice of appearance entered.
I understand that the registered office of the respondent is in Castle Hill in New South Wales, and its legal representatives, Champion Legal Pty Ltd, are in Sydney.
I asked the court officer to call the name of the respondent outside the Court this morning, however there was no response.
Mr Logan, counsel for the applicant, tendered three affidavits sworn by Mr Paul McCowan, a member of the legal firm, Gilshenan  Luton, which acts on behalf of the applicant.
To one of those affidavits, a copy of the letter dated 5 July 2006 from Gilshenan  Luton to The Company Secretary, Tanwing International Pty Ltd (ACN 106 121 868) was annexed, which stated that enclosed with the letter by way of service was an application and statement of claim by the applicant against the respondent in the Federal Court in respect of an alleged breach of patent.
Mr McCowan deposed that he had caused that letter, and, by way of service, the application and statement of claim, to be forwarded to the respondent at its registered office by prepaid post.
3 I note also acknowledgment of pending legal action in the Federal Court in correspondence from Champion Legal Pty Ltd to Gilshenan  Luton dated 11 August 2006; correspondence from Gilshenan  Luton to Champion Legal Pty Ltd dated 11 August 2006 referring to the listed hearing before the Federal Court on 21 August 2006; correspondence from Champion Legal Pty Ltd dated 14 August 2006 responding to the 11 August 2006 letter from Gilshenan  Luton, and a copy of an email from Mr McCowan of Gilshenan  Luton to Jason Sprag of Champion Legal Pty Ltd dated 14 August 2006 referring to matters in the lead up to the hearing today.
All these correspondences were annexed to an affidavit of Mr McCowan sworn and filed in Court today.
4 I am satisfied that the respondent was properly served with the application and the statement of claim, and was aware, at least through its current legal representatives, that the application for interlocutory relief would be heard today.
Accordingly, and in view of the nature of the applicant's claims and the evidence before the Court, I ordered that the hearing proceed in accordance with O 32 r 2(1)(d), Federal Court Rules .
5 I note however that it appears that the respondent has retained at least two firms of solicitors.
From documentation annexed to the affidavit of Mr McCowan, sworn and filed 28 June 2006, it appears that the respondent was represented by KW Fegebank  Associates, Solicitors and Attorneys, in relation to this matter in early April 2006.
However, as of early August 2006 it appears that the respondent was represented by Champion Legal Pty Ltd.
Although in my view this is not relevant to service, it is an issue which may be of relevance in relation to other matters.
I shall return to this issue later in the judgment.

 THE CLAIM 
 
 6 The claim of the applicant relates to Australian Innovation Patent No 2003100663, which is, and appears at all times material to this proceeding, to be a registered patent, of which the applicant is a registered proprietor.
The patent is in respect of an invention entitled 'Insulation Sheeting'.
The term of the patent is for eight years commencing on 30 April 2001.
The patent has been certified, a certificate of examination being issued by the Commissioner of Patents on 21 November 2003.
7 Five claims define the invention, and the applicant claims that the actions of the respondent infringe claims 1, 2 ,3 and 5.
8 Claim 1 of the patent provides: 
 
 
 1.
Insulation sheeting comprising a single layer cell structure interposed between two outer layers at least one of which comprises a reflection foil, the cell structure comprising a plurality of cells of generally cylindrical construction each of a diameter between about 15 and 25 mm and a depth of between about 6 to 10 mm, the exposed surface of said one layer being coloured for reduction of glare.

 
 
 9 Claim 2 of the of the patent provides: 
 
 
 2.
Insulation sheeting according to claim 1 wherein said reflective foil comprises high density polyethylene weave laminated aluminium foil.

 
 
 10 Claim 3 of the patent provides: 
 
 
 3.
Aircell insulation sheeting according to claim 1 or 2 wherein the diameter of each cell is about 20 mm and the depth of each cell is about 6.5 mm to 8 mm. 
 
 
 11 Claim 5 of the patent provides: 
 
 
 5.
Insulation sheeting substantially as herein described with reference to the accompanying drawings.

 
 
 12 The applicant is a registered company with its head office in Western Australia, and branch offices in each Australian state except New South Wales where products are marketed under licence to another company.
The applicant does not sell its products directly to the public, but sells through four core segments of resellers, namely shed companies, hardware stores, roofing material/plumbing retailers and insulation contractors (note the affidavit of Nicholas Joseph Martinovich filed 28 June 2006).
13 The applicant claims that around 13 March 2006, the respondent imported into Australia a quantity of an insulation product known as 'Super Bubble', which was subsequently installed in a building then under construction for the Manly City Council.
14 Further, the applicant claims that the respondent had sold quantities of Super Bubble to at least two entities which are clients of the applicant, namely Burmess Enterprises Pty Ltd (ACN 105 474 093) trading as Action Garages ('Action Garages') and Designer Sheds Pty Ltd. 15 The applicant also claims that the respondent has offered Super Bubble for sale by distribution of letters to a number of potential purchasers.
Letters apparently from the respondent to two separate entities, offering to sell Super Bubble, were annexed to the affidavit of Fernando Quiroga filed 18 August 2006.
The applicant's statement of claim details a number of entities contacted by the respondent as potential purchasers of the product.
