
 
 1 On 7 November 2005 seven warrants were issued under s 22 of the Australian Crime Commission Act 2002 (the ACC Act) authorising the entry into certain premises with which the applicants were associated, and the search for and seizure of certain items at those premises.
The warrants were executed on 18 November 2005.
In each case the things to be seized, as described in the warrants, were connected with a 'special investigation' by the first respondent.
2 The special investigation was established by: 
 
 
 (1) Originating Instrument entitled Australian Crime Commission Special Investigation Authorisation and Determination (Money Laundering and Tax Fraud) 2003 (the 2003 Determination); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2) Amending Instrument entitled Australian Crime Commission Special Investigation Authorisation and Determination (Money Laundering and Tax Fraud) Amendment No.1 of 2004 (the 2004 Amendment); and
 
 (3) Further Amending Instrument entitled Australian Crime Commission Special Investigation Authorisation and Determination (Money Laundering and Tax Fraud) Amendment No.1 of 2005 (the 2005 Amendment); and
 
 (4) Australian Crime Commission --- Operation and Investigations (Participants) Determination 2003 (the 2003 Amendment).

 
 
 

They are collectively called 'the Determinations'.

 3 The applicants challenge the validity of the warrants, principally because they challenge the validity of the Determinations in respect of which the warrants were issued.
Resolution of that challenge has not progressed as quickly as desirable.
It is not necessary to go into the reasons for that.
4 On 30 May 2006 I ordered that the respondents file and serve a list of documents which discovered: 
 
 a) The minutes of the Board of the Australian Crime Commission which, but only to the extent to which, they record: 
 
 
 i. the determinations of the Board made on 13 May 2003 including the 2003 Determination;
 ii.
any amendment to such determinations;
 iii.
any earlier consideration of the 2003 Determination; 
 
 
 including, to the extent to which the minutes record the times during which those determinations or proposed determinations were considered and made, that information.



 
 b) The determinations made on 13 May 2003 and any amendments to them.

 
 5 There appears to have been some ambiguity in that order.
I intended it to require disclosure of the minutes of the second respondent only to the extent to which they record the fact of the making and the time of the Determinations, and the time taken to consider the making of the Determinations.
To avoid any misunderstanding, I will vary that order to make that clear.
6 On 14 June 2006 I also directed the exchange of points of claim and points of defence to better define the issues between the parties.
7 The respondents have now applied to vary the discovery order made on 30 May 2006 firstly to confine it explicitly in the way which (as I have indicated) I intended it to be read, and secondly to restrict its operation to the Determinations and not to any other determinations.
