
 Merck  Co Inc was granted a patent in 1992 relating to a chemical compound and the process for producing it.
The patent has provided Merck with a monopoly for 20 years.
Merck says it has used the process to produce a drug which is used medicinally in the treatment of osteoporosis.
The income which has been generated by selling the drug is substantial.
Another large pharmaceutical company, Alphapharm Pty Ltd, now seeks revocation of the patent.
It is conceivable that Alphapharm is doing so to enable it to use the process to manufacture and sell its own drug, though, for the moment, that is a matter only for speculation.
One of the grounds for revocation relied on is inutility.
Simply put, that is an allegation that the process, as described in the patent, is not useful.
If the speculation just referred to is correct, Alphapharm's allegation of inutility is redolent with irony.
Alphapharm seeks discovery of documents from Merck concerning the use of the process unlimited by time.
Merck resists this claim for discovery.
It counters with a contention that the basis on which inutility is alleged by Alphapharm is, in whole or substantial part, untenable.
Those two issues are addressed in this judgment.
A notice of motion filed by Merck on 30 June 2006 is the vehicle for addressing these two issues.
Merck is the registered proprietor of Australian Letters Patent No 625704, the title of which is "Process for preparing 4-amino-1-hydroxybutylidene-1, 1-bisphosphonic acid or salts thereof".
The patent was granted on 1 December 1992.
On 29 November 2005, Alphapharm commenced proceedings for revocation of claims 1 to 29 of the patent.
By its notice of motion, Merck challenges the foundation of Alphapharm's revocation application insofar as it alleges inutility.
Merck contended that the allegation of inutility must fail having regard to Alphapharm's particulars.
The orders sought are: The particulars regarding inutility be struck out under O 11 r 16 of the Federal Court Rules ; or 
 
 
 
 In the alternative, the proceedings be dismissed in so far as they allege inutility pursuant to O 20 r 2 of the Rules; or 
 
 
 
 As a further alternative, summary judgment be entered for the respondent in respect of that part of the proceedings under s 31A(2) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth).
If these orders are not made, Merck nonetheless seeks an order limiting its obligation to give discovery in relation to the issue of utility.
It seeks that discovery be limited in two ways: That documents relating to experimental work using the processes claimed in the patent or steps taken therein and any testing or evaluation of the processes claim in the patent of steps therein conducted after the date of the grant are excluded; and 
 
 
 
 That documents relating to the process used by the respondent in manufacturing its commercial product, including documents relating to the adaptation of the processes claim in the patent from the laboratory to the manufacturing plant, are excluded.

 
 
 
 Summary disposal Under s 18(1)(c) of the Patents Act 1990 (Cth) ("the Act "), one of the criteria which must be satisfied for an invention to be a patentable invention is that it "is useful".
While inutility has long been a ground for a patent's revocation, it has only recently been added as a ground for objection to grant.
Alphapharm's pleading on this issue as particularised, is that "the alleged invention as claimed in each of claims 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 18 and dependent claim 13, 14, 15 and 29 is not a patentable invention within the meaning of s 18(1)(c) of the Act in that it is not useful.
" It is sufficient, for present purposes, to set out claims 1 to 3 of the patent: 
 "The claims defining the invention are as follows: 
 

 A process for the preparation of 4-amino-l-hydroxybutylidene-l,1bisphosphonic acid or salts thereof which comprises: reacting 4-aminobutyric acid with a mixture of phosphorous acid and PC1 3 in the presence of methanesulfonic acid; and recovering said 4-amino-l-hydroxybutylidene-l,l-bisphosphonic acid or salts thereof.
