
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 1 On 24 November 2003, the Malak Malak/Madngele People (the Malak Malak) applied under s 5 of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) (the ADJR Act) and s 39B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) to review the decision of the Northern Land Council (NLC) of 22 October 2003 to adopt the report and recommendations of the Committee of the NLC (the Committee) dated October 2003.
I will call the decision 'the NLC Decision', and the report and recommendations of the Committee 'the Committee Report'.
2 It is necessary to explain how the Committee Report and the NLC Decision came about.
3 A dispute had arisen between the Malak Malak and the Kamu people over who are the traditional Aboriginal owners, under the Aboriginal Land Rights Act (Northern Territory) 1976 (Cth) (the ALRA) of the eastern part of certain land vested in the Daly River (Malak Malak) Land Trust (the Land Trust).
4 The grant of the land to the Land Trust was made pursuant to s 12 of the ALRA by Deed of Grant on 21 February 1990, following an inquiry and report by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner Justice Toohey under the ALRA.
The inquiry was brought about by an application made on 31 March 1978 by the Malak Malak for a grant of certain land around Daly River under the ALRA.
The inquiry was conducted in October and November 1981 under the ALRA.
The report of the Aboriginal Land Commissioner was made on 12 March 1982 (the Toohey Report).
It found that the Malak Malak were the traditional owners of a large part of the land claimed and recommended that that part of the land claimed be granted to a land trust.
The Toohey Report also concluded that the Malak Malak had not established traditional ownership of that part of the claim area upstream of the Daly River Crossing that was historically Kamu land, but that the Kamu people as a group no longer existed.
5 Before the Deed of Grant was made, the Kamu made representations to the NLC.
They did so because the NLC is required by s 23 and 24 of the ALRA to determine who are the 'traditional Aboriginal owners' of land that has been the subject of a grant under the ALRA: see Tapgnuk v Northern Land Council (1996) 5 NTLR 109 ( Tapgnuk ).
They said their traditional ownership in the eastern part of the claim area had not been recognised.
They challenged the Commissioner's findings that the Malak Malak were the traditional owners of the land granted, and the findings that as a group of people the Kamu no longer existed.
6 The NLC's function under ss 23 and 24 of the ALRA is a significant one.
It accepts that, in performing its function, it must comply with the rules of procedural fairness.
It endeavoured to do so by adopting an adjudicative process (described below) including hearing evidence and submissions from the Malak Malak and from the Kamu.
7 The dispute between the Malak Malak and the Kamu could not be resolved informally.
The NLC therefore established the Committee to make findings and recommendations in relation to the traditional ownership of the disputed part of the land contained within the Land Trust.
8 In June 1992, the NLC referred the dispute to the Committee 'to inquire into the question of who according to the ALRA are the traditional Aboriginal owners of the disputed part of the land trust'.
The Committee was made up of eminent Aboriginal persons.
It heard submissions and visited certain sites in relation to the traditional ownership of the disputed area.
9 The Committee Report in significant respects differed from the conclusions in the Toohey Report.
