
 BACKGROUND 
 
1 Before me there are two notices of motion.
2 The first is a notice of motion filed 14 February 2006 by the respondents, seeking an order that the applicants give sufficient security as the Court thinks fit for the costs of the respondents up to and including the first day of the trial, including the costs of and incidental to the notice of motion.
The respondents have stated that, in view of the undertaking as to costs in the affidavit sworn by one of the applicants, Paul Robert Wellard, filed on 17 March 2006, they do not intend to pursue the application for security for costs.
However, the respondents do press for costs incurred in relation to the notice of motion.
I propose to deal with this issue at the end of this judgment.
3 The second is a notice of motion filed 10 March 2006 by the applicants to vacate the trial date pursuant to O 30 r 7 Federal Court Rules .
This matter is currently listed for trial between 3 April 2006 and 7 April 2006.
As the trial is currently scheduled to commence two weeks from today's date, a prompt decision in respect of this matter is clearly necessary.
Last Friday I caused the hearing of this matter to be adjourned to this afternoon, in order for me to deliver judgment.
4 The grounds supporting the notice of motion are essentially contained in the affidavit of Mr Farshad Amirbeaggi, a partner in the firm Yates Beaggi Lawyers which is currently acting on behalf of the applicants.
This affidavit was affirmed by Mr Amirbeaggi and filed with the Queensland District Registry of the Federal Court of Australia on 17 March 2006.
Mr Amirbeaggi refers therein to his earlier affidavit affirmed 3 March 2006, wherein he said that he received initial instructions from the applicants on or about 17 January 2006 to act on their behalf.
5 Correspondence from the previous solicitors for the applicants, Aubrey F Crawley  Co, (for the purposes of brevity I shall call them 'AFC') indicated that AFC was exercising a lien over their file relating to conduct of litigation on behalf of the applicants in this matter, for unpaid costs.
This correspondence is in the form of letters dated 1 February 2006 and 8 February 2006 from AFC to Mr Amirbeaggi, attached to Mr Amirbeaggi's affidavit of 10 March 2006.
In his affidavit of 17 March 2006, Mr Amirbeaggi affirmed that, on behalf of the applicants, since 13 March 2006 he has had access to the file of this matter in the possession of AFC.
Further, Mr Amirbeaggi affirmed in his 17 March 2006 affidavit that he had believed there were 28 lever arch folders of material relevant to this matter, in the possession of AFC, however he had more recently formed the view that there were in excess of 60 folders relevant to this matter to review.
Mr Amirbeaggi affirmed that he was not readily able, on initial review of the file, to distinguish material relevant to the proceedings currently before this Court from other proceedings in which the applicants were involved.
SUBMISSIONS OF THE PARTIES 
 
6 The essential case of the applicants is that, as a result of the change in solicitors and associated complications, they are not in a position to prosecute the matter on 3 April 2006.
Indeed, Mr Amirbeaggi' s 17 March 2006 affidavit indicates that it is unlikely the applicants, through their new solicitors, will be in a position to do so for several months.
7 Relying on the decision of the High Court of Australia in The State of Queensland v JL Holdings Pty Ltd [1997] HCA 1 ; (1996) 189 CLR 146, the applicants submit that there are three factors which the court should take into account in reaching a decision on the issue of vacating a trial date --- the impact on the court and the need to avoid disruptions in the court's lists with consequential inconvenience to the court, the prejudice to the applicants if the trial proceeds on the listed dates, and the prejudice to the respondents waiting to be heard if the trial date is vacated.
Counsel for the applicant also directed my attention to the High Court decision in Sali v SPC Ltd (1993) ALJR 841, and I note comments of Brennan, Deane and McHugh JJ in that case at 843-844 as follows:
 
 'In determining whether to grant an adjournment, the judge of a busy court is entitled to consider the effect of an adjournment on court resources and the competing claims by litigants in other cases awaiting hearing in the court as well as the interests of the parties.
' 

8 The applicants submit that there is the risk of a very real prejudice to them if they are required to proceed with the trial date.
This prejudice is that, in view of the short time period during which the applicant's current solicitors have been engaged, and the even shorter time period during which the firm has had access to the litigation file, their solicitors would be required to conduct the case with detrimentally limited familiarity, or alternatively the applicants would need to seek leave to discontinue the proceedings (pursuant to O 22 r 2 Federal Court Rules ) with associated cost implications and recommence at a later date.
The applicants also strongly dispute the proposition advanced by the respondents during argument before me that their case as pleaded in the Statement of Claim is defective, and have pointed out that no notice to strike out any part of the claim has been lodged by the respondents.
9 The respondents vigorously oppose this application.
