
 Outline of the context to the principal proceedings and to the Commissioner's application for summary judgment 
 
1 There is pending before the Court in its original jurisdiction four principal proceedings brought variously by the taxpayer applicants pursuant to Part IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) ('the Administration Act'), whereby there is sought to be set aside determinations by the respondent Commissioner of Taxation ('the Commissioner') of objections lodged by the taxpayer applicants against assessments to income tax for the years of income ended 30 June 1991, 1993 and 1994, being questions said by the taxpayer applicants as 'never previously... in issue'.
The taxpayer applicants are respectively identified in these reasons as 'IEF' (for IEL Finance Limited), 'QTH' (for Queensland Trading  Holding Company Limited) and 'Spassked' (for Spassked Pty Limited).
What was described by the taxpayer applicants as 'the underlying issue now in contest' was the deductibility of the interest expense incurred by Spassked under s 51(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (as amended) ('the Tax Act') in respect of the 1991, 1993 and 1994 fiscal years, being issues which they said 'could not previously have been decided'.
I have referred to QTH, IEF and Spassked in these reasons together as 'taxpayer applicants' to avoid confusion, given that the Commissioner is the applicant in the present interlocutory proceedings for summary judgment.
Each of QTH, IEF and Spassked was at all material times a wholly owned subsidiary of Industrial Equity Limited ('IEL'), a public company, and IEL in turn traced upwards corporately to the well known Adsteam, David Jones and Tooth  Co public companies.
2 The context to that so-called underlying issue was that between 1 December 1987 and 28 June 1990, Spassked borrowed funds from IEF at interest, and claimed that as a result of the interest incurred on those loans during the 1988 to 1994 years of income inclusively, it made losses for income tax purposes during those years of income.
The losses so claimed were progressively transferred by Spassked under s 80G of the Tax Act to other members of the IEL group up to and including the 1998 fiscal year.
The Commissioner issued assessments against Spassked and the transferees of the tax losses which disallowed the deductions for the interest originally claimed to have been incurred by it on those borrowings, and consequently reduced the amount of those losses to nil.
A critical factor, from the Commissioner's perspective, was that the Federal Court, both at first instance ( Spassked Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Taxation (2003) 197 ALR 553) and on appeal ((2003) [2003] FCAFC 282 ; 136 FCR 441), has already determined the unavailability of those losses or outgoings sustained or undertaken for income tax purposes in the context of Spassked's challenge related to the fiscal year ended 30 June 1992.
I will refer to those earlier proceedings at first instance and on appeal as the 'earlier concluded Spassked proceedings'.
The presiding judge at first instance was Lindgren J, and those presiding judges on the Full Court appeal were Hill, Gyles and Lander JJ.
The present proceedings were not commenced until after the conclusion of the appellate proceedings in favour of the Commissioner.
The taxpayer applicants described that taxation issue thus resolved at the instance of Spassked in relation to the 1992 fiscal year as having involved 'a similar but essentially different question' to those raised by the present proceedings, and not having given rise to an estoppel, and not involving an abuse of process, contrary to the Commissioner's contentions.
3 In the context of each of the present four principal proceedings, framed by the applicant taxpayers by reference to the fiscal years 1991, 1993, 1994 and 1996 (see [5] below), the Commissioner seeks by amended notice of motion filed on 25 July 2005 in the present proceedings the following relief in summary:
 
 (i) orders that each of the four present proceedings be summarily dismissed by reason of, or
 

(ii) orders that each of the proceedings be stayed generally in relation to, and
 
 
 (iii) in any event declarations that the applicant taxpayers are estopped from advancing or relying on, 


the facts and matters asserted and the contentions advanced in specified paragraphs of the taxpayer applicants' amended statements of facts, issues and contentions filed in the present proceedings pursuant to Order 52B of the Federal Court Rules .
Relief by way of the orders and declarations now sought by the Commissioner is purportedly based upon either one or both of Order 20 rule 2 and Order 29 of the Federal Court Rules , and/or the inherent jurisdiction of the Court.
As to Order 20 rule 2, the Commissioner indicated reliance solely on sub-rules 2(1)(b) and (c), upon the footing that the proceedings are an abuse of the processes of the Court or are otherwise frivolous or vexatious.
The Commissioner acknowledged that the present application for summary dismissal of the proceedings now brought by IEF, QTH and Spassked is not intended to preclude the taxpayer applicants from contesting the quantum of additional or penalty tax imposed by the disputed notices of assessment.
So much is said to involve very substantial issues for later determination.
4 The Commissioner's case for the summary relief sought against each of the taxpayer applicants was advanced on the footing of issue estoppel, Anshun estoppel and/or abuse of process, by reason of the outcome of the earlier concluded Spassked proceedings in this Court arising out of the disallowance of objections to the income tax assessment issued to Spassked in respect of the year of income ended 30 June 1992.
The Commissioner acknowledged that there has never existed any agreement to the effect that the outcome of those earlier concluded Spassked proceedings relating to the 1992 year of income would bind the taxpayer applicants to an outcome in favour of the Commissioner in relation for instance to the present appeals.
The taxpayer applicants deny the availability of any such summary relief.
They point to the circumstance that objections of the taxpayer applicants respectively involved in relation to those further fiscal years 1991, 1993, 1994 and 1996 had not been determined by the Commissioner at the time of conclusion of the Spassked 1992 fiscal year, and assert that 'the issue for determination in each year is essentially different'.
That assertion was based upon, or at least largely upon, what the taxpayer applicants assert to have been 'repeatedly held by the Privy Council', and upon 'factual differences between the 1992 fiscal year and those fiscal years presently in dispute, and moreover that 'save as to Spassked, the present applicants were not and could not have been party to the earlier proceedings', and therefore it cannot be said that the taxpayer applicants' claims should have been raised in the earlier proceedings if they were to be raised at all.
5 The issues arising for present determination were summarised by the taxpayer applicants' so-called 'Amended Statement of Facts, Issues and Contentions' filed in the proceeding, involving in each case challenges to the correctness of assessments of the Commissioner to primary tax:
 
 (i) as to proceedings NSD94 of 2005 whereof Spassked is the applicant, whether interest incurred by Spassked in the 1994 fiscal year was lawfully deductible by Spassked.
