
 
 1 This proceeding has had a chequered history, which it is not necessary for me to recount.
Originally, there were numerous respondents but the proceeding has been disposed of against all of them but the present respondent, Page Kirkland Management Pty Limited ('PKM').
The proceeding came before me originally in my capacity as List Judge, following the untimely death of Hill J.
2 The applicant, Leighton Contractors Pty Limited ('Leighton'), seeks orders for preliminary discovery by PKM, pursuant to Order 15A rule 6 of the Federal Court Rules .
Leighton seeks discovery in order to determine whether it has a right to obtain relief in the Court from PKM in connection with a contract made by Leighton on 26 August 2002 concerning the design, construction and completion of work at the Capitol Centre, 255-259 Pitt Street, Sydney, which includes the Sydney Hilton ('the Contract').
The other parties to the contract were Admiral I Pty Limited, Admiral II Pty Limited and Admiral III Pty Limited (together 'the Principal').
Under the Contract, Leighton was required to design, construct and complete the Works (as defined) and maintain a certain part of the Works.
The Principal was to pay Leighton the Contract Sum (as defined).
PKM was involved in the Contract as Superintendent.
ORDER 15A RULE 6 
 
3 Order 15A rule 6 provides as follows:
 
 ' Where 
 
 
 
 (a) there is reasonable cause to believe that the applicant has or may have the right to obtain relief in the Court from a person whose description has been ascertained; 
 (b) after making all reasonable inquiries, the applicant has not sufficient information to enable a decision to be made whether to commence a proceeding in the Court to obtain that relief; and 
 (c) there is reasonable cause to believe that that person has or is likely to have or has had or is likely to have had possession of any document relating to the question whether the applicant has the right to obtain the relief and that inspection of the document by the applicant would assist in making the decision 
 
 
 
 
 
 the Court may order that that person shall make discovery to the applicant of any document of the kind described in paragraph (c)' 
 
 
 

4 Thus, r 6 contemplates three prerequisites.
