
 
1 This is an appeal from the judgment of the Industrial Magistrate's Court ('the IM Court') on 28 April 2005.
By the orders the IM Court imposed a penalty of $6000 on the first appellant ('the Union'), $1500 on the second appellant ('Mr Powell') and $1000 on the third appellant ('Mr Molina').
The respondent to the appeal ('Mr Clarke') is an inspector appointed pursuant to s 84 of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) ('the Act') who brought the action against the appellants.
He claimed that they were in breach of the provisions of s 170MN of the Act in that they engaged in industrial action contrary to the terms and conditions of a certified agreement.
The Industrial Magistrate (Mr WG Tarr) held that the appellants did engage in industrial action for the purpose of supporting and advancing claims against the employer as claimed and therefore that they were in breach of s 170MN of the Act.
It was for that breach that he imposed the penalties, the subject of his orders.
2 On 8 August 2005 the Chief Justice determined, pursuant to s 25(5) of the Federal Court Act 1976 (Cth) that this appeal be heard by a single judge: see Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union v Clarke [2005] FCA 986 ; (2005) 144 FCR 226.
THE WORKPLACE SETTING 
 
3 The employer concerned in the relevant events was Barclay Mowlem Construction Ltd ('the Employer').
It was engaged relevantly in concrete, structural and bridge work on the Thornlie Railway Station and bridges.
THE CERTIFIED AGREEMENT 
 
4 For the purposes of that work the Employer entered into a certified agreement ('the Agreement') with the Union pursuant to s 170LL of the Act.
It was certified in accordance with s 170LT of the Act coming into operation on 26 May 2004 and remained in force until 1 July 2005.
5 The parties bound by the Agreement were the Employer, the 'employees of the [Employer] who are engaged on the Thornlie Rail Extension Structural Work Project ['the Project'], in the classifications detailed in section 3' of the Agreement ('the Employees') and the Union.
The Agreement was stated to have exclusive operation and to be in full and final settlement of all claims during the period of its operation.
6 Clause 4.5 of the Agreement dealt with 'Dispute Resolution Procedures.
It read:
 
 'Where any questions, disputes or difficulties arise, the provisions of this Section shall be applied in resolving the matters, [p]rovided always that work shall continue in the usual manner without loss of time or wages and without bans or limitations so as to allow the steps below to be followed: 
 
 4.5.1 Steps 
 
 Step One --- Notification to Supervisor by Employee 
 
 The employee concerned and if requested by the employee, the employee's elected job representative will raise the matter with the immediate supervisor for resolution.

 
 Step Two --- Notification to Superintendent 
 
 If not resolved, the employee and the employee's elected job representative shall raise the matter, with the next most senior Company representative (ie the superintendent).
If not resolved at this stage within reasonable time the matter shall then proceed to the next stage.

 
 Step Three --- Notification to Construction Manager 
 
 If not resolved, the employee and the employee's elected job representative concerned shall raise the matter with the Construction Manager.
If not resolved at this stage within a reasonable time, the matter shall then proceed to the next stage.

 
 Step Four --- Matters in Dispute to be recorded in writing 
 
 If the matter is still unresolved after step 3, then the facts of the matter in dispute shall be recorded in writing with a copy going to the employee, a copy to the elected job representative and a copy to the construction manager.

 
 Step Five --- Notification to Organiser of the Union and Company Employee Relations Representative 
 
 After the matter has been recorded in writing, then an organiser of the Union and the representative of the Company responsible for employee relations shall receive a copy of the matter in dispute and may meet to resolve the matter.

 
 Step Six --- Company Employee Relations manager and State Secretary Meet 
 
 If the matter is still not resolved the Company Employee Relations Manger and the Union State Secretary shall meet to attempt to resolve the matter.

 
 Step Seven --- Matter to be referred to the Australian Industrial Relations Commission 
 
 If still not resolved the matter may be referred to the Australian Industrial Relations Commission for assistance which may include the Commission exercising its conciliation and arbitration powers with respect to the interpretation and determination of any dispute arising [under] this Agreement.
The decision of the Australian Industrial Relations Commission shall he [sic] accepted by all Parties subject to legal rights of appeal.

 
 It is agreed that the matter may be referred to the Australian Industrial Commission at any stage of the procedure.

 
 Sensible Time Limits to be Allowed 
 
 Sensible time limits shall he [sic] allowed for each step and work shall continue as it was prior to the matter being raised.

 
 No Party will he [sic] prejudiced as to any final settlement by the continuance of work.

 
 Matters associated with employee performance and termination of employment shall be progressed in accordance with the Company's disciplinary procedures.
However these procedures do not prevent an employee from seeking any redress available under the Workplace Relations Act 1996 .

 
 The steps in this Section shall not apply to any bona fide safety concern which will be dealt with in accordance with subsection 6.1.
Procedure for Dealing with and Resolving Safety Issues.
' 

 7 Relevantly, provision was also made in cl 7.3 for 'Job Representatives'.
The clause reads:
 
 'The Company supports the continuing role for the job representative when requested by an employee in handling of questions, disputes or difficulties in accordance with subsection 4.5 Grievance Resolution Procedure.

 
 Any employee elected to the position of job representative shall be recognised as such by the Company and will have reasonable work time, when mutually convenient, to undertake matters related to employees of the Company, when so required by those employees, in accordance with the procedure outlined in subsection 4.5 of this Agreement.

 
 The Company shall ensure that the Job representative is provided with adequate resources to perform their representative role.
' 

8 There were three clauses of the Agreement which at the relevant time were the subject of dispute between the Employer and the Employees ('the Issues').
The first related to cl 2.10 which addressed the issue of redundancy.
This clause generally provided for the payment of $60 per week ($65 with effect from 1 December 2004) where the redundancy was occasioned otherwise than by the employee.
The Employees wanted the redundancy provision payable to those Employees who left of their own accord and they wanted redundancy contributions for all Employees to be paid into the Western Australian Construction Industry Redundancy Fund Ltd. 
 
9 The second cause of dissension was cl 6.5 which contained provisions applicable in respect of inclement weather.
The Employees wanted these varied to be the same as the inclement weather conditions provided for in cl 21 of the National Building and Construction Industry Award 1990.
10 The third clause which was the subject of contention was cl 3.7 which addressed the special project allowance.
Clause 3.7 provided for an allowance of $110 per week as follows:
 
 'Notwithstanding that the site allowance provided for by this Agreement covers all general disabilities and special circumstances arising from construction activities on site, an amount of $110.00 per week worked will be paid as a Special Project Allowance provided, however.
Pro rata entitlements will be calculated as detailed below.
' 
 

The clause goes on to provide:
 
 'For the purposes of pro-rata entitlements, the allowance applicable shall be calculated at the rate of $22.00 per day, Monday to Friday inclusive.
' 

11 In respect of the special project allowance, it was the Employees' position that they should be paid an extra $22 for their work on Saturday, which was a normal working day and the same amount if required to work on a Sunday.
THE UNION 
 
12 Also of relevance are the registered rules of the Union.
Rule 2(A)(A) deals with the Constitution of the Union and provides that it shall consist of an unlimited number of persons whether male or female:
 
 
 '(1) employed in, usually employed in or qualified to be and desirous of being employed in or seeking to be employed in or in connection with the industry or industries, and/or occupations, and/or calling, and/or vocations and/or industrial pursuits of 
 
 and/or 
 
 (2) who, otherwise than as employees or employers, follow an occupation in or in connection with the industry or industries of: 
 
 and/or 
 
 (3) who, otherwise than as employees or employers, are engaged in the industrial pursuit or pursuits of: ...' 
 
 

Then follow a list of particular vocations that fall within the ambit of the Union.
13 Subrule 2(A)(b) also provides:
 
 'Without limiting the generality of any other subrule or paragraph or being limited thereby the Union shall consist of an unlimited number of persons employed in or seeking to be employed in or in connexion with all or any of the industry and/or occupations and/or callings and/or vocations and/or industrial pursuits of the painting and decorating industry in connexion with buildings and structures, plant, machinery and equipment, fences and posts, (commercial, residential, industrial or otherwise), general and ship painting, including the following: ...' 
 

Then follow particular descriptions relevant to the general description.
14 Additionally, subrule 2(B) provides that without limiting the generality of what has been provided before or being limited thereby, the Union also consists of:
 
 
 '(1) workers (other than tradesperson), on any work in or in connection with or incidental to the erection, repair, renovation, maintenance, ornamentation, alteration, removal or demolition of any building.

 
 For the purpose of this sub-rule (B) building shall include a building-type structure for the purpose of housing persons, goods or workshop equipment (other than mechanical or electrical plant) on a Civil or Mechanical Engineering Site.

 
 (2) without limiting the generality of the foregoing, persons eligible for membership of the Union shall include any worker: ...' 
 
 

Then follow references to specific activities such as bricklaying and so on.
Similar expansion occurs in subrules (C)-(J).
The purpose of these clauses is to refer to specific activities of workers under the umbrella of the Union.
15 Rule 5 is a definitional rule for the purpose of the Union rules and includes the following:
 
 '"UNION" shall mean this Union and shall include all its Divisions, Branches, Divisional Branches and/or any other section or part of the Union.

 ... 
 "MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE" and/or "EXECUTIVE" shall be synonymous and shall mean the controlling and administrative body of the organ so referred to, ie Division or Branch or Divisional Branch.
' 

16 There are also rules for the Union's Construction and General Division and its Construction and General Divisional Branches.
Rule 49 provides that a member who has been elected to any position in a fulltime capacity shall be employed fulltime and be under the control of the Divisional Branch Management Committee between Divisional Branch Council meetings and shall carry out all instructions of the Divisional Branch Council or Divisional Branch Management Committee in accordance with the Rules.
17 Rule 57 provides that shop stewards/job delegates may be appointed by the Divisional Branch Management Committee or appointed by the members in such shop or job.
They receive proper credentials from the Divisional Branch Management Committee.
It is their duty to endeavour to enrol appropriate workers in their respective shops or jobs into the Union.
18 Rule 58 provides that should any shop or job steward (among others) be victimised or reasonably supposed to be victimised for carrying out any duties of the Union, the Divisional Branch Management Committee shall take all necessary steps to see that that person's interests are protected.
THE CHARGE 
 
19 The amended statement of claim which supported the charge of failure to comply with the Agreement and consequent contravention of s 170MN of the Act alleged as follows.
It stated that the Employees had gone on strike on three occasions, namely, 9-11 July 2004 (inclusive); 29 July 2004; and 19-20 August 2004 (inclusive).
It claimed that their conduct was 'industrial action' within the meaning of that expression in s 4 of the Act.
20 The charge alleged that the Union engaged in the industrial action because it was directly or indirectly a party to or concerned in that conduct by reason of the following conduct.
First, representatives or agents of the Union (including Messrs Powell and Molina) attended meetings of the Employees on 9 July 2004, 29 July 2004 and 19 August 2004 as a consequence of which meetings the Employees commenced the industrial action the subject of the charge.
Additionally, two representatives or agents of the Union had attended meetings on 13 July 2004, reporting back on the industrial action and on 13 August 2004, meeting with the Employees on the site of the Project.
The second category of conduct was that representatives or agents of the Union (being Messrs Powell and Molina) conveyed information and claims relating to the industrial action to representatives of the Employer.
This is said to have occurred on 9 July 2004, 26 July 2004, 29 July 2004 and 19 August 2004.
The third category of conduct was that on 9 July 2004 Mr Powell threatened that he would 'take the boys out' when speaking to the Project Manager for the work employed by the Employer.
It was claimed that the threat was intended to mean that the Employees would take industrial action by striking.
21 It was pleaded in the amended statement of claim that each of these categories of conduct breached the Agreement.
Further, it was pleaded that the conduct of the Union breached cl 4.5 of the Agreement in that it did not follow the dispute resolution procedure.
In relation to the industrial action on 29 July 2004, it was said that it was taken during the term of the Agreement and for the purpose of supporting and advancing claims against the Employer in respect of the Employees and had been engaged in by each of the appellants in contravention of s 170MN of the Act.
RELEVANT LEGISLATIVE AND REGULATORY PROVISIONS 
 
22 Section 4(8) of the Act provides:
 
 '(8) In this Act, a reference to engaging in conduct includes a reference to being, whether directly or indirectly, a party to or concerned in the conduct.
' 

23 Relevantly s 170MN provides:
 
 '(1) From the time when: 
 (a) a certified agreement; or 
 
 
 
 (b) an award under subsection 170MX(3) (which deals with the exercise of arbitration powers on termination of a bargaining period); 
 
 
 
 
 comes into operation until its nominal expiry date has passed, an employee, organisation or officer covered by subsection (2) must not, for the purpose of supporting or advancing claims against the employer in respect of the employment of employees whose employment is subject to the agreement or award, engage in industrial action.

 
 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), the following are covered by this subsection: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) any employee whose employment is subject to the agreement or award; 
 (b) an organisation of employees that is bound by the agreement or award; 
 (c) an officer or employee of such an organisation acting in that capacity.

 
 
 
 
 
 (3) If the employee, organisation or officer contravenes subsection (1), the action concerned is not protected action.

 
 (4) ...' 
 

24 Section 178(1) of the Act relevantly provides that where an organisation or person bound by (among other things) a certified agreement breaches a term of the agreement, a penalty may be imposed by the Court or a court of competent jurisdiction (which includes a Magistrates Court).
Maximum penalties are prescribed by s 178(4).
