
 
1 The sixteenth and twenty-second respondents (together 'Optus') have filed a motion seeking an order setting aside an amended notice to produce, dated 10 March 2006, served by the applicants.
The notice requires Optus to produce '[a]ny documents containing or recording the legal advice referred to in [the Project Alchemy Board Paper]'.
The notice to produce was issued in the course of the trial, which has thus far consumed some seventy-three hearing days.
2 The Project Alchemy Board Paper ('Alchemy Paper') was placed before the board of the twenty-second respondent ('SingTel Optus') at its meeting on 21 February 2002.
Prior to that meeting, Optus and the applicants had agreed, on two separate occasions, to vary the terms of the Optus Channel Supply Agreement ('OCSA'), which the parties had entered into on 30 June 1998.
Under the OCSA, the applicants had agreed to supply the sixteenth respondent ('Optus Vision'), a retail pay television provider, with sports programming.
The OCSA was expressed to be for a term expiring on 31 December 2008, subject to early termination in certain circumstances.
3 The variations to the OCSA agreed to between the parties included the insertion of cl 8A.
This clause, as further amended, provided for an 'exclusivity period' from 27 September 2001 to 28 February 2002, during which Optus was not to participate in discussions or negotiations on certain matters with any party other than the applicants.
4 The Alchemy Paper includes a section headed 'Legal Risks'.
Within this section, the following appears:
 
 ' By negotiating with Foxtel, C7 [one of the applicants] may allege that Optus has breached certain exclusivity provisions contained in the C7 variation agreements.
C7 might immediately terminate those arrangements (therefore leaving Optus without sport content for up to 6 weeks) and/or seek damages.

 
 In the interim a Fox sports deal has been agreed that will provide sports programming until such time as the larger deal is finalised.

 
 Optus has also offered C7 to take its content as a buy through.
Optus will defend vigorously any claims brought by C7.
Our legal advice is that the risk of damages being awarded against Optus is low.
' (Emphasis added.
) 


The applicants' notice to produce seeks production of any documents recording the legal advice referred to in the last sentence of this extract.
5 The applicants identify the following allegations in the Statement of Claim as relevant to the present motion: 
 
(a) Optus breached cl 8A of the OCSA by negotiating with Foxtel during the exclusivity period, among other things, for the supply to Optus Vision of certain sports channels;
 
(b) SingTel Optus induced Optus Vision to breach cl 8A; and
 
(c) Optus Vision engaged in misleading and deceptive conduct, in contravention of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth), by making false representations to the applicants concerning their dealings with Foxtel.
6 Optus discovered the Alchemy Paper to all parties in the proceedings on 19 March 2004.
Unmasked copies of the document in electronic form were provided to the other parties, including the applicants.
The motion has been addressed on the basis that Optus made no claim for privilege in respect of any part of the Alchemy Paper.
7 Optus subsequently discovered a document which apparently contains the legal advice referred to in the Alchemy Paper.
However, this document is subject to a claim for privilege.
8 At the time the Alchemy Paper was provided to the applicants, the Statement of Claim filed in the proceedings did not include any claim based on cl 8A of the OCSA or on any related misleading or deceptive conduct.
The applicants added these causes of action to the pleadings by amendments made in the second half of 2004.
9 The applicants contend that Optus has waived privilege in relation to the legal advice referred to in the Alchemy Paper, including any advice as to:
 
(a) whether cl 8A was binding on Optus or otherwise enforceable;
 
(b) whether any conduct would constitute a breach of cl 8A;
 
(c) the prospects of success of any proceedings brought by the applicants for breach of cl 8A; and
 
(d) the quantum of any damages which the applicants might recover from Optus in respect of a breach of cl 8A.
10 Optus accepts that its disclosure of the Alchemy Paper in unmasked form to the applicants waived any client legal privilege that otherwise would have existed in respect of the communication contained in the Alchemy Paper itself.
