
 
 Introduction 
 
1 On 14 December 2005, the applicant, the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority ('APRA'), filed an application in the Court seeking interim, interlocutory and final relief against the respondent, Siminton.
2 In its statement of claim dated 21 December 2005, APRA alleged that the respondent had, from about January 2004:
 
(a) carried on, or indicated an intention to carry on banking business in Australia in contravention of s 7 of the Banking Act 1959 (Cth) ('the Act');
 
(b) assumed or used restricted words or expressions ('bank' and 'banking' in relation to his financial services business in contravention of s 66(1) of the Act); 
 
(c) failed to hold money deposited with him by members of the public in a secure manner, and used that money for his own private purposes; and
 
(d) refused to return money to people who had deposited money with him despite receiving requests from the depositors to return that money.
3 APRA alleged that this conduct occurred, at least in part, by the operation by Siminton of a website under the name 'the Principality of Camside'.
The website of the Principality of Camside states that the Principality of Camside is the only legal government of Australia.
Siminton is described on the website as 'The Governor, State of Sherwood, HM Government of Camside'.
The website of the Principality of Camside includes a webpage relating to the Terra Nova Cache which is described as being 'Camside's new bank'.
4 An application for interim relief was heard ex parte by Sundberg J on 15 December 2005 and his Honour made a number of orders ('the Sundberg J orders').
The Sundberg J orders, inter alia, restrained Siminton from disposing of funds held by himself, the Principality of Camside or the Terra Nova Cache and required Siminton to take certain steps, which included the provision of information and documents.
The Sundberg J orders were expressed to be 'until further order'.
The application for interim relief was adjourned to 10 January 2006.
5 On 23 December 2005, APRA made a further ex parte application to the Court and orders were made by me restraining Siminton from departing from Australia and requiring him to deliver up any passport held by him.
6 On 10 January 2006, the application by APRA for interlocutory relief was heard inter partes by Gray J.
Gray J made orders which, inter alia, restrained Siminton until the trial of the action or further order from receiving money from members of the public by way of deposit in the Terra Nova Cache or the Principality of Camside and from dealing with or disposing of certain assets and moneys: see Australian Prudential Regulation Authority v Siminton [2006] FCA 140.
7 Siminton filed notices of motion seeking to discharge the orders made by Sundberg J, Gray J and myself.
I adjourned the motions to a date to be fixed.
8 By notices of motion and statements of charge filed on 29 December 2005 and 19 January 2006 ('the contempt motions'), APRA applied for orders that the respondent be punished for contempt in respect of nine alleged breaches of the Sundberg J orders.
Siminton applied to have the hearing of the contempt motions adjourned until after the hearing of the substantive proceeding against him or until after the conclusion of any criminal proceedings that might be commenced.
I refused Siminton's application and proceeded with the hearing of the contempt motions.
9 Siminton, through his counsel, pleaded not guilty to the contempt charges and put APRA to proof of the charges.
Contempt 
 
10 In Louis Vuitton Malletier SA v Design Elegance [2006] FCA 83 (at [6]), I set out the principles applicable to proceedings for contempt:
 
 'Deliberate conduct which is in breach of a court order will constitute wilful disobedience of the order, and therefore a civil contempt, unless the conduct be casual, accidental or unintentional: see Australian Meat Industry Employees' Union v Mudginberri Station Pty Ltd [1986] HCA 46 ; (1986) 161 CLR 98 at 106-107 (' Mudginberri ') and 112-113.
However, the disobedience will amount to a criminal contempt if it involves 'deliberate defiance or, as it is sometimes said, if it is contumacious': see Witham v Holloway [1995] HCA 3 ; (1995) 183 CLR 525 ('Witham') at 530.
' 

11 In Witham v Holloway [1995] HCA 3 ; (1995) 183 CLR 525 Brennan, Deane, Toohey and Gaudron JJ observed (at 534) that:
 
 'The differences upon which the distinction between civil and criminal contempt is based are, in significant respects, illusory.
They certainly do not justify the allocation of different standards of proof for civil and criminal contempt.
Rather, the illusory nature of those differences and the fact that the usual outcome of successful proceedings is punishment, no matter whether primarily for the vindication of judicial authority or primarily for the purpose of coercing obedience in the interest of the individual, make it clear as Deane J said in Hinch , that all proceedings for contempt "must realistically be seen as criminal in nature".
The consequence is that all charges of contempt must be proved beyond reasonable doubt.
' 

12 The evidence adduced by APRA and relied upon by it without objection was set out in the following affidavits (together with the exhibits referred to in those affidavits):
 
(a) David John Harley dated 22 December 2005 and 24 March 2006;
 
(b) Matthew Paul Wyllie dated 22 December 2005 and 23 December 2005;
 
(c) Kelly Louise Stephens dated 20 January 2006;
 
(d) Andrew Kok Loong Loh dated 20 January 2006;
 
(e) Yolanda Jodie Robinson dated 23 January 2006;
 
(f) Paul Charles Monsted dated 23 January 2006.
13 It is not seriously in dispute, and I am satisfied that:
 
 (a) a copy of the Sundberg J orders was personally served on Siminton on 16 December 2005;
 (b) the terms of the orders were clear and were capable of being complied with by Siminton;
 (c) Siminton had knowledge of the terms of the orders.


14 The main issue at the hearing in relation to the charges was whether APRA had established beyond reasonable doubt that Siminton engaged in deliberate conduct which was in breach of the Sundberg J orders.
The other issue was whether the Sundberg J orders were made without jurisdiction resulting in them being a nullity and not capable of founding a basis for the contempt motions.
The statements of charge 
 
15 In the statements of charge filed on 4 January 2006 and 19 January 2006 (respectively, 'the first statement of charge' and 'the second statement of charge') APRA alleged three kinds of breaches of the Sundberg J orders.
First, breaches of Sundberg J's orders that Siminton be restrained, inter alia, from dealing with or disposing of moneys standing to his credit and/or that of his nominee.
('the disposal allegations').
Second, breaches of Sundberg J's orders that Siminton file certain documents and an affidavit with the Court ('the failure to file allegations').
Third, a breach of Sundberg J's order that a certain notice be placed on the websites of the Principality of Camside and the Terra Nova Cache ('the website notice allegation').
Each of the categories of charges and the charges themselves are dealt with below in chronological order.
(a) The disposal allegations 
 
16 On 15 December 2005, Sundberg J made the following order:
 
 
 '... 
 2.
