
 Background circumstances 
 
1 This is an appeal against the decision of the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal ('the Tribunal') made on 27 January 2005, whereby the Tribunal affirmed the decision of the Trustee of the Commonwealth Superannuation Scheme ('the Trustee' and 'the Scheme' respectively) to deny to the appellant a spouse's superannuation benefit in consequence of the death of her late second husband Joseph Francis Vassallo ('the deceased') on 4 March 1995.
That decision confirmed an earlier decision of a delegate of the CSS Board of Trustees made on 16 October 1996.
It was not until 22 September 2003 that the appellant submitted to the Tribunal the form of Registration of Complaint that led to the decision of the Tribunal of 27 January 2005.
2 The appellant's marriage to her first husband had been dissolved some time before her marriage to the deceased.
There were two children of her first marriage.
The appellant married the deceased on 7 August 1977 and that second marriage was never dissolved prior to the death of the deceased.
There were no children of the appellant's second marriage, but the appellant's children of her first marriage were said to have become effectively the deceased's stepchildren, and initially they lived with the deceased and the appellant after the marriage of the deceased and the appellant in what became the matrimonial home of that second marriage, subject always to the pre-existing ownership thereof at law of the deceased.
That home continued to remain in the legal ownership of the deceased until his death on 4 March 1995.
3 It was as early as 1 August 1980 however that the appellant left the matrimonial home and commenced living apart from the deceased in a separate residence.
To adopt the findings of the Presiding Member of the Tribunal '[t]his situation continued up to the date of death nearly 15 years later', though however 'an ongoing relationship continued or recommenced...', as between the deceased and the appellant, more details to which I will later refer.
4 On 29 January 1987, being more than six years after the separation, the deceased made his last will and testament whereby he devised and bequeathed the whole of his estate to his mother, and in the event of his mother predeceasing him, to his nine nieces and nephews in equal shares, and whereby he appointed his sister as executrix.
No reference was made therein to the appellant.
That will and testament of the deceased remained unrevoked for over eight years until his death on 4 March 1995.
His mother did predecease him.
The appellant made application to the Supreme Court of New South Wales pursuant to State family provision legislation, being an application resolved by consent arrangements, pursuant to which she obtained on 29 September 1997 an award of $150,000.
5 Until the time of his death, the deceased was employed by the Department of Immigration and Ethnic Affairs, and in that context of employment he became and remained a member of the Scheme.
On 16 October 1996, the Trustee notified the appellant of its decision to reject her claim upon the Scheme for a spouse's benefit consequent upon the death of the deceased, upon the basis that the Trustee was not satisfied that a marital relationship existed or that the appellant was substantially dependant on the deceased at the time of his death, in either case in the statutory sense of those expressions shortly to appear from relevant legislation.
The Trustee subsequently reviewed its decision, doubtless at the instance of the appellant, but decided to reaffirm the same.
The governing legislation and the appellant's Tribunal proceedings 
 
6 The appellant sought the review of the Trustee's decision by the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal, pursuant to s 23 of the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 (Cth) ('the Complaints Act').
The Tribunal recorded that it had jurisdiction to address and resolve the complaint pursuant to s 19 of the Complaints Act.
The appellant's case in outline advanced to the Tribunal was that the Trustee's decision was unfair or unreasonable, for the reason that 'I was in a genuine spousal relationship with my husband at the date of his death ... [yet] was denied a benefit by the fund'.
As will shortly appear, the nature and extent of that relationship involved matters and events of some complexity.
7 The Scheme is regulated by a trust deed provided for by the Superannuation Act 1976 (Cth) ('the Superannuation Act ').
The provisions of the Superannuation Act contained at the material times ss 8A and 8B concerning the meaning of ' marital relationship ' and ' spouse who survives a deceased person '.
The resolution of the present application centres essentially upon the fulfilment of those particular statutory provisions, the full text whereof, so far as potentially or prospectively material, reading as follows:
 
 'Marital relationship 
 
 8A (1) For the purposes of this Act, a person had a marital relationship with another person at a particular time if the person ordinarily lived with that other person as that other person's husband or wife on a permanent and bona fide domestic basis at that time.

 
 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a person is to be regarded as ordinarily living with another person as that other person's husband or wife on a permanent and bona fide domestic basis at a particular time only if: 
 
 (a) the person had been living with that other person as that other person's husband or wife for a continuous period of at least 3 years up to that time; or 
 
 (b) the person had been living with that other person as that other person's husband or wife for a continuous period of less than 3 years up to that time and the Board, having regard to any relevant evidence, is of the opinion that the person ordinarily lived with that other person as that other person's husband or wife on a permanent and bona fide domestic basis at that time; 
 
 whether or not the person was legally married to that other person.

 
 (3) For the purposes of this Act, a marital relationship is taken to have begun at the beginning of the continuous period mentioned in paragraph (2)(a) or (b).

 
 (4) For the purposes of subsection (2), relevant evidence includes, but is not limited to, evidence establishing any of the following: 
 
 (a) the person was wholly or substantially dependent on that other person at the time; 
 
 (b) the persons were legally married to each other at the time... 
 
 
 Spouse who survives a deceased person 
 
 8B (1) In this section: 
 
 
 "deceased person" means a person who was, at the time of his or her death, an eligible employee or retirement pensioner.

 
 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a person is a spouse who survives a deceased person if: 
 
 (a) the person had a marital relationship with the deceased person at the time of the death of the deceased person ("the death"); and 
 
 ... 
 
 (3) In spite of subsection (2), a person is taken to be a spouse who survives a deceased person if: 
 
 (a) the person had previously had a marital relationship with the deceased person; and 
 
 (b) the person did not, at the time of the death, have a marital relationship with the deceased person but was legally married to the deceased person; and 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 (d) in [the Trustee's] opinion, the person was wholly or substantially dependent upon the deceased person at the time of the death.
' 


As has earlier been seen, the appellant ceased to reside permanently with the deceased shortly before the third anniversary of their marriage in 1980, whilst still maintaining a relationship with him which was the subject of extensive evidentiary exploration, and which remained that of husband and wife.
