
 
1 Mr David has a grievance with the Superannuation Complaints Tribunal.
The grievance stems from his concern that the Tribunal has not dealt with a complaint he lodged with it to the effect that the trustee of his superannuation fund has not credited his superannuation accounts with the correct figures.
2 Mr David filed an application under s 7(1) of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) in this Court.
His concern is that the Tribunal has not made a decision dealing with his complaint.
He claims to be aggrieved by the failure of the Tribunal to make a decision on the matters raised in his complaint.
Mr David named the chairperson of the Tribunal as the second respondent and MLC Nominees Pty Ltd as the third respondent.
MLC is the trustee of Mr David's superannuation fund.
3 Sundberg J transferred the application to the Federal Magistrates Court.
The application was heard by Federal Magistrate Phipps on 9 November 2005.
On 22 December 2005 his Honour published reasons of judgment dismissing the application.
The issue for determination in this proceeding is whether his Honour erred in holding that the Tribunal had not failed to make a decision, or delayed unreasonably in making a decision, in relation to Mr David's complaint.
4 The Federal Magistrate noted that Mr David lodged his complaint with the Tribunal on 8 February 2005.


5 Since 25 August 2005, the Tribunal has not been able to deal with the complaint due to the operation of s 20 of the Superannuation (Resolution of Complaints) Act 1993 (Cth).
6 Section 20(1) of that Act provides:
 
 "The Tribunal cannot deal with a complaint if a proceeding has been begun in a court about the subject matter of the complaint and the proceeding has not been finally disposed of.
" 
 

7 The Tribunal was in the course of investigating the complaint by seeking information from the trustee and seeking advice as to the extent of its powers in relation to the complaint when Mr David filed his proceeding, the subject of this appeal.
The filing of that proceeding ensured that the Tribunal could not take any further step to investigate the complaint.
It was Mr David's own action in bringing his application which has resulted in nothing further happening in relation to his complaint.
The filing of the instant appeal has further prolonged the delay.
8 The Court below correctly determined that the Tribunal had not failed to make a decision.
It also correctly determined that the Tribunal had not engaged in unreasonable delay.
The only delays which occurred between the lodging of the complaint and the filing of the application arose as a consequence of the time taken for the trustee to respond to the Tribunal's requests for information.
9 For the above reasons, I consider that the Federal Magistrate made no legal error in dismissing Mr David's application under s 7 of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth).
The evidence before his Honour did not establish that the Tribunal had failed to make a decision but rather that Mr David's own action stymied its efforts to do so.
The evidence before the Federal Magistrate also did not disclose any unreasonable delay by the Tribunal.
10 It is appropriate to dismiss the appeal insofar as it affects the first and second respondents.
The Court dismissed the appeal against the third respondent on 14 March 2006 when it upheld its notice of motion to strike out the appeal insofar as it affected MLC.
The Court made that order because it considered MLC to be an unnecessary party to the appeal.
11 On 14 March 2006 the Court ordered that Mr David pay MLC's costs.
No further costs order is necessary as the remaining respondents took no active part in the appeal.
12 The Court will order that the appeal is dismissed.
I certify that the preceding twelve (12) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Marshall.
Associate:

Dated: 7 April 2006


 The appellant appeared for himself.
There was no appearance by the 1 st or 2 nd Respondents 
 
 Date of Hearing: 7 April 2006 
 
 Date of Judgment: 7 April 2006 



 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2006/389.html 
 
 
