
 
1 This proceeding concerns an appeal against the rejection of a proof of debt by the administrator of Federation Health Limited ("Federation Health").
It was instituted in this Court in reliance on reg 5.6.54 of the Corporations Regulations 2001 (Cth) ("the Regulations ").
I will need to return to the applicability of this regulation.
FACTS AND ISSUES 
 
2 The plaintiff is a firm of accountants which performed accountancy services for Federation Health from 22 June 2004 until approximately 8 July 2004.
The invoice for this work has been partly paid by the administrator of Federation Health.
The disputed proof of debt relates to the unpaid balance of the invoice.
3 The relevant work was performed on behalf of the plaintiff by Glenn Anthony Crisp ("Crisp"), a partner, and Terrence Joseph Sandy ("Sandy"), a senior manager who worked directly under Crisp.
4 The initial engagement occurred at about midday on 22 June 2004 during the course of a telephone conversation between Sandy and David Dawson ("Dawson") of Federation Health.
Sandy and Dawson had previously worked together at another accountancy firm.
Dawson told Sandy that Federation Health was experiencing financial difficulties and its directors wanted representatives of the plaintiff to attend a board meeting in Moe that evening.
The focus of concern was the financial state of Yallourn Friendly Society ("YFS"), a subsidiary of Federation Health.
5 Sandy and Crisp left Melbourne almost immediately to attend the premises of Federation Health at Moe.
On arrival, they carried out a preliminary investigation of the financial position of YFS.
They both attended a meeting of the board of directors of Federation Health ("the Board") that evening.
6 At the meeting, Crisp advised the directors that, in his opinion, the best option for Federation Health would be to cease funding the operations of YFS.
Crisp declined an offer of appointment as administrator of YFS until the position of that company had been fully reviewed.
The directors asked Crisp and Sandy to prepare an urgent written report for the acting Chief Executive Officer of Federation Health ("the acting CEO") and the Board advising on what action they should take in relation to YFS.
7 On 28 June 2004, Sandy prepared a letter of engagement in consultation with Crisp ("the letter of engagement").
The letter of engagement stated:
 
 "Dear Sir 
 
 Re: Federation Health  Controlled Entities 
 
 We refer to the visit of Mr Glenn Crisp and Mr Terry Sandy to the abovenamed company on 22 June, 2004.
