
 
1 This is an appeal from a decision of a Deputy President of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal (the "AAT") in a matter arising under the Veterans Entitlements Act 1986 (Cth) (the "Act").
The applicant receives a pension pursuant to the Act.
The respondent accepts that he will be entitled to receive that pension at a special rate if, as required by s 24(1)(b) ,(c) and (d) of the Act:
 
 
 '(b) (he) is totally and permanently incapacitated, that is to say, (his) incapacity from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, is of such a nature as, of itself alone, to render (him) incapable of undertaking remunerative work for periods aggregating more than 8 hours per week; and 
 
 (c) (he) is, by reason of incapacity from that war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both, alone, prevented from continuing to undertake remunerative work that (he) was undertaking and is, by reason thereof, suffering a loss of salary or wages, or of earnings on (his) account, that (he) would not be suffering if (he) were free of that incapacity; and 
 
 (d) section 25 does not apply to(him).
' 
 
 

2 Sections 24A and 25 are also relevant.
They provide:
 
 ' 24A Continuation of rates of certain pensions 
 
 
 
 
 (1) Subject to subsection (2), if the Commonwealth is or becomes liable to pay a pension to a veteran at the rate applicable under section 23 or 24 , that rate continues, while a pension continues to be payable to the veteran, to apply to the veteran unless: 
 
 
 
 (a) the decision to apply that rate of pension to the veteran would not have been made but for a false statement or misrepresentation made by a person; 
 (b) in the case of a veteran to whom section 23 applies: 
 
 
 (i) the veteran is undertaking or is capable of undertaking remunerative work of a particular kind for 50% or more of the time (excluding overtime) ordinarily worked by persons engaged in work of that kind on a full time basis; or 
 (ii) in the case where subparagraph (i) is inapplicable to the work which the veteran is undertaking or is capable of undertaking --- the veteran is undertaking or is capable of undertaking that work for 20 or more hours per week; or 
 
 
 (c) in the case of a veteran to whom section 24 applies --- the veteran is undertaking or is capable of undertaking remunerative work for periods aggregating more than 8 hours per week.

 
 
 
 (2) Paragraphs (1)(b) and (c) do not apply to a veteran if the veteran is undertaking a rehabilitation program under the Veterans' Vocational Rehabilitation Scheme or section 115D applies to the veteran.
' 
 
 
 
 
 25 Temporary payment at special rate 
 
 (1) Where the Commission is satisfied that: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) a veteran is temporarily incapacitated from war-caused injury or war-caused disease, or both; and 
 
 (b) if the veteran were so incapacitated permanently, the veteran would be a veteran to whom section 24 applies; 
 
 
 
 
 
 the Commission shall determine the period during which, in its opinion, that incapacity is likely to continue and this section applies to the veteran in respect of that period.

 
 (2) Where this section applies to a veteran in respect of a period, the rate at which pension is payable to the veteran in respect of that period is the rate applicable under subsections 24(4) and (5).

 
 
 
 (3) The Commission may, under this section: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) determine a period that commenced before the date on which the determination is made; and 
 
 (b) determine a period in respect of a veteran that commenced or commences upon the expiration of a period previously determined by the Commission under subsection (1) in respect of the veteran.
' 
 
 
 
 

3 In other words, a veteran who satisfies the requirements of s 24 will be entitled to receive the pension at a special rate.
That entitlement will continue unless s 24A operates to terminate it.
Where a veteran would be entitled to the special rate pursuant to s 24 , save for the fact that his or her incapacity is not shown to be permanent, the special rate will be payable pursuant to s 25 for the period during which the incapacity is likely to continue.
4 The applicant was born on 7 May 1980 and joined the Australian Regular Army on 9 March 1999.
He completed two tours of duty in East Timor, the first from 20 September 1999 to 19 February 2000 and the second from October 2001 to April 2002.
