
 BACKGROUND 
 The Background Application 
 
1 This is an application for the issue of the constitutional writs of certiorari and prohibition together with an injunction, pursuant to section 39B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) and section 475A of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ("the Act ") concerning a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ("R R T") made on 9 June 2004 affirming a decision of the delegate of the Respondent not to grant the Applicant a Protection (Class XA) Visa.
Consistent with the decision of the High Court in SAAP v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2005] HCA 24 ; (2005) 215 ALR 162, I propose to make an order joining the R R T as the Second Respondent in the proceedings although for the purposes of these Reasons I will describe the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs as the Respondent.
2 The essential contention in this application is that the R R T fell into jurisdictional error by failing to conduct a review of the Respondent's decision and therefore failed to exercise the statutory jurisdiction since the Tribunal failed to properly consider whether the Applicant is a person to whom Australia has protection obligations pursuant to section 36(2) of the Act as a refugee consistent with Article 1A(2) of the 1951 Geneva Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees , 189 UNTS 150 and the 1967 New York Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees 606 UNTS 267 (and thus a person entitled to a protection visa pursuant to section 65 of the Act ).
The failure to properly consider whether the Applicant is such a person is said to arise because the Tribunal failed to consider all elements of the Convention definition of "refugee" for the purposes of the Act , applied an adverse finding on credibility to a determination of all relevant factual questions, improperly relied upon apparent inconsistencies between the evidence of the Applicant and a Mr (Pastor) George Ddungu, failed to provide the Applicant with adequate particulars of the evidence of Mr Ddungu the Tribunal considered would form part of the reason for affirming the decision of the Delegate of the Respondent, failed to properly consider evidence establishing a well-founded fear of persecution for a Convention reason (assuming findings on the question of credibility properly excluded particular evidence) and failed to have regard to relevant evidence which would have been decisive in the determination of the application in the Applicant's favour.
3 The findings of the R R T on the question of the credibility of the Applicant and whether reliance could be placed upon any evidence of the Applicant, was a central matter to the claim that the R R T had failed to properly exercise the statutory jurisdiction of review.
The Background Facts 
 
4 The background facts put to the R R T in a statutory declaration from the Applicant dated 1 July 2003 in support of the review, are these.
5 The Applicant is a Ugandan national from the Muganda tribe in central Uganda.
The Applicant was born on 25 December 1978.
Prior to departing Uganda for Australia in October 2002, the Applicant was the Assistant Pastor to the Christ Alive Church in Uganda and the full time coordinator of a project called Earthlife Uganda and a further project called the Progressive Farmers Club (a project designed to assist the poor to become involved in various income generating activities).
6 The Applicant's father was killed when the Applicant was quite young.
The Applicant's father had become involved in the activities of the Democratic Party opposed to the Government of President Milton Obote's Uganda People's Congress Party.
The Applicant also became a member of the Democratic Party.
Some years ago (approximately early 2000) a referendum occurred in Uganda to determine whether Uganda should adopt a party system called the "Movement System" proposed by President Museveni or whether Uganda should retain a multi-party pluralist electoral system.
The Applicant opposed the adoption of the Movement System and campaigned both generally and through the Church against that system.
As a result, the Applicant contends that he was harassed and beaten by "military men" who supported President Museveni and particularly a group described as the Kalangala Action Group led by Major Kakooza Mutaale.
7 Prior to the presidential elections on 12 March 2001, the Applicant became very politically active and outspoken against President Museveni in support of a presidential candidate, Mr Kizza Besigye.
Besigye contended that the government had become corrupt and characterised by cronyism.
Besigye lost the presidential election and fled Uganda.
The Applicant says he was actively involved in many rallies and campaigns which criticised President Museveni, travelled to numerous villages campaigning for Besigye and criticised President Museveni to the congregation attending the Applicant's Church.
8 Immediately prior to the election (about five days) military men detained the Applicant at his workplace and questioned him about his opposition and two days before the election Major Kakooza Mutaale came to the Applicant's Earthlife workplace with soldiers, accused the Applicant of campaigning against the Government through the Church, arrested him, tortured and beat him and threatened to kill him unless he stopped criticising President Museveni.
The Applicant was released about 10 hours later.
9 The day before the election, military soldiers came to the Applicant's workplace and instructed him to convince children and other young men and women to support President Museveni.
The Applicant refused.
During one rally, children and young men and women were taken by military men, beaten and subjected to physical injury.
10 After the 2001 election and President Museveni's success, Besigye supporters were frequently harassed, detained and often killed.
On several occasions, the Applicant was threatened.
On one occasion, the Applicant was detained for a day, interrogated about aspects of the activities of a group called the Allied Defence Force ("ADF") rebels fighting the Government and questioned about the Applicant's support for same sex relationships through various Church projects.
The Applicant says he was further detained because of his support for Besigye, intimidated and went into hiding for three weeks.
11 In early June 2002, a man named Mugerwa Charles came to the Applicant's orphanage in difficult personal circumstances and stayed for approximately two weeks.
His three children, Ssewankambo, Judith and Oliver Charles were already living at the orphanage due to the circumstances confronting their father.
Mugerwa Charles then left the orphanage to re-join his wife who had acquired a house.
Later that month, Mugerwa Charles was arrested by military officials and brutally tortured and killed by the group led by Major Kakooza Mutaale because Mugerwa Charles was perceived to be a strong supporter of Besigye and had attended anti-government rallies with the Applicant.
Mugerwa Charles may also have been an ADF rebel.
12 The Applicant conducted the funeral service for Mugerwa Charles.
After the funeral a group of five men in civilian clothes with guns came to the Applicant's office and said they wanted to take the three children of Mugerwa Charles.
The Applicant refused to deliver up the children.
The men said they would give the Applicant time to deliver up the children and would return.
They said that if the Applicant failed to deliver up the children he would be killed like Mugerwa Charles.
13 During 2001, another incident occurred which the Applicant recounted to the R R T "for the sake of completeness" (Documents Book, p.94, para 25), in these terms:
 
 "During 2001 I was involved in an outreach ministry in northern Uganda.
The LRA ("Lords Resistance Army") rebels captured me and my colleagues and told me that because I was a pastor they wanted me to give information to the President.
I thought that they would take us to the Sudan where their base is.
They released us, but they said that if we went back again they would get us.
Since my assistant was killed in December 2002 I have thought more about this and now I feel afraid that the LRA rebels might come to central Uganda and capture me.
" 
 
 

14 In early July 2002, the Applicant travelled to Nairobi, Kenya to apply to the Australian High Commission for a visa to travel to Australia to talk to various people about sustainable development projects the Applicant was coordinating in Uganda.
The visa was granted on 5 July 2002.
On 28 May 2002, the Applicant had obtained a visa to travel to Germany to attend a development workshop related to particular project work.
However, the Applicant elected not to travel to Germany but travelled to Australia arriving on 4 October 2002.
15 In December 2002, the Applicant received a telephone call from Mr George Ddungu, the Administration Manager of the Earthlife Uganda Project.
Mr Ddungu told the Applicant that the men who had previously sought the three children of Mugerwa Charles had returned.
On learning that the Applicant was not in Uganda, the men abducted the Applicant's assistant Ssenyonga Robert.
Ssenyonga Robert has not been heard of since.
These men (soldiers) told people in the Earthlife Uganda Project office that the Applicant had assisted a rebel (Mugerwa Charles) and must also be a rebel.
George Ddungu told the Applicant not to return to Uganda.
The Applicant made arrangements for the three children of Mugerwa Charles to be taken to Kenya.
16 The Applicant says that he knows he will be killed if he returns to Uganda.
If he had been at his workplace in December 2002, the Applicant believes he would have been taken and killed instead of Ssenyonga Robert.
The Applicant says he would be killed because he helped Mugerwa Charles who the government soldiers believed to be a rebel and an "armed thief".
The second reason why the Applicant believes he would be killed is his refusal to hand over the three children of Mugerwa Charles.
The Applicant believes that he is perceived by these soldiers and particularly the group led by Major Kakooza Mutaale, the Kalangala Action Group, to be a threat.
The Applicant says he believes these soldiers act with the approval of the government.
The Applicant further says that these men who he describes as the "President's men" do not like him because he has persistently campaigned against President Museveni, he is a member of the Muganda tribe (President Museveni discriminates against Muganda people in favour of his own tribe, the Banyonkole tribe) and he counsels and assists homosexual men and lesbian women through the Church.
17 In the application form for the protection visa, the Applicant was asked to answer the question, "What do you fear may happen to you if you go back to that country?
" [Uganda].
The Applicant wrote an extensive response to the question which appears at pages 57 to 63 of the document bundle dated 26 October 2004.
In that response, the Applicant recites elements of the factual material reflected in the written statement put to the R R T in the statutory declaration dated 1 July 2003.
On the issue of the events that occurred in the northern part of Uganda around the town of Gulu, the Applicant said this (page 61):
 
 "On top of that with my Church we have [been] doing outreach ministry not only to peaceful areas, but also to areas in the north ie --- Gulu as God has called us to proclaim Christ to all societies.
The Kony rebels abducted two of our youth evangelistic team and later returned the next day without any problems to them.
They were not hurt.
They said that when they come back they will need the leader of the team to be taken so that he can talk to the Government for them.
Failure to comply with what they say will mean death to the leader.
I am the leader of the crusades of our Church for the outreach ministries.
" 
 
 

18 In a submission to the R R T dated 29 January 2004, the Applicant identifies his claims for protection based upon a Convention ground of persecution in these terms:
 
 
 (a) by reason of the Applicant's political opinion which is actual or imputed, arising from his assistance to and protection of alleged rebel, Mugerwa Charles and his refusal to hand over the children of Mugerwa Charles to persons believed to be working for President Museveni; and
 (b) by reason of the Applicant's membership of a particular group arising from his assistance to and protection of alleged rebel Mugerwa Charles and his refusal to hand over the children of Mugerwa Charles to persons believed to be working for President Museveni.

 

19 The Applicant is thus unwilling to avail himself of the protection of his country of nationality owing to a well-founded fear that he would be persecuted for each of the reasons identified in [18].
PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE REFUGEE REVIEW TRIBUNAL 
 
20 The Applicant arrived in Australia on 4 October 2002.
21 The Applicant initially applied for a tourism visa on 11 December 2001 for the purpose of visiting a sponsor in Australia and to undertake a study tour relevant to projects undertaken by the Applicant in Uganda.
The application was rejected on 20 December on the ground that the stated intention of only visiting Australia was not genuine.
A further application was lodged on 3 July 2002 with supporting sponsor documentation.
At that time, the Applicant identified a number of reasons which strongly suggested an intention and need on the part of the Applicant to return to Uganda at the conclusion of the three month visiting program.
Those reasons included the observation that people served by the Applicant in the Progressive Farmers' Club project would need his continuing assistance, his mother was seriously handicapped and in need of support (and his sister and only sibling was living outside Uganda), he was committed to his project work associated with the Earthlife Uganda project, he had enduring obligations to take care of his family's farm and he was not tolerant of the cold winters in Australia.
22 In these applications, the Applicant did not foreshadow any apprehension about the matters of concern which were subsequently reflected in the protection visa application.
23 On 14 January 2003, the Applicant lodged an application for a protection visa with the Respondent.
On 4 February 2003, the Respondent's delegate refused the grant of a protection visa and on 6 March 2003 the Applicant applied for a review of that decision to the R R T. 
 
24 On 11 August 2003, the Applicant lodged the statutory declaration sworn 1 July 2003 reciting the background facts described at paragraphs [4] to [16].
On 22 December 2003, the R R T invited the Applicant to attend a hearing before the Tribunal to give oral evidence in support of the claims.
The hearing occurred on 19 February 2004.
Prior to the hearing, the Applicant lodged a document apparently signed (and so certified by a solicitor) by Pastor George Ddungu on 7 January 2004 under the heading Christ Alive Church , in these terms:
 
 "We requested Pastor [the Applicant] to remain in Australia for fear of his life at the beginning of last year.
He had travelled on our Church's responsibility to meet a few persons out there and on behalf of the Church's activities.

 
 We assisted a poor person who was a member of this Church and later he was killed in a safe house by the government soldiers.
They later came to our Church office asking to take the orphans which [the Applicant] resisted saying he was a voice of the oppressed and they said they would come back to fulfil their mission.

 
 As Pastor [the Applicant] was in Australia, the same men came back and they wanted to take him to the barracks but because he was not available they took our assistant Administrator Pastor James whom we do not know where he is up to now.
They claimed that the man we assisted was a rebel belonging to ADF rebel group who are based in southern Uganda.
They also claimed that he had guns and was linked to the above group.
Because of our association with him as a Church goer, they linked us to the above said group.

 
 Secondly, because of Pastor [the Applicant] political history, it steered them up.
We pray that you will continue rendering the necessary assistance as we are convinced that his return may cost his life.
So our Church is now under organisations listed as supporting rebels and security organs claim that we are rebels.
Generally speaking all pastors from this Church are being harassed.

 
 We also pray that the soldiers stop these acts of plunder and ... killing innocent people in this country.
" 
 
 

25 On 29 January 2004 the Applicant's advisers made a submission to the R R T addressing the basis for the Applicant's claims, the evidence, the statutory tests and various United States State Department Reports on Human Rights Practices surveys.
In the course of the hearing on 19 February 2004, the Applicant recounted aspects of the factual background described previously and gave further evidence described by the R R T in this way:
 
 "In November 2001 he [the Applicant] decided to go to the North with food and medicines for children.
While on the way, the convoy was intercepted by LRA rebels and the applicant claimed to have been captured.
He was asked where he was taking food.
He was asked to tell the Government to stop attacking the LRA.
He was ordered to speak to Government officials by phone to deliver this message.
Eventually, he and his driver were able to escape and eventually made their way back to Masaka.
Thereafter, he moved from place to place, at times pretending to be mad.

 
 The applicant claimed, that as a result of this experience, he had been branded a rebel and a supporter of the LRA.
He decided to leave the country, which he did with the assistance of George Ddungu.

 
 At the conclusion of the hearing, the applicant said that, now even the children in his projects wanted to kill him, because they say he was involved in rebel activities.
" 
 
 

26 On 21 February 2004 (apparently received on 24 February), the Applicant wrote to the R R T advising that there were some points that he thought were important that he had forgotten to mention because he had a headache during the course of the hearing.
A six page typewritten commentary was sent with a handwritten covering letter to the Tribunal.
As to the capture by the LRA rebels and the forced telephone call to Government officials, the Applicant provided the following additional detail:
 
 "The rebels seemed as if they wanted to free us soon after my forced telephone talk, because they said that if we came back to the north they would get us and that because I went for prayer, if anything happens to them they would kill me.
They said that they have their informers also in the central part where I come from.
They also said that they are also part of the Uganda People Defence Force (Army).
The Ugandan Army is spread all over and so that also increased my fear and also to see that their informers are everywhere.
After the telephone talk they wanted to take us to their base in southern Sudan to be trained and fight, but we managed to escape from them as they went to raid for food.
" 
 
 

27 The second topic dealt with in the written submission dated 21 February 2004 concerned a letter dated 20 July 2003 written by LRA rebels and a further letter dated 27 January 2004 written by the rebels, delivered to either the Church or one of the project offices where the Applicant previously worked.
George Ddungu recounted the content of the letters to the Applicant.
The Applicant described them in this way: "The rebels dropped a letter saying that they need my head with the help of their informers in Kampala and Masaka where I live they will be able to get me; they dropped a similar letter on 27 January 2004 [saying] that they had not forgotten me that they will still pursue me and cut my head off.
They also wrote in this letter that I escaped from them and so they want to teach me how to obedient to them a little bit more by cutting my head off.
" 
 
28 On the question of the dominating influence of the LRA rebels (and the capture of the Applicant by the rebels) in the Applicant's fear of persecution, the Applicant made these further observations:
 
 "Kony rebels targeted religious leaders and charity organisations (aid workers) to which as a pastor of Christ Alive [I] fully belong.

 
 I cannot get protection from the Government as they said [I] am a rebel because they failed to understand that [I] am not part of the LRA rebels regarding the forced telephone conversation, they have even continued to pursue me and even I do not know whether I will be settled again ...
I cannot relocate to anywhere because in the north the rebels need me, in the central the rebels have their informers and Government is also there ...
I thought of seeking asylum to Kenya, but I could not because it was very bad also, I could not even walk on the streets when I was there ... plus the Kenya Government sends back the asylum seekers to Uganda and they are killed.
I also wanted Mugerwa's children to be taken to a different country, but it did not happen, consequently their killing by the same Government soldiers that were pursing them and killed their Dad, this has been confirmed in the telephone talk by Pastor George.
" 
 
 

29 The third matter dealt with in the submission concerned aspects of the Presidential election in 2001 and particularly the conduct of supporters of President Museveni and as an illustration of continuing arbitrary arrest and killing in safe houses the Applicant stated: "In addition to Mugerwa Charles, Pastor James and the three children, I can name many more people killed in safe houses, because of being part of the reform agenda.
When Pastor James was taken they were still pursuing me and also at the time of the death of the children even until now.
Many of my friends and associates have either been killed or arbitrarily arrested because of their open support for the opposition.
I was also tortured, arbitrarily arrested and put into detention into an army barracks a few times.
" 
 
30 The Applicant returned to the issue of his capture by the LRA on page 5 of the submission and said, "The Government failed to understand when I went and got abducted by the LRA rebels in the north.
They have said that [I] am part of the rebels" .
31 On 26 February, the Tribunal made telephone contact with George Ddungu in Uganda to enquire about aspects of the circumstances confronting the Applicant in Uganda and the challenges confronting the Christ Alive Church.
The Tribunal member's note of that discussion with Mr Ddungu is contained at page 17 of the supplementary bundle of relevant documents dated 26 September 2005 and is in these terms: 
 
 "Note for file N03/47963 
 
 Conversation with Mr George Ddungu 
 
 The applicant had submitted two documents purporting to be faxes received from Mr. George Ddungu, his former supervisor in the Christ Alive church in Uganda.
He also had made several references --- both oral and in writing --- to telephone conversations with Mr Ddungu.
I therefore decided to telephone Mr Ddungu at the phone number on the documents submitted by the applicant.
The call was made in the evening of 26 February 2004.
The number I called was 256-75-690099.
I asked to speak to George Ddungu and the person who answered the phone identified himself as Mr. Ddungu.

 
 I explained who I was and said that I wanted to talk with him about the applicant's situation in Uganda and the situation of his church.
I took notes of the conversation as it occurred.

 
 The following is a summary of the main points of the conversation: 
 
 
 
 1.
The only problem the applicant has is because of his activities in the north of Uganda.

 
 
 
 
 
 2.
In 2001, the applicant travelled to the north of Uganda twice a month, because he was in charge of the church's northern programs and made monthly reports on them.

 
 
 
 
 
 3.
The children who died in Kenya died of a disease which was prevalent in the camp in which they were living.

 
 
 
 
 
 4.
The church has contacted the Uganda Human Rights Commission about its situation.

 
 
 
 
 
 5.
The church was tipped off by immigration authorities that the applicant should leave the country.

 
 
 
 
 
 6.
The church's programs in the north continue and the church is in contact with other churches, including the Catholic Church, regarding its programs.

 
 
 
 
 
 7.
The church's orphanages are in Masaka and in Kampala.
Most of the children are in Kampala.

 
 
 
 
 
 8.
The security people want the applicant to make a statement about the programs in the north.
But one cannot discriminate --- one cannot know if a child is the child of a rebel if it needs shelter or has HIV/aids.

 
 
 
 
 
 9.
Security people came to the Kampala office, but Mr. Ddungu told them that the church had written to the Human Rights Commission and had contacted a lawyer, so they went away.

 
 
 
 
 
 10.
He could not go to Kampala office and was in a temporary office the church had in Masaka.

 
 
 
 
 
 11.
The applicant could not survive in Uganda --- it was even necessary to bribe people at the airport because he was on a wanted list.

 
 
 
 27 February 2004" 
 
 

32 On 27 February 2004, the Tribunal wrote to the Applicant in order to provide certain information arising out of the discussion with Mr Ddungu for the purposes of section 424A of the Act .
The letter is in these terms:
 " Australian Government 
 Refugee Review Tribunal 
 
 [The Applicant]
 
 27 February 2004 
 
 Dear [the Applicant]
 
 Your Application for Review 
 
 The Tribunal has information that would, subject to any comments you make, be the reason, or part of the reason, for deciding that you are not entitled to a protection visa.

 
 The information is as follows: 
 
 The Tribunal Member spoke to George Ddungu on 26 February.
Mr Ddungu made the following statements: 
 
 
 
 1.
The only problem the applicant has is because of his activities in the north of Uganda.

 
 
 
 2.
In 2001, the applicant travelled to the north of Uganda twice a month.

 
 
 
 3.
The children who died in Kenya died of a disease which was prevalent in the camp in which they were living.

 
 4.
The church has contacted the Uganda Human Rights Commission about its situation.

 
 5.
The church was tipped off by immigration authorities that the applicant should leave the country.

 
 6.
The church's programs in the north continue and the church is in contact with other churches, including the Catholic Church, regarding its programs.

 
 
 
 This information is relevant because it contradicts much of what the applicant told the Tribunal Member at hearing.

 
 You are invited to comment on this information.
Your comments are to be in writing and in English.
They are to be received at the Tribunal by 23 March 2004.

 
 IF YOU DO NOT GIVE COMMENTS BY 23 MARCH 2004 THE TRIBUNAL MAY MAKE A DECISION ON THE REVIEW OF YOUR CASE WITHOUT FURTHER NOTICE .

 
 Yours sincerely 
 
 ..........................." 
 

33 On 11 March 2004, the Applicant responded to the letter of 27 February 2004.
In response to the six matters, the Applicant said this.
On 6 January 2001, the Applicant became chairman of the "Evangelistic Committee" of the Church which compelled the Applicant to travel to northern Uganda and particularly the districts of Gulu (in the north), Lira (in central to northern Uganda), Apach (northern district), Moyo and Kitgum (in the north).
People had fled particularly from Gulu and Lira to the Apach district due to the activity of LRA rebels.
The Applicant visited Gulu reserve camps characterised by high death rates of children from hunger.
The Applicant felt a pastoral obligation to be with children sleeping on the streets apparently in fear of being captured by LRA rebels.
The Applicant conducted, with others, Church services to help raise finance to make travel to northern Uganda and particularly Gulu possible to address the problems in the north.
The Applicant repeated that during travel to the north he "was abducted by LRA rebels and forced to talk to the Government officials on the phone" .
34 On the issue of the abduction and escape of the Applicant, the further following remarks were put to the Tribunal:
 
 "My main problem is as a result of my abduction by the LRA rebels and my forced telephone conversation to the Uganda government officials on the 21 st November 2001.
Which led to the government failure to understand that [I] am not an LRA rebel and thus their pursue of me as a rebel even until now.
At the same time our release by the main boy who was the main guard after he was overpowered by my colleague by saying 'Go' in his northern language (during which time the others had gone to raid for food) marked our release when the boys said 'go' and thus our escape from all the group.
Thus the LRA rebels need me because they said I prayed and cursed them and because I also escaped from them.
" 
 
 

35 The Applicant further described the letters of 20 July 2003 and 27 January 2004, claimed that George Ddungu could not talk to the Applicant on the telephone nor send faxes because of Government spies, discussed the conduct of Kony rebels, the perception of the Government that the Applicant is a rebel arising out of the forced telephone conversation, the difficulty presented by central LRA rebels and their informers and the difficulty of seeking asylum in Kenya because of the conditions prevailing in Kenya and the practice of the Kenyan Government of sending asylum seekers back to Uganda where such returnees are killed.
As to the three children of Mugerwa Charles, the Applicant said, "I also wanted Mugerwa's children to be taken to a different country, but it did not happen, consequently their death of which [I] am far beyond sure that they were killed by the same security personnel who were pursuing them and killed their Dad" .
36 The Applicant sums up his response to the reference by George Ddungu to the Applicant's "only problem" being his activities in the north of Uganda, as a reference to the Applicant's trip to Gulu, his abduction by LRA rebels, his forced telephone discussion with Government officials, the resultant perception on the part of the Government that the Applicant is an LRA rebel and the lack of protection that will be afforded to him by the Government of Uganda for that reason.
37 The Tribunal reviewed the applications of 11 December 2001 and 3 July 2002 for a tourism visa by the Applicant and the notes of interview between the Applicant and a staff member of the High Commission of Australia in Nairobi in July 2002 concerning the Applicant's proposed trip to Germany on the night of that interview.
On 12 March 2004, the Tribunal wrote to the Applicant putting particular information to the Applicant for the purposes of section 424A of the Act .
The letter is in these terms:
 " Australian Government 
 Refugee Review Tribunal 
 
 [The Applicant]
 
 12 March 2004 
 
 Dear [the Applicant]
 
 Your Application for Review 
 
 The Tribunal has information that would, subject to any comments you make, be the reason, or part of the reason, for deciding that you are not entitled to a protection visa.

 
 The information is as follows: 
 
 In the course of your hearing on 19 February and subsequently in written communications from your adviser, you claimed that you were abducted by the LRA on or about 21 November 2001 and obliged to make a compromising phone call to Government officials.
You told the Tribunal that, on return to Masaka, you went into hiding for three weeks.

 
 However, your visa application submitted by you in Nairobi on 11 December 2001 had attached to it supporting documents from the Bukoto Catholic Parish dated 26 November 2001, from the Butego Progressive Farmers Club dated 12 November 2001 and from the Progressive Institute of Business Studies Ltd dated 29 November 2001.
The last of these states that you were a student, pursuing a two-years course leading to a Diploma in Tourism and that you were 'hard working, co-operative and willing to learn'.

 
 You collected your passport with your visa for Australia in Nairobi on 5 July 2001 [this date ought to have been 5 July 2002] .
In an interview with the Australian High Commission, at that time, you said that you had to return to Uganda because you had a sick mother and that her only other child, your sister, was living in the United States.
You stated that you were going to a workshop in Germany that night.
You stated that your Australian sponsors had taken over your education when your father died.
Papers attached to your visa application indicated that the sponsorship started when you were twelve.

 
 This information is relevant because: 
 
 
 
 1.
The documents indicate that you may not have been where you claimed to be or doing what you claimed to have been doing in northern Uganda on the dates on which you claimed to be doing them.

 
 
 
 
 
 2.
You left Uganda and returned at least twice between December 2001 and your departure for Australia.

 
 
 
 
 
 3.
None of the documents submitted when you sought your visa for Australia nor your statements in interviews with the Australian High Commission made any reference to responsibility for church work in or visits to northern Uganda or involvement with an orphanage.
You appear to have been a full-time student of the Progressive Institute of Business Studies Ltd. 
 
 4.
Although you received your visa in July 2001 [this date ought to have been July 2002] , you returned to Uganda and did not leave for Australia until October, raising doubts about your claim to have at that time feared persecution.

 
 
 
 You are invited to comment on this information.
Your comments are to be in writing and in English.
They are to be received at the Tribunal by 6 April 2004.

 
 IF YOU DO NOT GIVE COMMENTS BY 6 APRIL 2004 THE TRIBUNAL MAY MAKE A DECISION ON THE REVIEW OF YOUR CASE WITHOUT FURTHER NOTICE.

 
 Yours sincerely 
 
 ....................................... 
 For District Registrar 
 
 ......" 
 
 

38 On 30 March 2004, the Applicant responded to the letter of 12 March.
On the question of whether the Applicant was genuinely in northern Uganda in November 2001 having regard to the apparent inconsistencies arising out of the documents described in the letter of 12 March 2004, the Applicant said this.
The Applicant was in northern Uganda in November 2001 and was abducted by LRA rebels on 21 November 2001.
The Applicant then went into hiding in a particular home.
The Applicant's assistant, Robert, collected the Australian visa forms from the Canadian Consular Office and the documents attached to the visa application including the support letters from the Progressive Farmers' Club project, the Butego project and the Bukoto Catholic Parish Church.
Robert also collected a support letter from the Progressive Institute of Business Studies.
All these documents were taken to the Applicant in hiding.
They were filled out by the Applicant.
Robert then sent them by registered mail to the Australian High Commission in Nairobi.
The Applicant denied that he had travelled away from his hiding place at all.
39 As to the failure to mention in the visa application any reference to responsibility on the part of the Applicant for Church work or Church visits to northern Uganda or involvement with an orphanage, the Applicant said this: "we decided that we do not mention much about my work and my employment commitments ie Earthlife, Christ Alive and my involvement in the north as this would lead into my mentioning my abduction by the LRA and my forced telephone conversation by the LRA to the Government officials that right now has put me in a state of conflicting loyalty about my continued living.
This alone would lead the Australian High Commission to know about my fear and thus learning that I was going to seek asylum in Australia hence their rejection of the visa" .
40 Unfortunately, the letter of 12 March 2004 from the R R T incorrectly makes a reference to the collection by the Applicant of a visa for Australia on 5 July 2001 rather than 5 July 2002.
This caused the Applicant to extensively respond to the impossibility of collecting a visa in July 2001 which was applied for in December 2001.
41 The Applicant rebuts the notion that he left Uganda in periods between December 2001 and his date of departure for Australia.
The Applicant returns to the matter of electing not to disclose to the Australian High Commission aspects of his involvement in Church work as that would necessarily involve disclosure of the contended abduction by LRA rebels in northern Uganda.
For the same reason, the Applicant did not mention any aspects of his role at the orphanage or the problems concerning Mugerwa Charles.
The Applicant asserts that he remained in hiding, was fearful for his life and anxious that he may not be able to leave Uganda for Australia.
The Applicant described his arrangements with his Australian sponsors.
In relation to his German hosts or sponsors (the subject of the proposed visit to Germany based on a visa of 2 June 2002 disclosed to the Australian High Commission as background to the application for the 5 July 2002 Australian visa), the Applicant said this: "About the workshop, that I had to attend at that night in Germany, after informing my hosts in Germany that I wanted also to seek asylum there when I go, they informed me that they were to meet me in Uganda instead and thus my not travelling to Germany that particular night" .
42 On 12 May 2004, the Tribunal wrote to the Applicant in the following terms:
 "Australian Government 
 Refugee Review Tribunal 
 
 [The Applicant]
 
 12 May 2004 
 
 Dear [the Applicant]
 
 Your Application for Review 
 
 The Member reviewing your case has asked me to advise you as follows: 
 
 I have carefully reviewed all the claims and evidence before me and find I have a number of difficulties with them.

 
 In relation to the points put to the applicant post-hearing, I accept that the applicant did not travel to Nairobi in mid-December 2001.
However, the letter from the Progressive Institute of Business is dated in the middle of the period in which the applicant claims to have been in hiding and almost three weeks after his claimed trip to northern Uganda.
Irrespective of who collected the letters submitted with his visa application, it does not appear from the documents submitted that he was absent either from his studies or from his work in this period.

 
 If one adds together the information supplied to the High Commission, which the applicant has not denied, the information supplied by the applicant in his primary and review applications and the information supplied by George Ddungu, which the applicant has also not denied, it would appear that, during 2001, the applicant travelled twice a month for his church to northern Uganda, started building a house, took care of a farm, took care of his blind and inform mother, was a valued employee of Earthlife Uganda and the Butego Progressive Farmers Association and was a conscientious student of tourism.
While I could accept that one person could do some of these things, I do not accept that one person could do them all.

 
 However, my principal concern regarding the applicant's claims lies in the inconsistencies in his own evidence over time and the conflict with what I was told by George Ddungu, his former colleague in Christ Alive Church.

 
 
 
 
 (a) In his primary application, the applicant claimed that the LRA had abducted two of his youth evangelistic team, but let them go later, saying that they would need the leader of the team, so he could talk to the Government for them.
Failure to comply would mean the death of the leader.

 
 (b) In his primary application, the applicant stated that he was asked during the 2001 Presidential election campaign to preach on behalf of President Museveni.
He stated that his answer was that he was a pastor who did not involve himself in politics.

 
 (c) In the statutory declaration of 1 July 2003 accompanying his review application, he claimed that he and colleagues were captured, but were released and told that they would be killed if they returned to the north.
There is no mention of colleagues being abducted.

 
 (d) In the same statutory declaration, he referred in detail to his involvement in the 2001 Presidential election campaign on behalf of Col. Besigye, the opposition candidate, to being detained, to going into hiding and to being beaten on a number of occasions --- to none of which he had referred in his primary application.

 
 (e) At hearing, he claimed that he escaped from the LRA, but only after being obliged to talk by telephone on the LRA's behalf to Government officials.

 
 These claims are not consistent.

 
 
 
 
 Moreover, George Ddungu made no reference to the applicant having been captured and stated that the Government interest in him was only because of the work of the Church in northern Uganda, for which the applicant was responsible.
This also contradicted the applicant's claims to have aroused the negative interest of security authorities because of his assistance to Mugerwa Charles and his children or because of his counselling of homosexuals.
Moreover, George Ddungu also stated that the Church's work in northern Uganda continued, in collaboration with other churches, which calls into question the claim that this work had caused Government authorities to harass the Church.
He also contradicted the applicant's claim that no complaint had been made to the Uganda Human Rights Commission.
Finally, he stated that the immigration authorities advice that the applicant should leave the country prompted his departure, contradicting the applicant's claim to have heard it at the airport on departure.

 
 His own inconsistencies weigh heavily against the credibility of the applicant's evidence.
George Ddungu, in his written evidence and in conversation with me, clearly wanted to support the applicant, even though his evidence was not entirely consistent with what the applicant had claimed.
However, I have some reservations about his own reliability, since I called him to the number shown on his correspondence for his Kampala office, whereas he told me he had moved to Masaka.

 
 Regarding the applicant's explanation as to why he did not go to Germany, the letter from the High Commission initially rejecting his visa application stated that the High Commission did not believe that his expressed intention only to visit Australia was genuine.
He then went to considerable lengths to satisfy the High Commission as to the genuineness of his intention to return to Uganda.
When he received his visa, he told the Australian High Commission that he was leaving for Germany that night.
His claim as to why he did not go to Germany means, therefore, that, later on that same day, he called Germany from Nairobi and told his hosts that he would apply in Germany for asylum.
In view of his experience with the Australian authorities, I find it inconceivable that he would do such a thing.
It is much more likely that the applicant obtained the German visa to bolster his claim for an Australian visa and that no trip to Germany was ever planned.
In view of all the above, I have great doubts about the credibility both of the applicant and of George Ddungu.

 
 You are invited to comment on this information.
Your comments are to be in writing and in English.
They are to be received at the Tribunal by 4 June 2004 .

 
 IF YOU DO NOT GIVE COMMENTS BY 4 JUNE 2004 THE TRIBUNAL MAY MAKE A DECISION ON THE REVIEW OF YOUR CASE WITHOUT FURTHER NOTICE .

 
 Yours sincerely 
 
 ......................................... 
 for District Registrar 
 
 ..." 
 
 

43 On 27 May 2004 (apparently received on 1 June 2004), the Applicant responded to this lengthy letter by making a submission set out at pages 48 to 55 of the Supplementary Bundle of Relevant Documents dated 26 September 2005.
The Tribunal extensively considered the submission, evaluated the responses contained within it and summarised its assessment of the response in this way ( Bundle of Relevant Documents , 26 October 2004, page 345): 
 
 
 "1.
The explanations given to the Australian High Commission were necessary as, if [the Australian High Commission] had found out about his intention to seek asylum, he would have been denied a visa; 
 
 2.
His work in family commitments were made possible because he had employees assisting him to build his house, run his farm and look after his mother; 
 
 3.
The youth workers were abducted but died later of Ebola disease.
However, these are not the reasons he was seeking protection, which was his 'fear to die due to my abduction by the LRA and my forced telephone conversation to the government officials by the LRA on the 21 st November 2001 and consequently the unending pursuit of me by both parties for which reason I am seeking protection'; 
 
 4.
Regarding the 2001 Presidential campaign, the Applicant repeated his claim to have campaigned for the opposition candidate, but did not address the fact that he had made no reference to this claim in his primary application; he repeated that the basis of his claim was as set out in para 3 immediately above; 
 
 5.
Regarding the inconsistency between his primary claim, involving the claimed capture of two colleagues by the LRA and the statutory declaration accompanying his review application, in which this is not mentioned, the Applicant misunderstood the question as referring to the owners of the vehicle in which he was travelling when captured and did not address the inconsistency; however, he stated that their capture was not the reason why he was seeking protection, but, rather it was the reasons referred to in para 3 above; 
 
 6.
Regarding his failure to mention earlier his involvement in the presidential campaign and the consequential beatings, detention and being forced into hiding, he stated that he was not aware of how much detail was required when he made his primary application; 
 
 7.
Regarding the question of whether he was released by or escaped from the LRA, he made a new claim --- that the owner of the vehicle overpowered a boy guarding them, who then said that they should go; 
 
 8.
Regarding my telephone conversation with George Ddungu, he said that the telephone system was being monitored and that George Ddungu could not tell me as much as I required and that he and George Ddungu used a code to talk about their activities; he claimed that George Ddungu was living in disguise and repeated the essential elements of his claims; 
 
 9.
The Applicant's reply did not address the inconsistency between the Applicant's claim to having been harassed because of his activities in the north of Uganda and the statements made to me by George Ddungu about the Church's ongoing work and contacts with other churches; he simply restated his claims as to certain events and restated his reason for seeking protection in terms similar to that set out in para 3 above; 
 
 10.
The Applicant accepted that the Church had approached the Uganda Human Rights Commission, but claimed that 'not much help' had been forthcoming; the reason for seeking protection was restated as above; 
 
 11.
The Applicant's reply addressed but did not explain the inconsistency between his evidence and that of George Ddungu regarding the timing of receipt of information regarding official intentions towards him; 
 
 12.
Regarding my doubts as to George Ddungu's credibility, because of his claim to have been in Masaka when I telephoned him in Kampala, the Applicant stated that 'George's location is his personal issue', claimed that he was in disguise for fear of being killed and that 'George's location is not the reason why I am seeking protection' which was as stated in para 3 above; 
 
 13.
Regarding the claimed intention to visit Germany, the Applicant re-asserted that this trip was planned and stated that he had had to tell his hosts of his plan to seek asylum because they were reading to him the program for his trip; he did not address my expressed scepticism that he would so such a thing on the day of his departure for Germany.
" 
 
 
 THE DECISION, FINDINGS AND REASONS FOR DECISION OF THE REFUGEE REVIEW TRIBUNAL 
 
44 The Tribunal reviewed the facts reflected at paras [4] to [16], the articulated basis for the claim for a well-founded fear of persecution identified at para [18], the chronology of events, documents and correspondence described at paras [21] to [43] and made the following findings.
The evidence put before the Tribunal reflected a number of inconsistencies.
Those inconsistencies apparent to the R R T were put to the Applicant in the letters of 12 March 2004 and 12 May 2004.
The responses contained in the submissions made by the Applicant on 30 March 2004 and 1 June 2004 failed to resolve, for the R R T, the apparent inconsistencies.
45 Some of the "difficulties" confronting the R R T arising out of the failure by the Applicant to properly address apparent inconsistencies were described as "peripheral" to the Applicant's central claims and although the R R T was not satisfied that its concerns about those matters had been addressed, the R R T nevertheless disregarded those concerns.
The matters peripheral to the central claims included such factual assertions as the volume of tasks the Applicant claimed to perform while travelling regularly to the north of the country.
The R R T also had reservations about the Applicant's claims of involvement in the 2001 presidential election campaign.
46 The R R T observed that in the response of 1 June 2004, the Applicant made it plain that his application for protection is based principally on a well-founded fear arising out of his encounter with the LRA and the consequences of that encounter.
The R R T expressed its assessment of the evidence of the Applicant and the credibility of the Applicant in these terms:
 
 "I do not accept his explanation for the fact that he made no mention of having been abducted by the LRA in his primary application [that is, the application for the protection visa].

 
 Such a critical event in his life, with all the consequences which he later claimed flowed from it, does not fall into the category of 'detail' which he claimed he was originally not aware that was required.

 
 Accordingly, I do not accept that the events surrounding his claimed abduction occurred.

 
 I do not accept that he was abducted or that he was obliged to telephone Government officials.

 
 It follows that I do not accept that, as a result, he was obliged to go into hiding on return to Kampala or Masaka or that he was harassed by Government officials as a result of his visit to the north and his contact with the LRA.

 
 The Applicant's explanation as to why he did not go to Germany lacks all credibility and further undermines the credibility of his claims in general.
" 
 
 

47 As to the relevance of the Applicant's engagement with the Australian High Commission, the R R T said this:
 
 "He had gone, on his own admission, to considerable lengths to hide his true intentions from the Australian authorities.
The letter from the High Commission initially rejecting his visa application stated that the High Commission did not believe that his expressed intention only to visit Australia was genuine.
He then went to considerable lengths to satisfy the High Commission as to the genuineness of his intention to return to Uganda.
He told the Australian High Commission that he was leaving for Germany that night.
His response to the Tribunal's letter asks the Tribunal to accept, therefore, that, on that same day, he called Germany from Nairobi and told his hosts that he would apply in Germany for asylum.

 
 In view of his experience with the Australian authorities, I find it inconceivable that he would do such a thing --- inevitably prompting the reaction that he claims he received.

 
 I find that the Applicant obtained the German visa to bolster his previously rejected claims for an Australian visa and that no trip to Germany was ever planned.
" 
 
 

48 Having made an assessment of the truthfulness of the Applicant's evidence, the R R T made the following findings:
 
 "Because of my general problems with the Applicant's credibility, I am unable to accept his claim to have supported Mugerwa Charles and to have refused to hand over his children, a claim further undermined by his attempt to implicate his alleged persecutors in the deaths of the children, which George Ddungu ascribed to disease.

 
 Similarly, I do not accept that he was being harassed by the authorities because he counselled gay and lesbian people.

 
 In short, I find the Applicant's evidence as to his own circumstances completely unreliable.

 
 I do not accept that the Applicant was captured by the LRA.

 
 I do not accept that he is sought by official or unofficial agents of the Ugandan Government or of the LRA or is in any other way under threat from them for any reason.

 
 I do not accept that he is under any threat from the people who were dependent on the projects he used to run.

 
 I do not accept that his mother has been attacked by people looking for him.

 
 I do not accept that he had to bribe his way out of Uganda or to obtain a passport or that he was advised at the airport (or at any other time) not to return.
" 
 
 

49 Thus, the R R T concluded that the Applicant had not demonstrated a well-founded fear of persecution for a Convention reason and that, on the evidence, the R R T was not satisfied that the Applicant is a person to whom Australia has protection obligations for the purposes of the Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees as amended by the Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees .
THE GROUNDS OF THE APPLICATION 
 
50 The grounds of the application are:
 
 "1.
The applicant was denied procedural fairness in that: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) on 26 February 2004, in the absence of the Applicant, the Tribunal heard evidence by telephone from one George Ddungu ("Mr Ddungu"); 
 
 (b) the Tribunal failed to address questions to Mr Ddungu on matters likely to be within his knowledge and relevant to the review; 
 
 (c) the Tribunal failed to give to the applicant any or any adequate record or transcript of the evidence of Mr Ddungu; 
 
 (d) the Tribunal failed to give to the Applicant any or any adequate particulars of the evidence of Mr Ddungu that the Tribunal considered would be the reason, or part of the reason, for affirming the Decision of the Delegate; 
 
 (e) the Tribunal failed to ensure, as far as reasonably practicable or at all, that the Applicant understood why the evidence of Mr Ddungu, or a part of the evidence, was relevant to the review.
" 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.
The Tribunal purported to make the Decision of the Tribunal without jurisdiction because: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) it made an adverse finding against the applicant founded on what it said was his explanation for the fact that he made no mention of having been abducted by the Lord's Resistance Army ("LRA") in his application for the Visa whereas the applicant did mention having been abducted by the LRA in the application; 
 
 (b) it made adverse findings against the applicant founded on the erroneous adverse finding referred to in subparagraph (a); 
 
 (c) in the premises, the Tribunal failed to review the Decision of the Delegate in accordance with section 414 of the Migration Act or at all.

 
 
 
 
 
 3.
There was no evidence, or any sufficient evidence, before the Tribunal to support findings that: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) the events surrounding the applicant's claim that he was abducted by the LRA did not occur; 
 
 
 
 
 (b) the applicant was not abducted by the LRA; 
 
 
 
 
 (c) the applicant was not obliged by the LRA to telephone Government officials; 
 
 (d) the applicant was not obliged to go into hiding on returning to Kampala or Masaka; 
 
 (e) the applicant was not harassed by Government officials as a result of his visit to the north of Uganda and his contact with the LRA; 
 
 (f) the applicant's explanation as to why he did not go to Germany lacks all credibility; 
 
 (g) the applicant obtained the German visa to "bolster" his previously rejected application for an Australian visa; 
 
 
 
 
 (h) the trip to Germany was never planned; 
 
 
 
 
 (i) the applicant did not support one Mugerwa Charles and did not refuse to hand over his children; 
 
 (j) the applicant was not harassed by the authorities because he counselled gay and lesbian people; 
 
 (k) the applicant's evidence as to his own circumstances is completely unreliable; 
 
 (l) the applicant is not sought by official or unofficial agents of the Uganda Government or the LRA and is not under threat from them for any reason; 
 
 (m) the applicant is not under threat from the people who were dependent on the projects he used to run; 
 
 (n) the applicant's mother has not been attacked by people looking for the applicant; 
 
 (o) the applicant did not have to bribe his way out of Uganda or to obtain a passport; 
 
 (p) the applicant was not advised at the airport (or at any other time) not to return to Uganda.

 
 
 
 
 
 4.
In the circumstances, the Decision of the Tribunal was illogical and unreasonable.
" 
 
 
 
 THE ADDITIONAL EVIDENCE 
 
51 On the hearing of the application, the Applicant sought leave to read two affidavits sworn by the Applicant on 13 May 2005 and 29 June 2005.
As to the affidavit of 29 June 2005, the Applicant exhibits 11 documents.
The first six exhibited documents already form part of the record being the letter from the R R T to the Applicant dated 27 February 2004, the Applicant's submission to the R R T dated 11 March 2004, the R R T's letter to the Applicant dated 12 March 2004, the Applicant's response dated 30 March 2004, the R R T's letter to the Applicant dated 12 May 2004 and the Applicant's reply dated 27 May 2004.
The remaining exhibits (7 to 11) supported by paras 8 to 21 of the affidavit address the recollections of and circumstances surrounding the discussion between the Tribunal member and George Ddungu.
Exhibit 8, for example, is an affidavit by George Ddungu deposing to George Ddungu's recollection of the telephone conversation on 26 February 2004.
Exhibit 10 is an unsworn typewritten affidavit by George Ddungu.
Exhibit 11 is a facsimile of a sworn version of exhibit 10.
Exhibit 9 is the handwritten notes of George Ddungu.
52 The Respondent objects to the admission of the affidavit on two grounds.
First, to the extent that the affidavit seeks to put before the Court the documents marked as exhibits 1 to 6, the documents are already before the Court and the affidavit adds nothing.
As to paras 8 to 21 and exhibits 7 to 11, the Respondent says the affidavit ought not to be admitted because the evidence is irrelevant.
The facts deposed to and documents exhibited do not go to any ground forming part of the application.
The application does not involve any allegation of bias, bad faith or improper purpose on the part of the Tribunal member in conducting the conversation, noting the conversation or relying upon the conversation.
The Applicant simply seeks to adduce evidence which demonstrates that minds might legitimately differ about the recollections of the content of the conversation notwithstanding that the Tribunal member's typewritten note of the discussion on 26 February 2004 was made contemporaneously on 27 February 2004.
53 In Waco v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCAFC 171 ; 131 FCR 511; Lee, Hill and Carr JJ found the Tribunal had failed to afford procedural fairness to the applicant for a Protection Visa by finding letters central to the applicant's claim (submitted after the conclusion of the hearing) were not genuine, without giving the applicant an opportunity to be heard on that issue.
On the question of the evidential burden, their Honours at [58] said: 
 
 "It will not be necessary for the party alleging unfairness to put before the court the evidence which he would have presented had there not been a miscarriage of justice.
It is sufficient in such a case that the party has not been afforded an opportunity to put his or her case.
Only where the case is one where it can be shown that the Appellant could not, even if given the opportunity to do so, affect the outcome would it be held that there was no denial of procedural fairness.
If the possibility exists that the Appellant, if given the opportunity might be able to make submissions or call evidence which could affect the outcome, the Appellant will not fail merely because the Appellant has not proved that the submissions or evidence would affect the outcome.
" 
 
 

54 Although it is not necessary for a party to put on evidence of the content of a possible response, evidence of that response or the possibility of a response that might have revealed evidence affecting the outcome may be admissible.
It is not admissible for the purpose of establishing a controversy of fact or merits as to whether the Tribunal member said something or failed to properly record or appreciate something said by George Ddungu.
In this case, the Tribunal put its concerns about a conversation with George Ddungu to the Applicant on 27 February 2004 and made reference to apparent inconsistencies arising out of the discussion with George Ddungu in the R R T's letter to the Applicant on 12 May 2004.
The Applicant had an opportunity to put information concerning a possible contradictory version of the conversation to the R R T from 27 February 2004.
Moreover, the affidavit is not relevant to a ground of challenge.
The particular ground of challenge going to the conversation with George Ddungu asserts a denial of procedural fairness arising out of a failure by the R R T to put all aspects of the conversation recorded by the Tribunal member to the Applicant.
55 The proposition is that had all elements of the conversation been put to the Applicant, the Applicant might have said something further in response.
The question is whether there was a failure to afford procedural fairness in not putting all the elements of the conversation as noted by the Tribunal, to the Applicant.
If the purpose of the affidavit is to contradict the Tribunal member's version of the conversation reflected in the typewritten note of 27 February 2004, no doubt the Respondent would seek to address the contention with evidence from the Tribunal member.
However, paragraphs 8 to 21 and exhibits 7 to 11 of the affidavit of the Applicant sworn 29 June 2005 will be admitted into evidence solely on the basis that the facts deposed to and the documents exhibited reflect things which might have been said or put to the R R T had points 7 to 11 of the conversation [31] in the note dated 27 February been put to the Applicant.
56 The affidavit of 13 May 2005, deals with attempts by the Applicant to obtain the Tribunal member's handwritten notes of the conversation with George Ddungu.
Perhaps it is thought the handwritten notes will be inconsistent with the typewritten note of 27 February 2004 [31] or that propositions put to the Applicant in the letter of 27 February 2004 [32] were not a fair representation of what was actually said by George Ddungu.
