
 PROPOSED EVIDENCE IN APPLICANTS' AND CROSS RESPONDENTS' WITNESS STATEMENTS 
 

 Introduction 
 
1 On 10 February 2006 the respondents and cross claimants in these proceedings filed a motion seeking to strike out parts of witness statements filed by the applicants and cross-respondents.
The motion is based upon various objections as to admissibility of the evidence which it is proposed to adduce from the witnesses in question.
2 The respondents and cross-claimants have prepared a convenient schedule of their objections, which also summarises the applicants' response to the objections.
In dealing with the objections I will briefly state my conclusions.
There is a large number of objections.
Rulings on objections 
 
 3 Statement of Bill Menim 
 
 Par 55 Objection upheld --- inadmissible opinion as to state of mind of persons other than witness.
Par 68 Objection upheld as to all words after 'Eurest'.
Par 70 Objection upheld
 
 Par 71 Objection upheld
 
 4 Statement of John Atmeyok 
 
 Par 22 Objection overruled as to first sentence.
Objection upheld on second sentence after 'I was not happy'.
Par 23 Objection upheld --- this is a statement about 'the purpose' of the contract.
It does not purport to go to reliance.
Par 24 Objection upheld as to all words after 'prepared a report'.
Par 25 Objection upheld 
 
 Par 27 Objection upheld
 
 5 Statement of William Boas 
 
 Par 28 Delete 'we', substitute 'I'.
May give evidence of things said which support the conclusionary statement.
Par 43 Objection upheld --- this is a statement about 'the intention' of an agreement.
Par 53 Objection overruled --- compendious reference to statements at meeting but requires elaboration to be given any weight.
Par 56 Objection overruled but statement requires elaboration to be given any weight.
6 Statement of Kuma Aua 
 
 Par 20 Objection overruled --- explanation of his understanding.
Par 33 Objection overruled --- this is explanatory of the witness's views as a director of OTML and secretary for the Department of Mining.
Par 35 Objection overruled --- statement of existence of documents which has been identified by reference to their content.
Par 37 Objection upheld --- as to statement of OTML's approach.
Statement re future role of business owners is admissible.
Par 38 Objection upheld as to last sentence.
Par 39 Objection upheld --- assumes admissibility of intention of MRSM and is otherwise argumentative.
Par 41 Objection upheld --- the position of the OTML Board is not a matter of inference for a witness, it is a matter of evidence either by way of resolution or some other indicator in evidence from which the Court may draw an inference.
7 Statement of Samson Buretam 
 
 Objection is taken to the tender of the entire statement of Mr Buretam as he has died since signing it.
His evidence may, subject to compliance with the requirements of s 67 of the Evidence Act 1995 (Cth) (the Act), be received under an exception to the hearsay rule.
I would therefore not uphold the objection to the statement on the basis simply that its maker is deceased.
The question whether the evidence should otherwise be excluded pursuant to the discretion conferred on the Court by s 135 of the Act is left open at this stage as it has not been the subject of any submissions.
I also leave open for further submissions the weight which should be given to any part of this statement which is not corroborated by other evidence.
Subject to those general observations I rule on objections taken to specific paragraphs in the statement as follows: 

Par 35 This is admissible as going to the state of mind of Mr Buretam.
Par 40 Admissible as to state of mind of witness but not otherwise.
Par 52 Admissible only as to recommendation of Ronald Kolalio.
The balance is inadmissible second order hearsay.
Par 53 Inadmissible.
Apparently second order hearsay.
Par 81 First and last sentences are inadmissible as conclusionary.
Par 83 Evidence inadmissible as conclusionary.
8 Statement of Burt Uglinga 
 
 Par 14 The second sentence is admissible as evidence of the fact of the preparation of the report but not as evidence of overcharging.
The third sentence is admissible as evidence of Mr Uglinga's state of mind linking to subsequent action.
Pars 18 and 19 Admissible as evidence of historical background to subsequent events.
Pars 32 and 33 Inadmissible --- no apparent relevance.
Par 45 Admissible as relevant to subsequent action taken by witness as OTML Executive Manager.
Par 49 Admissible --- goes to state of mind of witness --- no prejudice.
Par 53 Last sentence --- inadmissible comment.
Par 54 Admissible as explaining subsequent action and not as proof of truth of comments.
Par 58 Inadmissible as conclusionary.
Par 60 Admissible --- evidence of instruction to Terupo Apoki.
Admissible only to show instruction given.
Par 61 First sentence admissible as to state of mind of witness.
Second sentence admissible as to commercial reality perceived by witness.
Par 68 Admissible on basis of witness's experience as to OTML Executive Manager.
Par 72 Admissible as evidence of the state of mind of the OTML Executive Officer.
Par 74 Admissible as evidence of the state of mind of the OTML Executive Officer.
9 Statement of Melvin Yalapan 
 
 Par 30 First sentence admissible to prove that statement made but not as to proof of statement.
Par 36 Statement of belief admissible to prove state of mind of witness.
Par 39 Inadmissible comment.
Par 40 The words 'and the Board' inadmissible as hearsay and otherwise opinion of the state of mind of other members of the Board.
Par 41 Admissible only as to witness's state of mind.
Par 70 Admissible, albeit would require elaboration to be given any weight.
Par 75 Inadmissible as expression of opinion only.
Par 76 The words 'on the part of the Board of MRSM' are inadmissible as opinion and/or hearsay.
Par 82 The statement of a breakdown in the relationship of trust and confidence is admissible as reflecting the state of mind of the witness.
The words 'there has remained a lack of transparency and ...' are inadmissible.
Par 83 Inadmissible comment.
Par 86 Last sentence inadmissible comment.
10 Statement of Madiu Andrew 
 
 Par 51 Admissible as explaining sequence of events and state of mind of witness not as to truth of report.
Par 52 Inadmissible as hearsay.
Par 84 Inadmissible in form.
Par 85 Admissible subject to production of document.
11 Statement of Michael Baitia 
 
 Par 22 Second sentence inadmissible.
Par 49 Inadmissible.
Requires statement of content rather than characterisation thereof.
Par 91 Last three lines inadmissible.
Par 92 Second sentence inadmissible.
Par 94 Second sentence only inadmissible.
Par 99 Relevant to explain action taken by witness (see par 100) but otherwise not evidence of the existence of problems.
Par 101 Admissible on the same basis.
Par 102 Inadmissible comment.
12 Statement of Lee Yekim 
 
 Par 35 Admissible as to witness's state of mind.
Par 36 The words 'because of the problems' are inadmissible.
Par 39 Second sentence inadmissible hearsay.
Par 40 Admissible if letter produced.
13 Statement of David Kaiankim 
 
 Par 30 The words 'which dealt with problems in relation to the management of the contract by Eurest' are inadmissible.
14 Statement of Tony Itulam 
 
 Par 18 Admissible under s 63 as to the first sentence.
Second sentence comment inadmissible.
Par 20 Inadmissible as to form.
15 Statement of Jerry Musolok 
 
 Par 11 Second sentence inadmissible hearsay.
Par 12 Inadmissible --- no relevant representation- apparent statement of opinion by witness.
Par 13 Inadmissible hearsay.
Par 16 Inadmissible in the form in which it is put.
16 Statement of William Fenwick made on 1 September 2005.

 
 Par 41 Evidence about content of document inadmissible unless supported by production of document.
Par 43 Admissible if document is produced.
Par 57 Admissible as linked to par 56 and reflecting state of mind of witness.
Par 77 Inadmissible after the words 'Michael Baitia'.
Par 113 Inadmissible unless document produced.
Otherwise admissible to explain next action of witness.
Par 128 Inadmissible to the extent that it refers to the concerns of another.
Admissible in first person singular.
17 Statement of Ronald Kolalio 
 
 Par 11 Admissible to explain recommendation but not as to the quality of the management reports.
18 Statement of Fred Nana 
 
 No outstanding objection.
19 Statement of Les Fereday 
 
 Par 38 Inadmissible comment.
Par 45 Inadmissible up to the word 'Poon's'.
Par 46 Admissible --- no apparent dispute.
Par 67 Admissible if document produced.
Par 68 Admissible if document produced.
Par 84 Inadmissible --- no factual foundation has been laid for this evidence.
The fact that the witness had some relevant experience between 1980 and 2000 does not expose the factual grounding for the estimates offered.
20 Statement of Greg McGrath 
 
 No outstanding objections.
21 Statement of Aleena Bird 
 
 The greater part of this statement does not appear to be relevant.
The applicants' response to the objections raised against it do not address the issue of relevance.
The statement will not be admitted in its present form unless relevance is first demonstrated.


 22 Statement of Francis Kaupa 
 
 Par 27 Relevance is not demonstrated.


 23 Statement of William Fenwick dated 22 November 2005 
 
 Par 23 Deleted by concession.
Par 28 Admissible.
Par 35 Admissible subject to production of documents.
Par 41 Admissible.
Par 50 Inadmissible comment and/or hearsay.


 Par 56 Admissible as explanatory of witness's recommendation.
Par 60 Admissible subject to production of document.
Par 75 Admissible as to fact of discussion.
Par 84 Admissible as to fact of discussion.
Par 85 Inadmissible as statement of opinion.
Pars 86 to 92 Admissible as to facts of discussions.
Par 98 Sentence in parentheses inadmissible as comment --- conceded.
Par 104 Inadmissible hearsay unless relevance demonstrated.
Par 121 The words in parentheses are inadmissible as comment --- conceded.
Par 122 Admissible.
Par 126 The words in brackets are inadmissible as comment --- conceded.
24 Statement of Lee Yekim of 30 November 2005 
 
 Par 6 Admissible if document produced.
Par 10 Admissible subject to relevance.
Par 11 Admissible subject to relevance.
Par 12 Admissible as to state of mind of witness.
Par 14 Admissible going to state of mind of witness and subject to relevance.
25 Statement of John Atemeyok dated 30 November 2005 
 
 Par 5 Last sentence inadmissible as comment.
Par 7 Inadmissible as argument and comment.
Par 8 Admissible subject to relevance.
26 Statement of William Fenwick dated 2 December 2005 
 
 Par 4 Admissible.
Par 7 Admissible subject to relevance.
27 Further witness statement of John Atemeyok dated 30 November 2005(3025 PRF006).

 
 Par 5 Admissible.
Par 7 Admissible.
28 Statement of Lee Yekim dated 30 November 2005 
 
 Par 5 Admissible.
Par 6 Inadmissible comment.
29 Statement of Bill Menim dated 30 November 2005 
 
 Par 9 Admissible as to his non-involvement in the negotiations with OTML or Eurest.
Conclusion 
 
30 For the preceding reasons the various parts of the applicants' and cross-claimants' witness statements found to be inadmissible will not be admitted into evidence.
The respondents seek a 'strike out' of the various elements of the witness statements.
That is not appropriate.
It is sufficient to say that if tendered those parts of the witness statements will not be received in evidence.
An order to that effect will be made.
The question of the costs of the motion will be reserved.

 I certify that the preceding thirty (30) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honorable Justice French.
Associate:
Dated: 26 April 2006


 Counsel for the Applicants: Mr PE Clifford and Mr AP Rumsley 
 
 Solicitor for the Applicants: Alan Rumsley, Commerial Disputes Lawyer 
 
 Counsel for the Respondents and Cross Claimants: Mr ML Bennett and Mr I Curlewis 
 
Solicitors for the Respondents and Cross Claimants:

Counsel for the First and Second Cross-Respondents: 
Lavan Legal


Mr TM Retallack
 Solicitor for the First and Second Cross-Respondents: Hicks Retallack 
 
 Date of Hearing: 10 April 2006 
 
 Date of Judgment: 26 April 2006 

 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2006/447.html 
 
 
