
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 This is another round in what is assuming the proportions of a title fight between the cross-respondent, Council of the City of Sydney (the Council), on the one hand, and the cross-claimant, Goldspar Australia Pty Limited (Goldspar), on the other, arising out of a contract between them for supply by Goldspar to the Council of a number of multi-functional street poles, called hereafter 'poles' or 'Smartpoles'.
2 On 28 August 2002 I delivered reasons for judgment in relation to four separate questions ordered to be determined in this proceeding pursuant to O 29 r 2 of the Rules of Court ( Council of the City of Sydney v Goldspar Australia Pty Limited [2002] FCA 1064).
On 11 October 2002 I delivered reasons for judgment as to the orders to be made following the earlier reasons for judgment ( Council of the City of Sydney v Goldspar Australia Pty Limited (No 2) [2002] FCA 1268).
In the result, the orders made on 11 October 2002 were varied on 17 October 2002 and 21 October 2002.
The answers to the separate questions related, in essence, to issues concerning copyright and intellectual property.
3 On 7 May 2004 I delivered reasons for judgment which dealt with all outstanding claims by the Council against Goldspar and Douglas Rawson-Harris (Rawson-Harris), the second respondent ( Council of the City of Sydney v Goldspar Pty Limited [2004] FCA 568 , (2004) 62 IPR 274).
That decision led to orders being made on 18 June 2004.
4 This hearing relates to a cross-claim by Goldspar against the Council arising out of the termination of the contract.
These reasons for judgment are to be read with the previous reasons for judgment and assume knowledge of those reasons and the orders that have been made.
This, in effect, is a continuation of the previous hearings.
The previous history of the proceeding is a necessary backdrop to this segment of the matter.
However, a body of evidence has been led that relates to the cross-claim alone and involves a different focus from that in the previous hearings.
The evidence needs to be evaluated with that in mind.
5 The contract documents were identified by an expert determination agreed to by the parties (Expert Determination).
I rejected a claim by the Council for rectification of the contract.
It will be necessary to go to the contractual documents in some detail, but, in order to sketch the issues in the case, it suffices to say that the contract provided the framework within which Goldspar would provide poles and accessories to the Council over a period of years.
Part of the backdrop was an intention to beautify some of Sydney's streets prior to the Olympic Games to be held in the latter half of 2000.
In respect of each of the three years ended 30 June 1999, 30 June 2000 and 30 June 2001, the contract provided that the Council would take and Goldspar would supply a minimum of 300 poles and accessories.
The contract was formally entered into on 29 May 1998, although the manufacture of poles had commenced earlier.
A number of poles were supplied in the year ended 30 June 1999, although there is a dispute as to whether the number fell short of 300.
No poles were ever supplied in relation to the year ended 30 June 2000.
On 10 March 2000 the Council forwarded a notice of termination of contract to Goldspar.
By notice of 22 March 2000 Goldspar, in turn, gave notice of termination of contract to the Council, relying upon the Council's alleged wrongful repudiation of the contract by virtue of the purported termination by it.
On any view, the contract had by then come to an end.
Goldspar's cross-claim to be determined is for damages for repudiation of the contract by the Council and for certain associated claims.
The Council contends that its termination was effective and not a repudiation of contract.
It asserts that, even if this is incorrect, Goldspar was not in a position to itself terminate the contract and sue for damages because it was not then ready, willing and able to complete the contract.
6 In my opinion, the Council was not entitled to purport to terminate the contract as it did, and in so doing it repudiated the contract.
Goldspar was entitled to accept that repudiation and bring the contract to an end, which it did.
I am satisfied that Goldspar was ready, willing and able to perform the contract in the relevant sense and is entitled to damages.
Although the proper construction of the contract looms large, it is necessary to outline a number of facts and circumstances concerning the performance of the contract prior to the termination of it.
The evidence was voluminous and covered many facts and circumstances.
Many were not controversial and many had little, if any, ultimate importance.
I will only deal with those which I regard as significant in resolving the essential issues.
The written and oral submissions ranged far and wide.
Again, I shall deal with those that I regard as significant in the end result.
FACTS 
 
7 The manufacture and supply of poles commenced in January or February of 1998, prior to the execution of the formal contract.
At that time, Goldspar had indicated that it would install the poles but had set out in some detail a description of how the poles would be supplied on alternative bases--namely, delivery only (described as Arrangement B), on the one hand, and delivery and installation (described as Arrangement C), on the other.
Arrangement B was that poles would be delivered to a single address in an unassembled state but ready for assembly with all parts in labelled boxes bearing full instructions on assembly methods.
The cranage off the truck was not included in the price.
Arrangement C included the following:
 
 'Our quote was based on being able to gain easy access to the pole site so we can drop the pole directly from the truck onto the rag bolt assembly.
All rag bolt installation will be on a site specific basis from a structural point and we need to be flexible in the methods used for installation at these sites.
The delivery of the poles to site will be as per our B method above and assembly of poles will happen once the pole is in place.
Electrical work will follow.
' 
 

8 The poles were initially assembled on site prior to installation.
That accorded with the proposed procedure for supply and installation at that stage.
A document of 3 April 1998 entitled 'Installation Procedures and Loading Parameters Issue D' was a manual, the purpose of which was to provide relevant parties with step by step instructions on the correct procedure for installing the pole and its accessories.
It became part of the contract.
9 In April 1998, Adele Khreich (Khreich) of the firm of Tracey, Brunstrom and Hammond Pty Ltd was asked to give advice to the Council concerning the process of handling poles on site.
The instructions were as follows:
 
 'This confirms your instruction to TBH to assess the current status of Smart Poles procurement and design a monitoring system that will enhance the management of pole delivery to the contractors on site.
