
 
 1 This is an appeal from a decision of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal (AAT) constituted by Deputy President Jarvis made on 8 June 2005 whereby the AAT affirmed a decision of the first respondent cancelling the applicant's Subclass BF155 resident return visa.
BACKGROUND 
 
2 The applicant, Thanh Tra Lam, was born on 17 September 1972 in Vietnam.
He came to Australia on 28 July 1994 with his mother and two younger sisters.
3 In order to understand the facts upon which the applicant's case rests, it is necessary to have some regard to the applicant's parents' history.
4 The applicant's father, Mr Hong Hoan Lam was born on 18 April 1948 in Vietnam.
He served with the army of South Vietnam and at the end of the Vietnamese war in 1975 he was detained in a "re-education" camp by the communists.
He was detained in the camp for five years and during that time, was starved, beaten, tortured and humiliated.
As a result of the torture he experienced whilst in the camp, he suffered severe physical pain after his release.
In particular, he suffered frequent blinding headaches, together with stomach cramps which left him virtually paralysed and helpless.
No medical attention was either available or offered.
5 After his release from the camp, Hong Hoan Lam was not able to live with his wife, the applicant's mother.
He lived on his family's farm.
His family were considered well to do.
6 When the applicant was nine years old, he was sent to stay with his father and his father's relations for about twelve months.
Prior to this, the applicant had had very little contact with his father.
The applicant had a difficult relationship with his father.
His father constantly criticised him and would often physically punish him for failing to meet his expectations.
The applicant was "very fearful" of his father and was made to feel "pretty useless and not up to standard".
The father's attitude towards his son was no doubt affected by his experience in the camp, his poor health and his concern that he might die at an early age, leaving his son with the responsibility of taking care of his wife and family.
After about twelve months, the applicant returned to live with his mother and sisters until the family was reunited again in 1986.
However, whenever he saw his father he was subjected to criticism, and was physically punished.
His parents argued about the way his father treated him.
7 The applicant's father escaped from Vietnam in March 1989 and, after remaining in a refugee camp in Indonesia, arrived in Australia in March 1993.
8 The applicant, his mother and his two sisters entered Australia on 28 July 1994 and joined the applicant's father.
The applicant was nearly 22 years of age when he arrived in Australia.
He had completed his secondary education and was in his second year of a five year mechanical engineering course when he left Vietnam.
9 A third daughter, Hao Lam, was born to the applicant's parents after the applicant's mother came to Australia.
His three sisters are aged 22, 20 and 6.
10 The applicant went to a school to learn English but he found it very difficult to learn to speak and write English.
His two sisters who were born in Vietnam were more successful in that regard.
The applicant's father was apparently disappointed with the applicant's progress, repeatedly telling the applicant that he was letting the family down.
The applicant said that he remained frightened of his father.
He dreaded going home in the afternoons after his English classes.
11 The applicant began associating with other Vietnamese males who were also not progressing in their English classes, and who were also the subjects of criticism by their parents.
That group, including the applicant, arranged to rent a house.
They received a living away from home allowance for study purposes.
12 As a result of his changed living arrangements, the applicant came into contact with people who smoked marijuana and used heroin.
The applicant became addicted to heroin.
He sold heroin in order to repay the person who was supplying heroin to him.
The applicant was later caught by police and charged.
