
 MADGWICK J: 
 
1 This is an application made pursuant to s 170VV of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) ('the Act') alleging contravention of s 170WG of the Act by the respondent, Ropolo Services Pty Ltd, trading as Landscape Direct.
The applicant, Mr Bishop, claims that the respondent breached subs 170WG(1) of the Act by applying duress to an employee, namely himself, in connection with an Australian Workplace Agreement ('AWA').
A penalty is sought to be imposed on the respondent pursuant to s 170VV of the Act for breach of subs 170WG(1) of the Act.
2 Since the filing of the application and the hearing in this matter, the Act has been substantially amended and subsequently renumbered by the Workplace Relations Amendment (Work Choices) Act 2005 (Cth) ('the WC Act').
While the WC Act also makes provision as to duress in connection with an AWA, the application of the law in this case requires a consideration of the Act as it stood prior to these amendments (see Reg 2.19 of the Workplace Relations Regulations 2006 (Cth)).
As such, any references to provisions of the Act are references to it in its previous form.
BACKGROUND 
 
3 Landscape Direct is a company that provides landscape architectural consulting services, as well as grounds maintenance services.
The greater part of Landscape Direct's business is based in the Australian Capital Territory where it is engaged by both public and private clients at a variety of sites and properties.
Ground maintenance services are provided by Landscape Direct to a number of Australian Defence Force ('ADF') sites, including the Australian Defence College, Weston Creek in the ACT ('ADC Weston').
ADC Weston is an ADF facility that is maintained by Landscape Direct on behalf of a head contractor, Euro Support Services, which contracts directly with the Commonwealth Government for the provision of multi-activity services to the ADF.
4 The applicant commenced fulltime employment with Landscape Direct as a General Groundsman Qualified Horticulturalist at its ADF sites in June 2003.
He was employed under the AWU Miscellaneous Worker's Award 1998 and earned $525.16 gross per week in wages, which represented a base rate of $13.82 per hour, plus superannuation.
5 In October 2003 Landscape Direct began discussions with the ACT and Region Chamber of Commerce and Industry with a view to obtaining assistance and advice as to the drafting and introduction of a basic form of AWA capable of being tailored to the particular situation of each Landscape Direct employee.
An AWA precedent for Landscape Direct was subsequently developed by the ACT and Region Chamber of Commerce and Industry in conjunction with the respondent.
6 In January 2004 a position of Site Supervisor at ADC Weston became vacant.
The position was advertised internally by Landscape Direct, in accordance with company policy.
The applicant orally expressed his interest in the position to Mr David Trethewey, at that stage, the respondent's Contract Overseer.
Mr Trethewey asked the applicant if he would be interested in 'acting' in the position.
The applicant accepted the offer and from 20 January 2004 was employed as 'acting Site Supervisor' at ADC Weston.
7 In his position as acting Site Supervisor, the applicant continued to receive the base hourly rate, to which he was entitled as a General Groundsman in addition to a 'higher duties allowance' of $2.18 per hour.
As a General Groundsman the applicant also received a weekly industry allowance of $0.545 per hour, which he continued to receive in his position as acting Site Supervisor.
From time to time the applicant also received additional allowances (for example, a 'Weeds/Vermin' allowance) which he had also received in his position as General Groundsman.
Whilst acting as Site Supervisor, both parties understood that any leave which the applicant took was to be paid at the base hourly rate to which he was entitled as General Groundsman and would not attract the higher duties allowance.
8 On 10 February 2004 a staff notice was issued by Mr Gary Batchelor, the Australian Capital Territory Regional Manager of Landscape Direct, advising staff that an AWA had been produced for Landscape Direct and that all new positions or vacant higher positions would be subject to the AWA, a policy which was to take effect immediately.
9 On 18 March 2004 Mr Trethewey telephoned the applicant to advise him that Mr Batchelor was going to offer him the job of Site Supervisor on a permanent basis.
The applicant subsequently received a telephone call from Mr Batchelor in which he was offered the position and invited to a meeting at Mr Batchelor's office in order to look through some documents.
At this meeting, which occurred later that same day, Mr Batchelor advised the applicant that all new appointments within the company were to be subject to an AWA before explaining to him the AWA he would have to sign.
Mr Batchelor told the applicant that he would have a period of 14 days to consider the AWA and obtain advice in relation to the document.
Mr Batchelor also said that if the applicant were to elect not to sign the AWA, the position would be advertised internally.
The applicant understood that if he signed the AWA he would be permanently appointed to the position of Site Supervisor in which he had been acting.
The remuneration offered in the AWA for the position of Site Supervisor was $627.00 gross per week in wages, plus superannuation.
10 The applicant consulted his union, the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union ('CFMEU').
On the recommendation of a CFMEU representative the applicant sought legal advice from Gary Robb and Associates, solicitors.
On or about 29 March 2004 the applicant advised Mr Batchelor that he did not want to sign an AWA for the full time position of Site Supervisor at ADC Weston, stating that he did not 'believe in' AWAs by way of explanation for declining the offer.
On 2 April 2004 the applicant's solicitors wrote to Landscape Direct advising that its intention to advertise the position of Site Supervisor was contrary to s 170WG(1) of the Act and that further action, in the form of an application for interlocutory relief, would be taken should the position be advertised.
On or about 2 April 2004 the position of Site Supervisor was advertised internally in a staff memorandum dated 1 April 2004.
The applicant took a copy of this memorandum to his solicitors, who sent a further letter to Landscape Direct, dated 7 April 2004, repeating their assertion that further action, in the form of an application for an injunction, would be taken were the notice not withdrawn.
11 Nevertheless, by arrangement between the parties, the applicant continued to act in the role of Site Supervisor until he took some leave towards the end of June 2004.
Upon return from leave on 3 August 2004, Mr Tretheway invited the applicant to rethink the question of the AWA, as otherwise the position would be advertised internally with a view to it being permanently filled using an AWA.
The applicant again declined to sign an AWA, repeating his in-principle objection to AWAs.
According to the applicant, the subject of an AWA was brought up on one further occasion some few days following this conversation, again by Mr Trethewey when he repeated Landscape Direct's position that, unless the applicant signed the AWA, someone else would be appointed permanently to the position.
12 In early to mid August 2004 Landscape Direct informed the applicant that the position of Site Supervisor, the duties of which he had been performing in an acting capacity, was to be filled by another staff member.
The applicant was advised that he would return to the permanent position he held prior to commencing higher duties and would be moved to a different site.
13 On 10 September 2004 the respondent gave the applicant the choice of returning to either Russell/Campbell Park or HMAS Harman, both ADF facilities, as a Qualified General Groundsman/Second in Charge as of 14 September 2004.
The applicant elected to go to HMAS Harman where he continued to receive the base hourly rate he had received whilst acting as Site Supervisor, but without the higher duties allowance he had received in that role, a loss of $2.18 per hour.
14 On 25 October 2004 the applicant resigned from Landscape Direct.
DURESS IN CONNECTION WITH AN AWA 
 Legislative framework 
 
15 An AWA is a statutorily-created mechanism for the regulation of an individual employee's relationship with an employer.
Section 4 of the Act defined an AWA as 'an Australian workplace agreement under Part VID '.
Part VID included ss 170VA to 170X.
