
 
 1 On 22 December 2005, I dismissed an appeal in this matter by Yasmin Sheikh and made no order as to costs.
2 The respondent now seeks an order for costs on the basis that the normal rule - that costs follow the outcome - should apply.
3 The appellant resists the order for costs and submits that no specific application for costs was made by the respondent at the hearing.
The appellant submits that there is no reason advanced by the respondent as to why it should be given the indulgence of setting aside an order already made.
4 In the circumstances of this case, it is submitted by the appellant that the order of 22 December 2005 that there be no order as to costs of the appeal has not been shown to be an unsupportable or unjust exercise of the Court's broad power to award costs under s 43(2) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth).
Therefore, the appellant says that the question of costs should not be reopened.
5 The appellant also submits that litigation under the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 (Cth) (" SRC Act ") is not properly viewed as adversary litigation, even though the process may manifest some characteristics of such litigation.
6 In this case, the fact that no order is made as to costs simply means what it says, namely, that there has been no order made.
Accordingly, it is open to the respondent to approach the Court for an order for costs at this later stage.
7 I appreciate that the litigation is essentially not adversarial in character and this is a factor that can be taken into account when exercising the Court's broad discretion in relation to costs.
This is not one of those exceptional cases in which public interest in the litigation makes it appropriate that the usual order as to costs not apply.
Nor is it a case in which there has been unsatisfactory conduct by a government department resulting in the refusal of the Court to award costs: Roberts v Repatriation Commission (1992) 39 FCR 420.
8 Section 67 of the SRC Act contains a prima facie rule that each party bears its own costs with the proviso that a successful applicant has the right to ask for costs from the respondent, subject to the exercise of the Tribunal's discretion.
The respondent, on the other hand, does not have a right to apply for its costs of the proceedings.
Counsel for the appellant submitted that this is consistent with the nature of the statutory process where an injured worker seeks to assert a statutory right against an authority charged with administering legislation for the benefit of such workers as outlined in subs 67(8) of the SRC Act .
9 In this case, the appellant has already unsuccessfully ventilated her complaint before the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and has failed on the appeal to this Court.
Therefore, the matter of the costs of the appeal is at the discretion of the Court.
It is not inconsistent with the SRC Act that the Court should exercise its discretion as to the costs of the appeal in accordance with the general rule applicable in this Court.
There are no circumstances that take this matter out of the ordinary course.
10 Accordingly, the appropriate order is that the appellant pay the costs of the respondent of this appeal.
I certify that the preceding ten (10) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Tamberlin.
Associate:

Dated: 29 May 2006


 Counsel for the Applicant: L T Grey 
 
 Solicitor for the Applicant: C  M Lawyers 
 
 Counsel for the Respondent: D J Russell SC 
 
 Solicitor for the Respondent: Forners 
 
 Date of Last Written Submissions: 17 February 2006 
 
 Date of Judgment: 29 May 2006 

 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2006/646.html 
 
 
