
 
1 These reasons concern an application for security for costs brought by the respondents ("the record companies") in relation to two appeals.
The first appeal is brought by Mr Stephen Cooper (NSD 61 of 2006) and the second appeal is brought by E-Talk Communications Pty Ltd ("E-Talk") and Mr Leon Francis Bal (NSD 150 of 2006).
2 The first order sought by the record companies in relation to appeal NSD 61 of 2006 is that Mr Cooper provide security for the record companies' costs of the proposed appeal in such amount as the Court considers fit.
The second order is sought against E-Talk and Mr Bal to provide securities in respect of their appeal NSD 150 of 2006.
3 The record companies submit that there is jurisdiction for a single Judge to make orders for security for costs of an appeal under s 56 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth).
This section provides that a Court or a Judge may order an appellant to give security for the payment of costs that may be awarded against them.
Order 52 r 20 of the Federal Court Rules also illustrates that a Court or a Judge may make an order for security for costs of an appeal.
4 In this matter, I am satisfied that it is appropriate for me to consider the question of security and not refer the matter to a Full Court.
The relevant principles were discussed by Hely J in Croker v Deputy Registrar of the High Court of Australia [2003] FCA 681 at [10] - [11] .
In that case, his Honour did not consider it appropriate to convene and refer the application for security for costs to a Full Court.
Nor did Spender J in Dranichnikov v Centrelink [2002] FCA 1622 , where his Honour took a similar course.
5 Both these decisions considered a contrary approach to that expressed by Beaumont J in Endormer Pty Ltd (in liquidation) v Australian Guarantee Corporation Ltd [2001] FCA 510 , in which his Honour held that the jurisdiction to order security for costs of an appeal should more properly be exercised by a Full Court.
6 In my view, a single Judge has jurisdiction to hear an application and, in the present case, it is appropriate to do so rather than convene a Full Court to hear the application for security for costs.
Moreover, having heard the matter over several days, I am familiar with the background of the matter.
7 It was submitted by Mr Anthony Morris QC for Mr Cooper that, as I had previously expressed adverse views as to the credit of some witnesses in the matter, there may be a perception of apprehended bias and I should therefore consider disqualifying myself from hearing the application for security for costs.
I have considered the principles set forth in the decision in Keating v Morris  Ors (Moynihan J, Supreme Court of Queensland, 1 September 2005 unreported) at [32] - [47].
It does not follow simply from my rejection of certain evidence and preference for other evidence that, without more, there is any basis for a perception by a reasonable informed observer that I may be perceived to be affected by apprehended bias on this application for security for costs.
Therefore, I reject this submission.
8 The record companies have filed an affidavit by Mr Michael Williams, solicitor for the record companies, dated 22 March 2006.
The file number on the copy of this affidavit on the Court file does not refer to the number assigned to the particular appeals, but to the number assigned to the matter at first instance.
In my view, nothing turns on this, as the affidavit was accompanied by two notices of motion, one in NSD 61 of 2006 and the other in NSD 150 of 2006 in identical terms.
I mention these matters because counsel for E-Talk and Mr Bal has contended that it is inappropriate, without a Court order, that evidence on one application for security for costs should be evidence on the other.
I do not accept this submission and I make an order that, since the evidence relates to both applications, it may be used in each.
9 Counsel for E-Talk and Mr Bal also submits that evidence in the affidavit of Mr Williams which does not pertain to the circumstances of E-Talk and Mr Bal should be rejected as against them.
I accept this submission, and I have read and used the affidavit only in relation to the particular appellants in question.
The form of the affidavit makes it clear which paragraphs relate to each of the appeals and which relate to common matters.
10 Mr Williams sets out the factual background to the matter and quantifies the likely costs of the appeal.
He gives a detailed breakdown of these costs.
His conclusion is that the costs likely to be incurred by the record companies on the appeal would total $201,855.00.
However, he states that, if the record companies were successful in defending the appeals, the party/party costs would amount to $100,000.00 after taxation.
Mr Williams also sets out the investigations that he has conducted and the reasons why he considers that Mr Cooper, E-Talk and Mr Bal will not be able to meet any adverse costs order in the event that the record companies are successful in defending the appeal.
11 The Court has a wide discretion in relation to the grant of security for costs.
There is no general rule because each case depends upon its own circumstances.
In relation to an appeal, Courts have given weight to the injustice that might be caused to a successful litigant if the litigant is compelled to contest the matter for a second time without the probability of obtaining the costs if ultimately successful: Cowell v Taylor (1885) 31 Ch D 34 at 38.
