
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 1 On 22 April 2005, the Court ordered pursuant to O 29 r 2 of the Federal Court Rules that the following question ('the separate question') be heard and determined separately from and before the trial of any other question arising in the proceeding: 
 'Assuming that Sisalation 496, Sisalation 498 and/or Permastop 496 was or were used in the construction of Bunnings Warehouses described in the Schedule to the statement of claim, at the time of the supply by the Respondent to the various builders or contractors involved in the construction of the Bunnings Warehouses alleged in paragraph 4 of the statement of claim, were: 
 
 
 (a) Sisalation 496; 
 (b) Sisalation 498; 
 (c) Permastop 496- 
 
 
 "goods" within the meaning of: 
 
 
 (a) section 74A(2)(a) ; 
 (b) section 74B(1)(a); and 
 (c) section 74D(1)(a) - 
 
 
 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth)?
' 


This order was made upon the respondent undertaking to the Court as follows:
 
 'The Respondent, by its Counsel, undertakes not to make an application for leave to appeal or an appeal to the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia from an order or orders made by the Court in determining the separate question set out in order 1 below until the final hearing and determination of all issues in the proceedings.
' 
 
 THE ALLEGED CONTRAVENTIONS OF SECTIONS 74B AND 74D 
 
 2 In the proceedings, the applicant claims damages against the respondent for alleged contravention of ss 74B and 74D of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ( ' TPA').
These provisions are found in Div 2A of Part V of the TPA, which is entitled 'Actions against Manufacturers and Importers of Goods'.
Where a person acquires goods, as defined in Div 2A, from an intermediary who in turn acquired the goods from the manufacturer, ss 74B and 74D afford the person a right of action for compensation directly against the manufacturer.
Section 74B applies where the goods were not reasonably fit for their indicated purpose.
Section 74D applies where the goods were not of merchantable quality.
3 Section 74A(2)(a) provides:
 'A reference to goods shall, unless the contrary intention appears, be read as a reference to goods of a kind ordinarily acquired for personal, domestic or household use or consumption'.



 
 4 For completeness, reference should be made to two other definitional provisions.
First, s 74A(8) provides:
 'For the purposes of this Division, goods shall be taken to be supplied to a consumer notwithstanding that, at the time of the supply, they are affixed to land or premises.
' 


 
 5 Secondly, there is a general definition of 'goods' in s 4(1).
It provides that, unless a contrary intention appears, 'goods' includes: 
 
 '(a) ships, aircraft and other vehicles; 
 (b) animals, including fish; 
 (c) minerals, trees and crops, whether on, under or attached to land or not; and 
 (d) gas and electricity'.



Neither the applicant nor the respondent suggested that the inclusive definition in s 4(1) provides any assistance in this case.

 6 Sections 74B and 74D do not disclose any intention that the meaning of the term 'goods' in s 74A(2)(a) should not be applied in this case.
Indeed, it is common ground between the applicant and the respondent that in its application to this case the term 'goods', where it is used in ss 74B and 74D , means 'goods of a kind ordinarily acquired for personal, domestic or household use or consumption'.
7 The applicant alleges that at various dates between February 1994 and June 2001, the respondent supplied insulation products known as Sisalation 496, Sisalation 498 and Permastop 496 (collectively ' the products') to various builders or contractors involved in the construction of twenty warehouses.
The products were incorporated into the structure of the warehouses.
The applicant has either acquired or leased those warehouses.
8 The applicant alleges that the products were not fit for their purpose and/or were not of merchantable quality, in contravention of ss 74B and 74D .
As a result, the applicant claims it suffered loss and damage in respect of which it is entitled to compensation from the respondent.

 THE RESPONDENT'S PRODUCTS 
 
 9 Prior to 1998, the respondent (then called ACI Australia Ltd) conducted a business of manufacturing and selling a range of insulation products under the business name ACI Insulation.
Sisalation 496, Sisalation 498 and Permastop 496 were part of that product range.
The respondent's reflective foil insulation products were sold under the registered trade mark 'Sisalation TM '.
It also sold a combined reflective foil laminate with a glass wool blanket adhered to it under the trade mark 'Permastop TM '.
10 In 1998, ACI Insulation was renamed Insulation Solutions, but it remained a business conducted by ACI Australia Ltd until 2002.
ACI Australia Ltd has had three changes of name.
In May 1998, ACI Australia Ltd changed its name to Australian Building Materials Ltd; in August 1998, it changed its name to Amatek Ltd; and in September 2002, Amatek Ltd changed its name to Laminex Group Ltd.
 11 It does not appear to be material to these proceedings, but it is convenient to note that from 2002 the business previously conducted under the names ACI Insulation and Insulation Solutions was conducted by Insulation Solutions Pty Ltd.
Both the respondent, Laminex Group Ltd, and Insulation Solutions Pty Ltd are now owned by Fletcher Building Ltd. 
 THE NATURE OF REFLECTIVE FOIL INSULATION PRODUCTS 
 
 12 Reflective foil insulation products have been available commercially in Australia for approximately 50 years.
In general terms, a reflective foil insulation product comprises a reflective foil facing adhered to a kraft paper backing that is reinforced in various ways, such as by the inclusion of a layer of fibreglass.
Reflective foil insulation products of this type are also commonly referred to as 'reflective foil laminates'.
I will adopt that terminology in these reasons, unless I am referring to reflective foil insulation products more generally or the context requires me to be more specific.
13 One of the experts who gave evidence on behalf of the applicant, Dr Eilenberg, described the general make up of the product in the following way:
 'In summary, reflective foil laminates are generally made up of a core --- of either fibre-glass strands or plastic reinforcement, with a kraft paper over this and coated with layers of aluminium foil and/or other coating, on one or both sides.
An example of the composition of a foil laminate is set out in several Insulation Solutions' Sisalation data sheets and shown as follows: 
 

 
 
 14 Reflective foil laminates are commonly produced in rolls approximately 1350mm wide and up to 60 lineal metres in length.
They are also produced in a range of weights and strengths and with different finishes.
Thus, reflective foil laminates can be graded as light duty, medium duty, heavy duty or extra heavy duty.
These descriptions usually refer to the durability of the material.
15 Prior to the development of reflective foil laminates, 'sarking' was used in the building industry as a pliable water resistant membrane.
The term 'sarking membrane' is described in The Glossary of Buildings Terms , Standards Australia, 1994, as follows:
 'Sarking membrane --- a pliable, water-resistant membrane for use beneath the external roof or wall covering to collect and discharge any water that may penetrate or water vapour that may form.
Now often combined with reflective foil to provide thermal insulation benefits.
' 
 

As this definition suggests, reflective foil insulation products operate as water and vapour resistant membranes and also provide thermal insulation benefits.
The evidence indicates that the term 'sarking' is still sometimes used to describe reflective foil laminates.

 16 Reflective foil laminates have three essential properties:
 (1) Water barrier.
When used in roofs and walls, reflective foil laminates operate as a barrier against water or wind-driven rain entering the building.
(2) Vapour barrier.
Reflective foil laminates operate as a barrier to water vapour by preventing condensation from forming on the inside of the building.
(3) Thermal insulation.
Reflective foil laminates provide a barrier against radiant heat and are often used in conjunction with a bulk insulation to provide the required insulation performance.
17 Some reflective foil insulation products have additional attributes.
For example, when perforated, insulation foils can be used to provide an acoustic barrier.
Some reflective foil insulation products have an anti-glare coating and/or a decorative (usually white) facing.
The particular attributes of white-faced foil laminates are discussed in detail below.
18 The process of installing reflective foil laminates in commercial, industrial and residential buildings is generally very similar.
Where the product is installed in a domestic roof, it is laid over the roof joists under the roof battens.
This creates an air space between the roof tiles or other cladding and the reflective foil laminate which maximises the insulation effect.
Similar installation techniques apply where sheet metal is used as a roofing product.
Where the product is installed in domestic walls, it is generally affixed to timber studs with fixing plates.
Reflective foil laminates are usually installed horizontally and joins in the material are sealed with a specialised tape.
When installed in this way, the reflective foil laminate blocks any moisture that permeates through the external facing of the wall and allows any condensation to fall onto flashing at weephole level and so drain away.
Again, this method of installation ensures an airspace between the product and the external wall (and to a lesser extent any internal cladding) which tends to maximise the thermal insulation effect.
Reflective foil laminates are installed in commercial and industrial buildings in much the same fashion.
One difference, however, is that in commercial applications the span between the ceiling or roof purlins may be greater and a layer of light metal mesh is often laid first as a safety measure for roof workers and to help support the foil.
It is also more likely that reflective foil laminates will be left exposed in industrial applications, rather than being covered by plasterboard or the like so as to provide a more finished internal ceiling or wall.
19 Reflective foil laminates are commonly installed in conjunction with an insulation 'blanket' manufactured from spun fibres of glass or other material in order to enhance the thermal insulation of a building.
The reflective foil laminate can be installed first and the blanket material laid adjacent to it.
The blanket material can be purchased separately but manufacturers also offer a combined product consisting of a reflective foil laminate that has glass insulation material or another form of insulation blanket adhering to one face of the foil.

 SISALATION 498 
 
 20 A product data sheet published by ACI Insulation in March 1996 described the features of Sisalation 498 as follows:
 'The gloss white polypropylene film provides an excellent resistance to corrosive environments, an hygienic cleanable surface and a decorative finish.
The large number of reinforcing glass strands in combination with strong kraft paper provide Sisalation 498 with enhanced strength.
Sisalation 498 is, therefore, most suitable for the support of bulk insulation or as an independent decorative lining wherever strength, hygiene, cleanability, corrosion resistance or aesthetics are important.
