
 
 1 In these proceedings for a native title determination, Warren James Parkinson and Judith Anne Parkinson ('the Parkinsons') seek to be joined pursuant to s 84(3)(b) of the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth) ('the Native Title Act ').
2 The required notice of the non-claimant application has been given under s 66 of the Native Title Act .
The period specified in the notice commenced on 9 March 2005 and expired on 8 June 2005.
On 12 May 2005, within the notification period, the Parkinsons notified the Court in writing that they wanted to become parties to these proceedings.
3 The non-claimant application was filed by Mr Hillig ('the Administrator'), the administrator of Worimi Local Aboriginal Land Council ('the Land Council'), for the purpose of obtaining an approved determination, pursuant to s 13 of the Native Title Act , that no native title exists in relation to the land described as Lot 576 in Deposited Plan 48823 ('the land').
The land is in the local government area of Port Stephens, New South Wales.
There has been no determination to date that native title exists in relation to the land.
4 The Land Council has owned the land in fee simple since 16 March 1998 having made a successful claim pursuant to the provisions of the Aboriginal Land Rights Act 1983 (NSW) ('the NSW Act').
The transfer of the land to the Land Council was conditional on s 36(9) of the NSW Act.
Section 36(9) provides that any transfer to an Aboriginal land council is subject to any native title rights and interests existing in relation to the land.
Sections 40 and 40AA of the NSW Act prevent the Land Council from dealing with land vested in it if the land is subject to native title rights under s 36(9) unless the land is the subject of an approved determination of native title under the Native Title Act .
5 Section 61 of the Native Title Act specifies that applications, including ' native title determination application [s]', may be made to the Federal Court by a person who holds a non-native title interest in relation to the whole of the area in relation to which the determination is sought.
Section 223 defines native title.
6 The Parkinsons appeared in person without legal representation.
They seek to be joined as parties to these proceedings pursuant to s 84(3) of the Native Title Act which provides:
 
 'Another person is a party to the proceedings if: 
 
 
 (a) any of the following applies: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) the person is covered by paragraph 66(3)(a); 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) the person claims to hold native title in relation to land or waters in the area covered by the application; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) the person's interests may be affected by a determination in the proceedings; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) the person notifies the Federal Court, in writing, within the period specified in the notice under section 66 , that the person wants to be a party to the proceeding.
' 
 
 
 

7 The Parkinsons do not claim to hold native title.
