
 The principal issue arising and the general principles involved 
 
1 The principal issue arising for determination is whether the applicant Permanent Custodians Limited ('PCL'), a trustee of entities that provide loans to the public, should have leave to join insurance underwriters Macquarie Underwriting Pty Limited ('Macquarie') and/or SVB Syndicates Limited ('SVB') as third and/or fourth respondents respectively (being together or individually called or included in the expression 'Insurers', unless inconsistent with the context) in the present proceedings.
Macquarie is an Australian resident corporation and SVB is an overseas resident corporation, presumably of the United Kingdom.
The existing first respondent ARMA Pty Limited ('ARMA') carried on business at the material times as a real estate valuer under the business name 'Cairns Regional Valuers'.
The second respondent Neil Teves ('Mr Teves') was asserted by PCL to be a director and shareholder of ARMA, an assertion which I do not understand to have been put in issue by the Insurers.
2 Macquarie entered into professional indemnity insurance arrangements in Australia in favour of ARMA, and did so purportedly on behalf of so-called 'Security' , which was defined in the insurance policy schedule to mean 'certain Underwriters at Lloyds...' .
Those insurance arrangements the subject of the proceedings related to two successive years of cover, being from 26 July 2003 to 26 July 2004 and from 26 July 2004 to 26 July 2005; each insurance policy itself was headed 'MACQUARIE UNDERWRITING' and 'PROFESSIONAL INDEMNITY'.
In the proceedings as initially constituted, PCL sued ARMA and Mr Teves for damages under the Trade Practices Act 1975 (Cth) ('TP Act') in relation to valuations of two parcels of real estate located at Trinity Beach in Queensland, on the alleged basis whereof PCL advanced substantial funds to the real estate owner Mr Brett Robinson, said to have subsequently encountered financial difficulty.
He was not a party to the proceedings.
3 The grant of leave would enable PCL to pursue direct recourse for indemnity by Macquarie and/or SVB under section 6 of the Law Reform (Miscellaneous Provisions) Act 1946 (NSW) ('the LR Act') in relation to the conduct of ARMA and Mr Teves, the apparent author of the valuations, by way of the provision of those realty valuations each bearing date 22 May 2003, being conduct said to have contravened sections 52 and 53A of the TP Act.
Section 52 relates to misleading and deceptive conduct in trade or commerce and s 53A relates to false representations and misleading conduct in connection with the promotion of the sale of land.
The nature and extent of indemnity the subject of that underwriting by Macquarie and SVB is particularised in the insurance documentation placed in evidence, and also the circumstances excluded from cover.
The insured risk falls within the description of professional indemnity, being a description which appears in the heading to each so-called policy schedule, and is geared to the respective definitions of 'Responsible Valuer' and 'Valuation(s)' appearing on the concluding page thereof.
The present interlocutory application does not of course require the final or concluded determination of the insurance issues arising, but does require the resolution of the nature and prospective extent of any liability of the Insurers, or either one of them, to indemnify the existing respondents ARMA and Mr Teves in relation to the consequences of any determination which might be made in favour of PCL at any ultimate hearing of the proceedings, by reason of what is contended by PCL to have been valuations made in contravention of the foregoing statutory provisions.
As will later be seen, the policies extended to any ' principal... director or employee' of ARMA, and hence the apparent basis for Mr Teves' joinder as a respondent to the proceedings along with ARMA.
4 So far as is presently material, section 6 of the LR Act provides as follows:
 
 
 '(1) If any person (hereinafter in this Part referred to as the insured) has, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, entered into a contract of insurance by which the person is indemnified against liability to pay any damages or compensation, the amount of the person's liability shall on the happening of the event giving rise to the claim for damages or compensation, and notwithstanding that the amount of such liability may not then have been determined, be a charge on all insurance moneys that are or may become payable in respect of that liability.

 
 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 (4) Every such charge as aforesaid shall be enforceable by way of an action against the insurer in the same way and in the same court as if the action were an action to recover damages or compensation from the insured; and in respect of any such action and of the judgment given therein the parties shall, to the extent of the charge, have the same rights and liabilities, and the court shall have the same powers, as if the action were against the insured: 
 
 
 
 
 
 Provided that, except where the provisions of subsection (2) apply, no such action shall be commenced in any court except with the leave of that court.
Leave shall not be granted in any case where the court is satisfied that the insurer is entitled under the terms of the contract of insurance to disclaim liability, and that any proceedings, including arbitration proceedings, necessary to establish that the insurer is so entitled to disclaim, have been taken.
' 
 
 
 

5 In light of section 6 of the LR Act, the parties to the present interlocutory application agreed that the threshold issue arising is whether the foreshadowed claim for the application of a statutory charge on the part of the Insurers in favour of PCL is reasonably arguable.
If the claim is reasonably arguable in the sense that it 'could be seriously put' ( Andjelkovic v AFG Insurances Ltd (1980) 47 FLR 348 at 356 per Blackburn CJ, the context whereof involved an issue as to statutory or alternatively contractual interpretation), then leave should be granted to join the Insurers, or at least that Insurer resident in Australia being of course Macquarie, notwithstanding its purported agency status, so that the issue as to availability of the statutory remedy referrable to the prevailing circumstances may be subsequently resolved at a final hearing of the proceedings.
The parties further agreed that for the purposes of the present interlocutory application of PCL, the following general principles apply:
 
 (i) an action pursuant to section 6 of the LR Act cannot be commenced of course without the leave of the Court, and whilst some specific circumstances may be identified as operative against the grant of leave, any grant of leave or otherwise falls ultimately within the statutory discretion thereby vested in the Court; and 


 
 (ii) the Court will not grant leave to commence proceedings in circumstances where on the basis of the material placed before the Court, the claim of an applicant for the statutory indemnity sought is not reasonably arguable.


6 More recently in the context of an appeal to the Court of Appeal of the Supreme Court of New South Wales in Fishwives Pty Ltd v FAI General Insurance Co Ltd (2002) 12 ANZ Insurance Cases 61-515, Mason P (with whom Meagher and Handley JJA agreed) described the operation of the applicable principle in the following more comprehensive terms:
 
 
 '47.
I do not accept the appellant's submission that the judge was bound to grant leave if there was an arguable case on the non-disclosure issue.
I can readily accept that leave may be given where the Court is satisfied that there is an arguable point on the insurer's indemnity issue.
It is now established that the grant of leave to proceed against an insurer does not foreclose the insurer's right to litigate issues going to its liability to indemnify the insured in the substantive proceedings....
But it does not follow, in my view, that a court that is positively satisfied of the insurer's entitlement to disclaim, after issue has been joined on that matter as between the plaintiff and the insurer, must exercise the discretion in favour of the grant of leave.
The court is "seized of the discretion to grant leave" (National Mutual Property Services (Australia) Pty Ltd v Citibank Savings Ltd (1996) 9 ANZ Insurance Cases 61-335 at 76,711; (1996) 138 ALR 409 at 418 per Lindgren J), but it is not driven to exercise the discretion in a particular way.
' 
 


The outcome of the appeal in that case was summarised by Mason P as follows:
 
 
 
 
 '48.
In the present case Delaney DCJ was satisfied on the balance of probabilities that the insurer was entitled to disclaim.
He was in my view entitled to reach this conclusion.
' 
 


In reaching that conclusion, the Court of Appeal was presented with findings below as to facts establishing the objective falsity to answers provided in the insurance proposal form.
It is the case of the Insurers on the present application of PCL for joinder of Macquarie and also SVB as additional respondents to the proceedings that I should find on the balance of probabilities that the Insurers are entitled to disclaim liability, and therefore that leave to join the Insurers should be refused.
Background facts and circumstances to the proceedings 
 
7 PCL's business included the provision of loans to assist the funding of the purchase of real property, the loans being usually secured by mortgage over that real property.
On 22 May 2003, ARMA provided valuations for mortgage lending purposes to PCL as prospective mortgagee in respect of two adjacent freehold properties comprising Lots 15 and 20 at Nos 22-24 Oyster Court Trinity Beach in the State of Queensland.
The valuations were apparently signed by Mr Teves on behalf of ARMA, though the valuations were not tendered into evidence, the view understandably taken by the parties being that the same were not material to the resolution of the present interlocutory proceedings.
8 It is PCL's case that in reliance on those valuations, it lent to the freehold owner Brett Robinson the sum of $598,000 secured by way of registered first mortgage over the properties, and that when the freehold owner defaulted under the mortgage, PCL exercised its power of sale as mortgagee and sold the properties, thereby sustaining a shortfall in the available proceeds of sale in relation to the moneys by then secured by PCL's mortgage.
PCL's case was further that the valuations were provided to PCL by the respondents ARMA and Mr Teves in breach of sections 52 and 53A of the TP Act, for the reason that the valuations substantially overstated the market values of the properties and those existing respondents did not have reasonable grounds for their assessments of market value.
PCL has claimed damages in the first instance against ARMA as the provider of the valuations and Mr Teves as the author of the valuations, he being allegedly also a director of ARMA, but it is apparent that recovery from ARMA and Mr Teves individually is at least dubious.
9 As I have earlier foreshadowed, ARMA held professional indemnity policies of insurance in its favour as the insured for the respective yearly periods 26 July 2003 to 26 July 2004 ('the first policy') and 26 July 2004 to 26 July 2005 ('the second policy').
Each policy commenced with a so-called Schedule , the first pages whereof containing reference to such basic details as the name of the insured and the insured's business, the insurance period, the sum insured, the excess, the premium and certain special conditions.
The third page of the Schedule was headed 'Valuers-Australia' , and set out certain threshold circumstances excluded from cover, including understandably valuations made otherwise than by a registered or licensed valuer.
The so-called ' Insuring Clauses' were in the following terms:
 
 
 '1.1 We will cover You for any Claim, first made against You and reported to Us during the Insurance Period, for breach of professional duty by You in the conduct of the Business by You.

 
 1.2 We will also cover You for the costs and expenses incurred in the defence, settlement or investigation of that Claim.
' 
 


Those Insuring Clauses' would tend to indicate that the subject policies are in the nature of claims made policies.

 

10 The indemnity wording appearing in each policy referred in the definitions segment (cl 6.13) to 'Us and We' as meaning 'Macquarie Underwriting Pty Limited on behalf [of] the Security', and to 'You' as meaning ' any party named in the Schedule against "Name"; and any person who is during the Insurance Period a principal, partner, director or employee of the above but only when acting on behalf of the Business'.
The term 'You' picked up reference to the 'Name' on the front page, being ARMA trading as Cairns Regional Valuers.
'Security' was defined in the definitions segment of the policies to mean 'certain Underwriters at Lloyds, each of whom (including their executors and administrators) is only liable for their share of any Claim, loss, liability or expense payable by this policy.
Details of each syndicate and its share can be obtained from Macquarie Underwriting Pty Limited'.
Such 'certain Underwriters' were not identified in the policies by name, nor appear to be as yet identified at least to PCL.
Each policy stipulated 26 July 2001 as the 'Retroactive Date' , which readily accommodated of course the time of compilation of the valuations of ARMA complained of, which as above indicated, were apparently furnished by ARMA in or about May 2003.
11 PCL asserted, by a communication of 23 April 2004 written on the letterhead of its apparent trade name 'Bluestone Mortgages' and addressed to 'Mr Neil V Teves' of 'Cairns Regional Valuers', that the valuations (of course made by ARMA) had 'significantly overvalued the properties, such that it appears likely that there will be a shortfall incurred following exercise of [PCL's] power of sale.
' PCL through its solicitors subsequently wrote to 'Mr Neil Teves Cairns Regional Valuers' on 13 May 2004 and gave further notice of likely claim referrable to ARMA's said valuations, and repeated the allegation of excessive values having been ascribed by ARMA.
The full text of both letters will be shortly extracted.
It appears that Macquarie may have first received notification of PCL's claim on 7 October 2004, by means of a letter from the previous solicitors for the existing respondents to the proceedings, ARMA and Mr Teves.
In response, Macquarie sent a facsimile transmission to those solicitors on 25 October 2004 which denied any such liability to indemnify ARMA and Mr Teves.
12 The grounds of that denial of indemnity, at least by the time of the hearing of the present application of PCL for leave to proceed against Macquarie and/or SVB, appear to have been in summary as follows:
 
 (i) ARMA did not notify Macquarie of any claim, or of any facts or circumstances giving rise to any claim, whereof ARMA became aware during the currency of the first policy (ie from 26 July 2003 to 26 July 2004);
 (ii) though the valuation was carried out by Mr Teves on behalf of ARMA, he was not a '[n]amed valuer' within the terms of the so-called 'Special Conditions' appearing on the front page of the first policy, and therefore his valuation work was not covered under the first policy; accordingly ARMA was not covered by the first policy;
 (iii) since the circumstances the subject of claimed indemnity were known to ARMA prior to the commencement of the risk the subject of the second policy (ie prior to 26 July 2004), exclusion clause 4.1 of the second policy applied in favour of the Insurers, albeit that Mr Teves was a 'named valuer' within the terms of the so-called 'Special Conditions' appearing on the front page of the second policy; accordingly ARMA was not covered by the second policy as well.
