
 
1 The appellants are citizens of India.
The appellant wife did not claim to be a refugee in her own right and applied as a member of the appellant husband's family unit.
The appellant husband ('the appellant') claimed a well-founded fear of persecution based on his religion, Hinduism, and his political opinion.
2 The judgment of Federal Magistrate Nicholls, delivered on 21 September 2005 dismissing an application to review the decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ('the Tribunal'), contains a thorough summary of the background of the matter, its procedural history and the basis of the Tribunal decision.
In brief, the appellant claimed that, as he was an active supporter of the Congress party, the appellants' lives were at risk in India from supporters of the opposition party, the BJP.
3 The appellant appeared in person assisted by an interpreter.
He did not file any written submissions.
The amended notice of appeal contains twelve "grounds".
I do not propose to set them out in detail.
Two grounds assert, without particulars, that the Federal Magistrate failed to find jurisdictional error in the Tribunal decision.
Two grounds refer to SAAP v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2005] HCA 24 ; [2005] 79 ALJR 1009 without particularisation of how that case applies to the appellant.
Three grounds raise merits review.
One ground refers to s 474 of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act') and is not readily comprehensible.
One ground raises an asserted failure to disclose unspecified adverse country information; such information would come within s 424A(3)(a) of the Act so that there is no established breach of the requirements of s 424A(1) for this reason.
One ground says that a list of authorities is attached; it is not.
One ground says that the appellant will provide more details in a written statement; he did not.
The Tribunal hearing 
 
4 Of the complaints discerned by the Federal Magistrate and set out at [7] of his Honour's reasons, only complaint 4, that the appellant did not get an opportunity to attend the Tribunal hearing because he was not properly informed by the Tribunal of the hearing, is raised in this appeal.
This is the only matter raised by the appellant at the hearing.
5 Nicholls FM rejected this ground of asserted jurisdictional error.
