
 STATUTORY BACKGROUND 
 
1 The Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (Cth) (the "EPBC Act") seeks to protect the Australian environment and Australian heritage.
The primary mechanism for achieving this result is the prohibition of actions which have, or are likely to have, adverse consequences for identified aspects of such environment or heritage.
Those aspects are hereinafter referred to as "protected matters".
The principal operative provisions are found in Part 3 and, in particular, Division 1.
2 Division 1 is divided into subdivisions A to I. Subdivision A deals with World Heritage properties.
Section 12 prohibits actions which have, will have, or are likely to have a significant impact on the World Heritage values of a declared World Heritage property.
However, if the Minister has, pursuant to Part 9 of the EPBC Act, approved the relevant action, the prohibition will not apply.
The EPBC Act provides a mechanism for determining, in advance, whether a proposed action will be "controlled" by any provision of Part 3.
If the Minister has decided, pursuant to Part 7, that a proposed action is not so controlled, then such action is not prohibited.
Similar provisions in other sub-divisions deal with National Heritage places, wetlands, threatened species and communities, listed migratory species and other matters.
3 Section 67 (in Part 7) provides:
 
 'An action that a person proposes to take is a controlled action if the taking of the action by the person without approval under Part 9 for the purposes of a provision of Part 3 would be prohibited by the provision.
The provision is a controlling provision for the action.
' 
 

4 Pursuant to s 523, and subject to certain exceptions, the word "action" includes:
 
 '(a) a project; and 
 (b) a development; and 
 (c) an undertaking; and 
 (d) an activity or series of activities; and 
 
 
 (e) an alteration of any of the things mentioned in paragraph (a), (b), (c) or (d).
' 
 
 

5 Section 68 provides that a person (the "proponent") proposing to take an action which he or she thinks may be, or is, a controlled action must refer the proposal to the Minister for a decision as to whether or not it is a controlled action.
If the proponent believes that the proposed action is not a controlled action, he or she may similarly refer the proposal to the Minister for a decision.
Pursuant to s 74, upon receiving such a referral the Minister must give notice to various persons and invite public comment.
6 Concerning any such referral, s 75 provides:
 
 ' Does the proposed action need approval?

 
 Is the action a controlled action?

 
 (1) The Minister must decide: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) whether the action that is the subject of a proposal referred to the Minister is a controlled action; and 
 (b) which provisions of Part 3 (if any) are controlling provisions for the action.

 
 
 
 
 
 (1AA) To avoid doubt, the Minister is not permitted to make a decision under subsection (1) in relation to an action that was the subject of a referral that was not accepted under subsection 74A(1).

 
 
 
 Minister must consider public comment 
 
 
 
 (1A) In making a decision under subsection (1) about the action, the Minister must consider the comments (if any) received: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) in response to the invitation (if any) under subsection 74(3) for any one to give the Minister comments on whether the action is a controlled action; and 
 (b) within the period specified in the invitation.

 
 
 
 
 Considerations and decision 
 
 
 
 (2) If, when the Minister makes a decision under subsection (1), it is relevant for the Minister to consider the impacts of an action: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) the Minister must consider all adverse impacts (if any) the action: 
 
 
 
 (i) has or will have; or 
 
 
 
 (ii) is likely to have; 
 on the matter protected by each provision of Part 3; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) must not consider any beneficial impact the action: 
 
 
 (i) has or will have; or 
 (ii) is likely to have; 
 on the matter protected by provision of Part 3.

 
 
 ... ' 

7 Section 77 relevantly provides:
 
 
 ' (1) Within 10 business days after deciding whether an action that is the subject of a proposal referred to the Minister is a controlled action or not, the Minister must: 
 (a) give written notice of the decision to: 
 
 
 (i) the person proposing to take the action; and 
 (ii) ... 
 
 
 
 (iii) ... 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) publish notice of the decision in accordance with the regulations.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 ... 
 
 (2) ... 
 
 [There is no subsection (3).
]
 
 
 
 (4) The Minister must give reasons for the decision to a person who: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) has been given the notice; and 
 (b) within 28 days of being given the notice, has requested the Minister to provide reasons.

 
 
 
 
 
 The Minister must do so as soon as practicable, and in any case within 28 days of receiving the request.
' 
 
 
 THE APPLICATION 
 
8 This application is brought pursuant to the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) (the "ADJR Act").
The applicant seeks review of two decisions by the Minister's delegate pursuant to s 75 of the EPBC Act.
In each case the delegate decided that the referred proposal was not a controlled action.
The first referral (received by the Minister on 7 April 2005) concerned a proposal by the second respondent ("Bowen Coal") to develop a new coal mine near Moranbah (the "Isaac Plains project").
The second referral (received by the Minister on 13 April 2005) concerned a proposal by the third respondent ("QCoal") to develop a new coal mine near Collinsville (the "Sonoma project").
I will outline each proposal and the reasons for the delegate's decision in each case.
ISAAC PLAINS PROJECT 
 
9 In referring the proposal to the Minister, Bowen Coal indicated that it did not consider the proposal to be a controlled action because:
 
 'The site does not support any of the MNES [matters of national environmental significance] listed in the EPBC Act, with exception of listed threatened/migratory fauna species that may occasionally make use of the site.
Given the limited extent and poor condition of remnant habitats within the study area, it is not anticipated that the study area represents critical habitat for any rare, threatened or migratory species.
Furthermore, the project requires disturbance of "not of concern" remnant vegetation only.
Considering the mitigation measures that will be employed, it is not anticipated that the project will lead to significant impacts on rare, threatened or migratory species, communities or populations listed under the EPBC Act.
' 
 

10 Pursuant to subs 74(3), the Minister published the referral on the Internet and invited comment.
The applicant responded, raising concerns about certain mammals, birds and tortoises, threatened ecological communities, wetlands, land clearance and water quality.
In most cases, it asserted that more investigation was necessary in order to ensure that the proposed development would have no unacceptable impact.
Two other areas of concern were addressed.
The first concerned World Heritage Areas, specifically the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area and the Wet Tropics Heritage Area.
The applicant urged consideration of the fact that over the proposed nine year life of the mine, 18 million tonnes of coal would be won and exported.
The applicant asserted that the ultimate purpose was to burn such coal in power generation and that:
 
 'The production of greenhouse gases is almost certain to occur as a result of the action and can reasonably be imputed as within the contemplation of the proponent of the action.
' 
 

11 The applicant continued:
 
 'The burning 18 million tonnes of coal will have an impact on global warming, how much of an impact the production of this amount of greenhouse gases will have on global warming and, consequently, on matters of national environmental significance is more difficult to determine but must, at the very least, be considered when assessing the likely impacts of the action.

 
 Consideration of the impacts of the action under section 75 of the EPBC Act must consider the potential impacts of greenhouse gas emissions from the burning of the coal on global warming and the consequential impacts on matters of national environmental significance.

 
 We contend that when the ultimate greenhouse gas emissions are considered the proposed action is likely to have a significant impact on matters of national environmental significance, including the World Heritage Areas.
' 
 

12 In a separate section headed 'Greenhouse Gas Emissions' the applicant asserted that Australia was vulnerable to the impact of climate change and continued:
 
 'Potentially significant impacts include those of our agricultural productivity, coastal communities, threats to human health, and the imposition of further survival pressures on a range of native plants and animals.
' 
 

13 The applicant asserted that as a signatory to the Convention on Biological Diversity, Australia must adhere to Article 3 of the Convention which apparently provides:
 
 'States have, in accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and the principles of international law, the sovereign right to exploit their own resources pursuant to their own environmental policies, and the responsibility to ensure that activities within their jurisdiction or control do not cause damage to the environment of other States or of areas beyond the limits of national jurisdiction.
' 
 

14 It was asserted that Australia also had obligations under the World Heritage Convention.
The applicant asserted that consideration had to be given to greenhouse gas emissions from both the extraction process and the eventual burning of the extracted coal and that:
 
 'This development must be declared a "controlled action" for the following reasons: 
 
 
 1.
It will have impact on World Heritage property; 
 
 
 2.
It will impact on listed Threatened Species; 
 3.
It will impact on listed Threatened Ecological Communities; 
 4.
It will have impacts on Migratory Species; 
 
 
 5.
It will have impacts on Wetlands of International Significance; and 
 6.
Australia has international obligations to uphold.
' 
 
 

15 An officer of the Department considered the proposal and the applicant's submission.
He prepared a minute in which he advised the delegate to determine that the proposal was not a controlled action.
Of the applicant's submission the officer observed:
 
 'Comments submitted by the Proserpine/Whitsunday branch of the Wildlife Preservation Society of Queensland raise concerns regarding the loss of habitat for threatened and migratory species, impacts upon the Shoalwater and Corio Bays Ramsar Wetlands, and consequential impacts from global warming.

 
 The mine site is located in the catchment of the Isaac River which flows south into the Fitzroy River and hence into the sea at Rockhampton (a distance of about 300 kms).
The proposed action incorporates measures to minimise impacts on the quality of water being discharged into the Isaac River.
The Shoalwater and Corio Bays Ramsar site lies about 50 to 100 km north of the mouth of the Fitzroy River.
The ecological character of the Ramsar site will not be affected given the minimal nature of discharges and distances/dilution factors involved.

 

16 The reference to the 'Ramsar site' is to a site which has significance under a United Nations treaty made at Ramsar in Iran.
See s 528.
Such sites are mentioned in Subdivision B of Division 1 of Part 3.
17 Under the heading 'Issues' , the officer concluded that 'significant impacts on matters protected under the EPBC Act are not likely' .
He then dealt specifically with threatened species including, in particular, vegetation and animal habitats, the Squatter Pigeon, reptiles, including the Fitzroy tortoise, various plants and migratory species.
In each case he concluded that significant impacts were not likely.
Finally, the officer considered 'Secondary or consequent impacts' , observing: 
 
 'The comments from the Wildlife Preservation Society of Queensland suggest that the impacts of climate change, as a consequence of the burning of coal produced from the mine, on the world heritage values of the Great Barrier Reef World Heritage Area should be considered.
The nature of induced climate change from the referred coal mining operation, and impacts on world heritage values, are speculative.
' 
 

18 He then recommended that the delegate decide that the proposed action was not a controlled action.
The delegate, Mr Flanigan, accepted that recommendation, writing on the minute the following words:
 
 'I regard the likelihood of significant impacts on NES arising from the marginal addition of greenhouse gases to be extremely small, in addition to speculative'.

 

19 The applicant was presumably advised of the decision and requested reasons pursuant to s 13 of the ADJR Act.
At par 7 of the reasons, Mr Flanigan referred to the applicant's submission, observing that:
 
 'One public submission was received from the Proserpine/Whitsunday Branch of the Wildlife Preservation Society of Queensland.
This submission raised concerns regarding loss of habitat for threatened and migratory species and impacts upon the Shoalwater and Corio Bays' Ramsar site, and considered that the proposal should be a controlled action.
