
 
1 The appellant, who has been identified for the purposes of these proceedings as SZBHK, was born in China in about 1956.
On 30 April 1997 a passport was issued to him by the People's Republic of China.
On 6 August 1997 he secured a visa to enter Australia on a short-term basis.
He departed from Shanghai on or about 25 August 1997 and arrived in Australia on or about 26 August 1997.
On 26 September 1997 he applied for a Protection Visa (866).
No grounds were specified in the application for the visa but it would appear to have been accompanied by a typed two page document entitled 'APPLICATION FOR REFUGEE STATUS'.
2 That document referred to what was said to have been persecution of the appellant's father in 1957 for expressing his opinions as a member of a right wing party.
The appellant indicated that as a son of a right wing party member he had been beaten and discriminated against.
This was said to have hurt him deeply in his heart.
No particulars of the circumstances of his beating or discrimination were provided.
The appellant referred to the fact that in 1978 the cultural revolution ended and China was ready to open its doors to the world.
3 Mention was made of the 'China Modern democrat' and it may be inferred that the appellant was a supporter of that movement.
It is said that in 1986, when the appellant was about 30 years of age, he received 'checking and suppressing'.
The appellant says that in 1989 he went to Beijing and made contact with student representatives within a body known as the 'Beijing Workers' Self-government'.
After the massacre, which I would understand to have been a reference to the Tiananmen Square massacre of 1989, the appellant says that he escaped from Beijing to Fushuen and that he was dismissed from the company by which he was employed.
4 He says that in 1994 he joined a 'China Democracy, Human Rights Federation' body headquartered in the United States of America.
He says that from that time onwards he 'desired to escape China'.
He says, without providing any particulars whatsoever:
 
 '... my experience tells my [sic] that if I go back to China, I would be arrested and Jailed.
' 

5 The application for a visa nominated an address in Enmore as the current residential address in Australia of the appellant.
The application was accompanied by a document described as 'APPOINTMENT OF PERSON TO ACT AS AGENT' which had been marked to indicate that all correspondence relating to the appellant's application was to be sent to the agent and if any information, additional documentation or action was required on the appellant's case the agent was to be contacted.
The nominated agent was Chun George Ao whose address was 340/401 Sussex Street, Sydney 2000.
