
 INTRODUCTION 
 Background 
 
 1 In this application, the Employment Advocate under the Workplace Relations Act 1996 ('the Act') seeks a declaration that each of the four respondents, all alleged to be employers of labour at an abattoir called the 'South Grafton Abattoir' engaged in contraventions of s 298K of the Act in two respects.
First, in August and September 2002, the First, Third and Fourth Respondents terminated the employment of 12 individuals for a prohibited reason or reasons that include a prohibited reason.
Secondly, each of the four respondents between mid-September 2002 and December 2002 then refused to employ any one of 11 of those individuals, again for a prohibited reason.
No allegation of a refusal to employ is made concerning Ms Susan Jane Young.
2 The 12 individuals and their respective employers are these:
 Employer Employee First Respondent Terence Anthony Brooks Rodger Charles Campbell Susan Jane Young Paul Gerard Swain Third Respondent Stephen Blackadder Alick James Delaforce Gregory Simon Forrest Colin James Hambly Michael Robert McKenzie Paul Francis McKenzie Trevor Glen Moss Fourth Respondent John Kevin Young 
 

3 Section 298K provides that dismissal of an employee and refusal to employ a person are two classes of prohibited conduct on the part of an employer if undertaken for a prohibited reason.
Section 298L says such conduct is carried out for a prohibited reason if carried out for a reason that the employee or person concerned has, put broadly, joined or become an officer or delegate of an industrial association, secured an entitlement to the benefit of an industrial instrument or order, has participated or given evidence in a particular proceeding or, in the case of an employee who is a member of an industrial association seeking better industrial conditions, is dissatisfied with his or her conditions of employment.
The Employment Advocate alleges that each class of conduct was carried out for one or more of these prohibited reasons in the case of each individual.
The section identifies other subject matter not relevant to these proceedings.
4 Sections 298K and 298L of the Act lie within Div 3 of Pt A which addresses 'Conduct by employers'.
The immediately relevant provisions of s 298K and s 298L are these:
 
 'Division 3 --- Conduct by employers etc. 
 
 SECTION 298K DISMISSAL ETC. OF MEMBERS OF INDUSTRIAL ASSOCIATION ETC. 
 
 298K(1) [Prohibited reasons for certain conduct by an employer] An employer must not, for a prohibited reason, or for reasons that include a prohibited reason, do or threaten to do any of the following: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) dismiss an employee; 
 (b) injure an employee in his or her employment; 
 (c) alter the position of an employee to the employee's prejudice; 
 (d) refuse to employ another person; 
 (e) discriminate against another person in the terms or conditions on which the employer offers to employ the other person.
' 
 
 
 
 
 SECTION 298L PROHIBITED REASONS 
 
 298L(1) [Interpretation] Conduct referred to in subsection 298K(1) or (2) is for a prohibited reason if it is carried out because the employee, independent contractor or other person concerned: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) is, has been, proposes to become or has at any time proposed to become an officer, delegate or member of an industrial association; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 
 
 (h) is entitled to the benefit of an industrial instrument or an order of an industrial body; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 
 
 (j) has participated in, proposes to participate in or has at any time proposed to participate in a proceeding under an industrial law; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (k) has given or proposes to give evidence in a proceeding under an industrial law; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (l) in the case of an employee, or an independent contractor, who is a member of an industrial association that is seeking better industrial conditions --- is dissatisfied with his or her conditions; or 
 
 
 
 
 ...' 
 
 
 

5 It will be necessary later in these Reasons to consider the objects of Pt XA, the inter-relationship between Div 2 (directed to 'conduct' to which Pt XA 'applies') and Div 3 and the jurisprudence concerning the scope and construction of the proscriptions contained in s 298K.
6 Apart from a declaration of a contravention of s 298K of the Act, the Employment Advocate seeks an order imposing on each respondent a penalty pursuant to s 298U(a) of the Act, an order pursuant to s 298U(c) of the Act requiring the respondents to pay the 12 individuals compensation for the affect upon each of them of the contravening conduct and an order in reliance upon s 356(b) of the Act that any penalty imposed upon the respondents be paid to the applicant.
7 Section 298T(2)(d) of Div 6 of Pt XA provides that the Employment Advocate may apply to the Federal Court of Australia for orders under s 298U concerning conduct in contravention of Pt XA.
By reason of s 298X, conduct in contravention of s 298K is not an offence under the Act.
8 Section 298U is in these terms:
 
 'SECTION 298U ORDERS THAT THE FEDERAL COURT MAY MAKE 
 
 298U In respect of conduct in contravention of this Part, the Court may, if the Court considers it appropriate in all the circumstances of the case, make one or more of the following orders: 
 
 
 
 (a) an order imposing on a person or industrial association whose conduct contravened or is contravening the provision in question a penalty of not more than: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) in the case of a body corporate --- 300 penalty units; or 
 
 
 
 (ii) in any other case --- 60 penalty units; 
 
 
 
 
 (b) an order requiring the person or industrial association to reinstate an employee, or to re-engage an independent contractor; 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) an order requiring the person or industrial association to pay to an employee or independent contractor, or to a prospective employee or independent contractor, compensation of such amount as the Court thinks appropriate; 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) an order requiring the person or industrial association not to carry out a threat made by the person or association, or not to make any further threat; 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) injunctions (including interim injunctions), and any other orders, that the Court thinks necessary to stop the conduct or remedy its effects; 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) any other consequential orders.
