
 


 
 1 On reading the affidavits of Heather Ann Tropman, Gary David Coster and Robert Anthony Arnold, and hearing counsel, I am, subject to comments I make in a moment, satisfied that it is appropriate to make orders in the form amended and initialled by me, being based on the power expressly provided for in Order 25B of the Federal Court Rules and dealt with by way of practice note 24 dealing with search orders.
2 The requirements for the grant of the search order set out in Order 25B rule 3 require that the applicant show that it has a strong prima facie case on an accrued cause of action.
3 I am satisfied on the level of ex parte relief that there is a strong prima facie case on an accrued cause of action in relation to what appeared to be counterfeited goods or goods that breach copyright, being gambling machines, their artwork and associated computer software which appear to have been sold to parties in Peru by at least the first respondent, such transactions involving the second respondent in 2002.
There is an explanation in the material as to why this has not been discovered which it is unnecessary to recount.
4 There is material which links the named respondents, though not in a conclusive way in terms of breach of copyright, to various parties who have been found to have breached the same species of copyright in the past in the manufacture and sale of gaming machines, copyright of which is owned by the applicant.
5 I am satisfied, at this level of analysis, that it is likely that the applicant will be able to show its copyright in relation to its gaming machines and the associated aspects of them.
6 There is an issue that may be ventilated in due course as to the necessity for the search to be closely related to the accrued cause of action.
I think the better reading of O 25B, and not having had the assistance of opposing counsel, is the one put to me by Mr Cobden that the flexibility and amplitude of O 25B r 3 would be undermined if one read the search order as limited to the precise cause of action known.
7 Very often a wide number of apparent breaches are evident in these sorts of cases.
It is not, however, the practice that I am aware of either in this Court, in this country or overseas in like jurisdictions, to limit the terms of the order to searching for and seizing only documents or material directly related to the precise causes of action known.
Such a course would tend to make the utility of this procedure doubtful.
It is not a procedure lightly to be invoked.
Nevertheless, if appropriate foundation is laid for it, it should not be so framed as to make its utilisation overly complex and technical.
8 In those circumstances, I am prepared to make the orders sought with the limitation that one finds on the search in the definition of "Listed Things" in Schedule A.
Appropriate provision according to the practice note has been made for independent solicitors and an independent computer expert.
I have varied the usual practice note form to allow some participation by employees of the applicant in circumstances of close supervision by the independent solicitor and the computer expert.
9 I have also granted an interlocutory injunction in terms of paragraph 28 of the order up to and including 4.30 pm on the return date.
Given the matters that have been proved, I accept Mr Cobden's submissions that this is appropriate.
10 The return date will be 5 July 2006, and the matter will be listed before Rares J, the Duty Judge on that day, at 9.30 am.
11 I have already made an order to the extent that it is appropriate and necessary to Auscript, to take all steps practicable to have the transcript of discussion of counsel this afternoon and my short reasons available by 9 am on Monday, 3 July 2006 so that they can be served.
12 I permit and direct Auscript to release the transcript of the judgment before settling in final form by myself in chambers.
I certify that the preceding twelve (12) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Allsop.
Associate:

Dated: 17 July 2006


 Counsel for the Applicant: Mr R Cobden SC 
 
 Solicitor for the Applicant: Baker  McKenzie 
 
 Date of Hearing: 30 June 2006 
 
 Date of Judgment: 30 June 2006 

 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2006/862.html 
 
 
