
 THE APPEALS 
 
 1 These are appeals by three taxpayers against appealable objection decisions made by the respondent (the "Commissioner") in connection with their taxation returns for the years ended 30 June 1995, 30 June 1996, 30 June 1997, 30 June 1998, 30 June 1999, 30 June 2000 and 30 June 2002.
Mr and Mrs Weyers are husband and wife.
Nommack Nominees Pty Ltd ("Nommack Nominees") was originally known as Robert Weyers Constructions Pty Ltd and later, as Zapped Pty Ltd.
Since December 1994 it has been the trustee of the Elizabeth Street Sydney trust (the "Sydney trust"), or at least that is the case advanced by all three applicants.
Mr and Mrs Weyers are directors and shareholders of Nommack Nominees.

 MR WEYERS' TRADING HISTORY 
 
 2 Mr Weyers has, for a long time, worked in the construction and property development industries.
At one stage he was a tradesman, conducting his business through Nommack Nominees, then known as Robert Weyers Constructions Pty Ltd.
He and his family moved to Queensland in 1983 when he took up a position with Richard Crookes  Associates Pty Ltd ("the Crookes company").
In or about 1991 the Crookes company went into liquidation.
Mr Weyers was a director and had given personal guarantees of its debts.
Trade creditors sought to enforce the guarantees.
At that time Robert Weyers Constructions changed its name to Zapped.
Mr Weyers survived financially.
Since that time, he and Mrs Weyers have been concerned to avoid personal liability for trade debts.
Until late 1994 Mr Weyers traded through a company called Cherrybrook Pty Ltd ("Cherrybrook") as trustee of the Weyers Family Trust (the "family trust").
Initially, Cherrybrook contracted for the supply of Mr Weyers' services to Forrester Parker Developments Pty Ltd ("Forrester") which company was completing projects previously undertaken by the Crookes company.
The arrangement between Cherrybrook and Forrester continued until late 1994.
By that time Cherrybrook was also engaging in other projects not involving Forrester.
Mr Weyers expected that Cherrybrook would derive substantially increased income in the future and so consulted his accountants about tax minimization.
He initially spoke to a Mr Don Steele, but Mr Steele's son, Mr Ross Steele, was primarily involved in the events which followed.

 TAX MINIMIZATION ADVICE, MR STEELE, MR PRIDDLE AND MR COLLIE 
 
 3 Mr Ross Steele or Mr Don Steele consulted two persons who were experienced in tax minimization, Mr Priddle and Mr Collie, both solicitors.
Mr Priddle was practising on his own account.
Mr Collie practised with a firm, Cleary Hoare.
I infer that thereafter, Mr and Mrs Weyers acted upon advice given by either Mr Ross Steele, Mr Priddle or Mr Collie.
After Nommack Nominees became involved in relevant transactions, it also acted on such advice.
4 Mr Priddle recommended that Mr and Mrs Weyers "acquire" a trust which had accumulated losses against which income could be "set off" for tax purposes.
At that time, Mr Priddle expected that the efficacy of such a device might be adversely affected by anticipated amendments to the Income Tax Assessment Act (1936) (Cth) (the "ITA Act").
It was therefore necessary to move quickly.
He approached Mr Collie.
Mr Collie knew of the Sydney trust and, in late 1994, it was decided that Mr and Mrs Weyers should acquire control of it.
Mr Priddle had previously known nothing about the Sydney trust.
Mr Collie attended to the necessary documentation.
At some stage Mr Priddle advised the Weyers that the proposal was lawful and effective.
In a letter to Mr Weyers, dated 21 December 1994 he said:
 'I refer to our recent discussions in relation to the affairs of the Elizabeth Street Sydney Trust and confirm that I have researched the records and affairs of the Trust thoroughly.
The transaction reflected in the Facilitation Agreement and the Deed of the Removal of Appointment of Trustee makes it clear at law that the new Trustee (and therefore the Trust) cannot in any way be liable for any debts of the Trust incurred before today.
' 
 
 5 In evidence he said that in advising Mr Weyers to acquire the Sydney trust he had not considered whether there was any continuity as between the trust's previous business and that to be conducted through it by Mr Weyers.
6 It is convenient at this stage to say a little about Mr Collie's evidence.
In 1992 he acquired a company called ComLaw Pty Ltd which was appointed to be trustee of the ComLaw trust and undertook all future activities in that capacity.
Mr Collie originally intended that it would perform syndication work in relation to property developments but in the early 1990s, he identified opportunities arising out of the collapsed property market, particularly in Sydney and Adelaide.
In order to take advantage of these opportunities ComLaw acquired two other companies, Annesley Investments Pty Ltd ("Annesley") and Haven Sea Pty Ltd ("Haven Sea").
At all material times Mr Collie was a director of both companies.
Annesley became trustee of the Annesley Trust which was established on 1 May 1994.
These entities played minor roles in the transactions subsequently entered into by the Weyers.
7 During 1994 and 1995 ComLaw was approached by accountants, some seeking to find a market for clients who "owned" trusts which had accumulated losses and others seeking entities with deductible tax losses for acquisition by clients.
Mr Collie decided that Annesley and Haven Sea should enter that market.
The general basis upon which they operated in acquiring and selling "entities" was as follows: 
 
 
 '10.1 Only trusts with assets (whether realised or unrealised deductible losses) would be considered.
It was recognised that whilst a trust would not fail for want of a trustee, it would do so for want of any assets.

 
 
 
 
 
 10.2 Accordingly, care was taken as far as possible to ensure that any prospective trust had always retained some assets.

 
 10.3 Annesley would assume the role of a facilitator and acquire control of relevant trusts when there appeared to be a prospect of marrying a vendor and a purchaser with a significant price difference between the parties.

 
 10.4 Haven Sea would assume the role of trustee at the time the acquisition was made.

 
 10.5 In order to limit any financial exposure to Annesley, the acquisitions were only to be made on the purchaser committing to proceed.
' 
 
 
 
 8 The documents used to give effect to such transactions included:- 
 
 '10.6.1 A Facilitation Agreement pursuant to which Annesley acquired effective control of the loss trust from the relevant interests of the vendor described as the "Facilitators" ... 
 
 
 
 
 
 10.6.2 A Deed of Removal and Appointment of Trustee pursuant to which Haven Sea was appointed the new trustee in lieu of vendor interests.
The Deed also provided for the acquisition by Annesley for a nominal sum of the previous trustee's right of indemnity against trust assets.

 
 
 
 
 
 10.6.3 Financial Statements relating to the period up to the acquisition by Annesley being provided and confirmed by the vendor or parties associated with it.

 
 
 
 
 
 10.6.4 A Facilitation Agreement pursuant to which Annesley (as Facilitator) agreed to transfer control of the trust with the difference between the consideration payable under this agreement and that payable under the agreement referred to in sub-paragraph 1 above representing the profit to be derived by Annesley on the transaction.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10.6.5 A Deed of Removal and Appointment of Trustee which, in essence, provided for the appointment of the purchaser's nominee as the new trustee of the trust and also saw the transfer of the right of indemnity to interests associated with the purchaser.
In most cases, the consideration payable was equivalent to the consideration payable under the Deed relating to the change of trustee in favour of Haven Sea.

 
 10.6.6 Financial statements and business records being provided to the purchaser's interests and, if possible and relevant, statutory declarations from those aware of the previous business dealings of the trust being acquired.
' 
 
 
 9 Mr Collie said that this approach was used in about eight transactions in the period from 30 June 1994 to 30 April 1995.
10 In late 1994 Mr Collie was contacted by Mr Gary Urwin of the Sydney accounting firm, Hall Chadwick.
He indicated that clients of that firm had incurred significant trading losses.
He inquired whether there was a market in Brisbane for such "entities".
The word "entities" seems to have referred to, or included, the Sydney trust.
At about that time Mr Collie was also contacted by Mr Priddle on behalf of the Weyers.
Mr Collie said that 'At some point soon thereafter, it became apparent that (the Sydney trust) could be suitable given the quantum of losses and the likely purchase/sale costs.
' Mr Collie "acquired" the trust and "assigned" it to the Weyers.
This occurred in or about December 1994, prior to the date on which sch 2F (ss 265-5 --- 272-140) of the ITA Act took effect.

 THE SYDNEY TRUST 
 
 11 The history of the Sydney trust appears from the affidavit of Richard Thomas de Lauret Arnold, a chartered accountant, and those of two solicitors, Mr Robinson and Mr Creais.
Mr Arnold was, from its incorporation in 1984 until 1989, a director of Nommack (No 75) Pty Ltd ("Nommack (No 75)"), the trustee.
No explanation has been given for choice of the name Nommack Nominees as the new name for Zapped Pty Ltd.
It was unrelated to Nommack (No 75).
The Sydney trust was established on 11 October 1985.
Nommack (No 75) was its trustee from that date, probably until June, 1994.
Mr Arnold prepared its tax returns until 1989 and, after the Weyers obtained control of it, for the years 1990 to 1994.
12 The Sydney trust was set up by Frank William Theeman and George Adler, both of whom were Mr Arnold's clients.
They intended to use it as a vehicle for the purchase and sale of property in the Sydney central business district.
They acquired Nommack (No 75) for use as its trustee.
The trust deed is dated 11 October 1985 and records that the settlor, Vernette Elizabeth McLean, transferred to Nommack (No 75) the sum of one dollar upon the terms and conditions of the trust.
There is confusion in the trust accounts as to whether the original settled amount was one dollar or ten dollars.
The beneficiaries identified are:
 '(a) National Heart Foundation of Australia Queensland Division.

 
 (b) The Australian Red Cross Society Queensland Division.

 
 (c) The Royal Guide Dogs for the Blind Association of Queensland.

 
 
 
 (d) Any person or corporation (not being the Settlor) who or which at the time hereof or at any time prior to the vesting day has made or makes a donation to any one or more of the above named beneficiaries in the sum of $2 or upwards and who or which (with the consent of the Guardian should there be a person or company holding such office) the Trustee may at any time and from time to time after June 30, 1985 and before the vesting day nominate to be a general beneficiary.

 
 (e) Any person, corporation, trustee of any trust or charity as the Appointor shall by notice in writing to the Trustee after June 30 1985 and before the vesting day appoint to be a beneficiary for the purpose of this Deed PROVIDED THAT the following shall not be appointed beneficiaries for the purpose of this subclause; 
 (i) the Settlor; 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) any trust which would if appointed result in the infringement of the law against perpetuities.

 
 
 
 
 
 (f) Any assignee of rights of a beneficiary including any assignee of a part of those rights or of the right to receive income in whole or in part indefinitely for a fixed or limited period.
' 
 
 
 
 13 The trust deed contemplated the appointment of both an appointor and a guardian.
Pursuant to sch 3 the first guardian was F.W.T.
Investments Pty Ltd.
The first appointor was Commercial Administrations (Kogarah) Pty Ltd.
The guardian could, in effect, control aspects of the trustee's exercise of powers under the trust deed.
The taxpayers accept that at all times relevant to these proceedings, there was no guardian.
The appointor was empowered to appoint new trustees and a new appointor.

 THEEMAN AND ADLER --- PROPERTY TRANSACTIONS 
 
 14 Mr Arnold said that Messrs Theeman and Adler conducted their business in a particular way.
Having identified a property for development, they would then acquire a new trustee company and establish a separate trust for the venture.
The trustee would enter into an agreement to purchase the chosen property, borrowing the amount of the deposit pursuant to a limited recourse loan agreement with Rothwells, a merchant bank, or one of its associated companies.
The terms of the loan provided for the equal division of nett profits between the lender and the trustee, after repayment of loan moneys and interest.
Theeman and Adler were not, themselves, developers.
They acquired property only for resale to developers.
15 According to Mr Arnold, the Sydney trust was established by Theeman and Adler as a vehicle for the purchase and sale of property at 261 and 263 Elizabeth Street, Sydney.
That property was acquired and re-sold prior to 30 June 1987 for a nett profit of about $500,000.
Notwithstanding the previously stated policy of using a new company and a new trust for each project, Messrs Theeman and Adler decided to use the Sydney trust in the acquisition and sale (the "Elizabeth Street project") of another property at 142-148 Elizabeth Street, Sydney (the "Elizabeth Street property").
In August 1987 Nommack (No 75), as trustee of the Sydney trust, entered into a contract to buy that property for $16.5 million.
A deposit of $1.65 million was paid, having been advanced to Nommack (No 75) by Media Portfolio Ltd. Mr Arnold understood that company to be a member of the Rothwells Group, based in Western Australia.
However other evidence suggests that it was associated with a Mr Peter Lucas and was based in Melbourne.
Mr Arnold's evidence invites the inference that the loan was on terms similar to those set out above.
I am not sure that I should draw it.
16 The funds were advanced by way of a commercial bill facility for a fixed period, but in the expectation that it would be renegotiated at maturity and "rolled over" for up to two years.
Mr Arnold said in par 19 of his affidavit:
 'In terms of the loan arrangements, the trustee Nommack No 75 remained liable for repayment of the deposit monies and accrued interest to Media Portfolio (even in the event of the Contract of Sale not proceeding).
I recall that Frank Theeman was a man of substantial wealth whilst Mr Adler had very few assets.
Mr Theeman was concerned in relation to his liability on borrowed funds and insisted that any borrowings that they undertook were to be limited only to the project.
That is, there were to be no personal guarantees or other recourse beyond the special project vehicle and its assets.
' 
 
 17 Mr Arnold did not identify the source of his knowledge as set out in the first sentence of the paragraph.
One might reasonably expect a director of Nommack (No 75) to have had such knowledge, but other parts of the evidence suggest that he had no direct knowledge of the matter.
The project failed, and the vendor forfeited the deposit.
It is not entirely clear whether this was because Nommack Nominees could not find a buyer or because it could not find funds to complete.
Perhaps it was a combination of both.
Such difficulties were said to have resulted from the collapse of the property market and the 1987 stock market "crash".
18 On 11 August 1988 Nommack (No 75) lodged a caveat over the property.
I infer that, by that date, it was in default, and that the vendor had rescinded, or threatened to rescind, the contract, forfeiting the deposit.
Mr Theeman died on 24 January 1989.
On 10 September 1990 the vendor applied, pursuant to the Real Property Act 1900 (NSW), for an 'application for preparation of lapsing notice'.
That is apparently the process used by registered proprietors in New South Wales to remove caveats.
Evidence from the solicitors who were then acting for Nommack (No 75), Messrs Robinson and Creais, suggests that in all probability, the caveat was subsequently removed.
Mr Arnold cannot remember the outcome.
I infer that the caveat has been removed.
It is inconceivable that it could still be current in light of the subsequent history of Nommack (No 75).
Mr Arnold understood that the debt owed to Media Portfolio was never forgiven or repaid.
It continued to accumulate interest which Mr Arnold showed as a debt in the accounts of Nommack (No 75) for the years 1990 --- 1994.
According to Mr Arnold, an additional debt of $133,971 was incurred for consultancy fees.
As far as the evidence goes, neither Nommack (No 75) nor the Sydney trust entered into any further transactions until late 1994 or early 1995.

 "TRANSFER" OF THE SYDNEY TRUST TO MR COLLIE 
 
 19 On 20 June 1994, the appointor, Commercial Administrations (Kogarah) Pty Ltd, now known as Hall Chadwick NSW Management Consulting Pty Ltd ("Hall Chadwick NSW"), appointed V.A.
Clothing Pty Ltd ("VA Clothing") to be trustee of the Sydney trust.
VA Clothing was controlled by Mr Arnold.
I infer that this step was taken in preparation for the transfer of the trust to some other person, perhaps Mr Collie.
Until 29 February 1996 Mr Arnold's wife was also a director.
They both attended a meeting of the board held on 20 June 1994 at which the company's appointment as trustee was noted.
Under the heading 'Indemnity' , the minutes recorded that: 
 'The Chairman referred to the Elizabeth Street Sydney Trust and reported that he had negotiated acquisition of the right of indemnity from the former Trustee.
In view of the trust's liabilities, the acquisition price was agreed to be $1,000 to be satisfied by payment of the amount in part settlement of professional accountancy fees due by the former trustee.

 RESOLVED to execute any necessary documents to complete the transaction.
' 
 
 20 This suggests that Mr Arnold had negotiated the assignment of the right of indemnity by Nommack (No 75) in payment of his outstanding fees.
One might have inferred that Mr Arnold was the assignee, but that would not explain why the matter was raised at the board meeting.
In subsequent transactions it seems to have been assumed that VA Clothing was the assignee.
There is no other evidence as to the terms of the assignment, nor as to the mechanism by which Nommack (No 75) made the assignment.
It also seems to have subsequently been assumed that Nommack (No 75) had, by such assignment, released its claim to indemnity from the trust assets for any debt properly incurred by it as trustee of the Sydney trust.
I would not infer such release from the content of the minutes of the meeting of 20 June 1994.
I would rather have inferred that the assignment was of the future benefit of the right to indemnity, although such an assignment would be unnecessary.
The trust deed and equitable principles would have conferred such right on any new trustee.
