
 
 1 I have before me an urgent application for interlocutory relief in respect of an alleged infringement of the applicants' monopoly in Australian Registered Design 150767, which I will refer to as 'the Registered Design'.
The applicants have sought the following orders: 

1.
An order that, pending the trial of these proceedings or further earlier order, the respondents and each of them and their directors, officers, servants and agents be restrained from manufacturing, importing, distributing, promoting, offering for sale or selling anywhere within Australia any article to which the Registered Design or any fraudulent or obvious imitation of it has been applied.
2.
Orders that pursuant to O 17(1)(a) and (2) of the Federal Court Rules :
 
(a) the applicants and their solicitors Bennett  Philp be permitted to attend at the first respondent's premises at Underwood, Beenleigh, Browns Plains and Ipswich on the day next following the making of these orders and commencing at 10.00 am
 
(b) at such attendance the first respondent have available for the free and unfettered inspection, counting and photography by the applicants and Bennet  Philp every football kicking tee of the kind referred to as 'the infringing tees' in the accompanying statement of claim that is in the possession of or power of the first respondent at such premises
 
(c) forthwith upon the making of these orders and prior to the commencement of that attendance, the first respondent cause all stocks of 'the infringing tees' presently held at any location other than those stores whatsoever to be recalled to its Underwood store and made available for that attendance described in par 2(b) above.
3.
The first and second respondents pay the applicants' costs of the Interlocutory Application and of that attendance described in par (2) above.
4.
Time for service of this Application be abridged.
5.
Such further or other orders as the Court deems appropriate.

 2 The application was filed with the Brisbane Registry of the Federal Court of Australia on Monday 24 July 2006.
It was set down as an urgent hearing before me this morning at 10.15 am.
3 There was however no appearance by the respondents in court this morning.
