
 1.
INTRODUCTION 
 
1 In Waltons Stores (Interstate) Limited v Maher [1988] HCA 7 ; (1988) 164 CLR 387 (" Waltons") at 423, Brennan J pointed to the difficulty of contending for an estoppel against a party's freedom to withdraw from contractual negotiations.
His Honour said that it is only if the first party induces the other to believe that the inducer, ie the first party, is already bound and that there is no freedom to withdraw, that it could be unconscionable for the first party to assert an entitlement to withdraw from the negotiations.
2 Notwithstanding this difficulty, the applicant contends that the respondent is estopped from interfering with its occupation, management and control of a parcel of land comprising about 202,000 square metres and known as the Acacia Ridge Interstate Container Terminal ("the AR terminal") near Brisbane in circumstances in which the respondent withdrew from negotiations for a 30 year lease.
The respondent owns an adjoining parcel of land comprising about 86,000 square metres.
This is known as the Q-link Terminal.
I will describe its location at [194].
The respondent conducts rail freight services from the Q-link terminal.
The applicant makes no claim to that terminal.
These proceedings are concerned solely with the applicant's claim in respect of the AR terminal.
3 The respondent owns the AR terminal, which is an intermodal terminal enabling the transfer of containers between trains and trucks which service the Brisbane area.
The applicant went into possession, and assumed the management and operational control, of the AR terminal on 5 April 1993.
It has remained in occupation, management and control ever since.
It occupied the AR terminal as a monthly tenant under an expired lease from April 1996 until its tenancy was purportedly terminated in May 2003.
It remained in occupation thereafter as explained below.
4 The applicant's estoppel claim is based upon fourteen pleaded assumptions which are said to have formed the conventional basis upon which the parties to this proceeding conducted their relations.
In final address, four of the pleaded assumptions were not pressed.
5 The applicant contends that the respondent is bound by a conventional estoppel or alternatively a proprietary estoppel or in the further alternative an equitable estoppel said to have arisen from the respondent's encouragement of the applicant to assume control in the expectation that a 30 year lease would be negotiated.
6 Underlying the assumptions is an agreement known as the Establishment Agreement ("EA") entered into between the Commonwealth and a number of the States, including the State of Queensland, on 30 July 1991.
It is occasionally referred to in documents as the "Shareholders Agreement".
7 Until 1991, rail freight operations in Australia had been conducted by separate state owned railway companies.
Those operations had incurred disastrous losses.
The EA was an attempt to achieve micro-economic reform of the rail freight industry.
It was an exercise in co-operative federalism.
It provided for the incorporation of a single company, in which the governmental parties to the EA may hold shares, to conduct rail freight operations on a commercial basis.
The applicant, which was originally named National Rail Corporation Limited ("NRC"), was that company.
8 The State of Queensland did not become a shareholder of NRC but it was subject to an obligation contained in cl 5(6)(a) of the EA to cause its rail authority to transfer ownership of, or for so long as NRC continues to conduct national interstate freight operations, give a lease of, or grant access to NRC in relation to assets owned by its rail authority and used in connection with interstate freight.
Queensland Railways was the State of Queensland's rail authority when the EA was executed.
Queensland Rail ("QR"), the respondent, is its successor.
9 Clause 5(6)(a) of the EA stated the framework through which the grant of ownership, lease or access rights was to be created.
In 1992, NRC identified the AR terminal as an asset required by it in accordance with that framework.
Clause 5(6)(a) then provided that the State of Queensland had a discretion as to which of the three stipulated forms of property right would be granted, that is, ownership, lease or access.
There is an issue between the parties as to whether the discretion was exercised.
10 The concluding words of cl 5(6)(a) of the EA provided for the transfer of ownership or the grant of a lease or access rights to be on such commercial terms and conditions as were agreed between NRC and the State of Queensland.
11 Apart from the terms of a three year lease, commencing with effect in April 1993, no commercial terms and conditions were agreed.
The three year lease was, for reasons dealt with later, a separate arrangement which was put in place outside the terms of the EA.
12 Mr Vincent O'Rourke ("Mr O'Rourke") who was the CEO of the respondent, and of its predecessor Queensland Railways, conceded in cross-examination that the control of the AR terminal which was transferred to NRC in April 1993 was in anticipation of a lease of up to 30 years being negotiated between the parties.
Mr O'Rourke also conceded that it was confidently expected between himself and Mr Vince Graham ("Mr Graham") the Managing Director of NRC, that the necessary details for such a lease would be agreed between the parties and put in place.
13 During the term of the three year lease NRC incurred or approved two relevant categories of capital expenditure.
The first was an amount of approximately $17 million on upgrading the AR terminal.
This expenditure included the construction of new railway track.
14 The second item was an amount of approximately $200 million on what was known as the East Coast Strategy.
This was a capital investment strategy for the improvement of NRC's competitiveness in rail freight on the east coast of Australia.
It was seen by NRC as an essential part of the establishment of an integrated national rail freight network.
It involved the purchase of new locomotives and expansion of existing east coast terminals, including the AR terminal, to cater for the running of longer trains.
15 Between May 1996 and March 1997, NRC and the respondent held negotiations for a long term lease of the AR terminal.
The period of the lease, with options, would have provided for a tenure of 30 years.
The parties had not reached agreement on a number of essential terms of the lease by March 1997 when the negotiations ceased.
NRC conceded that the negotiations which took place up to that time were sincere and were conducted in good faith.
16 On 27 March 1997, Mr O'Rourke wrote a significant letter to Mr Graham.
The letter stated that the respondent withdrew its "offer" of a 30 year lease.
Nevertheless, Mr O'Rourke stated that the respondent would negotiate in good faith an agreement to permit NRC to have access rights to the AR terminal.
This was the first time in the course of the negotiations in 1996 to 1997 that the respondent put forward to NRC a proposal of access rights rather than a long term lease.
The letter was referred to during the proceedings as the "change of position" letter.
17 The substance of NRC's claim in estoppel is that NRC and the respondent each assumed, and mutually adopted an assumption, that long term control of the AR terminal was transferred to NRC in accordance with the EA in April 1993 and that this was to continue for so long as NRC conducted national interstate freight operations.
It was also said that NRC and the respondent mutually assumed that a long term lease of 20 to 30 years would be negotiated in order to facilitate the transfer of control.
NRC's case was that the terms of the lease were subsidiary to control of the AR terminal which passed to NRC in April 1993.
Other formulations of the estoppel claim were also pursued.
18 NRC was said to have acted to its detriment in reliance upon these assumptions by incurring the two significant categories of expenditure to which I have referred.
NRC also submitted that it was induced by the assumptions to refrain from pursuing political solutions or alternative dispute resolution mechanisms which were available to it.
NRC also contended that it would suffer "operational detriment", that is to say, adverse consequences for its rail freight operations in the ways set out at [867] --- [868] below.
19 The change of position letter was submitted by NRC to have been an unconscionable departure from the assumptions.
However, unlike most estoppel cases in which there is an unequivocal change of position that either is, or is not, unconscionable, these proceedings are complicated by the fact that the alleged departure from the assumption was accompanied by what amounted to an offer to compensate NRC for any detriment.
The offer was to negotiate in good faith for access rights in lieu of a lease.
20 Indeed, the offer of compensation for NRC's detriment did not stop with the change of position letter.
There have been extensive communications between the parties since March 1997 which bear upon the question of whether any detriment to NRC has been met by offers to provide access.
The respondent's most recent offer, made shortly before the commencement of the hearing, and amended during the course of the hearing, is a lengthy Draft Terminal Services Agreement which has not been accepted by NRC.
21 Thus, whilst denying that NRC has made good the basal elements of its estoppel claim, the respondent points to the following proposition stated by McHugh J in Commonwealth of Australia v Verwayen [1990] HCA 39 ; (1990) 170 CLR 394 (" Verwayen") at 501 as a complete answer to the claim:-
 
 "Once the detriment has ceased or been paid for, there is nothing unconscionable in a party insisting on reverting to his or her former relationship with the other party and enforcing his or her strict legal rights.
" 
 

22 NRC puts its claim under both s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ("the Act ") and estoppel but similar questions arise in each of the claims.
23 NRC also claims that the respondent has engaged in unconscionable conduct in contravention of ss 51AA and 51AC of the Act .
These claims turn largely upon strategies put forward by the respondent's middle management, in particular during 2001, for avoiding any obligations on the State of Queensland under the EA and for the use of the AR terminal as a "bargaining chip" in efforts by the respondent to enter interstate markets for the supply of rail freight services.
24 NRC's other major claim is that the respondent, by giving NRC a notice to quit the AR terminal and claiming possession of it under a cross-claim, has taken advantage of its market power for a proscribed purpose in contravention of s 46 of the Act .
25 This claim was influenced in part by the unique location of the AR terminal and the curious fact that railway track in Queensland is narrow gauge (3 foot 6 inches wide) whereas railway track on the east coast corridor is standard gauge (4 feet 81/2 inches wide).
26 The AR terminal is located between the City of Brisbane and the Queensland/NSW border ("the border").
Rail track from the border to the AR terminal is standard gauge.
The respondent owns the track.
27 The rail track running north from the AR terminal to Cairns is narrow gauge.
The respondent owns that track.
28 The AR terminal has standard gauge and narrow gauge track.
It also has dual gauge track.
The AR terminal is the only terminal in Queensland which is capable of servicing substantial volumes of interstate rail freight service into and out of Queensland between standard and narrow gauge.
29 There is standard gauge track from the AR terminal to the Fisherman Islands terminal at the Port of Brisbane (known as the Brisbane Multi-Modal terminal or "BMT") but that track does not extend further along the north coast line to far north Queensland.
30 The AR terminal is therefore an ideal location for the trans-shipment of freight between northern Queensland and the southern states.
31 The respondent is a vertically integrated rail operator.
It conducts "above rail" interstate passenger and freight services in Queensland.
Since at least early 2005, it has conducted services between Queensland and the Southern terminals.
It owns and operates all the "below rail" narrow gauge infrastructure north of the AR terminal.
It also owns and operates the infrastructure comprising the standard gauge track in Queensland.
32 NRC contends that since at least 1995 there has been a market for the supply of narrow gauge railway track infrastructure services north of the AR terminal ("North Coast Rail Infrastructure Market") and a market for the supply of standard gauge railway track infrastructure services south of the AR terminal ("Standard Gauge Rail Infrastructure Market").
33 NRC also contends that QR has a substantial degree of power in each of those markets.
34 NRC further contends that in seeking to resume control of the AR terminal and provide "mere" access rights to NRC, the respondent has taken advantage of its substantial degree of power in each of the infrastructure markets for the purpose of damaging NRC in its provision of rail linehaul services in two other markets.
35 Those other markets are the supply of rail linehaul services on the north cost line between Brisbane and Cairns ("North Cost Rail Linehaul Market") and rail linehaul services on the east coast corridor ("East Coast Rail Linehaul Market").
36 NRC's claim under s 46 of the Act only bites if its estoppel claim fails.
That is to say, it proceeds on the basis that NRC has no legal or equitable right to a 30 year lease and that when the notice to quit was given NRC was in possession of the AR terminal as a month to month tenant holding over under an expired lease.
37 It would be a false dichotomy to suggest that there is a distinction between taking advantage of market power and taking advantage of property rights: see NT Power Generation Pty Limited v Power and Water Authority [2004] HCA 48 ; (2004) 219 CLR 90 (" NT Power ") at [125].
Property rights can be a source of market power attracting liability under s 46 of the Act .
38 Nevertheless, NRC's resort to s 46 to support its claim for a 30 year lease would appear to have startling consequences.
It would seem to follow from NRC's contentions that an owner of property which is an essential input in a market can be compelled to give a competitor exclusive possession of the property, rather than mere access to it, thereby depriving the owner from having access to the property other than by an application pursuant to Part IIIA of the Act .
39 Unfortunately, my reasons for judgment are long.
The factual matrix covers a period of approximately 15 years from 1990 and culminates with the delivery by the respondent of its latest offer of access contained in the amended Draft Terminal Services Agreement on 6 July 2005.
40 The principal witnesses were Mr Graham and Mr O'Rourke, but the dramatis personae is large.
I attach to my judgment as Schedule 1 a dramatis personae
 
41 There were many acronyms and technical terms used to describe features of the rail infrastructure and rail linehaul markets to which I have referred.
I attach a list of acronyms at Schedule 2 and a glossary of terms at Schedule 3.
42 NRC was privatised in 2002.
Its shares were purchased by a consortium owned by Toll Holdings Limited ("Toll") and Patrick Corporation Limited.
The consortium completed the purchase of shares in NRC on 21 February 2002 and its name was thereafter changed to Pacific National (ACT) Limited ("PN").
So far as possible I will refer to the applicant as NRC in all communications and events up to 21 February 2002.
I will endeavour to refer to it in all communications and events thereafter as PN.
43 The respondent was established by the Government Owned Corporations (Queensland Rail) Regulation 1995 ("GOC Regulation") with effect from 1 July 1995.
It is the successor in law to Queensland Railways: see s 14(1) of the GOC Regulation.
I will refer to the respondent as QR.
For convenience it may sometimes be necessary to refer to Queensland Railways as QR but it is to be understood that a reference to "QR" in a communication or event prior to 1 July 1995 is to Queensland Railways.
44 QR has two cross-claims against PN.
The first is made pursuant to s 46 of the Act .
It is, in effect, that PN has taken advantage of a substantial degree of power in the Standard Gauge Rail Infrastructure Market, through its control of the AR terminal, to refuse a number of requests for access made by QR and another company.
It is contended that PN was motivated by an anti-competitive purpose proscribed by s 46 of the Act .
45 The second cross-claim made by QR is for possession of the AR terminal.
If PN fails in its claim to an entitlement to a 30 year lease or to remain in control of the AR terminal then it would seem to follow that QR must be entitled to succeed in its claim for possession.
QR would also succeed in its claim for, what may be described as statutory mesne profits under s 139 of the Property Law Act 1974 (Qld) (" Property Law Act ").
The claim is for rental being double the rent which would have been payable immediately before the notice to quit was given.
2.
PRELIMINARY MATTERS 
 The pleaded assumptions and the case sought to be made by PN at the trial 
 
46 I accept QR's submission that NRC's case suffers from the handicap of pleading multiple and conflicting assumptions.
47 I also accept that only four of the pleaded assumptions have any bearing on the case conducted at the trial.
These are that:-
 
 (1) QR would grant a lease or access to NRC of the AR terminal for so long as NRC carried on the business of interstate rail freight operations in Queensland on a commercial basis, or for at least 30 years.
(2) QR would provide NRC with access to the AR terminal in a way which would enable NRC to have the greatest prospect of securing its commercial viability.
(3) QR would permit NRC to occupy the AR terminal and to have control of the management and operation for so long as NRC carried on the business of interstate rail freight operations into Queensland, or for at least 30 years.
(4) In 1993 QR transferred control of the AR terminal to NRC on the basis that the transfer would be effective for so long as NRC carried on the business of interstate rail freight in Queensland, or for at least 30 years.

 
 
 
 

48 PN submitted that its case was not that QR promised NRC a long term lease.
That seems to be a disavowal of the first pleaded assumption set out above.
Notwithstanding this, the four assumptions set out above reflect precisely what was pleaded in the Statement of Claim.
49 Ultimately, PN's case as pressed in final address was that NRC and QR mutually adopted an assumption that control of the AR terminal was transferred to NRC on 5 April 1993 pursuant to the EA, with no "sunset provision".
PN's case was that the question of the form of the property rights was merely "formal" and "ancillary" to the control which had already passed.
50 The alleged assumption that control had passed for a period, which may have been in perpetuity, appears to have its foundation in the fourth of the pleaded assumptions set out above.
The proposition that property rights were ancillary to control does not seem to have been pleaded.
In any event, for reasons given later, it has other difficulties.
The parties to these proceedings and the parties to the EA 
 
 

51 NRC was incorporated on 19 September 1991.
NRC was of course not a party to the EA but was established pursuant to it.
52 The Commonwealth Government announced its intention to privatise NRC on 24 November 1996 but privatisation was not effected until February 2002 when the shares were sold to the Toll/Patrick consortium.
53 Queensland Railways was established under the Transport Infrastructure (Railways) Act 1991 (Qld) (" TIR Act ").
The TIR Act provided that Queensland Railways' predecessor, the Commissioner of Railways, which was a corporation sole, was continued in existence under the name Queensland Railways: see s 4(1) of the TIR Act .
54 Queensland Railways was a legal entity, separate from the State of Queensland although it was an agency of the Queensland Government: see s 10(c) of the TIR Act .
55 Queensland Railways was not a party to the EA.
The State of Queensland is not a party to these proceedings.
56 Queensland Railways was dissolved by Reg 20(1) of the GOC Regulation, which established QR as its successor.
57 QR is a government owned corporation: see Reg 19(2) of the GOC Regulation.
Its shares are held equally by the Queensland Treasurer and the Queensland Department of Transport (also referred to as "Queensland Transport" or "QT" in documents).
QR is not an agency of the Queensland Government.
The corporate state of mind of NRC 
 
58 In Krakowski v Eurolynx Properties Limited [1994] HCA 22 ; (1995) 183 CLR 563 at 582-3, the High Court approved the following statement of principle of Bright J in Brambles Holdings Limited v Carey (1976) 15 SASR 270 (" Brambles ") at 279:-
 
 "Always, when beliefs or opinions or states of mind are attributed to a company it is necessary to specify some person or persons so closely and relevantly connected with the company that the state of mind of that person or those persons can be treated as being identified with the company so that their state of mind can be treated as being the state of mind of the company.
" 
 

59 That is not to say that the state of mind to be attributed to a corporation must always be the state of mind of one particular officer: Brambles at 275 per Bray CJ; see also Wood v City of Melbourne (1979) 26 ALR 430 at 447.
60 However, difficulties arise in ascertaining the state of mind of large corporations: Brambles at 275.
Different board members may hold different beliefs and it is sometimes possible to look beyond the resolutions of the board to the deliberations of individual board members as well as those of senior management: Ishac v David Securities Pty Limited (No 6) (1992) 7 ACSR 199 at 200-201 per Young J and the authorities there cited.
61 As Bray CJ said in Brambles at 276, a corporation cannot know or believe two contradictory things at once and it is rational belief, not schizophrenia which is to be attributed; see also Halsbury's Laws of Australia , Vol 7 Corporations at [120-3045].
62 Here, Mr Graham was "closely and relevantly connected" with all decisions taken by NRC in relation to the AR terminal during the period from about six months after the execution of the EA to 21 February 2002 when the shares were purchased by the Toll/Patrick consortium.
He was directly responsible for all dealings with respect to the AR terminal during that period.
He made the decisions as to what steps should be taken and his recommendations to the Board were accepted by the Board members.
There was evidence, in general terms, from a number of Board members, Mr Butcher, Mr Moore-Wilton, Mr Stanko and Mrs Yeoh, that they relied on Mr Graham.
63 Whether NRC's state of mind for the purpose of determining what, if any, assumptions were adopted, is confined to that of Mr Graham is not entirely clear.
PN accepted in final address that Mr Graham's state of mind was "paramount".
But it submitted that Mr Butcher's assumptions were also relevant because of his regular discussions with Mr Graham.
Although PN called evidence from Mr Moore-Wilton, Mr Stanko and Mrs Yeoh, it did not submit that their states of mind were to be attributed to NRC.
That is hardly surprising because their assumptions were different from Mr Graham's.
However, the same comment applies to Mr Butcher.
64 Mr Graham did not assume that the State of Queensland or QR had any obligation in accordance with the EA to give NRC a long term lease.
He believed that the State had a choice but that the minimum content of the State of Queensland's obligations under the EA was to provide access to NRC on terms that ensured NRC's commercial viability.
65 Mr Butcher expected that NRC would receive a long term lease.
His understanding was based upon his knowledge of the EA but he did not appreciate that the State of Queensland had a discretion to provide access rather than ownership or a long lease.
His belief was also founded upon a conversation held in December 1991 with Mr Hamill, who was then the Minister for Transport of the State of Queensland.
66 Mr Moore-Wilton, Mr Stanko and Mrs Yeoh expected that NRC would have long term control of the AR terminal.
They recognised that there would need to be a written agreement reached to give effect to the right of control.
67 PN also called evidence from Mr Hanscomb, a senior executive of NRC, who had, in 1991, assisted Mr Moore-Wilton on the Committee of Officials (which was a Committee established to examine options for the funding of NRC) and assisted in drafting the EA.
His expectation was that there would be a lease.
I do not consider that his state of mind is to be attributed to NRC within the principle stated in Brambles .
His evidence has some bearing on Mr Graham's expectations.
The corporate state of mind of QR 
 
 

68 Mr O'Rourke was the CEO of QR and its predecessor, Queensland Railways.
He was closely and relevantly connected with all dealings and decisions in respect of the AR terminal.
His state of mind can be treated as that of QR for the purpose of determining what assumptions QR held and he must be taken to have known what was in his mind as CEO of Queensland Railways.
69 The relevant period for determining on what assumptions QR acted and the conduct which is said to have induced NRC to act to its detriment is the period up to March 1997 or perhaps to the date of Mr O'Rourke's letter of 25 March 1998.
The other relevant mind of QR in that period was Mr Hearsch.
3.
THE FACTUAL MATRIX 
 Background to the establishment of NRC: The Task Force Report and the Heads of Government Agreement 
 
70 Most of the background to the establishment of NRC is taken from the Report of the National Freight Initiative ("NFI") dated 20 July 1990 and the Report of the National Rail Freight Initiative Task Force dated 21 March 1991.
71 In 1989-90 Australia's interstate rail freight operations incurred an estimated combined loss of $377m.
Losses of this magnitude were a recurring feature of the interstate rail freight business.
Contributions to the losses varied between different operators.
72 By 1990, governments, industry and the community were no longer prepared to accept these losses and the impositions they placed on the Australian economy.
73 In October 1989, the NFI began to evaluate options for a viable interstate national railway freight business under single management.
The NFI was formed by representatives of five government owned railways, the ACTU, BHP, three major freight forwarders and Mr EWA Butcher ("Mr Butcher") representing the Commonwealth Minister for Transport.
74 The objectives of the NFI were to formulate a proposal for the establishment of an efficient national rail freight enterprise providing profitable and competitive interstate services, and thereby to realise gains in economic efficiency.
75 The NFI recommended the establishment of a National Rail Freight Corporation ("NRFC") with Commonwealth and State equity participation.
76 The NFI Report contained the following useful diagram of the proposed national rail freight network, showing inter alia, the terminals and marshalling yards proposed to be under NRFC control:-
 
 
 
77 The NFI's proposal called for an incorporated company integrated across State borders operating at cost levels significantly below those under the then existing fragmented rail systems.
78 A table to the NFI Report listed the main assets owned by rail systems which were used to operate the interstate freight business.
The following appeared under the heading "Terminals":-
 
 "Queensland Railways ... Acacia Ridge (Part)" 
 

79 The reference to "part" was apparently to the interstate intermodal terminal which is the portion of the AR terminal that is the subject of these proceedings.
80 The NFI considered that it was "especially important that the NRFC control all of the terminal facilities it needed to conduct its business".
The NFI also stated that the NRFC should control its own operations within freight terminals, that is, shunting, transfers, material handling and documentation.
81 At a meeting of the Australian Transport Advisory Council on 7 September 1990, Commonwealth and State Transport Ministers agreed to establish an independent task force ("the Task Force") to be responsible for developing detailed proposals on a wide range of issues relevant to the establishment of a "fully commercial" NRFC which would operate interstate rail freight services.
82 The Task Force comprised the representatives of the governments of the Commonwealth, NSW, Victoria, Queensland, South Australia and Western Australia as well as representatives of the ACTU.
Mr Butcher was the Commonwealth's representative and the chairman of the Task Force.
83 The Task Force issued a report on 21 March 1991.
Prior to that date, on 31 October 1990, the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth the States and Territories, signed an historic agreement entitled "Heads of Government Agreement on the National Rail Freight Corporation" ("Heads of Government Agreement").
The signatories included RJL Hawke for the Commonwealth and Wayne Goss for the State of Queensland.
84 The Heads of Government Agreement provided that the Commonwealth, State and Territory Governments agreed to establish an NRFC for the purpose of conducting interstate rail freight operations with a view to it commencing business on 1 July 1991.
