
 
 1 The appellant, a national of Sri Lanka, arrived in Australia on 1 July 2000 travelling on a tourist visa.
On 31 July 2000 he applied for a protection visa, which was refused by a delegate of the first respondent.
The Refugee Review Tribunal affirmed the delegate's decision.
That Tribunal's decision was subsequently set aside by consent and the matter remitted to a differently constituted Tribunal (the Tribunal).
2 The essence of the appellant's claim before the Tribunal was an alleged fear of persecution by members of the United National Party (UNP) because the appellant was, at one time, allegedly detained for seven months as a suspect in a bomb attack on the Sri Lankan Parliament.
The appellant also submitted that he is in danger from rebel groups "who would do anything" to gain the sensitive security information he possesses about the Parliament building and the Members of Parliament who work there.
The Tribunal found the appellant's evidence so incredible that it labelled the most significant of his factual claims "inconceivable" and "inherently impossible".
Noting several times that the appellant was not "a witness of truth" and lacked credibility, the Tribunal concluded that there was no real chance of persecution if he returned to Sri Lanka.
Consequently it found he was not a person to whom Australia had protection obligations under the Refugees Convention.
3 The appellant sought review of the Tribunal's decision by the Federal Magistrates Court.
He claimed jurisdictional error specifically in relation to letters he submitted in untranslated form that the Tribunal did not have translated.
The appellant also made more general claims about the Tribunal's reasoning.
The Federal Magistrate dismissed the application for review on the basis that, in light of the Tribunal's "strong and significant adverse credibility findings", a translation of the letters in question was unnecessary, as was additional consideration by the Tribunal of the possibility that the appellant's claims were true.
4 The present appeal is from the Magistrate's dismissal of the appellant's application.
Pursuant to s 25(1AA) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 the appeal is heard by a single judge.
5 Only three of the grounds of appeal are pursued.
The first two relate to the Tribunal's failure to have the letters translated.
They assert failing to take into account a relevant consideration or relevant material (the content of the untranslated letters) and failing to accord procedural fairness.
It is said that the Magistrate erred in holding that these grounds were not made out.
6 The letters in question in their original and translated form were before the Magistrate.
The first, dated 1 March 1988, is from the appellant's wife to the Speaker of the Parliament assuring the latter that, from what the appellant has told her, he is completely innocent regarding the bombing, and praying for his release from detention.
By the second letter, dated 8 March 1988, the Speaker's secretary acknowledges the first letter.
The third, dated 14 March 1988, is from the appellant's wife to the Prime Minister, in which she informs the latter that, from what the appellant has told her, he is innocent of any involvement in the bombing and rendered first aid to those injured in the explosion.
In the fourth, dated 23 March 1988, the Prime Minister's secretary acknowledges receipt of the third letter.
The fifth, dated 12 November 1988, is from the appellant to the Minister of Defence.
In it he says he has never been involved in anti-government activities, and that he gave first aid to those injured in the bombing.
The final letter, dated 28 November 1988, is an acknowledgment of receipt by the President's secretary, to whom a copy of the fifth letter had been sent.
7 In his visa application the appellant said he was arrested after the bombing for reasons not known to him, and that he had given first aid to those who were injured in the blast.
8 His agents repeated this in their submissions to the Tribunal of 23 March 2004:
 
 "He was detained after a bomb explosion in Parliament where he rendered assistance to the injured.
The applicant was detained because he was a suspect in the bombing however he was not told why he was under suspicion.
The appellant was subsequently released due to a lack of evidence.
" 
 

9 In the appellant's corrected statutory declaration of 24 March 2004 he said the Parliament was bombed on 18 August 1987, and continued:
 
 "Because I was trained in first aid, and was a Red Cross member I administered basic first aid to the many people who were injured by the bomb.

 ... 
 I was under suspicion because I had extensive knowledge of the parliamentary building, and it was believed that I had either myself planted the bomb, or had helped someone else do so.
After six months I was suddenly arrested by the police .... 
 ... 
 After 7 months I was released ...." 
 

10 The Tribunal recorded these and other aspects of the appellant's claims, which he repeated in his oral evidence at the Tribunal hearing.
11 The Tribunal did not accept the appellant's claims in relation to the bombing, and thus did not accept the claims that were consequential on that incident.
It said:
 
 "The applicant has tendered untranslated documents in Sinhalese purporting to be correspondence that he and his wife had engaged in with the Sri Lankan authorities during the period of his alleged detention in 1987/1988.
Despite being given the opportunity to do so the applicant did not provide any translation of these documents.
However the problems in the applicant's evidence that make it inherently impossible that he was ever suspected of any involvement in the bombing of the Parliament or that he was ever detained or otherwise harmed by the authorities in this period far outweigh the documents as presented by the applicant.
I therefore find that these documents do not attest to the actual facts as claimed by the applicant.
