
 
 BUCHANAN J: 
 THE BASIC ISSUES 
 
1 Ms Donna Thompson worked as a bar attendant at the Charles Hotel in Wollongong from 1999 until the end of 2005.
Initially she worked mainly fixed and regular shifts.
Although her working arrangements were regular she was a casual employee.
In October 2005 her shift arrangements were varied.
Within a short period of time she lost both regularity and quantity of work.
Her time was reduced from three shifts to two shifts per week and sometimes less.
At the time of the variation to her shift arrangements Ms Thompson was 37 years old.
According to evidence given in her case the owner of the hotel, Mr Wakeford, had been heard to remark that he wanted to replace some older staff with 'young glamours'.
Some of the other female bar staff were about her age or older and some were younger.
2 Ms Thompson had young children.
She preferred her earlier regular working arrangements and not working on weekends because this more easily accommodated her childcare arrangements.
On her case the variation to her working arrangements, including a necessity to work sometimes on weekends, was an attempt to force her departure in circumstances where hotel management knew that the altered working arrangements would not be convenient to her, having regard to arrangements she made for childcare while working.
3 Prompted by the alteration to her working arrangements Ms Thompson sought and obtained casual bar work elsewhere.
Through a combination of circumstances, including her own unavailability or a desire not to work, her actual working hours in December 2005 fell away almost completely.
She was not rostered to perform any work in early January 2006 but had indicated her desire to take four weeks 'holidays' from the Charles Hotel commencing on 6 January 2006.
During this period she in fact worked in alternative casual employment.
4 In early January Ms Thompson noticed that she had not been rostered to work in the week before proceeding on her 'holidays'.
On 4 January 2006 she had a conversation by telephone with Mr Wakeford.
She alleges that the result of this conversation was to terminate her employment relationship with the Charles Hotel.
Mr Wakeford says that he expected her to return to work at the Charles Hotel but that she never did so.
5 With this very basic account of the background to the present case it is possible to identify the following questions which arise for determination in this case:
 
1.
Did the variation to Ms Thompson's working arrangements from 17 October 2005 represent direct or indirect discrimination because of her age?
2.
Did the altered working arrangements represent indirect sex discrimination for the reason that, as Ms Thompson alleges, the burden of the care of young children in Australia falls predominantly upon women?
3.
Did the conversation on 4 January 2006 terminate Ms Thompson's employment relationship?
THE STATUTORY FRAMEWORK 
 
6 Ms Thompson commenced two proceedings which were heard together.
One invoked the Court's jurisdiction under s 46PO of the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('the HREOC Act') to deal with matters the subject of a complaint terminated by the President of the Human Rights and Equal opportunity Commission ('HREOC').
Ms Thompson had made such complaints under the Age Discrimination Act 2004 (Cth) and the Sex Discrimination Act 1984 (Cth).
7 The first relevant section of the Age Discrimination Act is s 14 which provides:
 
 ' 14 Discrimination on the ground of age --- direct discrimination 
 
 
 
 For the purposes of this Act, a person (the discriminator ) discriminates against another person (the aggrieved person ) on the ground of the age of the aggrieved person if: 
 
 
 
 (a) the discriminator treats or proposes to treat the aggrieved person less favourable than, in circumstances that are the same or are not materially different, the discriminator treats or would treat a person of a different age; and 
 
 (b) the discriminator does so because of: 
 
 (i) the age of the aggrieved person; or 
 (ii) a characteristic that appertains generally to persons of the age of the aggrieved person; or 
 (iii) a characteristic that is generally imputed to persons of the age of the aggrieved person.
' 
 
 

8 Section 15 , deals with indirect discrimination.
Section 15(1) provides:
 
 '15 Discrimination on the ground of age --- indirect discrimination 
 
 
 
 (1) For the purposes of this Act, a person (the discriminator ) discriminates against another person (the aggrieved person ) on the ground of the age of the aggrieved person if: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) the discriminator imposes, or proposes to impose, a condition, requirement or practice; and 
 (b) the condition, requirement or practice is not reasonable in the circumstances; and 
 (c) the condition, requirement or practice has, or is likely to have, the effect of disadvantaging persons of the same age as the aggrieved person.
' 
 
 

9 Section 16 provides:
 
 '16 Act done because of age and for other reason 
 
 
 If an act is done for 2 or more reasons, then, for the purposes of this Act, the act is taken to be done for the reason of the age of a person only if: 
 
 
 
 (a) one of the reasons is the age of the person; and 
 (b) that reason is the dominant reason for doing the act.
' 
 
 

10 The nub of Ms Thompson's allegation is that she was denied work in the amount and at the times she wanted directly and indirectly because of her age.
The characteristic which she says appertains generally to or is generally imputed to persons in their late 30s is that 'they are less attractive and less glamorous, than persons in a younger age group'.
She alleges it was a requirement that 'in order to continue in her usual shifts she look attractive and/or glamorous and young'.
11 Her claim under the Sex Discrimination Act relied on the concept of indirect discrimination as reflected in s 5(2) of that Act.
Section 5(1) and (2) provide:
 
 '5 Sex discrimination 
 (1) For the purposes of this Act, a person (in this subsection referred to as the discriminator ) discriminates against another person (in this subsection referred to as the aggrieved person ) on the ground of the sex of the aggrieved person if, by reason of: 
 (a) the sex of the aggrieved person; 
 (b) a characteristic that appertains generally to persons of the sex of the aggrieved person; or 
 (c) a characteristic that is generally imputed to persons of the sex of the aggrieved person; 
 the discriminator treats the aggrieved person less favourably than, in circumstances that are the same or are not materially different, the discriminator treats or would treat a person of the opposite sex.

 
 (1A) To avoid doubt, breastfeeding (including the act of expressing milk) is a characteristic that appertains generally to women.

 
 (2) For the purposes of this Act, a person ( the discriminator ) discriminates against another person ( the aggrieved person ) on the ground of the sex of the aggrieved person if the discriminator imposes, or proposes to impose, a condition, requirement or practice that has, or is likely to have, the effect of disadvantaging persons of the same sex as the aggrieved person.

 
 (3) This section has effect subject to sections 7B and 7D .
' 
 
 

12 Sections 8 and 14 contain provisions to the same effect as sections 16 and 18 of the Age Discrimination Act earlier referred to.
13 Ms Thompson contends that the relevant characteristic, appertaining primarily to women (although s 5(1) speaks of generally, not primarily), is the characteristic of having child-care responsibilities, which limit one's availability to work.
She argues that the changes to her working arrangements in October 2005 imposed a requirement having the effect of disadvantaging women.
14 The other proceedings involve a claim under s 170CK(2)(f) of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) (as that Act was in force prior to extensive amendments made effective from 31 March 2006).
It provided relevantly:
 
 '... an employer must not terminate an employee's employment for any one or more of the following reasons, or for reasons including any one or more of the following reasons: 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 (f) ... age ...' 
 
 
 

15 This claim relates only to the circumstances in which Ms Thompson ceased to work at the hotel.
It turns on the meaning to be attributed to the telephone conversation between her and Mr Wakeford on 4 January 2006.
16 Section 170CD provides, for the purpose of the provision relied upon by Ms Thompson:
 
 ' termination or termination of employment means termination of employment at the initiative of the employer.
' 
 

17 Ms Thompson bears the onus of establishing the initial fact that her employment was terminated 'at the initiative of' the respondent, who says in answer that it was at her own initiative that she ceased to work at the hotel.
18 In relation to her unlawful termination case Ms Thompson had the advantage of s 170CQ which provides:
 
 ' 170CQ Proof of issues in relation to alleged contravention of 
 section 170CK 
 
 In any proceedings under section 170CP relating to a termination of employment in contravention of section 170CK for a reason (a proscribed reason ) set out in paragraph of subsection (2) of that section: 
 (a) it is not necessary for the employee to prove that the termination was for a proscribed reason; but 
 (b) it is a defence in the proceedings if the employer proves that the termination was for a reason or reasons that do not include a proscribed reason (other than a proscribed reason to which subsection 170CK(3) or (4) applies).
' 
 

19 However, although the respondent thereby bears the onus of assigning entirely legitimate reasons for a termination alleged to be for an unlawful reason, s 170CQ does not assist Ms Thompson to establish the necessary anterior fact that her employment was terminated by the respondent.
20 Ms Thompson also makes a claim under the Long Service Leave Act 1955 (NSW).
Section 3(2A) of that Act accommodates the circumstances of an employee with no fixed number of normal weekly hours.
Section 4(11)(a) also makes it clear that casual employment is not excluded.
As she had worked at the Charles Hotel for longer than five years, before 4 January 2006, if she was dismissed from continuing employment, as she claimed, she would be entitled to a pro rata payment on account of long service leave, to which entitlement does not otherwise arise (subject to other exceptions not relevant in this case) until 10 years service has been completed.
DISCRIMINATION CLAIMS 
 Facts 
 
21 Ms Thompson commenced working as a bar attendant at the Charles Hotel on 27 February 1999.
Apart from a break for 21/2 months in 1999 for the birth of her second child, until some time in 2004 Ms Thompson appears to have worked three regular day shifts during the week.
In 2004 one of these day shifts was replaced by a night shift.
She did not work any regular hours on weekends.
Substantial changes were made from the week commencing 17 October 2005 but before discussing them it is necessary to provide a summary of some earlier events.
22 In January 2005 Mr Doug Allan became the licensee of the hotel.
He remained in that position until 13 October 2005 when Ms Marja Engelhardt took over from him.
23 Mr Wakeford was concerned about a number of aspects of the hotel's operations.
On 10 August 2005 he sent a memo to Mr Allan.
Excluding introductory and concluding remarks he expressed his concerns as follows:
 
 'My observations of the operation of the hotel and the areas which I feel need attention are listed below.

 
 
 
 1 Mode of operation 
 The hotel has had a real change in the way it has been operated for many years.
Successive managers have become seat warmers and have only carried on with events as they have been passed on by their predecessors in the past.
We need a fresh approach to the hotel operation.

 
 2 Staffing 
 Whilst most of the staff are acceptable, there a few who really must go.
They are tired in appearance and attitudes and have a negative effect on the rest of the staff and also on our few remaining customers.

 New professional staff are urgently required, particularly in the gaming area.
Considering I am the one paying the wages I would like some input into employing new staff.

 
 3 Wages level 
 The wage level at this hotel is excessive and has now reached a point where the wages level exceeds the bar income, which of course is unacceptable.
With the introduction of the single bar operation to facilitate the eventual non smoking venue NOW is the time to reform our staffing and to introduce some new blood and ideas into the workforce.

 Events over the last few weekends with the bottleshop computer demonstrate that our assistant managers have very little to do bar playing online with our bottleshop computer then leaving it in an inoperable condition.

 Once the single bar operation is introduced we will use the assistant managers to serve behind the bar in busy periods.

 
 4 Cleanliness of the hotel 
 Whilst the hotel is cleaner now than in the past, there is still room for a large improvement and I see a reduction in cleaning hours as a priority.

 From my observations over the last month Gary and Trish are enjoying a paid holiday at the hotel.

 
 5 Promotions 
 Australia day, Saint Patricks day, Valentines day and many other opportunities have passed with no relevant promotions occurring at the hotel.

 The gaming promotion which Karen carried out on Thursday evenings was popular, but like most promotions it became tired.

 Anzac day was a success because we promoted it.

 We need to plan ahead to capatilise [sic] on events as they occur and to promote these events as necessary.

 As shown by recent trading figures, Friday night Karoake and noisy bands are a complete waste of money.

 
 6 Bar Percentages 
 As you heard at the AHA conference the ATO expect our bar trading percentages to be 70% unless we can explain any shortfalls, which I am unable to do.

 We are trading around 56% to 58% which is unacceptable.

 We need to examine the following and to act on any findings.

 Cellar procedures 
 Bar procedures 
 Free drinks 
 Staff drinks 
 
 7 Gaming 
 The gaming receipts have dropped markedly this year as shown on the graph.
The operation of the gaming room needs to be reviewed, with vigour.

 Free coffee and sandwiches need to be served at the poker machine area to players in a polite manner.

 Noise in the gaming room to be soft music, not the crappy staff now being played at a high noise level.
A better understanding of gaming must be introduced to all staff.

 Moving the TAB will assist.

 
 
 
 
 
 8 Food 
 Decent food is a priority.

 We must reopen the food area in a professional manner and not use untrained people as cooks.

 Meanwhile we should consider bar snacks as a priority.

 
 9 Any other.
' 
 (Bold type in original)
 
 

24 Mr Wakeford's opening remarks reminded Mr Allan that the period since January 2005 was the period of greatest decline in the income of the hotel.
Other evidence indicated that in the same period the hotel was moving to a single bar operation.
This was clearly a period of change which was taking place in a commercially adverse context.
25 On Wednesday, 5 October 2005 Mr Allan gave notice of his resignation following a period of leave which was to commence the following Monday (10 October).
Mr Wakeford appointed Ms Engelhardt, then Manager of the bottleshop, to be interim manager of the hotel effective from Thursday, 13 October 2005.
Ms Engelhardt had worked for Mr Wakeford for a number of years in various businesses.
It appears that, originally, Mr Wakeford intended to find someone else to permanently replace Mr Allan but as events unfolded Ms Engelhardt remained manager and took up the position permanently from 4 November 2005.
26 The relationship between Ms Thompson and Ms Engelhardt (as Manager) appeared to get off to a rocky start.
In the week following her appointment as interim Manager Ms Engelhardt authorised changes to the staff rosters.
Starting times in the morning were delayed by half-an-hour and two afternoon shifts were cut from the roster altogether --- one on Thursday and one on Friday.
For the previous twelve months or so Ms Thompson had been working on day shift on Tuesday and Wednesday and on evening shift on Thursday commencing at 5pm.
In the week commencing 17 October 2005 she lost her evening shift on Thursday.
Ms Thompson bore a relatively large proportion of the cut in working hours, although certainly not the whole of them.
27 On Tuesday, 18 October Ms Thompson recorded in one of the diaries used to communicate between staff (including managers) that she had spoken to Ms Engelhardt about her shift arrangements and been told that she had lost some work because of her attitude.
Ms Thompson's note referred to events which occurred on 11 October, two days before Ms Engelhardt's appointment as interim manager.
It is likely that they involved some complaint from Ms Thompson about working under the supervision or direction of staff who were younger than she.
One of the staff whose authority Ms Thompson appeared to resist and resent was Ms Melissa White.
Ms White was 21 years old and had been appointed assistant manager by Mr Allan.
At Ms Engelhardt's request she recorded a formal complaint to which she assigned the date 15 October 2005.
She said in her evidence that the date was probably not accurate although the events had occurred at around that time.
That complaint was as follows:
 
 'Dear Maya [sic] , 
 
 I wish to make a complaint against Donna Thompson, on several different occasions for the past several weeks I've had a few run ins and been verbally abused by Donna.
It started when I started to do some training as assistant manager.
Donna told me that she refused to work under or listen to a 21 year old lazy bitch who is to young to be a manager and doesn't no [sic] how to do her job properly.
She has mad me feel intimidated and uncomfortable during my shifts with her.

 She has bitched to other staff members about my age and capability to work for the pub.
This is not on and I don't think I should have put up with it, I have spoke to both you and Tim on several occasions about this matter and written it up in the book, please when you get some time I would like to speak to you further about this matter.

 Yours faithfully, 
 
 Melissa White' 
 

28 Ms Engelhardt's evidence about the events shortly before her appointment as interim manager was that she was in the main bar and about to go to the bottleshop when Ms Thompson:
 
 '... comes storming in, I'm not working with no effing 21-year-olds and I'm not working with effing Gavin and I'm not working with effing Mel.
They're incompetent.
They're --- she just kept going on about the age and as a supervisor, "I'm not working with no fucking 21-year-old supervisor" and I just said look, settle down, come and see Doug when he's back next week and I did sort of pass a bit of a joke that Gavin is going to be the licensee and she went off.
' 
 
 
 
 

29 Gavin and Mel are Mr Visser and Ms White.
Mr Visser was also an assistant manager and had been put in charge of the hotel upon Mr Allan going on holidays the day before.
He was also much younger than Ms Thompson.
30 It is apparent that Ms Thompson spoke to Ms Engelhardt on 18 October about the loss of her evening shift on 20 October and did so in a way Ms Engelhardt found confronting.
Ms Engelhardt's evidence included the following:
 
 'Now, I think you have given his Honour some understanding that you had some contact with Ms Thompson prior to being appointed interim licensee and then licensee?---Yes.

 
 Could you describe your contact with Ms Thompson upon becoming licensee?

 ---Upon - very difficult.
I just felt like she was out to give me a hard time for some reason.
I didn't really know why.

 
 HIS HONOUR: Just give me some idea of the time frame, Ms Engelhardt.
Was this before or after the roster changes?---No, after.
From the moment she came in that first shift with Gavin and saying about Gavin and Mel, I am not working with effing 21-year-olds it became, yes, and then when I changed the rosters and changed the hours she would come in behind the bar and come like two inches from my face and like really, I want my shifts back, I want my shifts back and really, yes, pretty stressful and I would say to her, look, come and talk to me in the office but she would never talk to me in the office about it.
She would always confront me in front of patrons and always, like, talking loudly behind the bar and always just coming straight up to my face and, yes, so I would just sort of back away and just say come and see me in the office.

 
 MR CROSS: And how quickly upon your being appointed interim licensee do you say this behaviour commenced?---Pretty well straight away.
' 
 

31 In the week commencing 24 October 2005 Ms Thompson was rostered to work day shift on Wednesday and half a shift on Saturday evening.
In the week commencing 31 October 2005 she was rostered to work evening shift on Monday and day shift on Wednesday.
They were also her rostered hours in the week of 7 November 2005.
Wednesday of that week was 9 November.
Ms Thompson's evidence was that she did not receive another day shift after 9 November.
It seems clear that by 9 November Ms Thompson's work relationship with Ms Engelhardt had deteriorated to a marked degree.
Ms Engelhardt told her, she said in evidence, that she would not get another day shift as Ms Engelhardt could not work with her.
32 Ms Engelhardt attributed the roster changes that affected Ms Thompson directly to the conflict which was developing between them.
She said:
 
 'You have given evidence earlier when we have looked at the differences between the roster for the week commencing 10 October and the roster commencing 17 October as to certain changes that were made that affected the person's rosters?---That is correct.

 
 Was there anything peculiar to Ms Thompson after 17 October 2005 that affected the amount of rostered work she received or the time of those rosters?---Yes, because she would just make my day so difficult that I ended up putting her on afternoon shifts so that hopefully we could get along if she wasn't on day shift.
Then that sort of wasn't really happening so I put her on weekends, hoping we could avoid each other .
It just didn't feel like she wanted to be involved in the up and running and getting the hotel back on its feet.
It was anything to make my life really hard and I struggled with that kind of behaviour, I didn't know how to deal with it .

 
 Around what time did that conduct affect the rosters received by Ms Thompson?---Probably mid November if not a bit earlier because it was just continual.
' 
 (emphasis added)
 

33 Asked why Ms Thompson's employment had not simply been terminated Ms Engelhardt answered that she had never dealt with problems of this kind and thought Ms Thompson would 'just get over it eventually'.
As I understood her evidence Ms Engelhardt did not know what else to do except to ensure that Ms Thompson worked on shifts which were different from Ms Engelhardt's own working times so that the opportunity for confrontation and, as Ms Engelhardt saw it, further harassment by Ms Thompson was removed.
34 On 14 November 2005 Ms Thompson had a meeting at the hotel with Mr Wakeford.
Ms Engelhardt and Mr Dale (the accountant) were also present.
The meeting on 14 November was arranged when Ms Thompson rang Mr Wakeford on 9 November after speaking to Ms Engelhardt about her rosters.
35 At this meeting Ms Thompson was issued with a warning letter referring to three incidents which had occurred on 9 November.
Ms Thompson disputed the substance of each of them in her evidence but in my view that cannot detract from the indication that she was not on good terms with Ms Engelhardt.
