
 
 Index to Reasons Para Background 1 - 28 The 25 October 2006 forms of agreement 29 - 36 Surrounding circumstances 37 The making of contracts 38 - 43 When are contracts void for uncertainty?
44 - 48 Construction of contracts 49 - 55 Implication of terms 56 - 57 Collateral contracts 58 Trust principles 59 -72 Summary 73 The witnesses 74 - 75 17 October - 9 November 2006 76 - 77 First meeting 78 - 80 Second meeting 81 - 84 Third meeting 85 - 109 Fourth meeting and intervening steps 110 - 174 Legislative provisions concerning the transfer of shares 175 - 199 Post settlement conduct 200 - 201 Conclusions 202 - 204 
 
 Background 
 
1 These proceedings concern a transfer by the applicant of 1,000 shares, said to have been the whole of the issued capital in the fourth respondent, Kjun International Pty Ltd ACN 092 708 999, ('the shares') to the third respondent, Ji Young Song ('Ji Song'), which was said to have been made on 9 November 2006.
2 Further evidence tendered by the respondents on 6 August 2007, following the re-opening of the respective cases of the applicant and the respondents, after the hearing had concluded on 19 June 2007, revealed that there is a material inconsistency between what the public record shows the issued capital of Kjun International Pty Limited to be and what Kjun International Pty Limited's own Register of Members reveals.
3 It may be that share transfers have been made but not registered and that further shares have been allotted, without the relevant allotments being recorded, but there is no evidence to allow any conclusions to be drawn in this regard.
4 The minute book recording minutes of meetings of directors of Kjun International Pty Limited (Exhibit 5 as tendered on 6 August 2007) only records resolutions passed at meetings which took place on 5 May 2000.
The unsigned minutes of one such meeting recorded the deemed allotment to the applicant of one share on 5 May 2000 and the deemed allotment to Seon Ho Jang of one share on the same date.
The same minutes recorded the appointment of the applicant and Seon Ho Jang as directors of Kjun International Pty Limited.
5 There are no minutes recording the registration of any transfer, by Seon Ho Jang, of his share in Kjun International Pty Limited to the applicant and no minutes recording the allotment of a further 998 shares in Kjun International Pty Limited to the applicant.
6 Kjun International Pty Limited's register of members (Exhibit 6 as tendered on 6 August 2007) shows that only two shares have been allotted by it, one held by the applicant and the other held by Seon Ho Jang.
7 A register of directors (Exhibit 9 as tendered on 6 August 2007) showed that the directors of Kjun International Pty Limited were the applicant and Seon Ho Jang.
The minutes of meetings of members of Kjun International Pty Limited record no changes in this regard.
8 Section 176 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) ('the Corporations Act ') dealt with the evidentiary value of a company's register of members as follows:
 
 
 '176 In the absence of evidence to the contrary, a register kept under this Chapter is proof of the matters shown in the register under this Chapter.
' 
 


 
There was no like provision which gave evidentiary value to a register of directors.
9 Clauses 73 --- 78 inclusive of Kjun International Pty Limited's constitution made provision in respect of the appointment, removal and remuneration of directors of Kjun International Pty Limited.
In relation to a director's continuation in office, clauses 76 and 78 relevantly provided:
 
 
 '76.
... a director appointed under any of Clauses 73, 74 or 75 shall hold office until he dies, or until his office becomes vacant by virtue of the Law [a reference to the Corporations Law] , the SIS Act [a reference to the Superannuation Industry (Supervision) Act 1993 (Cth)] or this Constitution .

 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 78 In addition to the circumstances in which the office of a director becomes vacant by virtue of the Law and the SIS Act, the office of a Director becomes vacant if the Director: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1) becomes of unsound mind or a person whose person or estate is liable to be dealt with in any way under the law relating to mental health; 
 
 (2) resigns office by notice in writing to the Company; or 
 
 (3) is absent without the consent of the Directors from meetings of the Directors held during a period of six months.
' 
 
 


 
10 In relation to persons who stop being directors, s 205B(5) of the Corporations Act provided:
 
 
 
 '205B(5) If a person stops being a director ... of the company, the company must lodge with ASIC notice of the fact within 28 days.
The notice must be in the prescribed form.
' 
 
 


 
11 Section 251A(2) -(4) of the Corporations Act made provision for the signing of minutes of resolutions.
The evidentiary significance of minutes duly recorded and signed is covered by s 251A(6) of the Corporations Act , which provided as follows:
 
 
 
 '251A(6) A minute that is so recorded and signed is evidence of the proceeding, resolution or declaration to which it relates, unless the contrary is proved.
' 
 
 


 
There was no provision in the Corporations Act giving evidentiary significance to the lack of a duly recorded and signed minute.
12 Notwithstanding what is revealed in Kjun International Pty Limited's register of members, information obtained by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ('ASIC') from the national database suggests that the issued capital of Kjun International Pty Limited consisted of 1,000 shares.
A 'Historical Extract' of 27 October 2006 (part of Exhibit A) indicated that the applicant was the holder of 1,000 shares and that Seon Ho Jang was a former member of Kjun International Pty Limited as at that date.
13 Section 1274B(2) of the Corporations Act provided:
 
 
 
 '1274B(2) In a proceeding in a court, a writing that purports to have been prepared by ASIC is admissible as prima facie evidence of the matters stated in so much of the writing as sets out what purports to be information obtained by ASIC, by using a data processor, from the national database.
In other words, the writing is proof of such a matter in the absence of evidence to the contrary.
' 
 
 


 
14 Whatever the state of Kjun International Pty Limited's issued capital may have been immediately prior to 9 November 2006 and whoever may have been the owners of the issued shares, it seems to me that I should proceed to address the issues in this case on the common assumption of the parties, at least until very recently, that 1,000 shares had been allotted, all of which were held by the applicant, prior to 9 November 2006.
I will later return to address the relevance of a finding that, on the basis of the register of members, only two shares in Kjun International Pty Limited had ever been allotted, one of which was held by the applicant, and the other by Seon Ho Jang.
15 In relation to the status of Seon Ho Jang as a director of Kjun International Pty Limited, the 'Historical Extract' of 27 October 2006 suggests that he ceased to be a director on 5 May 2001.
Having regard to s 1274B(2) of the Corporations Act , it is clear, on the evidence, that the applicant became the sole director of Kjun International Pty Limited from that date.
16 The applicant contends that the shares are held by Ji Song in trust for the applicant.
17 Alternatively, the applicant contends that the fifth respondent engaged in unconscionable conduct within the meaning of s 51AA of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ('the Trade Practices Act ') and also that the first, second, third and fifth respondents engaged in misleading or deceptive conduct within the meaning of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act and/or s 42 of the Fair Trading Act 1987 (NSW ) ('the Fair Trading Act ') and/or s 1041H of the Corporations Act which resulted in the transfer of the shares by the applicant to the third respondent.
In the circumstances the applicant seeks orders restoring to him ownership of the shares.
18 Lying at the heart of the proceedings is the trade mark 'Su-shi World' said to have been registered as No.
785516 on and from 12 February 1999.
That trade mark was apparently registered by the fifth respondent, Su-shi World Australia Pty Ltd ACN 076 098 701, a Song family company, of which the first respondent was a director between 23 October 1996 and 29 May 2006 and of which the second respondent has been the sole director since 29 May 2006.
19 The applicant contends that by a deed made 1 May 2002 Su-shi World Australia Pty Limited assigned certain intellectual property including the trade mark 'Su-shi World' to Kjun International Pty Limited.
The consideration for the assignment was said to be $50,000 which was allegedly paid to Su-shi World Australia Pty Limited by a bank cheque on 25 October 2002.
The first, second, third and fifth respondents (collectively referred to as 'the respondents') do not accept the validity of the alleged assignment of the trade mark.
20 As it transpires Su-shi World Australia Pty Limited allegedly transferred the registered trade mark to LSU Pty Limited ACN 119 854 152 as trustee of the Nirvana Investment Trust by a Deed of Assignment dated 24 May 2006.
LSU Pty Limited was a Song family company of which the first and second respondents have been directors since 24 May 2006.
The applicant does not accept the validity of that assignment.
21 In the foregoing circumstances, Kjun International Pty Limited, then said to be wholly owned by the applicant, and an associated company, Sushi Nara Australia Pty Ltd ACN 099 988 333, instituted proceedings NSD 1661 of 2006 against LSU Pty Limited as trustee of the Nirvana Investment Trust, Su-shi World Australia Pty Limited, Dong Soon Song ('Sue Song') and Suk Joon Song ('Luke Song') ('the trade mark proceedings') on 30 August 2006.
By an Amended Application filed 1 September 2006 SNK Trading Pty Limited ACN 105 594 296, a Ku company, was recorded as being a third applicant and JHJ Brothers Holdings Pty Limited ACN 119 204 125, another Song family company of which Luke Song and Sue Song have been directors, was recorded as being a fifth respondent.
Neither of these companies would appear to have become parties to the trade mark proceedings by an order of the Court under Order 6 rule 8 of the Federal Court Rules , nor would they appear to have become parties in accordance with Order 13 rule 2(4) or 2(5).
22 Sushi Nara Australia Pty Limited claims to be a franchisor of 'Su-shi World' deriving rights to franchise others to use that name from Kjun International Pty Limited as the equitable owner of the registered trade mark 'Su-shi World'.
Sushi Nara Australia Pty Limited was a party to an undated Deed apparently executed in 2002 whereby Kjun International Pty Limited purported to grant to Sushi Nara Australia Pty Limited as and from 1 May 2002:
 
 '... a licence to conduct business in the Area as "SUSHI WORLD" using the System and the Image AND to itself grant to Franchisees, by way of Franchise, the rights to operate and conduct business as separate "Sushi World" retail businesses.
' (see clause 3.1) 


 
Clause 1 of the Deed contained, amongst other things, definitions of ' The System ' and of ' The Image '.
' The Image ' was defined to mean:
 
 '... the distinctive image, visual appearance, reputation and presentation of the Licensor [Kjun International Pty Limited] in the market.
The name "SUSHI WORLD", the Marks, and the brand names, logos and slogans associated with the Licensor's goods or services and the System are part of and features of the Image'.



 
Clause 1 of the Deed also included a definition of ' The Marks ' as:
 
 '... the trade or service marks and names listed in Annexure "A" whether or not registered and includes any application for registration of the same and includes but is not limited to the Licensor's e-mail address and the Licensor's homepage/website.
' 


The term of the Licence Agreement was expressed to be 5 years from 1 May 2002.
Clause 8.1 of the Deed provided:
 
 '8.1 This Agreement shall continue in full force and effect until the expiration of the Term, provided that the parties may by agreement terminate or extend this Agreement upon such terms and conditions as the parties may agree.
' 


 
The copy of the undated Deed, which forms part of Exhibit A, does not include an 'Annexure "A"'.
23 In the trade mark proceedings the applicants therein seek relief in respect of the trade mark 'Su-shi World' and certain consequential relief.
The orders sought in the Amended Application in those proceedings include:
 
 
 '1.
An order that the Register of Trade Marks be amended by recording the first applicant [Kjun International Pty Limited] as registered owner of Trade Mark No.
785516.

 
 2.
Alternatively, an order that the first respondent [LSU Pty Limited as trustee of the Nirvana Investment Trust] , by its directors, the third and fourth respondents [Sue Song and Luke Song] , sign an application and all other documents prescribed pursuant to s.107(2) of the Trade Marks Act 1995 for an assignment of Trade Mark No.
785516 from the first respondent to the first applicant within 7 days of the date of this order.

 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 4.
Alternatively, an order that the Register of Trade Marks be rectified by cancelling the registration of Trade Mark No.
785516 on the grounds set out in ss.88(2)(c) and (e) of the Trade Marks Act 1995 .

 
 5.
Declaration that the first respondent had and has no grounds for making the threats of legal proceedings for infringement of registered Trade Mark No.
785516 in: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) the letter from its solicitors, Edwin Davey, dated 16 August 2006 to MNA Lawyers, a copy of which is annexed to this application marked "A" ; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) the letter from its solicitors, Edwin Davey, dated 18 August 2006 to Sushi World, Hurstville, a copy of which is annexure "B" to this application; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) the letters from its solicitors, Edwin Davey, to other persons and entities carrying on the business of retail sale of sushi and related food products under and by reference to the name "Sushi World" as franchisees of the second applicant.

 
 
 
 ...' 


 
24 In paragraph 22 of the Statement of Claim in the trade mark proceedings it was alleged that by a letter dated 16 August 2006 addressed to Kjun International Pty Limited, LSU Pty Limited as trustee of the Nirvana Investment Trust had:
 
 '(a) asserted that it was the owner of trade mark No.
785516; 
 
 
 
 (b) asserted that it had a substantial reputation in the name Sushi World, including the Sushi World logo; 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) asserted that it had a substantial reputation in the new Japanese girl logo; 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) threatened to commence proceedings against the first applicant [Kjun International Pty Limited] for infringement of mark No.
785516.
' 
 


 
25 The trade mark proceedings, which are presently listed before another Judge of the Court, have been adjourned pending the outcome of the current proceedings NSD 2502 of 2006.
These proceedings were instituted on 21 December 2006 after what was, arguably, a settlement of the trade mark proceedings on or about 25 October 2006, at least as between the parties named in the original Application in those proceedings.
It was agreed between the applicant and the first, second, third and fifth respondents in the current proceedings that the fourth respondent should be taken to have submitted to such orders as the Court may seem fit and that position has been maintained, notwithstanding the respondents' submission of 6 August 2007 that:
 
 '14.
The only conclusion that the Court can reach is that, despite the inappropriate registration by the Applicant, Ji Song is not the owner of any shares in Kjun International Pty Limited.
... 
 ... 
 
 30.
The Applicant has, since the outset, conducted this proceeding on the basis that an effective transfer of shares had occurred in circumstances where a cursory glance at the constitution would have disclosed that this was not the case.
...' 


 
26 Following the 'settlement' of the trade mark proceedings it had been said that the applicant proceeded to transfer the shares to Ji Song, a son of Luke Song and Sue Song, on 9 November 2006.
However, as will be apparent later, Mr Ku's evidence, which I accept, is that he didn't ever execute a traditional form of transfer of the shares to Ji Song.
This is now common ground.
27 It so happens that on 9 November 2006 a Cross-claim was filed in the trade mark proceedings notwithstanding the alleged 'settlement' of those proceedings that occurred on or about 25 October 2006.
The cross-claimants were each of the five parties named in the Amended Application in the trade mark proceedings as being respondents, including JHJ Brothers Holdings Pty Limited.
The cross-respondents were each of the three parties named in the Amended Application as being applicants (Kjun International Pty Limited being wrongly described as ACN 105 593 879), including SNK Trading Pty Limited, together with Kjun Australia Pty Limited ACN 092 708 999 (sic), Theme Land Group Pty Limited ACN 118 575 992, Jun Bom Ku, the applicant in the current proceedings, Keith Kang Ho Rhee, Young Ha Kim, Young Kim Legal Pty Limited ACN 101 573 460, ENC International Pty Limited ACN 105 593 824, SSW Management Pty Limited ACN 115 922 864 and Sushi World Pty Limited ACN 100 334 058.
28 For present purposes it is unnecessary to determine the strengths and weaknesses of the cases of the respective parties in the trade mark proceedings in relation to the Amended Application and the Cross-claim.
However, it is important to note that the Cross-claim, which bears a certificate of the cross-claimants' solicitor dated 20 October 2006, was not served until 13 November 2006, i.e.
after the transfer of the shares from the applicant in the current proceeding to Ji Song was said to have been made on 9 November 2006.
Having said that, it may be noted that paragraph 5 of the Defence filed 19 October 2006 in the trade mark proceedings did refer to 'the reasons pleaded in the cross-claim'.
The 25 October 2006 forms of agreement 
 
29 It is common ground that on 25 October 2006 two forms of 'Agreement' between 
Su-shi World Australia Pty Limited, Luke Song or (sic) Sue Song and Kjun International Pty Limited and the applicant were executed, purportedly on behalf of the named parties, by Luke Song and Jun Bom Ku respectively, at a meeting between those gentlemen.
The substantive parts of the two forms of agreement were expressed in the Korean language.
It is common ground that the translations proffered by the applicant may be relied upon, although there is an apparent error in the alphabetical identification of the paragraphs in the translation of the longer form of agreement.
The longer form of agreement contained seven clauses and the shorter form contained five clauses.
They were as follows:
 
 Longer form of agreement 
 ' AGREEMENT 
 
 'A': SUSHI WORLD AUSTRALIA PTY LTD, SUK JOON SONG or DONG SOON SONG of 22 Wybalena Road Hunters Hill in the State of New South Sydney (sic) Australia 
 
 'B': KJUN INTERNATIONAL PTY LTD, JUN BOM KU of 2603/1 Sergeants Lane, St Leonards in the State of New South Wales Sydney Australia 
 
 The upper mentioned 'A' and 'B' agreed as follows on the 24 th of October, 2006.
Both parties are to accept it as a legally binding agreement and execute it.

 
 ['A' and 'B' agree the following.
] 
 
 A) 'A' and 'B' agree that they will not disclose what was agreed by both parties in this agreement to anyone including solicitors.
Both agree to keep the content of the agreement confidential not disclosing it to any third party apart from 'A' and 'B'.

 
 B) 'A' and 'B' accept what was ordered by the Federal Court of Australia New South Wales District Registry that was mutually agreed, and agree that it holds good permanently.

 
 C) 'A' admits that it ['A'] transferred IP to 'B' in May 2002, and that 'B' has managed and developed the franchise system until as of October 2006 with it, and that 'B' has the right for it.
'A' admits and agrees that 'B' continues the franchise system.

 
 D) 'B' agrees to withdraw the lawsuit against 'A' that was brought in the Federal Court of Australia New South Wales District Registry without reservation as soon as 'A' admits the above (C).
And 'B' agrees that there will be no more lawsuits against 'A' regarding this matter.

 
 D) (sic) If 'B' withdraws the lawsuit against 'A' brought in the Federal Court of Australia New South Wales District Registry, 'A' accepts it without reservation and agrees that there will not be any legal proceedings against 'B' from 'A'.

 
 F) 'A' and 'B' agree that each party is responsible for its own court costs which have been paid until as of October 24.

 
 G) On the basis of the basic agreement that 'A' and 'B' will not continue to proceed the lawsuits that have been brought in, both parties agree that they accept mutual authority and right that have been developed for the last 5 years by each party, and solve all problems harmoniously through a mutual talk and agreement, and help and cooperate with each other for mutual development without slandering each other.

 
 EXECUTED as a agreement between the parties who have hereunto set their hands and seals on the day and year first hereinbefore mentioned: 
 
 EXECUTED by ) 
 KJUN INTERNATIONAL PTY LTD, ) [Signed] 
 JUN BOM KU of 2603, 1 Sergeants Lane ) 
 St Leonards NSW 2065 ) 
 
 EXECUTED by ) 
 SUSHI WORLD AUSTRALIA PTY LTD, ) 
 SUK JOON SONG or DONG SOON SONG ) [Signed] 
 of 22 Wybalena Road Hunters Hill NSW 2110 )' 


 
 Shorter form of agreement 
 ' AGREEMENT 
 
 
 
 'A': SUSHI WORLD AUSTRALIA PTY LTD, SUK JOON SONG or DONG SOON SONG of 22 Wybalena Road Hunters Hill in the State of New South Sydney (sic) Australia 
 
 
 
 
 
 'B': KJUN INTERNATIONAL PTY LTD, JUN BOM KU of 2603/1 Sergeants Lane St Leonards, in the State of New South Wales Sydney Australia 
 
 
 
 The upper mentioned 'A' and 'B' agreed as follows on the 24 th of October, 2006.
Both parties are to accept it as a legally binding agreement and execute it.

 
 [Both 'A' and 'B' agree the following:] 
 
 A) 'A' and 'B' agree that they will not disclose what was agreed by both parties in this agreement to anyone including solicitors.
Both agree to keep the content of the agreement confidential not disclosing it to any third party apart from 'A' and 'B'.

 
 B) 'B' agrees to withdraw the lawsuit against 'A' that was brought in the Federal Court of Australia New South Wales District Registry without any condition without further proceedings and process the withdrawal through a solicitor(s).
And 'B' agrees that there will be no more lawsuits against 'A' regarding this matter.

 
 D) 'A' agrees that if 'B' withdraws the lawsuit against 'A' brought in the Federal Court of Australia New South Wales District Registry, 'A' accepts it without reservation and agrees that there will not be any more legal proceedings against 'B' from 'A'.

 
 F) 'A' and 'B' agree that each party is responsible for its own court costs which have been paid until as of October 24.

 
 G) On the basis of the basic agreement that 'A' and 'B' will not continue to proceed the lawsuits that have been brought in, both parties agree that they accept mutual authority and right that have been developed for the last 5 years by each party, and solve all problems harmoniously through a mutual talk and agreement, and help and cooperate with each other for mutual development without ever slandering each other.

 
 EXECUTED as a agreement between the parties who have hereunto set their hands and seals on the day and year first hereinbefore mentioned: 
 
 EXECUTED by ) 
 KJUN INTERNATIONAL PTY LTD, ) [Signed] 
 JUN BOM KU of 2603, 1 Sergeants Lane ) 
 St Leonards NSW 2065 ) 
 
 EXECUTED by 
 SUSHI WORLD AUSTRALIA PTY LTD, ) 
 SUK JOON SONG or DONG SOON SONG ) [Signed] 
 of 22 Wybalena Road Hunters Hill NSW 2110 )' 
 

Each form of agreement was translated into the English language by Jin Ki Min.
The longer form of agreement was translated on 18 December 2006 and the shorter form on 1 May 2007.
30 Both forms of agreement had been prepared by Mr Ku on 24 October 2006.
They were presented by him to Luke Song at the meeting on 25 October whereupon, following discussion, both forms of agreement were executed in duplicate by each of Mr Ku and Luke Song.
The circumstances pertaining to the execution of the seemingly inconsistent documents will be addressed hereafter.
31 Without embarking upon a detailed consideration of the wording of the two forms of agreement it is appropriate to note in the case of the longer form of agreement that:
 
 (a) the reference in paragraph B to 'what was ordered by the Federal Court of Australia New South Wales District Registry that was mutually agreed' appears to be a reference to an undated interlocutory agreement that was reached between the parties in the trade mark proceedings on or about 1 September 2006.
That agreement includes in its heading, in manuscript form, a reference to SNK Trading Pty Limited as a third applicant in those proceedings and also a reference to JHJ Brothers Holdings Pty Limited as a fifth respondent.
The agreement in its amended form provided as follows:
 
 'IN THE FEDERAL COURT OF AUSTRALIA ) No.
NSD 1661/2006 
 
 NEW SOUTH WALES DISTRICT REGISTRY ) 
 
 KJUN INTERNATIONAL PTY LIMITED 
 Fist (sic) Applicant 
 
 SUSHI NARA AUSTRALIA PTY LTD 
 Second Applicant 
 
 SNK Trading Pty Limited
 (Third Applicant)
 
 AND 
 
 LSU PTY LIMITED AS TRUSTEE OF THE NIRVANA INVESTMENT TRUST 
 First Respondent 
 
 SU-SHI WORLD AUSTRALIA PTY LIMITED 
 Second Respondent 
 
 DONG SOON SONG 
 Third Respondent 
 
 SUK JOON SONG 
 Fourth Respondent 
 
 JHJ Brothers Holdings Pty Limited
 (Fifth respondent)
 
 
 AGREEMENT BETWEEN PARTIES 
 
 Without prejudice to their respective claims in this proceeding, the parties agree that until the final determination of this proceeding by the Court: 
 
 
 
 1.
Each party will be entitled to continue to operate the Sushi World shops currently managed by them or by companies associated with them without interference from any other party in the proceeding.
The Sushi World shops currently managed by the respondents or by companies associated with them are set out at paragraph 62 of the affidavit of Dong Soon Song sworn 1 September 2006 , namely: 
 
 
 
 
 Shop 
 
 Address 
 1.

 
 Bay Village 
 
 Shop 22 Stockland Bay Village 
 2.

 
 Broadway 
 
 Shop G06, 1-21 Bay Street, Broadway 
 3.

 
 Camperdown 
 
 15-17 Larkin Street CAMPERDOWN NSW 2050 
 4.

 
 Canberra Centre 
 
 Shop A07 Canberra Centre CANBERRA 
 5.

 
 Canberra Food 
 
 Shop CL 30 Ainslie Ave Civic Centre CANBERRA 
 6.

 
 Canberra Belconnen 
 
 Kiosk FFK1 Westfield Shoppingtown Belconnen 
 8.

 
 Canberra Foodcourt BBQ 
 
 Kiosk CL 28B Canberra Centre CANBERRA 
 9.

 
 Canberra Queanbeyan 
 
 Kiosk K1 Riverside Plaza QUEANBEYAN 
 10.

 
 Double Bay 
 
 Shop 8, 20-26 Cross Street, DOUBLE BAY NSW 2028 
 11.

 
 Erina Fair 
 
 Sop T011 Erina Fair Shopping Centre ERINA 
 12.

 
 Erina Fair Restaurant 
 
 Shop R9 Erina Fair Shopping Centre ERINA 
 13.

 
 Fox Studio 
 
 No 215 --- G07 Fox Studios RANDWICK 
 14.

 
 Hornsby 
 
 Kiosk K102, Westfield Shoppingtown HORNSBY 
 15.

 
 Liverpool 
 
 Shop 1-114 Westfield Shoppingtown LIVERPOOL 
 16.

 
 Macquarie Shopping Centre 
 
 Kiosk K91B Macquarie Shopping Centre MACQUARIE 
 17.

 
 Marrickville Metro Centre 
 
 Kiosk K25 Marrickville Metro Shopping Centre MARRICKVILLE 
 18.

 
 Miranda Westfield 
 
 Kiosk 221 Westfield Miranda 
 19.

 
 Miranda (2) 
 
 Shop 2078 Westfield MIRANDA 
 20.

 
 Miranda Food 
 
 Shop 2006 Westfield Second Food Court MIRANDA 
 21.

 
 Mona Vale 
 
 Shop 5, Pittwater Place MONA VALE 
 22.

 
 Pagewood 
 
 Kiosk 115, Bunnerong Road, WESTFIELD PAGEWOOD 
 23.

 
 Pagewood (2)/East Gardens 
 
 Kiosk K 302, Bunnerong Road WESTFIELD PAGEWOOD 
 24.

 
 Parramatta (2) 
 
 Kiosk 504A, 159 Church Street St PARRAMATTA 
 25.

 
 Parramatta Food 
 
 Kiosk 510C Westfield Shoppingtown PARRAMATTA 
 26.

 
 Penrith Plaza 
 
 Kiosk K19 Penrith Plaza Shopping Centre PENRITH 
 27.

 
 Penrith Plaza Restaurant 
 
 Shop R1 Penrith Plaza Shopping Centre PENRITH 
 28.

 
 Rhodes Homebush 
 
 Shop 28 Rhodes Shopping Centre HOMEBUSH 
 29 
 
 Tuggerah Westfield 
 
 Kiosk K201 Cnr Cobbs  Gavenlock Roads TUGGERAH 
 
 
 
 
 2.
Each party without any interference from any other party will be entitled to open new Sushi World shops and to enter into leases in respect of those new shops provided that in so doing there is no assignment of the goodwill and intellectual property the subject of this proceeding.

 
 
 
 
 
 3.
In relation to shops currently intended to be opened by a party in respect of which another party has informed the landlord or intending landlord that there is a dispute as to the ownership of the goodwill and intellectual property the subject of this proceeding, that other party will on the request of the firstmentioned party inform the landlord or intending landlord in writing that, whilst the parties remain in dispute, the landlord or intending landlord is free to enter into leasing arrangements with the firstmentioned party if the landlord or intending landlord so chooses.
In the case of the applicants, the respondents will so inform QIC (if requested) in respect of the shop to be opened at Centre Tower and at Canberra City.
In the case of the respondents, the applicants will so inform (if requested) QIC in respect of the shop and kiosks to be opened in the Canberra Centre.
' 
 
 
 (manuscript additions to the typed document appear in normal type; manuscript deletions of typed script are as noted)
 
 (b) the reference to 'IP' in paragraph C is plainly a reference to intellectual property;
 (c) the reference to the transfer of intellectual property in May 2002 in paragraph C was plainly intended as a reference to the deed made 1 May 2002 referred to above;
 (d) the references to 'the lawsuit' in the first paragraph D and the second paragraph D were references to the trade mark proceedings;
 (e) the reference to 'court costs' in paragraph F was a reference to costs in the trade mark proceedings; and
 (f) a footnote to the document recorded it as 'Agreement Version 2'.


32 In relation to the shorter form of agreement it may be observed that:
 
 (a) it contained no paragraphs equivalent to B and/or C in the longer form of agreement;
 (b) paragraph B in it was expressed in marginally different terms from the first paragraph D in the longer form of agreement.
However, it was essentially directed at achieving the same outcome as the first paragraph D;
 (c) paragraph D in it was essentially the same as the second paragraph D in the longer form of agreement;
 (d) paragraph F was expressed in the same terms in both forms of agreement;
 (e) paragraph G was expressed in substantially the same terms in both forms of the agreement, but the longer form of agreement contained 4 additional Korean characters;
 (f) a footnote to the document recorded it as 'Agreement Version 1'.


33 The evidence of Mr Ku was that the shorter form of agreement was recorded in a computer file entitled 'AGREEMENT for Legal Case' and that the longer form of agreement was recorded in a computer file entitled 'AGREEMENT for Legal Case---V2'.
His computer files also suggest that the longer form of agreement was the subject of amendment later in point of time than the last amendment of the shorter form of agreement.
Having noted that, I must say that I find it curious that the shorter form of agreement contains paragraphs identified as A, B, D, F and G. One might have thought that those paragraphs would have been simply A, B, C, D and E if the shorter form of agreement came first.
However, it is possible that in its original form the shorter form of agreement contained paragraphs A, B, C, D, E, F and G, and that it was later amended to excise paragraphs C and E without there being any re-identification in alphabetical order of the remaining paragraphs, followed by the creation of a second version founded upon the shorter form of agreement but with new paragraphs B and C inserted into it and the old B reidentified as D. This may explain how it came about that there were two paragraphs D in the longer form of agreement.
34 Mr Ku's evidence is that on 24 October 2006 he prepared not only the shorter form of agreement and the longer form of agreement but also a form of transfer whereby Ji Song could transfer back to him shares in Kjun International Pty Limited, be they all of the shares or some of them.
The 'Transfer of Shares' form did not provide a space for the insertion of a number to indicate how many shares were being transferred back to Mr Ku.
Furthermore, it did contemplate the payment by Mr Ku of a monetary consideration for any transfer back that may have been in contemplation.
35 Mr Ku says that when he had finalised the preparation of the longer form of agreement on the evening of 24 October 2006, he printed off two copies of each document, inadvertently including the shorter form of agreement, which he did not then intend to utilise.
36 As it transpires Mr Ku attended his meeting with Luke Song on 25 October 2006 armed with two copies of the longer form of agreement, two copies of the shorter form of agreement and two copies of the form of share transfer which he had prepared to allow Ji Song to retransfer shares in Kjun International Pty Limited to him, all within a single plastic sleeve.
Surrounding circumstances 
 
37 Whilst, for present purposes, the focus of attention needs to be on the period 17 October to 9 November 2006, it is appropriate to refer to some of the surrounding circumstances:
 
 (a) Su-shi World Australia Pty Limited was incorporated in about 1996;
 
 (b) The driving force behind the establishment and early development of the Sushi World business was Sue Song;
 (c) For an extended period of time Luke Song and Sue Song lived separately and apart with Sue Song residing at the family home in Hunters Hill and Luke Song residing at the family farm at Colo Vale;
 (d) Luke Song did not have any involvement in the Sushi World business for an extended period of time;
 (e) In about 2003 --- 2004 Sue Song was overworked and became very tired and ill;
 (f) Mr Ku had experience in working with computers.
In about 1999 he was assisting a supplier to the Songs.
Following his initial contact with the Songs through that supplier, he spent some time teaching them how to use a computer.
At the time he was a director of a Korean e-commerce business;
 (g) In about mid-2001 Mr Ku had a meeting with Mr and Mrs Song at the hotel in Sydney then known as the 'ANA Hotel';
 (h) Following that meeting Mr Ku says that he developed a proposal for the establishment of a franchise business exploiting the name 'Sushi World';
 (i) After a couple of months Mr Ku started to work in the Su-shi World business.
He was issued with a business card describing him as 'Trading Director' of Su-shi World Australia Pty Limited of 15-17 Larkin Street, Camperdown;
 (j) In about 2004 Mr Ku was given the use of a BMW 530i motor vehicle registered in the name of Su-shi World Australia Pty Limited;
 (k) The Sushi World factory was located at the Camperdown premises.
Those premises included a small office area, the use of which was shared at various times by Mr and Mrs Song, Mr Ku and an accountant, Richard Jang of Baretan Consulting Pty Limited;
 (l) A structure was put in place whereby each Sushi World outlet was to be operated under a separately registered company.
This may not have been implemented in respect of each and every outlet;
 (m) Sushi Nara Australia Pty Limited was incorporated by Mr Ku on or about 21 March 2002;
 (n) Prior to the end of 2002 about 15 Sushi World outlets had been established by Su-shi World Australia Pty Limited.
These outlets enjoyed a total turnover of approximately $4,000,000 per annum;
 (o) Sushi Nara Australia Pty Limited began securing franchisees for further Sushi World outlets in about early to mid-2003.
Between about mid-2003 and mid-2005 Sushi Nara Australia Pty Limited secured more than ten franchisees for Sushi World outlets.
Franchise fees varying from about $100,000 to $600,000 were paid to Sushi Nara Australia Pty Limited in respect of such franchises;
 (q) It was a matter of some embarrassment for Mr Ku, Kjun International Pty Limited and Sushi Nara Australia Pty Limited when, in about mid August 2006, letters were received by franchisees appointed by Sushi Nara Australia Pty Limited from the solicitors for LSU Pty Limited as trustee of the Nirvana Investment Trust asserting, inter alia, that it was the owner of trade mark number 785516 and that it had a substantial reputation in the name Sushi World, including the Sushi World logo;
 (r) All Sushi World outlets were supplied with made up sushi by Su-shi World Australia Pty Limited or, when the sushi was made up on site at various outlets, materials for the sushi were supplied by Su-shi World Australia Pty Limited, except in relation to some perishable items such as salmon, where supply was provided by third parties.

 The making of contracts 
 
38 It is quite possible for parties to come to an agreement by accepting a proposal with the result that the agreement concluded does not give rise to legal relations.
The reason for this is that the parties do not intend that their agreement should give rise to legal relations.
This intention may be implied from the subject matter of the agreement, but it may also be expressed by the parties.
In social and family relations such an intention is readily implied, while in business matters the opposite result would ordinarily follow.
However, even in business matters, there can be no reason why the parties should not intend to simply rely on each other's good faith and honour.
If they clearly express such an intention, there can be no reason in public policy why effect should not be given to it (per Scrutton LJ in Rose and Frank Company v J.
R. Crompton and Brothers, Limited ('Rose and Frank') [1923] 2 KB 261 at 288).
39 In Rose and Frank the English Court of Appeal was considering a signed memorandum purporting to set out the understanding between two English firms supplying carbon paper of various kinds and the American firm which was importing such carbon paper.
The document included the following:
 
 'This arrangement is not entered into, nor is this memorandum written, as a formal or legal agreement, and shall not be subject to legal jurisdiction in the Law Courts either of the United States or England, but it is only a definite expression and record of the purpose and intention of the three parties concerned to which they each honourably pledge themselves with the fullest confidence, based on past business with each other, that it will be carried through by each of the three parties with mutual loyalty and friendly co-operation.
' 


 
The American firm sued the English firms for breach of the contract said to have arisen from the relevant memorandum.
It was held that the document did not constitute a binding agreement.
40 An executed document becomes an agreement when and in the manner the parties intend that it should do so (see per Lord Greene, MR in Eccles v Bryant (1947) 2 All ER 865 at 869.3).
At 866.9 Lord Greene said:
 
 'When parties are proposing to enter into a contract, the manner in which the contract is to be created so as to bind them must be gathered from the intentions of the parties, express or implied.
' 
 

(See also Sindel v Georgiou [1984] HCA 58 ; (1984) 154 CLR 661 at 667-8).
41 The relevant principles in relation to the formation of a contract are conveniently summarised by Kaye J in his leading judgment in Australian (sic) and New Zealand Banking Group Ltd. v Frost Holdings Pty Ltd. (1989) VR 695 at 700-701 as follows:
 
 ' "It is a first principle of the law of contracts that there can be no binding and enforceable obligation unless the terms of the bargain, or at least its essential or critical terms, have been agreed upon.
So, there is no concluded contract where an essential or critical term is expressly left to be settled by future agreement of the parties"; per Sugarman J.
(sic) in the Full Court of the Supreme Court of New South Wales, quoted on appeal with approval by Menzies J. in Thorby v. Goldberg [1964] HCA 41 ; (1964) 112 C.L.R.
597, at p.607.
See also May and Butcher Ltd v. R. (H.L.
) [1934] 2 K.B. 17, at p.20, per Lord Buckmaster and, at p.22, per Lord Warrington.

 
 An agreement by a term of which a relevant or critical term will be the subject of future agreement between the parties is not enforceable.
This general principle of the law of contract was stated by Viscount Dunedin in May and Butcher Ltd. v. R. , at p.21 in the following passage: "To be a good contract there must be a concluded bargain, and a concluded contract is one which settles everything that is necessary to be settled and leaves nothing to be settled by agreement between the parties.
Of course it may leave something which still has to be determined, but then that determination must be a determination which does not depend upon the agreement between the parties.
In the system of law in which I was brought up, that was expressed by one of those brocards of which perhaps we have been too fond, but which often express very neatly what is wanted: 'Certum est quod certum reddi potest.
' Therefore, you may very well agree that a certain part of the contract of sale, such as price, may be settled by someone else.
As a matter of the general law of contract all the essentials have to be settled.
What are the essentials may vary according to the particular contract under consideration.
We are here dealing with sale, and undoubtedly price is one of the essentials of sale, and if it is left still to be agreed between the parties, then there is no contract.
" 
 
 Referring to the same principle of law, Lord Wright in Scammell and Nephew Ltd. v. Ouston [1941] A.C. 251, at pp.
268-9 stated: "There are many cases in the books of what are called illusory contracts, that is, where the parties may have thought they were making a contract but failed to arrive at a definite bargain.
It is a necessary requirement that an agreement in order to be binding must be sufficiently definite to enable a court to give it a practical meaning.
Its terms must be so definite, or capable of being made definite without further agreement of the parties, that the promises and performances to be rendered by each party are reasonably certain.
" 
 
 No doubt the principle is founded on recognition that the parties might subsequently fail to agree upon the undecided term, and that in such event the agreement would fail for want of agreement concerning a relevant term.
The situation is distinguished from a contract made by parties leaving an essential term to be agreed upon by them, and if they fail to agree the disputed term is to be determined by a third party or by arbitration.
...' 


 
42 It is also useful to have regard to the statement of principle contained in the judgment of Bray CJ in Powell and Berry v Jones and Jones (1968) SASR 394 at 397 as follows:
 
 'It seems to me that there are four relevant categories of case where what at first sight looks like an enforceable contract subsequently turns out not to be one.
No doubt these categories may and frequently do overlap and many cases fall within more than one of them.

 
 1.
The parties may have only agreed to agree.
They may have left terms to be fixed by subsequent negotiation between them, their intention being that the provisions already agreed and those yet to be agreed shall operate together as one contract.
Thorby v. Goldberg .

 
 2.
The parties may have made their agreement subject not only to the preparation but also to the execution of a formal document.
In such a case, then, even though everything has in fact been agreed, either party may withdraw before the execution of such a document; e.g.
Coope v. Ridout .
Their intention must be taken to be that until such execution each of them has a locus poenitentiae .
Many cases falling under this head also fall under the first.

 
 3.
The agreement may have left to the option of one party not only the mode of performance but whether there shall be any performance at all; e.g.
Taylor v. Brewer .

 
 4.
There remains a residual class of case outside the first three categories where the agreement reached is so vague and uncertain that the court cannot give it any definite meaning at all.
Cf.
per Lord Wright in Scammell (G.)  Nephew Ltd. v. Ouston (H. C.  J.
G.).
' 
 
 (footnotes omitted) 


 
43 In Biotechnology Australia Pty Ltd v Pace (1988) 15 NSWLR 130 at 150-151, McHugh JA, as his Honour then was, said under the heading 'Was the consideration illusory?
':
 
 'A contract made for a consideration which is illusory is unenforceable: Placer Development Ltd v The Commonwealth [1969] HCA 29 ; (1969) 121 CLR 353 at 356, 360-361 and Meehan v Jones [1982] HCA 52 ; (1982) 149 CLR 571 at 581.
A consideration is illusory if its payment or fulfilment depends upon an unfettered discretion vested in the promisor.
' 
 

To like effect Mr Justice Hope said at 143:
 
 'All these decisions show how far courts are prepared to go in order to find that there is an enforceable contractual promise where that is what the parties have intended.
There are of course limitations.
I have already referred to the case where the promisor has a discretion, not only as to what he shall do, but also as to whether he shall do anything.
Such a promise is illusory.
Furthermore it appears that the promise will not be enforceable if the manner of performance, including the amount of money to be paid or, if relevant, the number of shares to be offered, is a matter entirely in the discretion of the promisor and no criteria by which the performance required of the promisor can be measured, or the minimum of that performance can be measured, is expressed or can be found to be implied.
' 


 When are contracts void for uncertainty?

 
44 The use of language which, as a matter of construction and not mere speculation, cannot be given any one meaning rather than another will defeat any intention of the parties to make a binding contract (per Menzies J in The Council of the Upper Hunter County District v Australian Chilling and Freezing Co. Limited [1968] HCA 8 ; (1968) 118 CLR 429 at 441).
45 Cases may arise where a vague, uncertain, or meaningless clause in a contract can simply be ignored.
Other like clauses may be waived by a party if inserted solely for the benefit of that party.
However, a clause which is definitive of the ultimate rights which it is contemplated that a party will get under his contract is incapable of being so treated.
46 However, not all ambiguous contracts are to be found void for uncertainty.
In The Council of the Upper Hunter County District v Australian Chilling and Freezing Co. Limited , Barwick CJ said at 436-7:
 
 '... a contract of which there can be more than one possible meaning or which when construed can produce in its application more than one result is not therefore void for uncertainty.
As long as it is capable of a meaning, it will ultimately bear that meaning which the courts, or in an appropriate case, an arbitrator, decides is its proper construction: and the court or arbitrator will decide its application.
The question becomes one of construction, of ascertaining the intention of the parties, and of applying it.
Lord Tomlin's words in this connexion in Hillas  Co. Ltd. v. Arcos Ltd. ought to be kept in mind.
So long as the language employed by the parties, to use Lord Wright's words in Scammell (G.)  Nephew Ltd. v. Ouston is not "so obscure and so incapable of any definite or precise meaning that the Court is unable to attribute to the parties any particular contractual intention", the contract cannot be held to be void or uncertain or meaningless.
In the search for that intention, no narrow or pedantic approach is warranted, particularly in the case of commercial arrangements.
Thus will uncertainty of meaning, as distinct from absence of meaning or of intention, be resolved.
' 
 
 (footnotes omitted) 


 
47 In Whitlock v Brew [1968] HCA 71 ; (1968) 118 CLR 445 the High Court held that a clause concerning the grant of a lease was uncertain for it did not prescribe either the term of the lease or the rent; and further that the provision for arbitration "as to the interpretation and operation" of the clause did not authorise an arbitrator to fix either the rent or the term.
It was further held that since the uncertain term was a material and inseverable part of the contract, there was no concluded agreement between the parties.
Kitto J at 456 said:
 
 '... the document does not record a consensus ad idem as to the duration of the term, the rent, or anything else except the commencing date and the premises intended to be let.
' 
 

Taylor, Menzies and Owen JJ said at 460-1:
 
 'We are firmly of opinion that the expression "upon such reasonable terms as govern such a lease" is not, in the context in which it appears, apt to refer to either the period for which the contemplated lease is to subsist or to the rent to be payable thereunder.
Nor do we think that the further expression "as to the interpretation or operation" of this clause covers a dispute as to either of those matters.
We, therefore, are of opinion that the clause is uncertain in that it neither specifies nor provides a means for the determination as between the parties of the period for which the contemplated lease shall be granted or the rent which shall be payable thereunder.
' 


 
Their Honours proceeded to deal with the question of severability referring to the judgment of Knox CJ in Life Insurance Co. of Australia Ltd. v. Phillips [1925] HCA 18 ; (1925) 36 CLR 60 at 72 where his Honour said:
 
 'When a contract contains a number of stipulations one of which is void for uncertainty, the question whether the whole contract is void depends on the intention of the parties to be gathered from the instrument as a whole.
If the contract be divisible, the part which is void may be separated from the rest and does not affect its validity.
' 


 
48 Another illustration of a contract which was held to be void for uncertainty is to be found in Bishop v. Taylor [1968] HCA 68 ; (1968) 118 CLR 518 where a contract for the sale of land included a condition which provided, inter alia, for 'one-third share of crops ... until end of peanut crop in 1968 or end of harvesting period ...' to be paid.
The Court held that the condition was void for uncertainty because, upon construing it, one was unable to determine the term of the relevant sub-lease, the type of crop, or what 'one-third share of crops' meant.
McTiernan and Taylor JJ said at 523:
 
 '... if it was intended that the lease should continue to subsist after the first year it is impossible to say with any degree of certainty for what period it was to subsist.
The condition did not specify the nature of the crop or crops which the respondent might plant although, no doubt, it was contemplated that they would be peanuts.
But the condition does not restrict him in his choice of crops and it may well be that it was for this reason that the condition provided, in effect, that the lease should subsist "until the end of peanut crop in 1968 or end of harvesting period or as otherwise agreed upon".
The duration of the lease, therefore, it seems to us, was to depend upon what sort of crops had been sown for harvesting in 1968 and any agreement to grant a lease with the term so defined, or undefined, is void.
' 
 

Menzies J said at 525:
 
 '... the condition of the contract for a sub-lease from the purchaser to the vendor of some part of the land, the subject of the contract, is one to which it is not possible by a process of construction to give any particular meaning.
I agree entirely with what has been said about this condition being void for uncertainty.
' 


 Construction of contracts 
 
49 It is not the subjective beliefs or understandings of the parties about their rights and liabilities that govern their contractual relations.
What matters is what each party by words and conduct would have led a reasonable person in the position of the other party to believe.
References to the common intention of the parties to a contract are to be understood as referring to what a reasonable person would understand by the language in which the parties have expressed their agreement.
The meaning of the terms of a contractual document is to be determined by what a reasonable person would have understood them to mean.
That, normally, requires consideration not only of the text, but also of the surrounding circumstances known to the parties, and the purpose and object of the transaction (per Gleeson CJ, Gummow, Hayne, Callinan and Heydon JJ in Toll (FGCT) Pty Limited v Alphapharm Pty Limited [2004] HCA 52 ; (2004) 219 CLR 165 at 179 [40] ).
50 Actual beliefs and intentions are, generally speaking, irrelevant in the determination of the legal rights and obligations flowing from a written agreement (see per Gleeson CJ, McHugh, Kirby, Hayne and Callinan JJ in Equuscorp Pty Ltd v HGT Investments Pty Ltd [2004] HCA 55 ; (2005) 218 CLR 471 at 483 [34] ).
51 The primary duty of a court in construing a written contract is to endeavour to discover the intention of the parties from the words of the instrument in which the contract is embodied.
Of course the whole of the instrument has to be considered, since the meaning of any one part of it may be revealed by other parts, and the words of every clause must if possible be construed so as to render them all harmonious one with another.
If the words used are unambiguous the court must give effect to them, notwithstanding that the result may appear capricious or unreasonable, and notwithstanding that it may be guessed or suspected that the parties intended something different.
The court has no power to remake or amend a contract for the purpose of avoiding a result which is considered to be inconvenient or unjust.
On the other hand, if the language is open to two constructions, that will be preferred which will avoid consequences which appear to be capricious, unreasonable, inconvenient or unjust, 'even though the construction adopted is not the most obvious, or the most grammatically accurate', to use the words from earlier authority cited in Locke v. Dunlop ((1888) 39 Ch D 387 at 393), which, although spoken in relation to a will, are applicable to the construction of written instruments generally; see also Bottomley's Case ((1880) 16 Ch D 681 at 686).
Further, it will be permissible to depart from the ordinary meaning of the words of one provision so far as is necessary to avoid an inconsistency between that provision and the rest of the instrument.
Finally, the statement of Lord Wright in Hillas and Co. Limited.
v Arcos Limited.
((1932) 147 LT 503 at 514) that the court should construe commercial contracts 'fairly and broadly, without being too astute or subtle in finding defects', should not be understood as limited to documents drawn by businessmen for themselves and without legal assistance (cf.
Upper Hunter County District Council v Australian Chilling and Freezing Co. Ltd .
[1968] HCA 8 ; (1968) 118 CLR 429 at 437) (per Gibbs J, as his Honour then was, in Australian Broadcasting Commission v Australasian Performing Right Association Limited [1973] HCA 36 ; (1973) 129 CLR 99 at 109-110) .

 
52 Where the language of a contract has a plain meaning evidence of surrounding circumstances is not admissible to assist in the interpretation of the contract (per Mason J in Codelfa Construction Proprietary Limited v State Rail Authority of New South Wales ('Codelfa') [1982] HCA 24 ; (1982) 149 CLR 337 at 352).
53 Subsequent conduct is not admissible as an aid to construction of a contract.
As Lord Reid said in Whitworth Street Estates Limited v Miller (1970) AC 583 at 603E (see also 615A):
 
 'Otherwise one might have the result that a contract meant one thing the day it was signed, but by reason of subsequent events meant something different a month or a year later.
' 
 

(See also Port Sudan Cotton Co v Govinda Swami Chettiar  Sons (1977) 2 Lloyd's LR 5 at 11).
54 In seeking to ascertain the intention of the parties to a written contract extrinsic evidence may not be resorted to except where such evidence may be called in aid in the interpretation of the written instrument.
Clearly enough, it is not to the point to make an independent examination of extrinsic facts, even if they were within the knowledge of both parties, and upon such evidence to conclude that a particular provision was or was not of importance to the parties or to either of them.
The question for determination is the intention of the parties as disclosed by the contract into which they have entered (per Taylor, Menzies and Owen JJ in Whitlock v Brew at 461).
55 The relevant principle in relation to resort being had on matters of construction to extrinsic evidence is to be found in the judgment of Mason J, as his Honour then was, in Codelfa at 352 as follows:
 
 'The true rule is that evidence of surrounding circumstances is admissible to assist in the interpretation of the contract if the language is ambiguous or susceptible of more than one meaning.
But it is not admissible to contradict the language of the contract when it has a plain meaning.
Generally speaking facts existing when the contract was made will not be receivable as part of the surrounding circumstances as an aid to construction, unless they were known to both parties, although, as we have seen, if the facts are notorious knowledge of them will be presumed.

 
 It is here that a difficulty arises with respect to the evidence of prior negotiations.
Obviously the prior negotiations will tend to establish objective background facts which were known to both parties and the subject matter of the contract.
To the extent to which they have this tendency they are admissible.
But in so far as they consist of statements and actions of the parties which are reflective of their actual intentions and expectations they are not receivable.
The point is that such statements and actions reveal the terms of the contract which the parties intended or hoped to make.
They are superseded by, and merged in, the contract itself.
The object of the parol evidence rule is to exclude them, the prior oral agreement of the parties being inadmissible in aid of construction, though admissible in an action for rectification.

 
 Consequently when the issue is which of two or more possible meanings is to be given to a contractual provision we look, not to the actual intentions, aspirations or expectations of the parties before or at the time of the contract, except in so far as they are expressed in the contract, but to the objective framework of facts within which the contract came into existence, and to the parties' presumed intention in this setting.
We do not take into account the actual intentions of the parties and for the very good reason that an investigation of those matters would not only be time consuming but it would also be unrewarding as it would tend to give too much weight to these factors at the expense of the actual language of the written contract.
' 


 Implication of terms 
 
56 Terms may be implied in one of four ways (per Heydon JA, as his Honour then was, in Brambles Holdings Ltd v Bathurst City Council [2001] NSWCA 61 ; (2001) 53 NSWLR 153 at 164 [28] ).
These were summarised by Hodgson J in Carlton  United Breweries Ltd v Tooth  Co Ltd (unreported, Supreme Court of New South Wales, 11 June 1985) as follows:
 
 
 '(i) Implications contained in the express words of the contract: see Marcus Clarke (Vic) Ltd v Brown [1928] HCA 12 ; (1928) 40 CLR 540 at 553-4.

 
 (ii) Implications from the "nature of the contract itself" as expressed in the words of the contract: see Liverpool City Council v Irwin [1976] UKHL 1 ; [1977] AC 239.

 
 (iii) Implications from usage (for example, mercantile contracts).

 
 (iv) Implications from considerations of business efficacy: see BP Refinery (Westernport) Pty Ltd v Hastings Shire Council (1977) 52 ALJR 20 at 26; Codelfa Construction Pty Ltd v State Rail Authority of NSW [1982] HCA 24 ; (1982) 149 CLR 337.
' 
 
 

57 In relation to the fourth mentioned type of implied term the classic test is identified in the advice of Lord Simon of Glaisdale, Viscount Dilhorne and Lord Keith of Kinkel in B.P. Refinery (Westernport) Pty.
Limited v President, Councillors and Ratepayers of the Shire of Hastings [1977] HCA 40 ; (1977) 180 CLR 266 at 283 as follows:
 
 '... for a term to be implied, the following conditions (which may overlap) must be satisfied: (1) it must be reasonable and equitable; (2) it must be necessary to give business efficacy to the contract, so that no term will be implied if the contract is effective without it; (3) it must be so obvious that "it goes without saying"; (4) it must be capable of clear expression; (5) it must not contradict any express term of the contract .
'
 

The test promulgated by the Privy Council was approved by Mason J in Codelfa .
Collateral contracts 
 
58 A distinct collateral agreement, whether oral or in writing, and whether prior to or contemporaneous with the main agreement, will be valid and enforceable even though the main agreement be in writing, provided that the two may consistently stand together so that the provisions of the main agreement remain in full force and effect notwithstanding the collateral agreement.
The collateral agreement cannot impinge on the main agreement.
The consideration for a collateral agreement may be the making of the main agreement (per Knox CJ in Hoyt's Proprietary Limited v Spencer [1919] HCA 64 ; (1919) 27 CLR 133 at 139 and per Isaacs J at 147-8; see also Chapman v Chapman [1983] 2 NSWLR 420 at 432-5 and Gates v The City Mutual Life Assurance Society Limited [1986] HCA 3 ; (1986) 160 CLR 1 at 11).
Trust principles 
 
59 It is trite to say that every form of trust will have four essential elements: the trustee, the trust property, the beneficiary or charitable purpose, and the personal obligation annexed to the trust property (Jacobs' Law of Trusts in Australia, Seventh Edition 2006, J D Heydon and M J Leeming ('Jacobs') at [104]-[110]).
60 Trusts may be classified in a variety of ways.
In Jacobs at [305] the learned authors said:
 
 'It is therefore possible to classify trusts in the following ways: 
 
 
 
 (1) From the point of view of intent to create a trust.
Here, trusts are either --- 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) express or declared; or 
 (b) resulting or implied; or 
 (c) constructive.

 
 
 
 
 
 (2) From the point of view of the objects of the trust.
Here, trusts are either --- 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) private; or 
 (b) public or charitable.

 
 
 
 
 
 (3) From the point of view of the nature of the duties imposed upon the trustee.
Here, trusts are either --- 
 
 (a) simple; or 
 (b) special.

 
 
 
 
 
 (4) From the point of view of the form of the declaration of trust.
Here, trusts are either --- 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) executed; or 
 (b) executory.

 
 
 ...' 
 

See generally Jacobs at [301]-[308]
 
61 For the creation of an express trust, no technical expressions are necessary.
It is sufficient if the settlor evinces with reasonable certainty:
 
(a) an intent to create a trust;
 
(b) the trust property;
 
(c) the persons intended to be beneficiaries; and
 
(d) the purpose of the trust so that the trust is administratively workable and not capricious.
(Underhill and Hayton, Law Relating to Trusts and Trustees, 16 th Edition, 2003, D J Hayton at 73.
)
 
62 The presumption of a resulting trust that arises when property is transferred without consideration into the name of a person who is neither the child, adopted child or wife of the transferor, does no more than call for proof of an intention to confer beneficial ownership.
Prima facie there is a resulting trust but where satisfactory proof is forthcoming that a purpose of the transaction was to confer beneficial ownership, the presumption is rebutted (see Russell v Scott ('Russell v Scott') [1936] HCA 34 ; (1936) 55 CLR 440 --- the case of an aunt who put money into a joint bank account in her name and that of her nephew on the basis that it would be held in trust for the aunt during her lifetime but thereafter the beneficial interest would pass to the nephew).
63 There is no jurisdiction in an Australian court of equity to declare an owner of property to be a trustee of that property for another merely on the ground that, having regard to all the circumstances, it would be fair so to declare: Wirth v Wirth [1956] HCA 71 ; (1956) 98 CLR 228 at 232 ; Hepworth v Hepworth [1963] HCA 49 ; (1963) 110 CLR 309 at 318 ; Bloch v Bloch [1981] HCA 56 ; (1981) 180 CLR 390 at 400; Muschinski v Dodds ('Muschinski') [1985] HCA 78 ; (1985) 160 CLR 583 at 594-5, 608 and 615-6.
64 In rejecting the notion that a constructive trust will be imposed in accordance with idiosyncratic notions of what is just and fair Deane J in Muschinski acknowledged that general notions of fairness and justice are relevant to the traditional concept of unconscionable conduct, this being a concept which underlies fundamental equitable concepts and doctrines, including the constructive trust.
His Honour pointed out that the constructive trust serves as a remedy which equity imposes regardless of actual or presumed agreement or intention to preclude the retention or assertion of beneficial ownership of property to the extent that such retention or assertion would be contrary to equitable principle (see per Mason CJ, Wilson and Deane JJ in Baumgartner v Baumgartner ('Baumgartner') [1987] HCA 59 ; (1987) 164 CLR 137 at 148.
65 In relation to the general equitable principle, which restores to a party contributions which he or she has made to a joint endeavour which fails when the contributions have been made in circumstances in which it was not intended that the other party should enjoy the benefit of them, to which Mason CJ, Wilson and Deane JJ referred in Baumgartner at 148, it was noted that Deane J had said in Muschinski :
 
 '... the principle operates in a case where the substratum of a joint relationship or endeavour is removed without attributable blame and where the benefit of money or other property contributed by one party on the basis and for the purposes of the relationship or endeavour would otherwise be enjoyed by the other party in circumstances in which it was not specifically intended or specially provided that that other party should so enjoy it.
The content of the principle is that, in such a case, equity will not permit that other party to assert or retain the benefit of the relevant property to the extent that it would be unconscionable for him so to do: cf.
Atwood v. Maude , and per Jessel M.R., Lyon v. Tweddell .
' 
 
 (footnotes omitted)
 

66 In Barclays Bank Ltd. v Quistclose Investments Ltd. ('Quistclose') [1968] UKHL 4 ; [1970] AC 567 the House of Lords accepted that money which had been given to Rolls Razor Ltd and banked into a special bank account to enable Rolls Razor Ltd to pay a dividend to its shareholders was impressed with a primary trust to pay the money out to the shareholders and a secondary trust to repay it to Quistclose Investments Ltd if the primary trust failed.
As it transpires, Rolls Razor Ltd went into voluntary liquidation prior to the payment out of the dividend.
67 In Carreras Rothmans Ltd. v. Freeman Mathews Treasure Ltd. [1985] 1 Ch 207 it was found that moneys paid by a company to an advertising agency, which were placed in a special account after the agency experienced financial difficulties, to be paid out to media interests with whom advertising had been placed for the company was held in trust by the agency for the payment over of the monies to the third party media interests.
In that case Peter Gibson J explained the principle applied in Quistclose at 222 as follows:
 
 'In my judgment the principle in all these cases is that equity fastens on the conscience of the person who receives from another property transferred for a specific purpose only and not therefore for the recipient's own purposes, so that such person will not be permitted to treat the property as his own or to use it for other than the stated purpose.
Most of the cases in this line are cases where there has been an agreement for consideration so that in one sense each party has contributed to providing the property.
But if the common intention is that property is transferred for a specific purpose and not so as to become the property of the transferee, the transferee cannot keep the property if for any reason that purpose cannot be fulfilled.
' 


 
68 In Re Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust; Lord v Commonwealth Bank of Australia ('Elizabethan Theatre Trust') (1991) 30 FCR 491 Gummow J held that moneys donated by third parties to the Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust, with a view to securing tax deductibility for the donations so made, with a request that preference be given by the Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust to the allocation of the moneys so donated to specific arts bodies associated with the Trust, did not result in the Australian Elizabethan Theatre Trust, which had entered into provisional liquidation, becoming the trustee of the monies so donated for the preferred arts bodies.
At 502 Gummow J observed:
 
 'The striking feature of the Quistclose litigation was that, whilst previously it might have been thought that debt and trust were distinct and disparate norms, it was thereafter clear that in a given case the transaction under analysis might bear a dual character.
' 
 

69 Commenting on the Quistclose litigation Gummow J said at 501:
 
 'But the essential reason why the insolvency law did not strike at the transaction in question in Quistclose was that the moneys represented by the cheque drawn by Quistclose in favour of Rolls Razor and banked in the special account of Rolls Razor never any at (sic) stage became the beneficial property of Rolls Razor.
It acquired no more than what Dixon J called a dry legal interest: see [Perpetual Trustee Company (Limited) v Commissioner of Stamp Duties of New South Wales [1941] HCA 15 ; (1941) 64 CLR 492] (at 510).
On its part, Quistclose had both a contractual right to repayment out of the general assets of Rolls Razor, as a general creditor, and the beneficial interest in a fund, whether by way of resulting trust or as the second limb of an express trust.
' 
 

70 In relation to the constitution of an express trust Gummow J said at 502-503:
 
 'The question as to the existence of any express trust will always have to be answered by reference to intention.
... 
 
 The relevant intention is to be inferred from the language employed by the parties in question and to that end the court may look also to the nature of the transaction and the relevant circumstances attending the relationship between them: see Walker v Corboy (1990) 19 NSWLR 382; Scott, The Law of Trusts (4 th ed, 1987), SS25.2.
There is no need for particular caution in drawing the inference that a trust was intended: see Bahr v Nicolay (No 2) [1988] HCA 16 ; (1988) 164 CLR 604 at 618-619.
However, it also is important to appreciate both the flexibility of the institution of the express trust and the range of equitable institutions which fall short of but have some of the characteristics of a trust.
' 


 
71 In Elizabethan Theatre Trust Gummow J observed that the debate in Quistclose had been confined to whether the material disclosed a trust in the terms which his Honour had described or merely a loan.
His Honour then continued by saying at 503:
 
 '...
But the facts in such cases are susceptible of infinite variation and the trust is a supple instrument.
Hence the suggestion by Professor Finn that if the facts disclosed no contractual obligation by the borrower to the lender to pay the creditors, there could hardly be present a concurrent intention to create a trust in their favour; rather, the borrower would hold the moneys borrowed as trustee of an express trust for the lender, subject to a mandate for the lender (sic) to use the fund to pay the creditors.
On that footing, there would be but one trust, created to give the lender security for its rescue operation of the financially unhealthy borrower, but not to render the creditors beneficiaries under any trust.
...' 
 

72 Gummow J concluded his observations in respect of Quistclose by saying at 503:
 
 'To speak of a Quistclose trust as if it were a new legal institution rather than an example of the particular operation of principle upon the facts as found is to set the listener or reader off on a false path.
...' 


 Summary 
 
73 It is evident that each case turns on its own facts.
However, the principles which are to be applied are clear, as indicated above.
The witnesses 
 
74 Two witnesses were called to give evidence in the applicant's case, namely Mr Ku and Mr Kim, a Queensland solicitor presently resident in South Korea.
Three witnesses were called in the respondents' case, namely Luke Song, Sue Song and Ji Song.
It seemed to me that the Songs had a sense that Mr Ku had, metaphorically speaking, pulled the wool over their eyes and in particular those of Mrs Song, securing for himself advantages in respect of Sushi World to which he was not entitled.
Likewise, it seemed to me that Mr Ku had a sense that he had helped the Songs develop and expand the Sushi World business, especially when Luke Song was absent from the business and Sue Song was tired, overworked and ill, in such a way as to entitle him to some worthwhile fruits from his endeavours.
75 In this context, I have endeavoured to evaluate the oral evidence that has been given.
All the witnesses impressed me as being intelligent, if not highly intelligent.
It is regrettable that each of them appeared to me to give evidence that was tailored to fit in with the cases that they were seeking to advance or support, rather than simply provide direct and truthful answers to the questions that were asked of them.
I felt that the Songs' evidence, in particular, smacked of being given to accord with a pre-set agenda.
At times, I felt the answers provided by Luke Song were devious and/or evasive.
Senior Counsel for the applicant submitted that, in assessing the credibility of the respondents' witnesses, I should rank them as Sue Song --- most believable, then Ji Song, followed by Luke Song as least believable.
I would incline to the view that Ji Song was more believable than his mother.
Leading counsel for the respondents submitted that Mr Ku should not be found to be a witness of truth.
Notwithstanding the concerns that I have with Mr Ku's evidence, I would, generally speaking, prefer his evidence to that of Luke Song.
17 October --- 9 November 2006 
 
76 In the period 17 --- 25 October 2006 a series of meetings took place between Mr Ku and Luke Song directed at settling the trade mark proceedings.
77 Even before those proceedings were instituted, there had been discussions between the Ku and Song interests in relation to the resolution of differences concerning the ownership of various Sushi World outlets and shares in frachisees of businesses utilising the Sushi World name.
These led to the preparation of documents which contemplated the 'private' transfer of Sushi World outlets or shares in various companies associated with Mr Ku to one or other of the Songs' three sons.
Documents in the form of Letters of Agreement were prepared which were variously dated 1 January 2006 (a Sunday) and 1 June 2006.
First meeting 
 
78 On Tuesday 17 October 2006 a meeting took place at the Avillion Hotel in Sydney attended by a Mr Park, Luke Song and Mr Ku.
The meeting had been convened at the instigation of Mr Park.
Mr Ku's account of what transpired included conversation in the Korean language to the following effect:
 
 
 Luke Song: 'Jun [referring to Mr Ku] I am sick and tired of doing this legal fighting because there are two other legal fighting cases are on going now and I am almost exhausted and tired of spending all of my time with solicitors.
The fighting between us is started because of lack of mutual trust and blocked communications, because many people say all kinds of created allegations against you and against us, that escalate the situation more worse and worse.
Let's resolve this fighting and end this legal case without further going.
' 
 Ku: 'I agree, we don't have to wasted our valuable time on this kind of legal case.
But this fighting started when you set up LSU Pty Ltd without my knowledge and sent letter to all Franchisees on 16 Aug 2006.
As long as we tell the truth to the franchisees currently very upset and correct the wrong action, I don't have any reason to proceed with this legal action.
We are not fighting to kill each other.
Let's resolve this problem with mutual understanding and trust with the truth'.

 

 Luke Song: ' Sorry for that Director Ku, Let's stop fighting.
' 
 
 Ku: 'I am sorry too and let's stop all fighting.
' 
 
 
 Park: 'I am very happy to hear that and I am happy to see you guys start talking and have at least communication channel open.
Let's talk and finalise all legal actions doing or preparing to do against each other.
' 
 


 
79 Luke Song did not acknowledge that conversation took place in the terms suggested by Mr Ku.
He did however say that at a meeting with Mr Park and Mr Ku in October 2006 conversation took place in the Korean language to the following effect:
 
 Ku: 'All franchisees worry about the letter.
' 
 
 
 Luke Song: 'They don't have to worry anything if they don't damage the company image.
We should make new regulations with them.
It is regrettable that we are all in the legal dispute each other.
Let's solve this problem through negotiations between us.
' 
 


 
80 I am generally satisfied that conversation to the effect of that set out above took place at a meeting between Mr Park, Mr Ku and Luke Song on 17 October 2006.
Second meeting 
 
81 A further meeting took place between Luke Song and Mr Ku on Wednesday 18 October 2006 at the Avillion Hotel in Sydney.
On this occasion, Sue Song was also present.
According to Mr Ku conversation took place which included:
 
 
 Sue Song: 'How can you start Federal Court legal action against me?
You want to fight with me?
OK you do whatever you want to do and I will show you what I can do against you.
' 
 Ku: 'What is LSU Pty Ltd company?
When was that company incorporated?
For what reason did you send letters to all of my franchisees who are all my friends and demand compensation or that they cease trading?
That's the action you would regret later on and that's the action breaking our mutual trust and making me in the middle of this legal fighting.
You know Sushi Nara Australia is the company developing franchising systems and that's the reason why you have paid all material costs to Sushi Nara Australia for the last three years.
This totals around 2 million dollars.
You were the person giving all of the background information when I made the franchise manual and disclosure statement with Richard Jang.
You think the mistakenly not changed trade mark is still under Sushi World Australia's name and you tried to transfer it to LSU Pty Ltd a few months ago.
You valued it at $100.00 and now you want to try to act as a franchisor?
None of the franchisees believe that nonsense and they will not accept LSU Pty Ltd as Franchisor or IP holder, because when they started the sushi world business they knew which company is IP holder and which company is franchisor.
Even you told them when they phoned you with issues that they should contact me at Sushi Nara Australia who is the Franchisor.
You already knew Kjun International Pty Ltd is IP holding company and Sushi Nara Australia is Franchisor.
Why are you doing this and breaking our mutual trust and betraying me and my friends?
Why did you send that kind of stupid letter to all our franchisees and make me in the middle of start legal action against you?
We worked as family member before?
Aren't we?
' 
 Sue Song: 'I don't know that letter sent to Franchisees and I haven't seen it.
I don't care which company holding IP and which company is franchisor.
The thing makes me very upset is how can you start legal action against me and why you did not consult me when you or your franchisees got that kinds of letter and you should come and see me instead of starting this legal action.
' 
 Ku: 'When I got an urgent phone call from Keith Rhee saying what you are doing at that time with your solicitor, I called you and tried to ask what is going on and what is LSU Pty Ltd?
You told me you were in Liverpool Westfield Shopping Centre having a meeting with the center manager.
You told me that you will call back to me after finish that but no phone calls.
I realized that you were staying with your solicitor.
My Solicitor at the time, MNA Lawyers, called me and said your solicitor had told them to ask me not to contact you privately and that they would try to get the injunction for all our franchising plan and project.
You know all the true story and what is current Sushi World Franchising system and structure.
Why you did this to the person who worked as family member together?
' 
 Sue Song: 'I don't know nothing about that letter sent to all franchisees and I am very upset because even though that kind of wrong letter sent to you and your franchisees, you should come to see me and talk about it to fix the problems.
' 
 Ku: ' Are you really sure you don't know nothing about the letter sent to franchisees?
That letter says LSU Pty Ltd which is incorporated only a few months ago is IP holding company and act like franchisor.
You know Kjun International Pty Ltd is the IP holding company and Sushi Nara Australia Pty Ltd is Master Franchisor.
From the year 2002 to up until now we and all franchisees know that our franchising structure and you and I worked in the same office for last 4 years, how you can plan like this without my knowledge and sent letters caused all this legal dispute between you and me?
: I don't know why you are doing this to me.
' 
 Sue Song: 'I did not send letter and you are the person started this legal action against me and I want you to end this legal action by yourself.
I know you are not the person doing things like this to me.
' 
 Ku: 'My intention of starting this legal action is telling the truth happened back in year 2002 and correct the mistakenly sent letter to all franchisees.
If you really don't know nothing about the letter sent to franchisees on 16 Aug 2006, there is no reason to continue this legal action for me.
Let's stop this and return back to the good relationship we had before.
' 
 


 
82 Sue Song deposed to conversation having taken place at this meeting in the following terms:
 
 
 Ku: 'Why did you set up LSU Pty Limited?
' 
 Sue Song: 'You don't have to know why I set up LSU Pty Limited.
Do you think Sushi World is yours?

 Ku: 'No, Sushi World is not my company' 
 Sue Song: 'Why did you put us in the Court?
' 
 Ku: 'I didn't want this one, but Keith Rhee pressured me to do this.
' 
 Sue Song: 'Do you think that I was no good for you when you worked for me?
' 
 Ku: 'Boss, you gave me enough and I don't complain about it.
' 
 Sue Song: 'I trusted you very much and I let you run the company because my health was not good after separation my husband.
' 
 Sue Song: 'I now have a lot of complaints from customers to the headoffice about the quality of sushi at Hurstville and Chatswood Westfield stores.
I should fix the problem.
You are no longer working for me so I ask my solicitor to send letter to the store managers.
I don't know whether he sent it or not.
Sushi World company is mine and you were just an employee.
' 
 Ku: 'What about the Deed of Agreement?
' 
 Sue Song: 'The Deed of Agreement is a fraud.
There was no such agreement between us like the Deed of Agreement.
' 
 


 
83 Mr Ku acknowledged that when he spoke of working together as a 'family member' he was referring to a very close working relationship which he previously had with the Songs.
84 I am satisfied that conversation took place on 18 October 2006 generally to the effect of that set out above.
Third meeting 
 
85 A third meeting between Luke Song and Mr Ku took place at the Avillion Hotel in Sydney on Thursday 19 October 2006.
Mr Park was in attendance for a brief period of time but he left the meeting early.
According to Mr Ku, Luke Song said words to the effect:
 
 'I know that the IP was transferred to Kjun International Pty Ltd in year 2002 and Sushi Nara Australia is the Master franchisor.
' 
 

86 Luke Song gave evidence that conversation took place in the Korean language in which words to the following effect were spoken:
 
 
 Ku: 'Chairman, I want you to recognise the work I done for the franchise during 2002 and onwards.
So I can save face with my friends then I will transfer the shares in Kjun International to your son, then the legal fight will be over.
I want to continue the franchise work after Court case.
' 
 Luke Song: 'It's OK, if you want to transfer then it will be over.
' 
 Ku: 'When I transfer the shares, the court case is over, then you can fight father and son.
' 
 Ku: 'It stupid to fight about in the Court, it better for us to agree and negotiate through conversation.
' 
 Luke Song: 'I think fighting in Court is a waste of money and time.
I agree with you, conversation is the best solution.
' 
 Ku: 'I didn't claim any shops.
' 
 Luke Song: 'That's good.
' 
 Ku: 'I have problems with my friends who run Sushi World shops.
They worry because your solicitor send letters to them.
They are going to sue me if they are forced to change name.
So please recognise my work for 2002 to 2005 for my franchise work.
To show my loyalty, I will transfer my shares to your son, so everything will belong to Ji.
IP will be yours.
I will have nothing.
You just recognise my work so I can save face with my friends.

 That's what I want so Court case can be over.
But please don't tell my friend Keith Rhee or my solicitor or my friends.
If they know, they give me hard time.
They will think I am so stupid.
I wish after this Court case you give me something like shares or whatever franchise work.
It's up to you.
' 
 Luke Song: 'That's good idea to transfer shares to my son.
I am sure we will be friends again and I can trust you and maybe we can work together again.
I hope all Court case will be over from this agreement.
' 
 


 
87 Mr Ku responded to Luke Song's account of the 19 October 2006 conversation.
Mr Ku denied that conversation took place as alleged by Luke Song in the first three passages quoted above.
He also disputed that conversation took place in the terms of the passages that have been quoted from 'I didn't claim any shops' to the end of Luke Song's account of the alleged conversation.
88 Mr Ku says that prior to the meeting he had decided that there needed to be demonstrations of good faith.
In his affidavit in reply he said that conversation took place to the following effect:
 
 
 Ku: 'I have built the franchise network since 2002 and I want to continue developing it but the letters that your solicitors sent to the franchisees are preventing me from doing that and if Sue does not stop I will be sued by franchisees, some of whom are my friends.
I have a possible way we can settle our dispute instead of fighting about it in Court.
