
 The context and nature of the employment disputation between the parties in outline 
 
1 The subject proceedings brought by the applicant Ronald Lever ('Mr Lever') against his present employer, the Australian Nuclear Science and Technology Organisation ('ANSTO'), for relief under s 298U of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 ('the Act') were commenced by application filed on 7 February 2006.
The circumstantial origins the subject of Mr Lever's complaints in the proceedings are referrable to what he asserts to have been the inadequacy of his promotion within the employment ranks of that well known organisation.
Mr Lever commenced his employment with ANSTO on 28 April 1999 as an IT System Administrator, initially on the basis of a two year fixed term; he has since continued in that employment to the present time, so far as my understanding extends.
The nature and extent of his complaints as to that inadequacy of promotion within ANSTO had their apparent origins in the following year 2000, and led ultimately to the commencement of the final hearing of the proceedings on 27 November 2006.
That hearing extended over ten hearing days and concluded with the addresses of counsel for both parties on 28 June 2007, being oral addresses which followed upon the earlier lodgment with the Court by the respective parties between them of 166 pages of written submissions settled by counsel, comprising Mr Lever's submissions in chief of 93 pages furnished on 22 May 2007, followed by ANSTO's response thereto of 57 pages more closely word processed (being therefore of at least similar length in reality), and ultimately Mr Lever's submissions in reply of 16 pages.
2 The terms and conditions of Mr Lever's employment were at all material times the subject of the ANSTO (General) Award 2000 and of a series of enterprise agreements made under the auspices of the Act during the years 1997, 2000 and 2002.
His claims for present relief arose from what were described broadly by his counsel as 'numerous alleged contraventions of the Act'.
The present proceedings raises issues as to the liability of Mr Lever's employer ANSTO for statutory breaches upon the footing that if any such liability should be established by the Court's findings, relief by way of compensation, and also by way of injunction and the imposition of a penalty, would be subsequently sought by Mr Lever in the context of a continuation of the hearing of the proceedings by the Court.
3 Prior to commencement of his employment by ANSTO, Mr Lever had conducted his own business involving what he described as 'three retail outlets and manufacturing premises, with approximately 16 staff'.
Also prior to his commencement of that employment and until 1999, he had undertaken an undergraduate degree in IT Computer Science at the University of Wollongong.
Upon commencing his employment by ANSTO on 28 April 1999, Mr Lever was graded as a 'Technical Officer Grade 3', that being the equivalent of the classification 'Professional Officer Class One (PO1) Level 4' as so described in the relevant ANSTO enterprise agreements.
The abbreviation 'PO' connoted 'professional officer'.
At least between 28 April 1999 and June 2002, all ANSTO employees were classified by so-called 'work level descriptors' as contained within the following industrial documents so described by Mr Lever:
 
 (i) the ANSTO (General) Award 2000;
 (ii) the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2000; and
 (iii) HRES P 4.1 Rev A from the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 1997.


Such 'work level descriptors' were said to appear more specifically within documents bearing the headings 'ANSTO Professional Officer Classification Standards' and 'ANSTO Classification Standards Senior Officer'.
4 Under the terms of the ANSTO Enterprise Agreements 1997 and 2000, ANSTO was required to adopt an annual assessment system for its employees called the 'Career Advancement System' ('CAS').
Reference was made in that Enterprise Agreement 2000 to the said 'HRES P4.1 Rev A' instrument.
That latter instrument was said by Mr Lever however to have never been formally agreed to 'on site' as between ANSTO and the relevant Unions, for whatever relevance for present purposes so much may involve.
Reference to HRES P 4.1 Rev A appeared under the heading '44 Career Advancement System', at par 44.1.3 of the said 2000 Agreement, and provided for '... procedures and processes for merit promotion and advancement...'.
The operation of those industrial structures was verified by Ms Hammerton, a longstanding senior union representative at ANSTO, and also by Mr McIntyre who held at all material times from the year 2002 the positions of President of the Australian Manufacturing Workers' Union ('AMWU'), the ANSTO Site Executive, and the Honorary State President of the Technical and Supervisory and Administrative Division of the AMWU, NSW.
Between 2 April 1998 and at least November 2000, ANSTO was said by Mr Lever to have failed to set objectives for him, pursuant either to the CAS or to clause 6.3.1 of HRES P 4.1 Rev A, and thus for the CAS assessment yearly periods commencing on 1 July 1999 and 1 July 2000.
There was produced by ANSTO to the Court by Mr Davies, an Industrial Relations Advisor in the employ of ANSTO, by way of exhibit to his affidavit evidence of 27 September 2006 (par 15), a document similarly styled as that in [3(iii)] above, being HRES P 4.1 Rev B, which he described as having taken effect on 21 May 2002 in the place of the so-called Rev A.
I should interpolate to record that it was the contention of ANSTO from the outset that '... procedures of [ANSTO] for determining employee grades and levels contained in [the] document known as HRES P 4.1 ... are irrelevant to the case pleaded in the Points of Claim', which case was said by ANSTO to make 'no allegation of a breach of s 298K in respect of [ANSTO's] reliance or non-reliance on these procedures'.
For that reason it was said by ANSTO to be 'unnecessary for the Court to trouble itself with [that] 'subjective and difficult task'.
5 Mr Lever tendered into evidence a document called 'Objective Setting and Assessment Form' relating to the period of time 1/1/1999-2000, which had been apparently prepared by him and in any event lodged by him with ANSTO in November 2000, and which related to his asserted achievements during the ANSTO assessment periods for 1999 and 2000.
In early December 2000, Mr Lever's then Divisional Director of ANSTO, Dr Doherty, had returned that document to Mr Lever and had promoted him to 'PO2 --- bottom step' (Professional Officer 2), that promotion apparently constituting an incremental increase in Mr Lever's classification under the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2000 above Mr Lever's prior status of PO1.
That promotion involved Mr Lever being granted two salary increments, by way of 'skipping PO1, level 5,... and moving directly to the bottom level in the higher PO2 grade', so ANSTO emphasised.
The extent of that promotion was said to have nevertheless disappointed Mr Lever, because he believed that he should have been promoted to Senior Professional Officer 1 ('SPO1').
6 Mr Lever did not sign (or perhaps more accurately, counter-sign) that Objective Setting and Assessment Form for the period of time from 1 January 1999 to 2000, as so returned to him in early December 2000 by Dr Doherty.
In early to mid February 2001, Dr Doherty approached Mr Lever in the ANSTO workplace and asked him why he had not 'signed off' on the form.
Mr Lever informed Dr Doherty in response that he had not done so because he considered that he ought to have been promoted at least to the level of SPO1.
Ultimately on or about 12 February 2001, Mr Lever did sign that Objective Setting and Assessment Form for the period from 1 January 1999 to 2000.
Subsequently, however, by letter dated 22 February 2001 to Mr Lever, Dr Doherty confirmed his promotion to the lower level of PO2, being lower than SPO1.
7 In May 2002, Mr Lever completed an employee assessment form provided by ANSTO in respect of the year from July 2000 to June 2001 and submitted the same to Dr Doherty.
In the following month of June 2002, so ANSTO further recorded, Mr Lever and other members of ANSTO staff were offered interviews by Ms Linda Houseman of its Human Resources Department for the purposes of a so-called role analysis, and Mr Lever's interview with her took place on 21 June 2002.
Subsequently Ms Houseman provided to Mr Lever written material headed 'Role Profile', which purportedly, ANSTO submitted, explained to him 'that he was working at a level above that of his substantive classification'.
In July 2002, Mr Lever completed an assessment form for the year July 2001 to June 2002 and in the following month of August 2002, he submitted to ANSTO the same together with the assessment form for the preceding year July 2000 to June 2001.
According to Mr Lever's employment history which he presented to the Court, Mr Lever commenced in or about July or August 2002 to act as a delegate to the Community and Public Sector Union ('CPSU'), that being an ' industrial association ' for the purposes of the Act, but his evidence was imprecise as to when his joinder of the Union actually occurred.
He did not produce any documentary material relating to that joinder.
8 The consequence of Dr Doherty's decision in response to Mr Lever's completion of those forms, according to Mr Lever, was that he was thereby given 'one increment for each assessment year only, which meant I... was not promoted'; that was said by him to be because he remained at the same substantive level or classification, that being 'Band 5' under the classifications that operated pursuant to the 2002 Enterprise Agreement.
ANSTO disagreed with that conclusion, pointing out that increments were not automatic, and each constituted a promotion.
Thereafter Mr Lever wrote directly to the then ANSTO Executive Director, Professor Garnett, and sought to resolve what he described as the classification dispute which had thus arisen, but apparently without receiving any response.
On 21 August 2002, Mr Lever met with Mr Crakanthorp (to whom, in the words of Mr Lever, he was 'subordinate [in] line management') and also Dr Doherty on the subject of his employment classification, or what ANSTO described as 'his claim for bigger promotion'.
However, according to Mr Lever, Dr Doherty said to him '[i]t will take you 12 years also, Ron', Dr Doherty thereby referring to Mr Crakanthorp's promotion experience at ANSTO.
In January 2003, Mr Lever sought a so-called 'peer review' to assist in the resolution of his level or classification promotion dispute.
9 At least from about November 2002, Mr Lever asserted to ANSTO that his work in the assessment period 1999-2000, and continuing thereafter, should have been classified at a higher level than that of 'PO2 --- bottom step', that higher level being (as I have earlier mentioned) SPO1.
Thereafter occurred, in the description of his counsel, ongoing dispute between Mr Lever and ANSTO as to the process followed in assessing and benchmarking his role pursuant to the CAS and clause 6.3.1 of HRES P4.1.
The parties disagreed apparently as to whether or not that classification to a higher level was in fact a promotion, Mr Lever maintaining the contrary, though his reasoning in that regard was somewhat unclear, for what that might ultimately matter.
10 On 10 January 2003 the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2002 was certified.
From that time, it appears that ANSTO formally commenced the operation of a new classification system whereby it ceased to apply 'work level descriptors' and commenced to apply 'role characteristics'.
It was testified by Mr Lever that '... it was agreed and understood between ANSTO and the industrial associations on-site that the new classification system would not produce outcomes any less favourable to employees'.
11 A further employment controversy involving Mr Lever was that early in April 2003, Mr Lever met with Mr Cullen of ANSTO and requested that ANSTO approve the payment to him of overtime for additional hours of work said to have been performed by him; however that request was refused.
Mr Cullen provided comprehensive affidavit evidence in the proceedings.
For the years 2003 to 2005 (both inclusive), he was ANSTO's General Manager of its Corporate Services Division.
Mr Lever lodged accordingly a form of classification grievance with ANSTO, purportedly pursuant to the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2002, for consideration by the ANSTO reference panel.
On 23 May 2003, Professor Garnett notified Mr Lever that ANSTO had decided to refuse to hold a reference panel for the purpose of resolving his grievance.
On 17 July 2003, Dr Doherty sent emails to Mr Lever on the issue of his ongoing grievance with ANSTO concerning his classification dispute.
12 Disputation between Mr Lever and ANSTO appeared to increase in September 2003.
Mr Lever outlined the following events which he asserted to have taken place at about that time:
 
 (i) ANSTO offered '... to set [Mr Lever's] objectives to the level of SPO1, if [Mr Lever] did not proceed with the reference panel', upon the footing however that 'the agreement was to take effect only from assessment year 2003 to 2004'; however Mr Lever 'did not accept this offer'; and
 (ii) ANSTO then notified Mr Lever that 'it intended to carry out a role analysis on [Mr Lever's] position' and asserted that such analysis was 'within ANSTO's managerial prerogative'.


13 Subsequently in and from the year 2004, Mr Lever was elected by the CPSU as 'site president for ANSTO'.
Prior to his election, and earlier in 2004, he had undertaken and was continuing to undertake, what were described by his counsel as, '... numerous union activities'.
In relation to all times during which Mr Lever performed those union activities, he appeared to acknowledge that he was remunerated by ANSTO in accordance with the ANSTO enterprise agreements.
14 At par 79 of his affidavit of 1 June 2006, Mr Lever asserted that during 2003 he 'noticed a change in attitude and behaviour by particular members of ANSTO management towards [him]', that is, for the worse.
ANSTO considered that the deterioration in the relationship between Mr Lever and ANSTO had begun earlier, since ANSTO's 'conduct of refusing the promotions that [Mr Lever] considered he deserved' commenced before 2003.
ANSTO contended that ANSTO 'cannot have acted for the reason that he had done, or was proposing to do things in his capacity as a union delegate, because he had not [by then] been appointed as a union delegate'.
By late October 2004 in any event, according to Mr Lever, 'ANSTO accessed [Mr Lever's] emails at work, which included emails received in his capacity as CPSU delegate and site president'.
Moreover from 3 November 2004 onwards, ANSTO was alleged to have subjected him to 'a breach of duty process including an investigation and a threat to discipline', being a process said by Mr Lever to be related '... inter alia , [to Mr Lever's] work as a CPSU delegate and site president'.
Subsequently in or about February 2005, Mr Lever lodged a claim for workers compensation benefits purportedly related to '... psychological injury arising out of, inter alia , the circumstances relating to ANSTO accessing [Mr Lever's] emails and the ongoing treatment of Mr Lever'.
15 Mr Lever asserted that between February 2005 and March 2005, he had not been in receipt of any remuneration other than the payment of accrued sick leave 'whilst Comcare was determining liability in respect of the applicant's workers compensation claim', and further that Mr Lever 'has not received [otherwise] remuneration since, but remains in the employ of ANSTO'.
His counsel further asserted that Mr Lever had nevertheless 'provided to ANSTO a medical certificate from his treating GP Dr Pead dated 2 February 2005 and a further letter of Dr Pead dated 12 March 2005 in respect of [his] capacity to return to work with ANSTO on restricted duties', but that ANSTO made 'no efforts to find employment [for him] consistent with either the medical certificate or letter of Dr Pead'.
Relevant provisions of the statutory scheme 
 
16 The provisions of the Act here immediately relevant to Mr Lever's application, directly or indirectly, were prospectively as follows:
 
 '298K Dismissal etc. of members of industrial associations etc. 
 
 
 (1) An employer must not, for a prohibited reason, or for reasons that include a prohibited reason, do or threaten to do any of the following: 
 
 
 
 (a) dismiss an employee; 
 
 (b) injure an employee in his or her employment; 
 
 
 
 (c) alter the position of an employee to the employee's prejudice; 
 
 (d) refuse to employ another person; 
 
 (e) discriminate against another person in the terms or conditions on which the employer offers to employ the other person.

 
 
 ... 
 
 298L Prohibited reasons 
 
 
 (1) Conduct referred to in subsection 298K(1) ... is for a prohibited reason if it is carried out because the employee, independent contractor or other person concerned: 
 
 
 
 (a) is, has been, proposes to become or has at any time proposed to become an officer, delegate or member of an industrial association; or 
 
 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 (h) is entitled to the benefit of an industrial instrument or an order of an industrial body; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) has made or proposes to make any inquiry or complaint to a person or body having the capacity under an industrial law to seek: 
 
 
 
 (i) compliance with that law; or 
 
 
 (ii) the observance of a person's rights under an industrial instrument; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 (j) has participated in, proposes to participate in or has at any time proposed to participate in a proceeding under an industrial law; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 (k) has given or proposes to give evidence in a proceeding under an industrial law; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 (l) in the case of an employee, or an independent contractor, who is a member of an industrial association that is seeking better industrial conditions... is dissatisfied with his or her conditions; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 (m) in the case of an employee or an independent contractor --- has absented himself or herself from work without leave if: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) the absence was for the purpose of carrying out duties or exercising rights as an officer of an industrial association; and 
 (ii) the employee or independent contractor applied for leave before absenting himself or herself and leave was unreasonably refused or withheld; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 (n) as an officer or member of an industrial association, has done, or proposes to do, an act or thing for the purpose of furthering or protecting the industrial interests of the industrial association, being an act or thing that is: 
 
 
 
 (i) lawful; and 
 
 
 (ii) within the limits of an authority expressly conferred on the employee, independent contractor or other person by the industrial association under its rules; ... 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2) If: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) a threat is made to engage in conduct referred to in subsection 298K(1) or (2); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) one of the prohibited reasons in subsection (1) of this section refers to a person doing or proposing to do a particular act, or not doing or proposing not to do a particular act; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) the threat is made with the intent of dissuading or preventing the person from doing the act, or coercing the person to do the act, as the case requires; 
 
 
 
 
 
 the threat is taken to have been made for that prohibited reason.

 
 
 
 
 
 298T Applications to the Court 
 
 
 (1) ... an application may be made to the Court for orders under section 298U in respect of conduct in contravention of this Part.

 
 
 ... 
 
 298U Orders that the Federal Court may make 
 
 
 In respect of conduct in contravention of this Part, the Court may, if the Court considers it appropriate in all the circumstances of the case, make one or more of the following orders: 
 
 
 
 (a) an order imposing on a person or industrial association whose conduct contravened or is contravening the provision in question a penalty of not more than: 
 
 
 
 (i) in the case of a body corporate --- 300 penalty units; or 
 (ii) in any other case --- 60 penalty units; 
 
 
 
 (b) an order requiring the person or industrial association to reinstate an employee, or to re-engage an independent contractor; 
 
 (c) an order requiring the person or industrial association to pay to an employee or independent contractor, or to a prospective employee or independent contractor, compensation of such amount as the Court thinks appropriate; 
 
 (d) an order requiring the person or industrial association not to carry out a threat made by the person or association, or not to make any further threat; 
 
 (e) injunctions (including interim injunctions), and any other orders, that the Court thinks necessary to stop the conduct or remedy its effects; 
 
 (f) any other consequential orders.
' 
 
 
 
 

17 Counsel for Mr Lever asserted from the outset that in making findings as to Mr Lever's conduct complained of, Mr Lever was not required to provide proof of the reasons for, nor of the intention of, the conduct of ANSTO complained of in the proceedings, by reason of the operation of s 298V of the Act, stipulated in that regard as follows:
 
 '298V Proof not required of the reason for, or the intention of, conduct 
 
 If: 
 
 
 (a) in an application under this Division relating to a person's or an industrial association's conduct, it is alleged that the conduct was, or is being, carried out for a particular reason or with a particular intent; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) for the person or industrial association to carry out the conduct for that reason or with that intent would constitute a contravention of this Part; 
 
 
 
 
 
 it is presumed, in proceedings under this Division arising from the application, that the conduct was, or is being, carried out for that reason or with that intent, unless the person or industrial association proves otherwise.
' 
 
 

18 Counsel for ANSTO made the following threshold observations concerning the structure of Mr Lever's case as constituted by the proceedings.
The first was that although relief was purportedly sought by Mr Lever's application under ss 298K, 298L, 298T and 298U of Part XA of the Act, and also 'at general law', the relief sought by Mr Lever's amended application was only available under s 298U of the Act, and was required therefore to be made under s 298T.
Those sections appeared in Part XA prior to its amendment by the Workplace Relations Amendment (Work Choices) Act 2005 (Cth), which repealed the said Part XA.
However by reason of regulation 4.53 of Chapter 7 of the Workplace Relations Regulations 2006 (Cth), the present application, which was filed in this Court as I have earlier recorded on 7 February 2006, falls to be determined under and pursuant to s 298U of the Act as though the Act had not been amended by that later so-called ' Work Choices ' legislation, so counsel further submitted.
19 The second observation was that Mr Lever's 'promotion to a level lower than he considers he deserved is not an injury to him in his employment', since '[a]xiomatically, his promotion is not an alternation of his position to his prejudice'.
It was emphasised by ANSTO in that regard that Mr Lever 'does not allege a demotion or a reduction in pay that could fall within either of s 298K(1)(b) or (c)'.
It was further emphasised at the outset that ANSTO's 'promotions of [Mr Lever], which he claims were inadequate, occurred prior to him taking up the position of union delegate', which as I have earlier recorded, commenced from about August 2002.
The authorities to which counsel for the respective parties initially drew attention and in relation to which counsel made observations 
 
20 Counsel for the respective parties drew attention to authorities of this Court concerning the relevant operation of the Act.
First as to s 298K(1) ( supra ), attention was drawn by counsel for Mr Lever to the reasons for joint judgment of five members of the High Court in Patrick Stevedores Operations No.
2 Pty Ltd v Maritime Union of Australia (No.
3) [1998] HCA 30 ; (1998) 195 CLR 1 (Brennan CJ, McHugh, Gummow, Kirby and Hayne JJ), where at [4], the following appears in relation to the operation of aspects of that subsection already extracted above in these reasons:
 
 '... Paragraph (a) covers termination of employment; par (b) covers injury of any compensable kind; par (c) is a broad additional category which covers not only legal injury but any adverse affection of, or deterioration in, the advantages enjoyed by the employee before the conduct in question.
Proof of the reason for engaging in the prescribed conduct is the subject of s 298V....' 
 

It was submitted on behalf of Mr Lever that it was within that legal framework that his case had been brought, and further that '[i]n the light of the [foregoing judicial] observations as to the onus applicable in proceedings under Part XA of the Act, it is envisaged that significant submissions will be required in reply to meet the evidentiary case presented by [ANSTO] in seeking to discharge its onus in the matter'.
21 Counsel for ANSTO drew attention to a number of authorities also relating to the relevant operation of the legislation.
Specifically in relation to s 298K, in the context of BHP Iron Ore Pty Ltd v Australian Workers' Union [2000] FCA 430 ; (2000) 102 FCR 97 the Full Federal Court (Black CJ, Beaumont and Ryan JJ) at [35] said as follows:
 
 'It has to be borne in mind, in construing s 298K, that it proscribes conduct by " an employer " directed to " an employee " or " other person " (emphasis added).
That use of the singular suggests that the alleged injury or alteration of position has to be examined in the light of the circumstances of each individual employee.
(It is not the point that in the interpretation of statutes, the singular ordinarily includes the plural; here we are concerned with the indications of legislative intention to be discerned from the actual language used.
) It is also significant that the conduct struck at by each paragraph of s 298K is expressed by an active verb: "dismiss", "injure", "alter the position", "refuse to employ", and "discriminate".
That implies that the proscription is essentially against an intentional act of the employer directed to an individual employee or prospective employee.
' 
 

22 I should interpolate to point out that in relation to the subsequent single judge decision in BHP Iron Ore following upon the Full Court's remitter of the proceedings to the trial judge, Kenny J of this Court decided in Australian Workers Union v BHP Iron Ore Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 3 ; (2001) 106 FCR 482, that '[ b ] efore s 298K(1) can apply , it must be possible to say of an employee that he or she is, individually speaking, in a worse situation after the employer's acts than before them; that the deterioration had been caused by those acts; and that the acts were intentional in the sense that the employer intended the deterioration to occur ' (see [54]).
Upon that footing, the case foreshadowed by ANSTO was that Mr Lever '... has not established, or even alleged, that he ceased to be entitled to the benefits of an industrial instrument by reason of conduct of [ANSTO]', since '... there can have been no conduct of [ANSTO] that was for the reason prohibited by s 298L(1)(h)'.
23 Further as to the operation of s 298K(1), attention was drawn by ANSTO to Community and Public Sector Union v Telstra Corporation Ltd (2000) 99 IR 238, where at [19] Finkelstein J observed as follows:
 
 'In the context of this legislation, there will not be a threat of proscribed conduct unless the employer communicates to his employee that proscribed action will be taken.
One meaning of the word "threaten" is to menace or warn beforehand of an intention to inflict harm.
That is the meaning that should be given to the word in s 298K.
' 
 

That observation was adopted in National Union of Workers v Qenos Pty Ltd [2001] FCA 178 ; (2001) 108 FCR 90 at [119] (Weinberg J) and in Australian and International Pilots Association v Qantas Airways Ltd 160 IR 1 at [20] (Tracey J).
24 Subsequently at [26] in Qantas , Tracey J added the following observation in relation to the operation of s 298K(1), to which ANSTO drew attention:
 
 'Counsel have not directed my attention to, nor have I found, any authority which supports the proposition that a mere announcement of an intention to act in a particular way at some time in the future can constitute conduct of the kind to which s 298K(1) is directed.
Each of the cases to which my attention was directed, in which a contravention of the section was found, involved the making of a decision by an employer which was immediately operative even though the consequences of the decision may not have had an immediate effect on particular employees ....
The approach to the construction of s 298K which is evident in these cases is explicable in part by reference to the language of the section.
The various paragraphs in s 298K(1) which identify proscribed conduct speak in the active voice ("dismiss", "injure", "alter the position", etc).
The employer must do something to prejudice an employee not merely foreshadow some future action which might or might not prove to be prejudicial.
' 
 

25 More recently in Maritime Union of Australia v CSL Australia Pty Ltd (2002) 113 IR 326 Branson J had occasion to consider the operation of s 298V in the context of an alleged breach of s 298K(1) of the Act, in the course of which consideration was given to the operation or otherwise of the s 298V presumption.
Her Honour referred at [57] to the decision of the High Court in General Motors-Holden Pty Ltd v Bowling (1976) 51 ALJR 235, where in the judgment of Mason J (as he then was) at 241 (with whose reasons Stephen and Jacobs JJ agreed), the following appeared in relation to the precursor to s 298V, namely s 5(4) of the Conciliation and Arbitration Act 1904 (Cth):
 
 'Section 5(4) imposed the onus on the appellant of establishing affirmatively that it was not actuated by the reason alleged in the charge.
The consequence was that the respondent, in order to succeed, was not bound to adduce evidence that the appellant was actuated by that reason, a matter peculiarly within the knowledge of the appellant.
The respondent was entitled to succeed if the evidence was consistent with the hypothesis that the appellant was so actuated and that hypothesis was not displaced by the appellant.
To hold that, despite the sub-section, there is some requirement that the prosecutor brings evidence of this fact is to make an implication which in my view is unwarranted and which is at variance with the plain purpose of the provision in throwing on to the defendant the onus of proving that which lies peculiarly within his own knowledge.
' 
 

Moreover in his dissenting reasons, Barwick CJ observed at 238 as follows:
 
 'In my opinion, before resort can be had to this onus provision, there must be before the Court evidence which reasonably warrants the conclusion that the circumstance that the employee had been placed in the appropriate office of his union was possibly a reason for his dismissal.
If, on the evidence, there is no basis for concluding that that circumstance might be or have been a reason for the dismissal, there is no room for requiring the employer to negative the proposition that that circumstance was such a reason.
' 
 

On the footing of the approach taken in General Motors and duly adopted by Branson J in Maritime Union at [57], ANSTO submitted that '[i]t is not sufficient for [Mr Lever] to arbitrarily allege any one of the 15 prohibited reasons listed in s 298L(1)' and that '[t]he evidence must be consistent with the hypothesis that [ANSTO] was motivated by the reason alleged by [Mr Lever]', and further that 'there is no suggestion in the evidence or in the submissions of [Mr Lever] that his entitlement to the benefit of an industrial instrument was an issue, or even a topic of discussion at or about the time of the alleged conduct'.
It was pointed out that '[m]ost employees of [ANSTO] were entitled to the benefit of an industrial instrument', and further that '[Mr Lever's] hypothesis that this reason actuated [ANSTO] is arbitrary and fanciful'.
26 Apart from the fact that Mr Lever had not established or even alleged that he ceased to be entitled to the benefits of an industrial instrument by reason of ANSTO's conduct, ANSTO emphasised that there could be no conduct on its part that was undertaken for any reason prohibited by s 298L(1)(h).
In any event, the evidence of Dr Doherty was that his conduct was motivated by a belief that he had correctly classified Mr Lever and that Mr Lever was not yet qualified for promotion to SPO1.
Dr Doherty denied that he was motivated by the reason thus alleged by Mr Lever and asserted moreover that even if there had been conduct of the kind described in s 298K(1), his testimony would preclude any presumption arising under s 298V to the effect that the reason therefore was that as alleged by Mr Lever.
27 As to the circumstantial operation of the components of pars (j) and (m) of s 298L(1), Branson J observed in Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union v Coal and Allied Operations Pty Ltd (1999) 140 IR 131, at [161]-[162] as follows, concerning what ANSTO contended Mr Lever was required to establish in relation to the factual components thereof:
 
 'In respect of the allegation that the respondent injured Mr Burford in his employment, or altered his position as an employee to his prejudice, for the reason, or for reasons that included the reason, that Mr Burford had participated in proceedings under an industrial law, I have concluded in [75] above, that Mr Burford did not relevantly participate in proceedings under an industrial law within the meaning of s 298L(1)(j).
Section 298V of the Act does not, in my view, allow the applicant to circumvent that finding.
Rather it is to be construed as an aid to proof of the intent or reason of the respondent which motivated, or formed part of the motivation for, the respondent's conduct.
It may fairly be presumed that the section is intended to alleviate the difficulties of proof by one party of the state of mind or motivation of another.

 
 For analogous reasons, I do not consider, so far as the circumstances proscribed in s 298L(1)(m) are concerned, that s 298V relieves the applicant from the obligation of establishing as a fact that the relevant employee absented himself from work without leave for the purpose of carrying out duties as an officer of an industrial association (s 298L(1)(m)(i)) and that the employee applied for leave before absenting himself and that leave was unreasonably refused or withheld (s 298L(1)(m)(ii)).
The impact of s 298V, in my view, is simply to alleviate the evidentiary difficulty facing the applicant of providing proof of the intent or reason which motivated, or formed part of the motivation for, the respondent's conduct following the absence of the employee from work.
' 
 

28 Mr Lever referred additionally to the recent decision of this Court in McIlwain v Ramsey Food Packaging Pty Ltd (2006) 154 IR 111, where the issue arose as to whether the refusal to employ certain persons, or more precisely to re-employ those persons, had been made inferentially for the prohibited reason of their membership of a trade union.
In the course of his Honour's comprehensive reasons for judgment approximating 110 pages, Greenwood J found that the four persons the subject of the Employment Advocate's application had been refused re-employment inferentially for the prohibited reasons the subject specifically of pars (a), (h), (j), (k) and (l) of s 298L(1) of the Act.
Counsel urged upon the Court a consideration of what he described as 'the very detailed and careful recent reasoning' of Greenwood J in McIlwain which followed upon his Honour's acknowledgement that the onus of establishing the various causes of action propounded in that case was placed on the applicant according to the balance of probabilities, but that s 298V stipulated for the discharge of that onus by presumption, once conduct was relevantly established ' unless the person or industrial association proves otherwise ' (to cite the concluding words of the section).
The following dictum of his Honour appears at 204:
 
 'The dismissal conduct is admitted.
The refusal to employ conduct is established.
Having adduced evidence probative of the conduct, the assertion of the prohibited reasons gives rise to the operation of s 298V, thus enlivening the presumption which discharges the onus cast on the applicant to establish the causes of action on the balance of probabilities and casts an onus on the respondents to prove affirmatively that the prohibited reasons alleged were not a reason for the conduct.
' (Emphasis in original.
)
 

29 His Honour pointed out that there must be demonstrated ' differential treatment ' by the employer of an individual employee or other person of the identified class, as against other employees, and the question arising in principle was whether the conduct, from the standpoint of the individual concerned, was carried out for the prohibited purpose.
Historical factors were found to give rise in the circumstances of that case to inferences duly open to be drawn by the Court to the effect that the prohibited reasons constituted a basis for the conduct of the refusal to employ, emphasis being placed upon the timing of evolving events as demonstrative of a requisite interconnection.
There had occurred in that regard a succession of offers of re-employment made to certain individuals, after the dismissal of the group of employees seeking re-engagement, such as to evidence a constructive refusal of the employer to employ the members of that group.
Mr Lever's submissions on liability 
 (i) Introduction generally 
 
30 As I have foreshadowed, the issues presently arising for judgment are confined to liability, the further case of Mr Lever as to compensation and penalty having been stood over pending the outcome of the case on liability.
Mr Lever emphasised that his complaint related to the absence of his reclassification to a higher employment grade within the ranks of ANSTO, and not merely to incremental increases in salary within a grade, and that it was within that legal framework of what his counsel described, citing Patrick Stevedores as quoted above, as the 'broad additional category that covers not only legal injury but any adverse affection of, or deterioration in, the advantages enjoyed by the employee before the conduct in question' that his present proceeding was said to have been brought.
Emphasis was further laid by Mr Lever upon the statutory expressions of ' injure ' and ' prejudice ' appearing in pars (b) and (c) of s 298K(1), and to enunciation of principles appearing in the authorities to which I have already referred, and in relation to which the Courts were said to have given 'a broad and wide ranging operation', and in particular by the High Court in Patrick Stevedores .
(ii) The credibility of the various witnesses 
 
31 It was next submitted by Mr Lever that the veracity of his testimony was 'unshaken', his recollection of events was not materially challenged by contemporaneous documentation, and moreover that the testimonies of his various witnesses were 'unchallenged by cross-examination going to the substance of their factual assertions'.
On the other hand the testimony of Dr Smith, the Executive Director of ANSTO, was said by Mr Lever to have been '... ultimately unhelpful [as to what was] undertaken by [ANSTO] during his tenure', and 'cavalier', and 'of no or minimal assistance to the Court'.
The affidavit testimony of the industrial relations advisor to ANSTO, Mr Davies, was described by Mr Lever as largely 'formulaic', and that to the extent of 'any inconsistency' with Mr Lever's testimony, the latter should be 'with little hesitation ... preferred'.
32 Of more significance to the resolution of the issues arising was said by Mr Lever to be the evidence of Dr Doherty, described by counsel for Mr Lever as 'the de facto supervisor and director responsible for [Mr Lever's] active employment with [ANSTO]'.
It was submitted by Mr Lever that the following five emails reflected adversely upon ANSTO's case concerning Dr Doherty's motivation: 
 
 (i) the first email sent on 12 November 2002, in reference to Mr Lever's work as a union delegate on the enterprise bargaining negotiations team, which contained the assertion that '... [t]he history of [Enterprise Bargaining] processes almost everywhere is that they usually contain a confrontational element, which does not endear the union reps to management, so taking part has the potential to be career limiting, without any conscious design on the part of management to make it so';
 (ii) the second email sent on 12 December 2002, by way of 'begging' Mr Lever 'for [his] own sake' not to pursue his industrial entitlement to a peer review;
 (iii) the third email sent on 5 May 2003, to the effect that Mr Lever needed to get his classification dispute with ANSTO 'out of the way quickly for [his] sake';
 (iv) the fourth email sent on 17 July 2003, stating that 'Ron, I heard that you had decided not to proceed to the final IRC process.
Is this true?
I hope so.
I would not like to see you destroy your career prospects here, unless you're planning to leave anyway.
You still have goodwill amongst your ANSTO clients';
 (v) the fifth email sent on 18 July 2003 wherein Dr Doherty asserted that 'I am sorry to hear it [that Mr Lever was still trying to resolve his classification dispute] because I think it's inevitable that it will affect your career here, but maybe you are not intending to stay in any case.
I'll let it rest'.


33 It was further contended by Mr Lever that 'Dr Doherty would have the Court believe that none of these communications evidenced any threat or negative action taken by [ANSTO] or [Dr Doherty] as against [Mr Lever] in respect of either [Mr Lever's] union activities or his prosecution of his industrial entitlements', but that '... on a bare reading of the emails, in the light of the history of [Mr Lever's] dispute with [ANSTO], the Court would simply not accept this evidence of Dr Doherty'.
That contention and its ultimate significance falls to be weighed of course in the context of the totality of the evidence in the wide-ranging contextual circumstances of this case, which I will proceed of course to further record and review in detail.
34 Mr Lever addressed thereafter in sequence the testimony of Mr Cullen, ANSTO's General Manager, Corporate Services, which he described as having 'essentially dealt with the dispute between [Mr Lever] and ANSTO as to [Mr Lever's] request for overtime', Mr Lever's 'industrial representation of [Person X]', and 'the breach of duty process brought against [him]', and further [ANSTO's] 'accessing of [Mr Lever's] emails' (Person X's actual name has been suppressed by order of the Court made on 29 November 2006 pursuant to s 50 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth)).
It was submitted by Mr Lever that '... to the extent [his] evidence and that of Mr Cullen are in conflict, the Court would accept the evidence of [Mr Lever]', for the reason that '[t]o the extent that Mr Cullen corroborated the evidence of [Mr Lever] as to his substantive role in terms of the Career Advancement Process, Mr Cullen's evidence would be accepted as corroborating [Mr Lever's] substantive position as being at least Band 6'.
35 Mr Lever submitted, moreover, that testimony of Mr Crakanthorp, the Operations Manager (Desktop and Server) of ANSTO, 'in large part' corroborated his own testimony, and that to the extent Mr Crakanthorp's evidence was nevertheless contradictory to that of Mr Lever.
It was contended that Mr Lever's version should be 'comfortably' accepted by the Court.
Mr Lever additionally submitted that to the further extent that Mr Crakanthorp's testimony adduced by ANSTO '... sought to limit the role and scope of [his] clearly quite detailed technical knowledge in rewriting the directory structures for the review of ANSTO's IT infrastructure', the same should be rejected, since '[i]n that regard Mr Crakanthorp did not present as a credible witness'.
No instance of any such lack of credibility was however seemingly provided in that context.
36 As to the testimonies respectively of Mr O'Shea, Dr Hall and Ms Risby, given also on behalf of ANSTO, and said to have been to the effect that his workers compensation case was 'unusual', Mr Lever submitted that 'they were nevertheless unable to remember significant elements of [ANSTO's] handling of his case'.
Mr Lever further submitted that 'their [individual] evidence in part contradicted each others as to the responsibilities and conduct of each other in dealing with [Mr Lever's] workers compensation claim... [and further that] to the extent these witnesses' version of the relevant events differs from that of [Mr Lever], [Mr Lever's] evidence, supported as it is by the contemporaneous documentation, would be preferred'.
37 I will take into account of course the foregoing submissions as to conflicting testimonies to the extent necessary to resolve critical or relevant aspects of the evidence.
It is not a simple task of course for the Court to address and pass judgment upon the credibility of five witnesses individually and to an extent relevantly in favour of the testimony of a single interested party to litigation, to the extent of any inconsistency, as the foregoing submissions of Mr Lever seemingly require.
It is appropriate to detail the fifteen series of breaches framed by way of presentation of Mr Lever's case to the Court.
In so doing, I will cite below wherever appropriate the precise language or terms of the comprehensive written submissions of counsel for Mr Lever.
The series of breaches and injury pleaded by Mr Lever to have been sustained 
 (i) The first series of breaches 
 
38 As foreshadowed in these reasons, the primary statutory focus of the proceedings was upon s 298K of the pre-reform Act, headed 'Dismissal etc. of members of industrial associations etc.', and paragraphs (b) and (c) of subsection (1) thereof in particular.
The allegations principally advanced by Mr Lever, and in outline, as I have earlier foreshadowed, were that '... ANSTO injured [Mr Lever] in his employment or altered the position of [Mr Lever] to his prejudice in the circumstances where':
 
 
 '(a) ANSTO breached section 298K(1)(b) and (c) by inducing [Mr Lever] to sign off on the Objective Setting and Assessment Form for the period 1999-2000 in February 2001, which was to the injury or prejudice of [Mr Lever] by causing [Mr Lever] to not seek a review of Dr Doherty's decision to promote him two increments only;
 
 (b) ANSTO breached section 298K(1)(b) and (c) by failing to inform [Mr Lever] of his rights to a review of Dr Doherty's decision, which was to the injury or prejudice of [Mr Lever] by causing [Mr Lever] not to seek a review of Dr Doherty's decision to promote him two increments only;
 
 (c) ANSTO breached section 298K(1)(b) and (c) by reason of Dr Doherty representing to [Mr Lever] that it was not possible for an ANSTO employee to be skipped an entire grade in a promotion, which was an untrue statement and which induced [Mr Lever] to not seek a review of Dr Doherty's decision to promote him two increments only.
'
 
 

39 Thereafter it was pleaded by Mr Lever that ANSTO's conduct the subject of such statutory breaches '... was carried out for prohibited reasons as proscribed by section 298L of the pre-reform WR Act', in that by reference to s 298L(1)(h), '... Mr Lever was entitled to the benefit of an industrial instrument, that is, the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2000', and further that '[t]he particular benefit or benefits under the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2000 included':
 
 '(i) the benefit or rights flowing from Clause 44.1.1;
 
 
 
 (ii) the benefit or right to undergo an annual assessment under Clause 44 in accordance with the process --- the document known as "HRES P4.1", including Clauses 6.3.2, 6.4.4 and 6.4.6 of HRES P4.1.
'
 
 

Those breaches, described in Mr Lever's points of claim as the first series of breaches , were said to be 'continuing'.
40 It was further pleaded by Mr Lever that as a consequence of what had been particularised by Mr Lever's points of claim, he suffered and had continued to suffer injury loss and damage, particularised as follows:
 
 
 '(i) [Mr Lever] lost the opportunity to seek and obtain a successful review in 2001 of Dr Doherty's decision to promote the Applicant by two increments as recorded in the Objective Setting and Assessment Form for the period 1/1/1999-2000, thereby causing the Applicant to suffer a loss of career advancement and loss of potential earnings from 1 July 2000 (the award of 2 increments had retrospective effect from 1 July 2000 onwards);
 
 (ii) the Applicant lost the opportunity to be classified to his proper classification for his new role as benchmarked by the Work Level Descriptors with effect from the time the Applicant took on his new role around October/November 1999, or to be promoted to SPO 1 or above on some later date which would have meant that any subsequent promotions would have been made from the level of SPO 1 or above, thereby exacerbating the Applicant's loss of career advancement and loss of potential earnings.
'
 
 

41 Counsel for Mr Lever explained that such series of alleged breaches related to the initial duration of Mr Lever's employment with ANSTO, being the period from his engagement in late April 1999 to February 2001, and were constituted by the failure of Dr Doherty, as his then direct supervisor and assessor, 'to inform [Mr Lever] of his rights to review a decision made by Dr Doherty', being the decision '... to promote [Mr Lever] by only two increments within his existing substantive classification as a Professional Officer grade 2 as opposed to what [Mr Lever] had sought, which was to be classified in his new role according to the work level descriptors to no less than SPO 1', and to do so notwithstanding what was described as the foregoing 'relevant uncontested history'.
It was said further in that regard that up until January 2003, the 'annual review of [Mr Lever's] performance and career advancement was undertaken pursuant to the... CAS [as earlier abbreviated in these reasons] and the Objective Setting and Review Process that underlay that', to be located within HRES P 4.1.
Mr Lever purportedly adopted in that context the 'detailed history of the career advancement system to June 2002', as summarised in pars 14 to 23 of Mr Lever's first or principal affidavit of 1 June 2006 comprising 48 pages.
The HRES P 4.1 documentation was described as being in the nature of an industrial instrument, by reason of the fact that it was 'developed pursuant to clause 44.1.1 of the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2000'.
42 It was pointed out by Mr Lever that such CAS process required 'annual assessments of each employee's past achievements and recommendations and goals', to be 'set to the employee's upcoming year of work with [ANSTO]'.
It was said also to be 'not contested by [ANSTO's] witnesses that in the absence of the formal CAS documentation setting [Mr Lever's] forthcoming objectives to a higher level than that on which he was currently working, that [ANSTO] would not be in a position to advance [Mr Lever] to a higher classification'.
43 It was next pointed out by Mr Lever moreover that relevantly for present purposes, clause 6.3.3 of HRES P 4.1, headed 'Difficulties Establishing Agreed Objectives', provided in clause (a) thereof that 'the assessor is ultimately responsible for the timely completion of all stages of the CAS documentation'; so much was said to include 'assessments in the years passed and goals for the forthcoming year'.
That clause 6.3.3 was described as consistent with the following clause 6.4.3 headed 'Difficulties in Identifying Achievements', which indicated in sub-clause (b) thereof that '[s]hould the staff member refuse to provide their achievements the direct supervisor(s), following discussions with the assessor, shall complete a list of achievements and meet with the staff member to discuss their conclusions'.
It was further said to have provided '... for the assessor, after due process, making a summary of recommendation, based on [the] comments [of the supervisor(s)] in circumstances where the staff member to be assessed does not agree with or co-operate with the process'.
44 It was next said by Mr Lever to be not in dispute that he was 'not explicitly informed of his rights to review Dr Doherty's decision, nor was it in dispute that Dr Doherty advanced [Mr Lever] by two increments within a grade, contrary to [Mr Lever's] understanding and expectation'.
What appeared to have been in dispute, so Mr Lever submitted, was that 'Dr Doherty represented to [Mr Lever] that it was not possible to skip an entire grade', and the Court was referred to annexure RL63 to Mr Lever's 17 November 2006 affidavit, which was made subsequently to two earlier affidavits which he made in the proceedings.
To the extent there was any dispute between the evidence of Mr Lever and Dr Doherty, it was submitted by Mr Lever that the Court would accept Mr Lever's evidence as contained in paragraph 33 of his affidavit of 1 June 2006 to the effect that on or about February 2001, a conversation occurred between him and Dr Doherty to the following effect:
 
 
 
 Mr Lever: 'I haven't signed off on the assessment form because I believe that the work I have been doing is at least Senior Professional Officer Level 1.
'
 
 Dr Doherty: 'It's not possible for you to skip Professional Officer 2.
The system does not allow for this.
Don't worry though, you will continue to be promoted.
' 
 
 
 
 

It was asserted by counsel for Mr Lever that none of the relevant industrial instruments in place at the material times supported the assertion of Dr Doherty that it was 'not possible to skip an entire grade'.
Mr Lever asserted that such representation was made by Dr Doherty in order to prevent Mr Lever from accessing his entitlement to benefits under clause 44.1.1 of the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2000 and the ancillary documents referred to generally by the description 'the objective setting and review process'.
45 The occurrence of prejudice adversely to Mr Lever was then said by him to be confirmed by Mr Davies, employed by ANSTO as an 'Industrial Relations Advisor', in a conversation between them held on 1 September 2002, which was recorded within par 48 of Mr Lever's affidavit sworn 1 June 2006, as follows:
 
 
 
 Mr Davies: 'You should have challenged Greg's decision not to reclassify you back in 2001'.
Mr Lever: 'Greg indicated he could allow me to skip an entire classification'.
Mr Davies: 'There's always been provision for staff to be reclassified.
There's been a number of staff who have skipped an entire grade.
'
 
 
 

There was said by Mr Lever to be a factual conflict between Mr Lever and Mr Davies as to whether or not that conversation occurred as so stated by Mr Lever, but once again, it was submitted on behalf of Mr Lever that his testimony should be preferred.
I was referred by Mr Lever in that regard to '[o]ne glaring example of the absence of credit of Mr Davies', in circumstances where he referred to a document having been provided to him by a member of ANSTO's 'HR team' (being Ms Ann Jenkins) at a time when, on the uncontradicted evidence of Mr Lever, she 'was clearly not employed by [ANSTO]'.
I have encountered considerable difficulty with the purported basis and scope of viability relevantly of that submission.
46 In conclusion to that stage of the testimony of Mr Lever, his counsel contended that 'in the absence of credible evidence to the contrary as to the motivations of Dr Doherty', the first series of breaches had been established.
The second series of breaches 
 
47 The second series of breaches propounded by Mr Lever were formulated in pars 26 to 29 of Mr Lever's points of claim as follows:
 
 
 '26.
On 21 August 2002, the Applicant met with Dr Doherty and Mr Crakanthorp to discuss his CAS Assessments for 2000-2001 and 2001-2002.
During the meeting, Dr Doherty made certain representations to the Applicant which were untrue and which constituted conduct in breach of section 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) of the pre-reform WR Act.
Particulars of conduct
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) Dr Doherty represented to the Applicant that ANSTO/ Dr Doherty was required to keep "some relativity" between ANSTO employees in relation to their advancement, thereby implying that ANSTO/Dr Doherty was entitled to not advance the Applicant for the sake of relativity with other employees, in circumstances where the Applicant ought to have been advanced on merit and in accordance with the classification processes; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) That it would take the Applicant twelve years to be promoted to SPO 1; 
 
 (c) That Professor Garnett would never agree to the Applicant being promoted to SPO 1; and 
 
 (d) That ANSTO/Dr Doherty was not able to retrospectively address the issue of Mr Lever's classification.

 
 
 
 
 27.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO injured the Applicant in his employment or altered the position of the Applicant to his prejudice in the circumstances particularised at paragraph 26 above in breach of s 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) of the pre-reform WR Act.
It is alleged that the breaches are continuing.
Particulars of the Breaches
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) ANSTO breached section 298K(1)(b) and (c) by seeking to discourage the Applicant from pursuing his classification dispute with ANSTO, which was to his detriment, by making false representations to the Applicant so as to induce or discourage the Applicant from seeking a review of Dr Doherty's decision in relation to the assessment periods 2000-2001 and 2001-2002, including by the pursuance of any proceeding under an industrial law;
 
 (b) ANSTO breached section 298K(1)(b) and/or (c) by threatening to injure the Applicant in his employment or alter the position of the Applicant to his prejudice with the intent of dissuading or preventing the Applicant from seeking a review of Dr Doherty's decision, including by participating or proposing to participate in any proceeding under an industrial law; and
 
 (c) ANSTO breached section 298K(1)(e) by discriminating against the Applicant by failing to afford the Applicant the same terms and conditions on which the Applicant was offered continuing employment compared to other ANSTO employees by refusing to address the Applicant's classification in accordance with the classification processes applied to other ANSTO employees.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 28.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO's conduct in breach of section 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) as alleged at paragraphs 25 to 27 above was carried out for prohibited reasons as proscribed by section 298L of the pre-reform WR Act.
Particulars of Prohibited Reasons
 
 Section 298L(1)(h) ; namely, that Mr Lever was entitled to the benefit of an industrial instrument, that is, the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2000.
The particular benefit or benefits under the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2000 included:
 
 (i) The benefit or rights flowing from Clause 44.1.1;
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) The benefit or right to undergo an annual assessment under Clause 44 in accordance with the process-document known as "HRES P4.1", including Clauses 6.3.2, 6.4.4 and 6.4.6 of HRES P4.1.

 
 
 
 
 29.
As a consequence of the matters particularised at paragraphs 25 to 28 above, the Applicant has suffered and continues to suffer injury, loss and damage.
Particulars of injury, loss and damage
 
 The Applicant suffered a loss of opportunity to obtain a successful review of his classification as at 21 August 2002 and to thereby obtain a promotion and to thereby increase his earnings.
' (Emphasis in original.
)
 
 

48 Those alleged breaches were said by Mr Lever to relate to the further representations made by Dr Doherty to Mr Lever as particularised above.
Mr Lever's history of the negotiations leading up to the 21 August 2002 meeting has already been mentioned.
At that time Professor Garnett was the Executive Director of ANSTO.
Those further representations complained of were said to be detailed in conversational form in par 46 of Mr Lever's affidavit of 1 June 2006.
Again it was contended that Mr Lever's account of the history and recollection of those events should be accepted in preference to the testimony of Dr Doherty, and moreover that none of the relevant industrial instruments in place at the material time supported the assertions of Dr Doherty as to his reasons for not advancing Mr Lever to Senior Professional Office 1.
It was Mr Lever's further case that those representations were made by Dr Doherty to prevent Mr Lever 'from accessing his benefits under clause 44.1.1 of the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2000 and the ancillary documents referred to generally as Career Advancement System'.
49 It was further submitted by Mr Lever that the representations of Dr Doherty had the effect of injuring Mr Lever's employment, in that he was not able to obtain the benefits of that 'Career Advancement System', being benefits said to have been in place 'for the other employees of [ANSTO]'.
50 It was therefore submitted that in the absence of credible evidence to the contrary as to the motivations of Dr Doherty, the second series of breaches had been made out by Mr Lever.
The third series of breaches 
 
51 The third series of breaches asserted by Mr Lever said to be attributable to ANSTO were set out in pars 33 to 35 of Mr Lever's points of claim which appeared, as follows:
 
 
 '33.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO injured the Applicant in his employment or altered the position of the Applicant to his prejudice in the circumstances particularised at paragraphs 31 and 32 above in breach of section 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) of the pre-reform WR Act.
It is alleged that the breaches are continuing.
Particulars of Breaches
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) ANSTO breached Section 298K(1)(b) and (c) by blocking or frustrating the Applicant's attempts to resolve his classification dispute with ANSTO, which was to the injury or prejudice of the Applicant;
 
 (b) ANSTO breached Section 298K(1)(b) and (c) by threatening to injure the Applicant in his employment or alter the position of the Applicant to his prejudice if the Applicant continued to pursue the classification dispute;
 
 (c) ANSTO breached Section 298K(1)(b) and (c) by reason of Dr Doherty representing to the Applicant that Professor Garnett would not agree to promote the Applicant into another band, which was done with the intent of persuading or preventing the Applicant from pursuing a resolution of his classification dispute, including by participating or proposing to participate in any proceeding under an industrial law;
 
 (d) ANSTO breached Section 298K(1)(e) by discriminating against the Applicant by failing to afford the Applicant the same terms and conditions on which the Applicant was offered continuing employment compared to other ANSTO employees by refusing to address the Applicant's classification in accordance with the classification processes applied to other ANSTO employees.

 
 
 
 
 34.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO's conduct in breach of Section 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) as alleged at paragraphs 31 to 33 above was carried out for prohibited reasons as proscribed by Section 298L of the pre-reform WR Act.

 
 Particulars of Prohibited Reasons
 
 
 
 The prohibited reasons alleged by the Applicant to have motivated the Respondent's conduct were: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) Section 298L(1)(h) ; since 2 December 2000, ANSTO's conduct was motivated by the fact that the Applicant was entitled to the benefit of an industrial instrument, that is, the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2000.
The particular benefit or benefits under the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2000 were:
 
 (i) The benefit or rights flowing from Clause 44.1.1;
 
 
 
 
 (ii) The benefit or right to undergo an annual assessment under Clause 44 in accordance with the process-document known as "HRES P4.1", including Clauses 6.3.2, 6.4.4 and 6.4.6 of HRES P4.1; 
 
 
 
 
 (b) Section 298L(1)(i) and/or (j); since 23 September 2002, ANSTO's conduct was motivated by the fact that the Applicant had sought a mediation session, a Peer Revenue and/or a Reference Panel to assist in the resolution of his classification dispute;
 
 (c) Section 298L(1)(a) ; since July or August 2002, ANSTO's conduct was motivated by the fact that the Applicant was, at the relevant times, a member of an industrial association, that is, the CPSU;
 
 (d) [this subparagraph merely duplicated verbatim (b) above.
] 
 
 
 
 
 
 35.
As a consequence of the matters particularised at paragraphs 30 to 33 above, the Applicant has suffered and continues to suffer injury, loss and damage.

 
 
 
 Particulars of injury, loss and damage
 
 
 
 The Applicant suffered a loss of opportunity to obtain a successful review of his classification in late 2002 and to thereby obtain a promotion and to thereby increase his earnings.
' 
 


(The submissions did not in fact reproduce 'paragraphs 30 to 33' in the context of the so-called third series of breaches , but only the foregoing paragraphs 33 to 35.
)
 
52 Those breaches were said by Mr Lever to relate to actions taken by ANSTO, and in particular by Dr Doherty on its behalf, in the period of time between September 2002 and December 2002, being actions directed to dissuading Mr Lever from 'progressing his classification dispute'.
In that period of time, Mr Lever was said to have taken a number of steps 'to resolve his classification dispute, including a mediation session on 20 November 2002'.
I have some difficulty in appreciating why the pursuit of a mediation process would not have constituted 'progressing his classification dispute', for what that may ultimately matter.
53 Commencing from 1 July 2002, ANSTO was said by Mr Lever to have commenced the performance of a role analysis on each and every employee at ANSTO to reclassify him or her from the previous Senior Professional Officer and Professional Officer grades to new grades classified in Bands 1 to 10.
That new classification system was further said to have been 'agreed between the unions and ANSTO to take effect from 1 July 2002', being an agreement said to have been reached during the negotiations for the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2002.
Mr Lever asserted that whilst the new classifications commenced as a matter of fact from 1 July 2002, that 2002 Agreement was not ultimately certified and did not commence until January 2003, though he acknowledged that '[l]ittle turns on this in the present case'.
54 Mr Lever next explained that the ANSTO role characteristics for the relevant positions from Bands 1 to 10 were contained in Exhibit D in the proceedings.
It was therefore said that on and from 1 July 2002, Mr Lever's classification dispute with ANSTO centred around the role characterises set out in that document.
At all material times thereafter, ANSTO was further said to have 'formally characterised [Mr Lever's] role as band 5', whilst Mr Lever and a number of ANSTO's employees not seemingly identified, or at least not in his written submissions, were said to have 'asserted that his role was appropriately classified [as] at least band 6'.
In that month of July 2002, Ms Linda Houseman of ANSTO's Human Resources Department was said to have conducted a role analysis of Mr Lever's then employment position at ANSTO, the outcome whereof being set out in par 41 of Mr Lever's affidavit sworn on 1 June 2006, and in particular annexure RL 7 thereto.
It was asserted by Mr Lever to describe his role, or at least his band 6 role, under the new classification system.
55 I have already made reference to the mediation session held on 20 November 2002.
Mr Lever and Dr Doherty were in attendance at that mediation session.
There were apparently two other parties at the session, namely Ms Lynne Blackbourn and Ms Linda Houseman, who were both associated with ANSTO's Human Resources Department.
Neither testified for ANSTO in the proceedings, and it was submitted by Mr Lever that given those witnesses were 'clearly [ANSTO's] witnesses', Mr Lever was able to rely on inferences open to be drawn against ANSTO, consistently with what was said by Kitto J in Jones v Dunkel [1959] HCA 8 ; (1959) 101 CLR 298 at 308 as to the evidentiary principle which applies where there is a failure to call a witness, as follows:
 
 '... any inference favourable to the plaintiff for which there was ground in the evidence might be more confidently drawn when a person presumably able to put the true complexion on the facts relied on as the ground for the inference has not been called as a witness by the defendant and the evidence provides no sufficient explanation of his absence.
' 
 

No authority was cited in support of the proposition that attendees at a mediation meeting are compellable or at least qualifiable witnesses as to what may have been asserted or acknowledged at that meeting.
Mr Lever contended in any event that his 'detailed evidence as to Dr Doherty accepting [Mr Lever's] analysis of [his] then role, being consistent with at least band 6, as opposed to band 5' should be accepted, and I was referred in that regard generally to pars 29 to 33 of Mr Lever's affidavit.
56 On any view of the evidence, so Mr Lever further contended, his then role involved a significant degree of 'specialisation' as defined in the 'Role Characteristics document' that formed Exhibit D in the proceedings.
I was referred in that regard to 'the enabling quadrant in the role analysis' appearing in annexure 'RL 15' to Mr Lever's affidavit sworn on 1 June 2006.
The so-called 'lowest graded role' that was referred to in the 'enabling Quadrant' section of that Exhibit D that required specialisation was said by Mr Lever to be 'at least Band 6'.
Mr Lever contended that such analysis, and his evidence as to the outcome of the mediation session held on 20 November 2002, was 'entirely consistent with any rational analysis of Exhibit A (being a colour photocopy of Exhibit RL 11)'.
That Exhibit A was described by him as 'a combined role analysis document that contains the analysis of Mr Crakanthorp, [Mr Lever] and Dr Doherty', and in that context '[t]he fact that it was an accurate portrayal of those individuals... was not seriously challenged in [Mr Lever's] cross-examination'.
Mr Lever yet further contended that '[i]f the document being Exhibit A is accepted on face value, together with the evidence of [Mr Lever], a simple reading of the Role Characteristics document together with the inferences available against [ANSTO] referred to above ... [demanded] the only viable factual finding open to the Court [to be] that, at least as at 20 November 2002, [Mr Lever's] substantive role was the equivalent of at least band 6 and not the band 5 at which [ANSTO] was formally characterising him'.
57 The Court was informed by Mr Lever that the mediation session did not resolve Mr Lever's substantive classification dispute, and that as a result he eventually sent to Dr Doherty an email advising him of his intention to progress the matter by way of a so-called 'peer review process'.
Dr Doherty's response to that stated intention was recorded in an email bearing date 12 December 2002 to Mr Lever stating 'Ron, for your own sake, I beg you one last time not to pursue this' .
It was submitted by Mr Lever that such ANSTO conduct was directed to preventing Mr Lever 'from accessing his entitlement to a benefit (namely an entitlement to access a peer review process) under an industrial instrument', and that ANSTO's conduct in refusing to acknowledge Mr Lever's so-called 'substantive position' as at least band 6, and to then seek to deter the applicant from the peer review process, was 'further evidence of conduct in breach of s 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e)'.
I have difficulty with the purported description of that outcome in terms of an attempt by ANSTO to prevent Mr Lever from 'accessing' any so-called 'peer review'.
58 It was further said by Mr Lever to be not disputed in any event that on and from July 2002, Mr Lever had commenced work as an active union delegate for the CPSU (I was referred in that regard to par 44 of Mr Lever's 1 June 2006 affidavit).
Mr Lever submitted that ANSTO's foregoing conduct was 'injurious to his employment' and was 'in part motivated by his active union involvement'.
It was contended by Mr Lever that '[t]he evidence supported a finding as to most of the alleged prohibited reasons for the above breaches even absent the reverse onus placed on [ANSTO]', and further that when that evidence was to be considered 'in light of the reverse onus ... the Court would have little difficulty in finding the breaches proved'.
The fourth series of breaches 
 
59 The fourth series of breaches alleged by Mr Lever are set out in pars 41 to 43 of Mr Lever's points of claim, which are reproduced also below:

 
 
 '41.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO injured the Applicant in his employment or altered the position of the Applicant to his prejudice in the circumstances particularised at paragraph 40 above in breach of Section 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) of the pre-reform WR Act.
It is alleged that the breach continued up until on or about 23 December 2004.

 
 
 
 Particulars of Breaches
 
 
 
 ANSTO breached Section 298K(1)(b) and (c) and (e) by denying the Applicant payment for overtime performed, in circumstances where ANSTO was aware that the Applicant was performing overtime, which was an injury to the Applicant in his employment or which altered the position of the Applicant to his prejudice and/or which discriminated against the Applicant in the terms or conditions on which ANSTO offered employment or continuing employment to the Applicant compared to other ANSTO employees.
42.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO's conduct in breach of Section 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) as alleged at paragraphs 40 and 41 above was carried out for prohibited reasons as proscribed by Section 298L of the pre-reform WR Act.

 
 
 
 Particulars of Prohibited Reasons
 
 
 (a) The Applicant repeats paragraph 34(a) to (d) above.

 
 
 
 
 
 (b) Section 298L(1)(n) : the Applicant, in his capacity as a member of, and as the ANSTO Site President of the CPSU, did, or proposed to do, a number of lawful acts or things with the authority expressly conferred upon him by the CPSU at various times in the period August 2002 to December 2002.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 43.
As a consequence to the matters particularised at paragraphs 40 to 42 above, the Applicant has suffered and continues to suffer injury, loss and damage.

 
 
 
 Particulars of Injuries, Loss and Damage
 
 
 
 The Applicant has suffered a loss of earnings from April 2003 to December 2004 as a consequence of a loss of opportunity to perform paid overtime, estimated in the amount of $7,000 gross per annum.
' (Emphasis in original.
)
 
 

Consistently with Mr Lever's written submissions, I have not reproduced the material thereby purportedly picked up by way of reference in the points of claim document.
Reference to the expression '... a number of lawful acts or things with the authority expressly conferred upon him by the CPSU ...' may be observed, the basis whereof not apparently being specifically identified.
I further observe the absence of a specific averment as to the extent of the payment for overtime which would otherwise have been made available to him, and upon what bases.
60 Mr Lever contended in any event that '[m]uch of the factual background in support of these alleged breaches is uncontested', being breaches which 'relate essentially to Mr Lever's request for paid overtime, which request was denied by [ANSTO]', and further that '[t]he request and denial are not disputed by [ANSTO]'.
Mr Lever further contended that '[t]his request and denial clearly amounts to injury to [Mr Lever] in his employment relations with [ANSTO] as defined by the High Court in Patrick Stevedores [195 CLR 1]', though the submission was not amplified with specificity or exemplification by reference to the dicta cited earlier in these reasons from Patrick Stevedores concerning 'adverse affection of, or deterioration in, the advantages enjoyed by the employee ...' .
The Court was referred thereafter to the evidence of Dr Hammerton, a principal research scientist in ANSTO's Institute for Environmental Research, to the effect that throughout the years 2002, 2003 and 2004, Mr Lever 'was regularly engaged in his union activities'; the Court was referred in particular to pars 5, 6 and 7 of her affidavit evidence.
61 I was next referred to the affidavit evidence of Mr Bloom, (who was employed by ANSTO as a Facilitative Technologist Band 6, and who was also a member of ANSTO's Peak Council as a representative of the Australian Manufacturing Workers' Union).
He was said to have provided affidavit evidence on behalf of Mr Lever to the effect that Mr Lever 'had a major influence from 2002 to 2004 in various forums as a CPSU delegate in addressing ANSTO's staff/management issues' (I was referred in particular to paragraph 4 of Mr Bloom's said affidavit of 9 November 2006).
Mr Bloom testified to the effect that Mr Lever was a key union negotiator in the pay scale dispute previously brought before the Australian Industrial Relations Commission, and that Mr Bloom had participated, along with Mr Lever, in a large number of classification disputes at reference panels as union advocates.
Mr Bloom further testified as to a conversation with Dr Smith, the then Executive Director of ANSTO, at which Mr Lever was present, and said to have occurred in about June or July 2004, being a conversation relating to '... a number of outstanding unresolved industrial issues, including the amount of time required to negotiate the forthcoming Enterprise Agreement and other union dealings with management'.
Mr Bloom's unchallenged testimony was that Dr Smith then said as follows:
 
 'I would allow reasonable time for time spent on union activities.
I would not put a percentage of time spent.
'
 
 'I understand the nature of the work and at any one time the amount of work required to be done is relative to the nature and number of industrial disputes.
' 
 

62 It was submitted by Mr Lever accordingly that such evidence as to ANSTO's acceptance of Mr Lever's role as an active union delegate, and later as site president for the CPSU, was 'consistent with any reasonable reading of [Mr Lever's] duties for [ANSTO]', albeit in an earlier period during 'the latter half of 2002 and the first half of 2003 as being devoted in part to his union activities and in part to his substantive role'.
It was further submitted that so much was also consistent with the evidence of Mr Cullen (as appearing at transcript page 551) as follows:
 
 'His Honour: Was this doing union work in hours during employment hours or externally to employment hours?
--- Well, I suppose that was part of the question.
It's [ sic ] circumstances which suggested to me it was during hours.
Mr Shoebridge: And it was acknowledged within ANSTO that union delegates were allowed to do union work in work hours.
That's right?
--- That's correct.


I would take the opportunity to add that on the same page of the transcript the following appears:
 
 His Honour: Was there any particular view taken or practice adopted by ANSTO as to employees doing union work during working hours other than perhaps on urgent matters or matters of an exceptional nature?
--- My understanding was that it was recognised that they could do union work during official hours up to approximately 10 per cent of the time.
'
 

It was further submitted by Mr Lever in that context that '... it was as much in [ANSTO's] interest as that of the employees' unions, to effectively and efficiently resolve industrial disputes involving both individual employees and the enterprise bargaining agreements'; so much would be doubtless accepted by ANSTO, and I do not understand any submission having been advanced by ANSTO to the contrary, though the relevance of the observation to the issues might be debateable, for what that might ultimately matter.
63 It was said by Mr Lever to be 'in the light of this history' (as I have sought to record in these reasons in detail) 'that [Mr Lever]approached Mr Cullen [formerly, I would record, the General Manager, Corporate Services, ANSTO] with a request as to [payment of] overtime; I was referred in that regard to Mr Lever's evidence at paragraph 55 of his affidavit of 17 November 2006, where he deposed to his conversation with Mr Cullen in about April 2003, and his request thereby made for approval to be paid for overtime by reason of what counsel for Mr Lever described as Mr Lever's 'difficulty in finishing the directory structure and code required of him in his work for ANSTO'.
Mr Lever's account of Mr Cullen's response included the following:
 
 [Mr Cullen]: I am not sure if I can approve overtime while you are doing union work; why don't you drop it?
[The Applicant]: What the union work?
That won't solve any problems, someone still has to do it.
I do not like the idea of leaving these matters unresolved.
I think I should at least follow it through to completion of the matters I have at hand.
I have spent over 6 months on [this] and you agreed that I was the one to control changes to the document.
We are close to agreement [for] the first time since 1998 and you want me to drop it now?
[Mr Cullen]: No, that's OK, I will have a talk to Ian [Crakanthorp] and get him to let you know.
'
 

I was further referred in the foregoing context to Mr Lever's affidavit of 1 June 2006, where in paragraph 61, he recorded the following conversation between himself and Mr Crakanthorp:
 
 'Mr Crakanthorp: Mr Cullen's asked me to inform you that he cannot approve you working paid overtime.
[The Applicant]: I'm very disappointed.
Does it have anything to do with my union activities?
Mr Crakanthorp: Yes, I think so.
' 
 

64 Mr Lever pointed thereafter to Mr Crakanthorp's testimony (given under cross-examination at the hearing on 8 December 2006 and appearing on transcript page 596) concerning his conversation with Mr Cullen which occurred in about early to mid 2003, on the subject of Mr Lever working overtime, and where Mr Crakanthorp was said to have admitted that at the time he had thought that Mr Lever was devoting 'approximately 80% of his working day to union related work', though where Mr Crakanthorp went on to say that such assessment of 80% was arrived at by '[j]ust pluck[ing] a number out of the sky really'.
Nevertheless Mr Crakanthorp adhered to that estimate of 80% under cross-examination.
Moreover Mr Crakanthorp agreed that he was 'sitting fairly close to [Mr Lever]', and '... having day to day conversations with him'.
Mr Crakanthorp acknowledged in that context that Mr Lever 'was the only one who could run his programming' in relation to 'directory structures' in order to be able to 'respond to requests to adapt and change [such structures]' (transcript p 601).
Mr Crakanthorp was said to have admitted that the IT directory project, for which Mr Lever was primarily responsible, had fallen behind schedule.
It was submitted by Mr Lever that it was in those circumstances, albeit 'over a period of about 12 months' (as acknowledged by Mr Crakanthorp during cross-examination) that Mr Lever had requested payment of overtime to work after hours and complete his work.
65 Counsel for Mr Lever submitted that Mr Crakanthorp's evidence was in direct contradiction to that of Mr Cullen concerning a conversation Mr Cullen said that he had with Mr Crakanthorp about Mr Lever's overtime.
It was Mr Crakanthorp's evidence that there was a need for some overtime due to the delay in the rollout of the IT directory structure, which was Mr Lever's responsibility.
Mr Cullen testified in his affidavit evidence that in early 2003, Mr Crakanthorp had said to him words to the following effect:
 
 'There is nothing we really need to have [the Applicant] doing overtime for.
'
 

Mr Crakanthorp denied saying that (at transcript page 606).
It was submitted by Mr Lever that Mr Cullen's evidence, in denying his version of events, did not sit with Mr Crakanthorp's testimony.
However a reading of the totality of the transcript of Mr Crakanthorp's evidence and that of Mr Cullen does not seem to me to accommodate any such emphatic conclusion as to evidentiary inconsistency.
Mr Crakanthorp did adhere, in the course of his lengthy cross-examination, to the fact that Mr Lever was in his estimation spending about 80% of his working hours at ANSTO 'on union work'.
66 It was submitted by counsel for Mr Lever in any event that the Court would conclude that the evidence of Mr Cullen, as to the reasons for refusing Mr Lever's request for overtime upon the footing there was no requirement for Mr Lever to undertake overtime work, should be rejected, and that a finding should be made that Mr Lever was refused overtime by reason of the extent of his attention to his role as a union delegate, and that accordingly the refusal was for a prohibited reason as asserted by Mr Lever.
It was further submitted that in light of 'the reverse onus', Mr Lever's claim in respect of the alleged breaches above addressed ought to be accepted by the Court.
The fifth series of breaches 
 
67 The fifth series of breaches advanced by Mr Lever were set out in pars 47 and 48 of the applicant's points of claim as follows:
 
'47.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO injured the Applicant in his employment or altered the position of the Applicant to his prejudice in the circumstances particularised at paragraph 46 in breach of Section 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) of the pre-reform WR Act.
It is alleged that the breach is continuing.
Particulars of the Breaches

 
ANSTO breached Section 298K (1)(b), (c) and (e) by unreasonably refusing to prejudice by [ sic ] convene a Reference Panel to resolve the Applicant's classification dispute, which caused the Applicant injury in his employment or altered his position to his [ sic ] significantly delaying the resolution of his classification dispute and which constituted conduct that discriminated against the Applicant in the terms or conditions upon which the Applicant was offered continuing employment.
48.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO's conduct and breach of Section 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) as alleged at paragraphs 46 and 47 above was [ sic ] carried out for prohibited reasons as proscribed by Section 298L of the pre-reform WR Act.
Particulars of Prohibited Reasons

 
(a) The Applicant repeats paragraph 34 (a) to (d) above.

 
 
 (b) Section 298L(1)(n) ; the Applicant, in his capacity as a member of, and as the ANSTO Site President of the CPSU, did, or proposed to do, a number of lawful acts or things with the authority expressly conferred upon him by the CPSU at various times in the period August 2002 to April 2003.
' (Emphasis in original) 
 
 
 
 

68 It was said to be not disputed by ANSTO that on 23 May 2003, ANSTO's then Executive Director, Professor Garnett, refused to hold a reference panel (Mr Lever's request for a reference panel appears in annexure 'RL 16' to his 1 June 2006 affidavit).
Professor Garnett was not called to give evidence in the proceedings, and on that footing, Mr Lever contended that ANSTO was 'unable to effectively meet the reverse onus', being a circumstance said by Mr Lever to have been 'further compounded by the inference available to be drawn against it from the failure to call Professor Garnett to give evidence pursuant to the authority of Jones v Dunkel [101 CLR 298] ' .
It was submitted further by Mr Lever that the refusal to convene a reference panel 'had the deleterious effect of preventing the applicant from having an effective resolution of his then classification dispute in mid 2003', that being described as 'a clear injury and/or alteration of the applicant's position to his detriment'.
69 Hence the submission of Mr Lever's case, based on those asserted breaches, was contended to be made out on the evidence placed before the Court, being a conclusion further said to be 'comfortably assisted by the reverse onus'.
The sixth series of breaches 
 
70 The sixth series of breaches propounded by Mr Lever were outlined in pars 51 and 52 of his points of claim, as follows:
 
 
 '51.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO injured the Applicant in his employment or altered the position of the Applicant to his prejudice or discriminated against the Applicant in the terms or conditions on which ANSTO offered employment or continuing employment to the Applicant in breach of Section 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) of the pre-reform WR Act.

 
 
 
 Particulars of Breaches
 
 
 
 ANSTO breached Section 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) by making a threat to the Applicant in relation to his employment with the intent of dissuading or preventing the Applicant from pursuing any industrial proceedings in resolution of his classification dispute.
52.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO's conduct in breach of Section 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) as alleged at paragraphs 50 and 51 above was carried out for a prohibited reason as specified by Section 298L of the pre-reform Act.
Particulars of Prohibited Reasons
 
 (a) The Applicant repeats paragraph 34(a) to (d) above.

 
 
 
 
 (b) Section 298L(1)(n) ; the Applicant, in his capacity as a member of, and as the ANSTO Site President of the CPSU, did, or proposed to do, a number of lawful acts or things with the authority expressly conferred upon him by the CPSU at various times in the period August 2002 to July 2003.
' (Emphasis in original.
)
 
 
 

71 Those alleged breaches were said to relate 'squarely to the two e-mails' forwarded by Dr Doherty to Mr Lever on 17 and 18 July 2003 respectively.
In the first of those two emails Dr Doherty stated to Mr Lever, inter alia :
 
 'Ron, I heard that you had decided to not to [ sic ] proceed to the final IRC process.
Is this true?
I hope so.
I would not like to see you destroy your career prospects here unless you are planning to leave anyway.
You still have goodwill amongst your ANSTO clients.
'
 

The second of those emails contained inter alia the following:
 
 'I am sorry to hear it [that the applicant is still trying to resolve this classification dispute], because I think it's inevitable that it will affect your career here, but maybe you are not intending to stay in any case.
I'll let it rest.
'
 

72 It was submitted by Mr Lever that viewed in light of the history relevantly as at July 2003, those emails 'could only have been sent as a veiled threat by Dr Doherty, in his capacity as an agent, employee and/or officer of [ANSTO, both in relation to] his classification dispute with [ANSTO] and his active role as a union delegate and site president for the CPSU'.
Dr Doherty's denials in cross-examination were submitted by Mr Lever to be not persuasive; the same were said to be 'not personal missives as suggested by him, but rather [accurate] reflections of the views and attitude of [ANSTO] more generally.
' Those asserted threats and statements were alleged by Mr Lever to be seen as injurious to Mr Lever's position, and 'clearly made for prohibited reasons'.
In those circumstances, it was submitted by Mr Lever that his case as to the existence of those breaches had been 'made out on the evidence before the Court', being an outcome 'again comfortably assisted by the reverse onus'.
The seventh series of breaches 
 
73 The seventh series of breaches propounded by Mr Lever were framed as follows:
 
 
 '54.
In September 2003 ANSTO offered to set the Applicant's objectives to SPO1 if the Applicant did not proceed with the Reference Panel but with effect from the assessment year 2003-2004 only; the Applicant did not accept the offer, and then later in September 2003, ANSTO threatened the Applicant to carry out a Role Analysis on the Applicant's position, asserting that it was a managerial prerogative, which was made with the intent of dissuading or preventing the Applicant from pursuing a Reference Panel and for prohibited reasons proscribed by Section 298L of the pre-reform WR Act.
It is not alleged that the breach is continuing.

 
 
 
 Particulars of the Breaches
 
 
 
 ANSTO breached Section 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) by threatening the Applicant to undertake a Role Analysis of his position, which was made with the intent of dissuading or preventing the Applicant from pursuing a Reference Panel in pursuance of a resolution of the Applicant's classification dispute, and further, which constituted conduct that discriminated against the Applicant.

 
 
 
 
 
 55.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO's conduct in breach of Section 298K(1)(b), (c) and (e) as alleged at paragraph 54 above was carried out for prohibited reasons as proscribed by Section 298L of the pre-reform WR Act.

 
 
 
 Particulars of Prohibited Reasons
 
 (a) The Applicant repeats paragraph 34(a) to (d) above.

 
 
 
 b) Section 298L(1)(n) ; the Applicant, in his capacity as a member of, and as the ANSTO Site President of the CPSU, did, or proposed to do, a number of lawful acts or things with the authority expressly conferred upon him by the CPSU at various times in the period August 2002 to September 2003.
' (Emphasis in original.
)
 
 
 

74 In considering that series of breaches, Mr Lever pointed out that up until January 2003, the annual review of his performance and career advancement was undertaken pursuant to CAS and the 'Objective Setting and Review Process' that underlay the same, as set out in HRES P 4.1.
ANSTO was said to have accepted that the so-called 'Career Advancement Process' under the CAS and HRES P 4.1 industrial instruments placed the obligation upon it to ensure the timely and thorough completion of the documentation setting out Mr Lever's past achievement and future goals, being an obligation which 'lay squarely with [ANSTO's] management', and in particular his 'direct supervisor and assessor'.
75 Moreover Mr Cullen was said by Mr Lever to have further 'agreed that as at September 2003, [Mr Lever's] objectives for the 2003-2004 period had still not been set'; that alleged 'failure' was described as 'relevantly a failure of [ANSTO] and not [Mr Lever]'.
Moreover Mr Cullen was said to have 'further agreed that in the meeting with Mr Davies [held] on or about 1 or 2 September 2003', he said the following:
 
 
 
 '[Mr Cullen]: But [the applicant] still hasn't done his 2003/04 objectives.
We need to get that done too.
Maybe we could agree [to] some objectives at the Band 6(1) level.
If he achieved them, then he could get promoted come July next year.
You could work with him to set the objectives in a way where he should be able to achieve them.
' 
 
 
 
 

It was submitted to be 'ultimately not for [Mr Lever], but for his supervisor and assessor to set such objectives', and that '[a]bsent such objectives being set, [Mr Lever] simply could not advance to any level outside his current band.
' The submission appears to come sufficiently to issue with what Mr Cullen was reported to have stated at the meeting.
76 The evidence was said by Mr Lever to be 'clear' that as at this time Mr Cullen, the director then said to be responsible for Mr Lever, 'had determined that the appropriate way to move the matter forward was for [Mr Lever] to have his objectives for the forthcoming year set at Band 6 and for [Mr Lever] to work to those objectives in order to get his promotion'.
So much was submitted to be made clear in the following cross-examination of Mr Cullen (at transcript page 548):
 
 'Well then, perhaps I could put this to you.
Putting to one side the past and the reference panel issue, dealing with the past ---?
--- Yes.
--- you thought, as at 1 September or 2 September 2003 that moving forward the appropriate thing to do was for management to instigate a role analysis setting or otherwise at Band 6 that my client could work to in order to get his promotion, if it set it at Band 6?
That's right.
...
 
 You thought that was the appropriate process moving forward --- That was my preferred approach.
' 
 

77 Notwithstanding that it was claimed to be appropriate to classify Mr Lever's position at Band 6, Mr Lever claimed that Mr Cullen 'determined to only offer this proposition' to Mr Lever if he agreed not to proceed with a reference panel, as was 'his industrial entitlement under the Enterprise Agreement'.
Put another way by Mr Lever, it was asserted that 'Mr Cullen would only agree to [ANSTO] doing the right thing by [Mr Lever] going forward, if [Mr Lever] ceased to agitate for his industrial rights for the past'.
That much was asserted by Mr Lever to have been ultimately agreed by Mr Cullen, in the course of his cross-examination at page 549 of the transcript, by his acceptance of 'the essential truth of the email from the applicant of 8 September 2003', that email comprising annexure 'IAC 6' to Mr Cullen's affidavit, where the following was recorded ( inter alia ):
 
 'Ian,
 
 I am not able to accept your offer put to me by Rod Davies 4 th September 2003,
 
 "In return for not proceeding with a Reference Panel, you will agree to set my objectives for band 6 for the 2003-2004 assessment year".
'
 

That testimony of Mr Cullen was said to have 'clearly demonstrate[d] that [ANSTO] was intent on actively injuring [Mr Lever] in his position, by not setting the appropriate future objectives enabling him to obtain a promotion, unless and until he agreed to cease to agitate for his industrial entitlements in relation to his past classification dispute'.
78 Such conduct of ANSTO so complained of by Mr Lever was asserted to have 'clearly establishe[d] even absent the benefit of the reverse onus under s 298V of the Act, a breach of s 298K(1) in [ANSTO] both injuring [Mr Lever] in his employment and in altering [Mr Lever's] employment position to his detriment'.
That series of breaches as pleaded were therefore contended to have been 'clearly made out on the evidence before the Court'.
The eighth series of breaches 
 
79 The eighth series of breaches alleged were asserted to be those set out in pars 57 to 61 of the applicant's points of claim as follows:
 
 
 '57.
Between August 2002 and December 2004, the Applicant, in his role as CPSU Delegate and from 2004 as CPSU Site President, undertook a number of Union activities, refer to paragraphs 78 to 119 of the Applicant's Affidavit; the Applicant was paid by ANSTO during periods in which the Applicant performed union activities as envisaged by the ANSTO Enterprise Agreements.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO sought to undermine the Applicant in his employment as a consequence of the Applicant undertaking union activities, where such union activities were permitted to be undertaken by the Applicant on a paid basis by ANSTO pursuant to the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2000 and the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2002.
It is alleged that this conduct occurred over the period from about the middle [of] 2003 onwards.

 
 
 
 
 Particulars of conduct 
 
 
 
 
 (a) On 21 April 2004, Mr Davies sought to limit the proportion of work time that union delegates, including the Applicant, spent on union work to no more than 10%: see the Applicant's Affidavit at paragraph 85; 
 
 
 
 (b) ANSTO sought to undermine the Applicant's union activities by blocking his endeavours to represent [Person X], an ANSTO employee: see paragraphs 97, 111, 112, 117, 119 and 137 inclusive, of the Applicant's Affidavit; 


 
 (c) ANSTO, by certain of its officers, sought to undermine the Applicant's union activities and his relationship with the CPSU by writing complaints to the CPSU about the Applicant which lacked substance: see paragraphs 125, 126, 129 and 130; and 
 
 
 
 (d) ANSTO unlawfully accessed the Applicant's emails which included emails received, forwarded and sent in his capacity as CPSU President, and which caused the Applicant injury: see paragraphs 139 to 144 inclusive of the Applicant's Affidavit.

 
 
 58.
In or about late October 2004, ANSTO unlawfully accessed the Applicant's emails at work which included emails received, sent and forwarded in his capacity as CPSU President, which caused the Applicant injury: see paragraphs 139 to 144 inclusive of the Applicant's Affidavit sworn 1 June 2006.

 
 
 
 
 
 59.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO injured the Applicant in his employment in the circumstances particularised at paragraph 57 and 58 in breach of Section 298K(1)(b) and (c) of the pre-reform WR Act.
It is not alleged that the breach is continuing.

 
 
 
 Particulars of the Breaches
 
 ANSTO injured the Applicant in his employment and altered the Applicant's position to his detriment by breaching the Applicant's right to privacy in relation to the use of emails in the ANSTO workplace, including in the Applicant's capacity as a member of and Site President of an industrial organisation, namely the CPSU.



 
 
 60.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO's conduct in breach of Section 298K(1)(b) as alleged at paragraphs 57 and 58 was carried out for prohibited reasons as proscribed by Section 298L of the pre-reform WR Act.

 
 
 
 Particulars of Prohibited Reasons
 
 
 
 
 (a) The Applicant repeats paragraph 34(a) to (d) above [which I have earlier reproduced in these reasons in the context of 'the third series of breaches]; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) Section 298L(1)(n) ; the Applicant, in his capacity as a member of, and as the ANSTO Site President of the CPSU, did, or proposed to do, a number of lawful acts or things with the authority expressly conferred upon him by the CPSU at various times in the period August 2002 to December 2004; refer also to paragraphs 78 to 119 of the Applicant's Affidavit sworn 1 June 2006 [which paragraphs appear in such affidavit under the heading 'My union activities'].

 
 
 
 
 
 
 61.
As a consequence to the matters particularised at paragraphs 57 to 60 above, the Applicant has suffered and continues to suffer injury, loss and damage.

 
 
 
 Particulars of Injuries, Loss and Damage
 
 
 
 
 (a) ANSTO caused the Applicant to suffer psychological injury upon the Applicant discovering that his emails had been unlawfully accessed by ANSTO officers, including Mr Davies, ANSTO's IR Adviser;
 
 (b) As a consequence of the psychological injury suffered by the Applicant, the Applicant has suffered and continues to suffer a loss of earnings at the rate of $1205.00 per week from 23 December 2004 to date and continuing; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) As a consequence of the psychological injury suffered by the Applicant, the Applicant has suffered a loss of future earning capacity and damage to his career advancement, including within ANSTO.
' (Emphasis in original.
)
 
 
 

80 Mr Lever contended that the evidence established an active and continuing union role undertaken by Mr Lever during the foregoing period between August 2002 and December 2004, said to have been already 'set out in some detail' in the written submissions of his counsel, and further, that Mr Lever and Person X (who made an affidavit in the proceedings on 17 November 2006) testified that during the course of 2004, Person X had sought the assistance of Mr Lever in his role as a delegate of the CPSU; by that time the position was asserted to have been reached that both Dr Smith, the Executive Director of ANSTO, and Mr Cullen considered that it was 'entirely appropriate for union delegates to spend flexible proportions of their time at work performing union functions'.
81 Mr Lever further asserted that notwithstanding the foregoing circumstances, during that time, 'Mr Davies was undertaking direct and intrusive surveillance of [Mr Lever] in the course of [his] employment', and that it could be seen from the subsequent analysis in the submissions that covert surveillance of Mr Lever was 'on any view of the material, designed to be, and was, intimidatory and oppressive of [Mr Lever] and directed to injure him in his employment.
I was referred to what Mr Davies deposed in his affidavit of 27 September 2006 as to his 'quite detailed surveillance of [Mr Lever] with Mr Davies recording specific times that various employees attended on [Mr Lever's] offices and workstation'.
It was yet asserted that Mr Davies in that affidavit 'admits to detailed, persistent and close observation of [Mr Lever] undertaking union activities on the 7 th July 2004', Mr Lever pointing thereby to Mr Davies having given 'detailed observations of the exact times at which other employees enter and exit [ANSTO's] building'.
Mr Davies was said to have also testified as to 'contacting the applicant and expressing his concern about the amount of "non-ANSTO work" (ie union related activities) that the applicant was undertaking'.
82 The Court's attention was drawn in the foregoing context to Mr Davies' so-called admission made within the course of his cross-examination (commencing at transcript page 704):
 
 'You weren't my client's direct supervisor in any way, shape or form?
--- No.
But you took upon yourself to sit in your office and look over at the IT building where --- that you could see from your office; correct?
--- Correct.
To keep an eye on who was coming and going to the IT building to see Mr Lever, didn't you?
--- I take it on myself.
My office has got big windows and I can see people coming and going from the computer centre.
You did, it?
--- I did.
Of your own volition?
--- I see people walking past, yes.
And you were looking with a critical eye to work out whether they were going there for union activities to see Mr Lever weren't you?
--- At some point I did do that, yes.
And indeed you went to the point of timing.
Did you do it with a stopwatch or --- ?
--- I just looked at my watch and made a note in my diary.
And could you see my client's office from your office?
--- No.
My client's desk?
So if you were watching my client talk with someone, you would have to be in the IT building?
--- Correct.
So you got out of your desk, went over to the IT building?
--- On a couple of occasions, yes.
Specifically to, what, do some covert surveillance on my client?
--- No, just to confirm what was happening.
You had no role in supervising him at all?
--- No.
You just thought you would go and pay close attention to his union duties?
--- No, no.
I wanted to understand what he was doing, some of the work he was doing was of interest to the corporate division generally, as is all the work in the corporate division and I'm the manager in the corporate division.
Sir, you had no role in the organisation to supervise my client's work?
--- Absolutely not.
But you took it upon yourself nevertheless to go and so some covert surveillance of him because of his union duties?
--- I merely logged the times that people were going over there on a particular day, I saw them coming and going and I confirmed my understanding one day by going over to the computer centre.
Well, you went more than once, didn't you?
--- A few times.
'
 

83 Mr Lever submitted, in the context of the foregoing evidentiary material, that '[g]iven Dr Smith's unambiguous statement as to the reasonableness of time being spent on union activities, Mr Davies' actions can have had only one intended consequence, to intimidate and ultimately injure the applicant in his employment solely due to the applicant's union activities'.
Mr Lever further submitted that if, 'as is set out above [in the submissions], it is accepted that [Mr Lever's] role as an active and involved union delegate and site president for the CPSU, was an understood part of [Mr Lever's] duties for [ANSTO] then it must be accepted that to the extent [ANSTO], through Mr Davies, sought to injure or damage [Mr Lever's] role and standing as a union delegate and site president, [ANSTO] was injuring and/or altering [Mr Lever's] employment with [ANSTO] to [Mr Lever's] detriment'.
84 Mr Lever drew attention in the foregoing context to the correspondence said to be 'directed by Mr Davies to the CPSU negative of [Mr Lever] (as deposed ... in paragraph 85 of Mr Lever's 1 June 2006 affidavit)' and contended that the same could 'only be categorized as being relevantly injurious conduct for a prohibited reasons [ sic ]'; he further contended that '[t]he same construction applies to the correspondence from Mr Cullen to [Ms] Lorin Booth of the CPSU of 8 November 2004', being correspondence comprising annexure 'RL 43' to Mr Lever's affidavit made on 1 June 2006 reading as follows (to the extent extracted by Mr Lever):
 
 'Re Mr Ron Lever --- Complaint from ANSTO Human Resources
 
 ...
I refer to the attached formal complaint from Mr Patrick Blades, Associate Director, People and Development at ANSTO.
Mr Blades has responsibility for the Human Resources function at ANSTO and reports to myself as Director, Corporate Services.
Of particular concern are the comments made by Mr Lever regarding the actions of Human Resources in relation to the [Person X] case as "vexatious and only serving to inflame the situation".
...
Under the circumstances, it is not appropriate that Mr Lever, acting as a local union delegate, should make disparaging remarks, which are considered to be insulting to HR staff, some of whom are CPSU members.
This is a misuse of his role which, I believe, reflects poorly on your organisation.
I request that you formally raise this with Mr Lever and direct that he desist from making such statements.
'
 

85 That communication was described by Mr Lever as having the effect of 'injuring [him] in his role as a delegate and site president for the CPSU', having been 'clearly sent by Mr Davies as an attempt by Mr Davies to have [Mr Lever] cease representing [Person X] in his role as a delegate for the industrial association, the CPSU'.
So much was therefore submitted to constitute a 'breach of section 298K as pleaded'.
86 The same analysis was submitted by Mr Lever to be applicable to the correspondence dated 9 November 2004 sent by Mr Davies to Ms Booth and comprising annexure 'RL 47' to Mr Lever's affidavit made on 1 June 2006; by that correspondence it was further submitted that Mr Davies was 'directly critical of [Mr Lever's] union activities'; the following aspects thereof were cited to the Court:
 
 ' General Concern --- alleging that the applicant did not understand his role as a union delegate, and complaining that he, inter alia, " actively solicits work from members of all unions ".
Representation --- complaining that the applicant represented employees who are not CPSU members.
Advice --- complaining that the applicant's advice in some cases, for example, in relation to [Person X], "[has] not assisted resolution but rather has inflamed the dispute " (a rather remarkable proposition to put in light of Mr Davies specific complaint of the applicant using such language in respect of the respondents' HR department in his correspondence of 8 November 2004).
...
 
 Union activities --- Complaining in detail as to the applicant's attendance on various employees in his capacity as a union delegate, based upon the detailed covert surveillance of Mr Davies set out above [in the submissions].
Employment issues --- Mr Davies complained that: " Ron is currently the subject of breach of duty provisions concerning [an] alleged breach of security.
Ron has not attended to his [OSRP] documentation in a timely manner.
Other issues relating to Ron's performance as an employee are currently receiving consideration .
"' (Emphasis in original.
)
 

That communication was asserted by Mr Lever to again constitute 'evidence of systematic and continued harassment of [Mr Lever] in his employment with [ANSTO] by reason of his ongoing dispute as to classification and his union activities'.
He testified in his affidavit of 1 June 2006 moreover as to 'the injury and [hurt]' which he said he experienced on reviewing that communication, yet was said by his counsel not to have been 'relevantly cross-examined on this material'.
87 It was next contended on behalf of Mr Lever that Dr Hammerton's evidence 'supported the practice at ANSTO of union representatives, such as Mr Lever, representing employees from unions other than that to which the union representative belonged', thereby citing her affidavit evidence of 20 November 2006.
She was said 'not [to have been] seriously pressed on this in cross-examination', reference being made to page 317 of the transcript.
88 Upon the basis of the foregoing material I have relevantly cited above, Mr Lever contended that '[t]he evidence supports the breach, as pleaded in paragraph 57(c) of the points of claim'.
89 Mr Lever contended that the evidence of Person X was that on 24 September 2004, 'she sent an e-mail to Mr Davies advising him that [Mr Lever] would be representing her', and requested 'for Mr Davies not to contact her at home [and] asked that all correspondence from ANSTO go through [Mr Lever]'; I was referred in that context to paragraph 69 of Person X's affidavit of 17 November 2006 and annexure 'JJ 22' thereto.
Mr Lever further referred the Court to the statement said to have been made by Mr Cullen to Person X, in the course of a telephone conversation on 25 November 2004, that '[y]ou should drop Ron if you intend to get anything resolved'.
That statement was further contended to have been intended to injure Mr Lever in the course of his 'work-related union activities', and to therefore have constituted breach of section 298K as pleaded by Mr Lever.
90 Mr Lever was next said to have testified to the effect that late in the afternoon of 21 December 2004, 'he discovered, through Mr Crakanthorp, that [ANSTO], at the request of Mr Davies, had accessed all of his work e-mails', including 'all of his union related e-mails'; the Court was referred to pars 139 to 144 inclusive of Mr Lever's principal affidavit.
It was contended that the fact that Mr Lever's e-mails were accessed was not disputed by ANSTO, and they were so accessed 'due to his involvement with [Person X] as her union delegate'.
It was therefore submitted that '[w]ithout more, and in light of the reverse onus, this proves the breach of section 298K by [ANSTO] as pleaded in [paragraph] 57(d) of the points of claim'.
It was further submitted in that context that 'a close review of the assorted and changing reasons given by [ANSTO] for accessing [Mr Lever's] e-mails makes it more than abundantly clear that the intent and reason behind accessing [his] e-mails was [ sic ] not for a fair and impartial investigation of an alleged breach of duty by [Person X] (as Mr Davies contends) but rather solely to injure [Mr Lever] by reason of his union activities and his ongoing attempts to seek to resolve his classification dispute'.
91 I was further referred in that context to Mr Davies' affidavit evidence at pars 119 to 121 to the asserted effect that he sought to obtain Mr Lever's emails for the purpose of investigating the so-called '20 October 2004 incident'; it was submitted that '[a]t its highest therefore, the accessing of the emails was to prosecute a malicious breach of duty process', but that 'the evidence does not support even this post-facto reason as the real motivation in [ANSTO's] accessing [of] Mr Lever's emails'.
In his 11 January 2005 response to the CPSU's written complaint of 22 December 2004, ANSTO's Dr Smith was said to have 'simply signed the correspondence which was in fact drafted by Mr Davies', and that he notified the CPSU that 'the reason for accessing Mr Lever's emails' was not the 20 October 2004 security incident but rather:
 
 'During the course of September and October of 2004, ANSTO became aware of the apparent loss of certain documents under the control of a particular employee linked to Mr Lever.
The accessing of e-mails was actioned as part of the investigation into this matter.
Limitations on retrieving emails meant that all of Mr Lever's e-mails had to be accessed --- no filtering could be done by the accessor.
' 
 

92 That asserted 'link' to Mr Lever was contended to be Mr Lever's representation of Person X in his capacity as a union delegate; it was said however that '[e]ven on this explanation, the injurious accessing of [Mr Lever's] emails was for the prohibited reason of [ sic ] [Mr Lever's] position as a delegate for the CPSU', and further that such 'fresh explanation by [ANSTO], on its face, evidences a relevant breach'.
Mr Lever thereafter addressed Mr Cullen's affidavit evidence at pars 75 to 76, asserted to be thereby to the effect that 'the reason for accessing [Mr Lever's] emails was, not in respect of the "apparent loss of certain documents" by [Person X]', but rather undertaken '[a]s part of the investigation into the alleged breach of duty of Mr Lever ...'.
Asking rhetorically '[w]hat is to be made of these inconsistent explanations by [ANSTO] for accessing [Mr Lever's] emails?
' Mr Lever contended that '... the Court would not accept that [ANSTO] has discharged its onus of disproving the prohibited reasons alleged by [Mr Lever] in accessing [his] emails and the Court would comfortably find the alleged breaches in this regard proven'.
The ninth series of breaches 
 
93 The ninth series of breaches alleged are found in paragraphs 63 to 65 of Mr Lever's points of claim as follows:
 
 
 '63.
In the period 3 November 2004 onwards, ANSTO subjected the Applicant to a breach of duty process, including an investigation and a threat to discipline the Applicant in circumstances where ANSTO was aware that the alleged breach of duty had no basis in fact; see paragraphs 93 to 124 and 135 to 138 inclusive of the Applicant's Affidavit sworn 1 June 2006, in breach of Section 298K(1)(a), (b), (c) and (e) of the pre-reform Act.
It is alleged that the breaches are continuing.

 
 
 
 Particulars of Breaches
 
 
 
 
 ANSTO sought to take steps to terminate or threaten to terminate or take disciplinary action against the Applicant in pursuance of the termination or threatened termination of the Applicant's employment and to thereby injure the Applicant in his employment or alter the position of the Applicant to his prejudice by making an adverse finding against the Applicant in relation to his performance.
Furthermore, ANSTO discriminated against the Applicant by subjecting the Applicant to disciplinary action and not [Person X].

 


 
 
 64.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO's conduct in breach of Section 298K(1)(a), (b), (c) and (e) as alleged at paragraph 63 was carried out for prohibited reasons as specified by Section 298L of the pre-reform Act.

 
 
 

Particulars of Prohibited Reasons

 
 The Applicant repeats the particulars at paragraph 60 above.

 
 
 65.
As a consequence to the matters particularised at paragraphs 63 and 64 above, the Applicant has suffered and continues to suffer injury, loss and damage.
Particulars of Injuries, Loss and Damage
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) ANSTO caused the Applicant to suffer psychological injury as a consequence of being subject to the breach of duty process alleged in paragraph 61 above;
 
 (b) As a consequence of the psychological injury suffered by the Applicant, the Applicant has suffered and continues to suffer a loss of earnings at the rate of $1,205.00 per week from 23 December 2004 to date and continuing;
 
 (c) As a consequence of the psychological injury suffered by the Applicant, the Applicant has suffered a loss of future earning capacity and damage to his career advancement, including within ANSTO.
'
 
 
 

94 That breach of duty process was said to have 'officially commenced' with formal advice being given to Mr Lever on 3 November 2004 as to the commencement of the ANSTO investigation as set out in annexure 'RL 40' to Mr Lever's affidavit sworn on 1 June 2004.
It was asserted to have been a 'process envisaged under an industrial instrument, namely the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2002'.
The communication of that formal advice was said to have included the following statements made by Mr Cullen of ANSTO, on the advice of Mr Davies and Mr Tuckwell, both being of course ANSTO officers:
 
 'You are formally advised that as a result of a security incident, which involves your failure to follow ANSTO procedure, an investigation into the matter has been carried out by your manager Mr Russell Tuckwell, arising from a report from the Australian Federal Police.
...
 
 At this stage I have received a report on the matter from Mr Tuckwell, which includes the security report from the Australian Federal Police.
This action has proceeded under subclauses 36.2 and 36.3.
That section also provides that you (the employee) be provided with an initial report along with a verbal explanation of the nature of the extent of the supervisor's preliminary investigation.
'
 

I would add for completeness that the intervening paragraph between the foregoing read as follows:
 
 'That investigation has been conducted in accordance with the provisions of Clause 36, Breach of Employees Duty , of the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2002 ...'.
(Emphasis in original.
)
 

95 It was contended by Mr Lever that '[a] breach of duty process is a serious matter and can lead to serious detrimental action being taken against the applicant including dismissal and demotion', and further that it was 'clearly a process designed to injure and alter [Mr Lever] in his employment to his detriment'; whether that latter inference may justifiably be drawn is of course a more controversial matter.
That breach of duty process was said to have been 'commenced by Mr Davies and Mr Cullen [of ANSTO] immediately following Mr Davies' engage[ment] in correspondence critical of [Mr Lever] as to allegedly excessive time spent by [Mr Lever] in assisting [Person X] as [a] union delegate'; the Court was referred in that regard to Mr Davies' affidavit at pars 114 to 117 and to annexures 'RPD-26' and 'RPD-27' thereto.
96 It was pointed out by Mr Lever that 'the relevant security incident report from the Australian Federal Police related to an incident on the 20 th October of 2004 at 5:45 pm when [Person X] drove through the main entrance to the ANSTO site (which entrance is a gate staffed by the Australian Federal Police) in the company [of Mr Lever]'.
What was said to be the uncontested evidence placed before the Court was that 'earlier that afternoon, [Person X] had driven onto the ANSTO site (having negotiated the Australian Federal Police entry gate) and had picked up [Mr Lever] from within the [ANSTO] car park', at a time when Mr Lever 'was attending on [Person X], in his capacity as a union delegate'.
Mr Cullen testified in paragraph 61 of his affidavit made on 27 September 2006 that:
 
 'I was concerned that Mr Lever had accompanied [Person X] onto the ANSTO site, potentially in circumstances where he knew that [Person X] was not supposed to access the ANSTO site.
In my view, Mr Lever should not have accompanied [Person X] onto the ANSTO site if he knew that [Person X's] security access was restricted.
'
 

97 It was submitted by Mr Lever however that 'even a cursory analysis of the events would make it clear that nobody in Mr Lever's position could think other than, as at 20 October 2004, [Person X] was entitled to be on site'; so much was said to be 'apparent from the cross-examination of Mr Davies on and from transcript page 714 [onwards]'.
In the course of that cross-examination, Mr Davies was said by Mr Lever to have 'affirmed that he, together with Mr Cullen, had made the decision to prosecute the breach of duty allegation against [Mr Lever] arising from the security incident report produced by the Australian Federal Police'.
I would interpolate to observe nevertheless that the foregoing passage speaks of Mr Cullen's expression of concern, rather than of decision-making.
The transcript of Mr Davies' cross-examination cited by Mr Lever read in any event as follows (at page 714):
 
 'And it was essentially a decision that you made together, the two of you made together?
--- That's correct.
And you did so, you say, because you were provided with a protection incident report; is that right?
--- Correct.
And that is the document [to be] found at tab 25, is it?
--- Can I have a look?
Yes, by all means.
--- Yes, that's it.
And you decided on receipt of this report to commence an investigation in relation to Mr Lever's conduct on that day; is that right?
--- Yes, and also [Person X's].
That was a previous matter.
But, yes?
--- Yes.
The answer is yes.
And that was because you say that this report somehow identifies my client knowingly breaching site access controls; is that right?
--- Correct.
You know now, don't you, that [Person X] came on site at 2 o'clock that day?
--- I know now.
And [Person X] passed through the Australian Federal Police barrier and came to the car park at 2 o'clock, do you know that?
Was that yes?
--- Yes.
Picked up my client at 2 o'clock?
--- I know that now, yes.
And then exited through the Australian Federal Police?
--- Yes.
And then returned my client back to the site at a quarter to six?
--- Yes.
And then exited again through the Federal Police?
--- Yes.
That is the basic chronology isn't it, on the day?
--- Yes.
And the Australian Federal Police have the obligation to control site access?
---Correct.
And they are the gatekeepers?
--- Correct.
And if you are entitled to be on site they let you on?
--- Yes.
And if you are not entitled to be on site, they stop you?
--- That's how it is supposed to work, yes.
...
 
 You would expect the Australian Federal Police to allow only people on site who are entitled to be there?
--- Correct.
Therefore if they had been allowed on site by Australian Federal Police you would presume they were entitled to be there; correct?
--- Correct.
And indeed that was the situation that confronted my client at 2 o'clock, wasn't it, you now know?
--- Yes.
Indeed the --- at quarter to six, 5:45, when [Person X] returns to the site nothing material had changed in relation to [Person X's] site access entitlements had it, from 2 o'clock?
--- [Person X] had been advised that [Person X] shouldn't accessed [ sic ] site, yes.
Had anything material changed between 2 pm in the afternoon and a quarter to 6 at night about [Person X's] site access?
--- What do you mean by material?
Had there been any change in relation to [Person X's] entitlement to be on site between 2 pm in the afternoon and a quarter to 6 in the --- ?
--- [Person X] wasn't entitled to be on site, so nothing had changed.
There had been no change?
--- [Person X] wasn't entitled to be on site, so nothing had changed.
And [Person X] had been allowed on site by the people whose obligation it is to control site access at 2 o'clock?
--- Correct.
...'
 

98 Clearly therefore, 'on this analysis', so counsel for Mr Lever submitted:
 
 'if [Mr Lever] had seen [Person X] on the site, having necessarily negotiated the Australian Federal Police to gain access at 2 pm that afternoon, he could have only had a reasonably held view that given the Australian Federal Police had allowed [Person X] [to be] on site, [Person X] was entitled to be on site.
Therefore, to treat his actions in arriving with [Person X] on site, at 5.45 pm, that very afternoon as being sufficient to commence a breach of duty investigation, can only be seen as a malicious, vindictive and wholly insupportable action by [ANSTO]'.


I have encountered difficulty with the terms of that submission, which may be thought to have been predicated upon the proposition that the Federal Police 'gatekeepers' must necessarily or implicitly have made a particular inquiry of Mr Lever and/or [Person X] and had received a particular response from either or both of them to those persons then on duty, in both instances consistently with Mr Lever's complaint.
99 It was submitted by Mr Lever in any event that 'an analysis of the security report provided by the Australian Federal Police does not show that they had even the slightest concern as to [Mr Lever's] activities on that day'.
That incident report is annexure 'IAC-7' to Mr Cullen's affidavit, and as counsel for Mr Lever indicated, it stated under the heading 'Background' that:
 
 '[Person X]'s building access has been suspended by ANSTO during this period until [Person X] complies with [Person X's] Management requirements.
' (Emphasis added by counsel for Mr Lever, though I am unclear as to his reason for so doing.
) 
 

It was said by counsel for Mr Lever, in the context of that submission, on his part, that '[n]otably, the report does not suggest that [Person X's] site access was restricted', and further that '[i]ndeed the Australian Federal Police specifically reviewed the matter and let [Person X] enter ... the site', that much being said to be '... clear from the report under the heading "Issue/Event" in the following terms':
 
 'On Wednesday 20 th October 2004 at 1745 hrs [Person X] entered the site through the Main Gate, in [Person X's] vehicle in the company of Mr Ron Lever (passenger seat).
AFP PS stopped the vehicle at the gate while inquiries were made as to whether [Person X] was permitted to enter.
[Person X] asked the officer, "is there a problem?
Whey aren't I allowed on site?".
The officer informed [Person X] that they were just doing their job and checking on some paperwork.
At this point in time after checking with the Duty Sergeant, [Person X] was permitted to pass and enter the site ...'.


Moreover under the heading 'Intended Action/Outcome', there was further recorded the following, to which counsel for Mr Lever also drew attention:
 
 'During the period of [Person X's] presence on site, the SCC did not identify any forced doors, alarms or entry to any building by either of the above named staff members.
It appears from the movement of the vehicle onto the site that [Person X] was dropping Mr Lever off at his vehicle parked behind Building 51.
The AFP PS searched [Person X's] vehicle on its departure from the site with negative results.
' 
 

What the report indicated perhaps more precisely was that when questioned somewhat rhetorically by Person X, as the text of the report suggested, the Federal Police Officers accepted her reason for entry.
Whether it was an appropriate reason was seemingly another issue which arose in the proceedings.
100 It was submitted by counsel for Mr Lever that there was 'nothing in the report from the Australian Federal Police that in any way supported the commencement of a breach of duty investigation against [Mr Lever]', and that '[t]he attempted explanations of Mr Cullen and Mr Davies seeking to give legitimate reasons for the commencement of the breach of duty process against [Mr Lever] must be seen for what they are, convenient post-facto fabrications, which do not reflect the reality of their decisions'.
It was further submitted by counsel that '[i]ndeed the initial investigation from Mr Tuckwell which is dated 1 November 2004 [and to be found at annexure 'IAC-10' to Mr Cullen's affidavit tendered in the proceedings] confirms Mr Lever's position has at all material times been consistent: that is, he believed that due to the AFP allowing [Person X] on site, that [Person X] was entitled to be on site'.
In any event, so the submission of counsel for Mr Lever continued, 'despite this clear and consistent position from Mr Lever, Mr Davies and Mr Cullen commenced and continued the breach of duty process'.
101 On the basis of that analysis on his part, so the submissions of counsel for Mr Lever continued, 'it can readily be accepted that the real reason for the commencement of the breach of duty process against [Mr Lever] was not for a legitimate purpose related to any perceived failure to follow procedure by [Mr Lever], but rather was motivated entirely by [Mr Lever's] representation of [Person X] as a union delegate, and his ongoing union activities together with his ongoing classification dispute'.
Notwithstanding all that, so the submissions of Mr Lever continued, by his correspondence of 20 December 2004 (annexure 'RL 60' to Mr Lever's affidavit of 1 June 2006), Mr Cullen '... found a breach of duty against [Mr Lever] and determined to verbally counsel him for the breach'.
102 Further according to Mr Lever's case, he had given that 'general explanation as to the unreasonableness of the breach of duty process and the unreasonable findings made against him to Dr Smith in a meeting at which he tabled his written response to the breach of duty allegations made against him'; that written response comprised annexure 'RL 60' to Mr Lever's affidavit of 1 June 2006.
'Notwithstanding this representation', so Mr Lever's submissions continued, 'Dr Smith determined to take no action at all in response to the unreasonable breach of duty process and conclusions drawn against [Mr Lever]'.
It was therefore contended by Mr Lever that '[such] failure by Dr Smith to investigate the complaints of Mr Lever [was] consistent with the evidence of [Dr] Hammerton as to the attitude of the executive director towards [Mr Lever]'.
The Court was referred in that regard to par 26 (although the appropriate paragraph is par 27) of Dr Hammerton's affidavit, where she referred to a meeting on 16 March 2005 at ANSTO, and which Dr Smith, Mr Davies, Ms Gallagher, Mr Bloom and Mr Muffatti attended, and to her testimony that the issue of Mr Lever's classification dispute arose at the meeting, in the course whereof Dr Smith said words to the following effect:
 
 'Ron is just a troublemaker'.


Dr Hammerton was not cross-examined on that evidence.
Mr Bloom recalled Dr Smith's statement to the meeting being to the effect that: 'Ron is a troublemaker' (pars 31 and 32 of his 11 November 2006 affidavit).
103 In all those circumstances, so Mr Lever's case concluded upon the present context of events, and with emphasis as to the operation of what his counsel described as 'the reverse onus as to the imputing of prohibited reasons in respect of the conduct', and with the submission accordingly that 'the Court would comfortably find the relevant breaches as pleaded proved'.
The tenth series of breaches 
 
104 The tenth series of breaches , for which counsel for Mr Lever contended, were set out in pars 69 to 71 of Mr Lever's points of claim, as follows:
 
 
 '69.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO injured the Applicant in his employment in the circumstances particularised at paragraph 68 in breach of Section 298K(1)(a), (b), (c) and (e) of the pre-reform WR Act.
It is not alleged that the breach is continuing.

 
 
 
 Particulars of the Breaches
 
 
 
 ANSTO attempted to induce the Applicant to terminate his employment and/or to injure the Applicant in his employment and/or to alter the Applicant's position to his prejudice by seeking to deprive the Applicant of any remuneration whilst Comcare was determining whether or not to accept liability for the Applicant's workers compensation claim.
Furthermore, ANSTO discriminated against the Applicant by refusing to extend the benefit of a customary term or an established practice of paying the ordinary remuneration to an employee until such time as liability for their workers compensation claim had been determined by Comcare.

 
 
 
 
 
 70.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO's conduct in breach of Section 298K(1)(a), (b), (c) and (e) as alleged at paragraph 68 was carried out for prohibited reasons as specified by Section 298L of the pre-reform Act.

 
 
 
 Particulars of Prohibited Reasons
 
 The Applicant repeats the particulars at paragraph 60 above.

 
 
 71.
As a consequence to the matters particularised at paragraphs 67 to 69 above, the Applicant has suffered and continues to suffer injury, loss and damage.

 
 
 
 Particulars of Injuries, Loss and Damage
 
 
 
 
 (a) The Applicant suffered a loss of remuneration in the period 2 February 2005 to 13 May 2005 (being the date that Comcare declined liability for the Applicant's workers compensation claim) at the rate of $1205.00 per week; and
 
 (b) The Applicant has suffered serious financial hardship in the period since 2 February 2005 and has required to fund the cost of living for himself and his family on credit, thereby incurring an extraordinary interest liability, further particulars to be provided.
' (Emphasis in original.
) 
 
 
 
 

105 It was said by Mr Lever to be not in dispute that between February 2005 and March 2005, ANSTO did not pay Mr Lever any remuneration, other than his sick leave entitlements, whilst Comcare was determining liability in respect of the claim he made upon Comcare.
Mr Lever asserted in the course of his submissions that it was his evidence, and 'a fair reading of [ANSTO's] evidence as ultimately before the court, that it was the custom and practice of ANSTO to make payments by way of remuneration to their employees whilst worker's compensation claims were awaiting determination by Comcare'.
Comcare ultimately made its decision on 9 August 2005 adversely to Mr Lever's said claims by denying liability in respect thereof.
106 Mr O'Shea, who was employed by ANSTO as a 'Human Resources Consultant, and who provided extensive affidavit evidence for ANSTO, testified to the effect that he had recourse to the Comcare documentation (comprising in all 38 pages) issued in September 2001 headed 'all about Workers Compensation' for determining 'the way that ANSTO dealt with such cases', and accordingly decided that ANSTO would not make payment of benefits in the nature of workers' compensation, once Mr Lever's 'sick leave ran out', pending the determination of his claim in the nature of workers' compensation by Comcare as to payment of workers compensation type benefits.
It was submitted that Mr O'Shea 'inexplicably failed to refer to the very same document when he failed to develop a return to work plan for the applicant', and I was referred in that regard to Mr O'Shea's cross-examination at pages 346 to 347 of the transcript.
It was further submitted on behalf of Mr Lever that '[i]n light of these inconsistencies in [ANSTO's] evidence it is open to the Court to conclude that indeed ANSTO did determine not to pay [Mr Lever] wages whilst his claim was being assessed for the prohibited reasons alleged', but seemingly without developing the argument in further detail.
The eleventh series of breaches 
 
107 The eleventh series of breaches alleged by Mr Lever were set out in pars 73 to 76 of his points of claim in length as follows:
 
 
 '73.
In the period February 2005 to date, the Applicant has made a number of attempts to return to work on suitable duties in periods where he has been certified fit for suitable duties by Dr Pead; during this period, ANSTO and certain of its officers sought to and did block or interfere with the Applicant's attempts to return to work ("the conduct").

 
 
 
 Particulars of the conduct
 
 
 
 
 (a) failing to respond to Dr Pead's Medical Certificate dated 2 February 2005; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) failing to respond to and act upon Dr Pead's letter of 12 March 2005 to Dr Ian Smith proposing a return to work; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) by failing to follow the provisions of the ANSTO policy Medical Services S-MED-P-001, Section 2.4; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) by failing to follow the provisions of the ANSTO policy Workers Compensation and Rehabilitation S-MED-P-002, Section 2.4; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) by failing to follow the "Rehabilitation Guidelines for Employers" issued by Comcare by failing to implement a Return to Work Plan in accordance with its terms; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) by providing misleading information to Comcare in relation to the Applicant's workers compensation claim in 2005;
 
 (g) by seeking to compel the Applicant to attend a Fitness for Duty medical appointment or appointments pursuant to Clause 27.9 of the ANSTO Enterprise Agreement 2002 for the stated purpose of formulating a Return to Work Plan when this was not the lawful purpose of Clause 27.9, including in 2005 and in 2006;
 
 (h) by failing to agree to the Applicant's request made to Dr Ian Smith on 17 January 2005 to investigate the ANSTO officers responsible for the Applicant's injury;
 
 (i) by failing to act upon approaches by the CPSU on behalf of Mr Lever to formulate a return to work assessment, including the approach made by the CPSU in its letter of 21 September 2005 to Mr Davies; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (j) by advising Dr Pead by telephone on 5 July 2006 that Mr Lever would never work at ANSTO again.

 
 
 
 
 74.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO injured the Applicant in his employment in the circumstances particularised at paragraph 73 above in breach of Section 298K (1)(a), (b), (c) and (e) of the pre-reform WR Act.
It is alleged that the breach is continuing.

 
 
 
 Particulars of breaches
 
 
 
 ANSTO attempted to induce the Applicant to terminate his employment and/or to injure the Applicant in his employment and/or to alter the Applicant's position to his prejudice by seeking to deprive the Applicant of the opportunity to return to work.

 
 
 
 
 
 75.
The Applicant alleges that ANSTO's conduct in breach of Section 298K(1)(a), (b), (c) and (e) as alleged at paragraphs 73 and 74 above was carried out for prohibited reasons as specified by Section 298L of the pre-reform Act.

 
 
 
 Particulars of Prohibited Reasons
 
 The Applicant repeats the particulars at paragraph 60 above.

 
 
 76.
As a consequence to the matters particularised at paragraphs 73 to 75 above, the Applicant has suffered and continues to suffer injury, loss and damage.

 
 
 
 Particulars of Injuries, Loss and Damage
 
 
 
 
 (a) The Applicant suffered a loss of opportunity to earn remuneration at various times since the Applicant has been certified fit for suitable duties in the period February 2005 to date; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) The Applicant has suffered serious financial hardship in the period since 2 February 2005 and has required to fund the cost of living for himself and his family on credit, thereby incurring an extraordinary interest liability, further particulars to be provided.
' (Emphasis in original.
) 
 
 
 
 

108 It was contended by Mr Lever that the evidence showed a number of efforts made by Mr Lever to return to work with ANSTO 'on light duties on and from February 2005'.
Those efforts were further said to be supported by a medical certificate and a report produced by Dr Pead.
The Court was thereupon referred by Mr Lever to Exhibit H in the proceedings, that being a guide for employees which had been produced by Comcare, and was said to be applicable at the relevant time.
It was said that Mr O'Shea made reference to it in the course of performance of his duties undertaken for ANSTO (see above [106]).
It purportedly set out the respective roles and obligations in respect of employees and employers in relation to return to work when that course was sought for injured employees.
Mr Lever asserted that his relevant injury was essentially stress-related anxiety and depression from his ongoing dispute with ANSTO.
109 Section 7 of Exhibit H set out, on pages 17-20, the return to work process to be followed by ANSTO, according to Mr Lever, in circumstances such as 'in the current case'.
Step 1 of Section 7 provided that ANSTO was to appoint a case manager, inter alia , to '[consult] with you and your treating medical practitioner', and to 'negotiat[e] with you and your managers on suitable duties for your return to work.
' 
 
110 Moreover Step 2 of Section 7 provided, inter alia , that:
 
 'Your treating medical practitioner may then make the Case Manager aware of any restrictions, to help prevent any worsening of your condition.
' 
 

Step 4 of Section 7 provided, inter alia , that:
 
 'After your capabilities have been assessed, a return-to-work plan (RTWP) will generally be drawn up.
