
 
1 This is an appeal from a judgment of Scarlett FM who, on 12 April 2007, dismissed an application for review of an earlier decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ("the RRT").
The appellant was not represented before me, though he was represented before the RRT and the Federal Magistrate.
2 The notice of appeal contains nine separate grounds of appeal.
As will become apparent, a number of those grounds raise matters that were not the subject of any consideration on the part of the Federal Magistrate.
3 It is necessary to set out, albeit briefly, the background facts.
The appellant is a Bangladeshi national.
He arrived in Australia in April 2004 and applied for a protection visa shortly thereafter.
On 1 July 2004, a delegate of the respondent Minister refused that application.
On 12 July 2004 the appellant applied to the RRT for review of that decision.
On 1 February 2005 the decision was affirmed.
However, on 17 July 2006, the Federal Magistrates Court set aside that decision and remitted the matter to the RRT to be reconsidered.
4 The RRT held a further hearing on 18 September 2006.
On 30 October 2006 it again affirmed the decision of the delegate, thereby denying the appellant a protection visa.
It was that decision that was subsequently challenged before Scarlett FM.
On his return to Bangladesh, a well known bandit made a series of calls demanding payment of a large sum of money.
6 The RRT gave detailed reasons for rejecting the appellant's application for a protection visa.
It put forward a number of reasons for doubting his credibility.
It accepted that he was a Buddhist monk, and that he had some association with the monastery in Dhaka which he had named.
It also accepted that he had attended the conference in Japan to which he referred.
However, it otherwise rejected the substance of his claims.
8 The RRT therefore did not accept that, if the appellant were to return to Bangladesh, there was a real chance that he would be persecuted by reason of his religion, membership of a particular social group, actual or imputed political opinion, or for any or all of those reasons cumulatively.
9 In his application for judicial review, the appellant first asserted jurisdictional error in very broad terms.
However, he later filed an amended application which was confined to an attack upon one aspect of the RRT's decision, namely its failure to contact people at his monastery in order to confirm his claim that he had held a particular position.
As previously indicated, before Scarlett FM, the appellant was represented by counsel who presented an argument strictly in accordance with the amended application.
His Honour rejected that argument, pointing to authority which denied the existence of any general duty on the part of the RRT to use its powers of enquiry, and noting that, if there were exceptions to that rule, the circumstances of the present case were "neither exceptional nor rare".
10 Turning now to the notice of appeal before this Court, it should be noted that a number of the grounds contained therein speak of a failure on the part of the Federal Magistrate to make particular "findings".
For example, ground 2 contends that his Honour should have found that by reason of the clearly distinguishable saffron robe that the appellant was required to wear, he would be persecuted for his religious belief.
In the same vein, ground 3 contends that his Honour should have found that the appellant would be discriminated against, and persecuted, in Bangladesh because of the appellant's prominence within the Buddhist community.
11 One answer to each of these contentions is that the Federal Magistrate was not asked to consider any of these issues.
The appellant was represented by competent counsel who decided to attack only one aspect of the RRT's decision.
As a general principle, this Court, which is now exercising appellate jurisdiction, should not be asked to deal with a range of additional issues as if it were hearing the matter at first instance.
12 Nonetheless, the Minister has addressed each of the grounds of appeal, and I shall proceed upon the assumption that they are alive, before me, though they were not raised before the Federal Magistrate.
Strictly speaking of course the appellant requires leave to rely upon such grounds.
13 Ground 2 appears to contend that the RRT failed to consider the appellant's fear of persecution as a member of the "particular social group" of Buddhist monks, in particular arising from the distinctive habit which he wore.
14 The Minister submits that the RRT accepted that the appellant was a Buddhist monk.
He further submits that, at least by implication, the RRT assumed that as a Buddhist monk, he was a member of a particular social group.
The RRT did not, however, accept that he had a well-founded fear of persecution as a result of his membership of that group.
The Minister submits that no consideration of whether or not he wore a saffron robe could have influenced the outcome of the RRT's decision.
15 Ground 3 complains that the RRT failed to find that the appellant, by reason of the senior position he held in the monastery, would suffer discrimination and persecution.
16 The Minister submits that this ground invites merits review.
There is, however, an even more fundamental difficulty.
The RRT rejected the appellant's claim to have occupied the position that he claimed he held in the monastery.
That was a finding based upon the appellant's credibility, or lack thereof.
It was never open to judicial review.
17 Ground 4 asserts that the RRT failed to characterise the appellant as a member of a particular social group comprising religious activists "who are involved in the social and welfare activities of their community".
18 The Minister submits that there was no material before the RRT which clearly raised any such claim, or how (if at all) membership of that group would distinguish the appellant from Buddhist monks generally.
Indeed, there are only two brief, passing, references in the material before the RRT to the social welfare activities of the appellant, and of Buddhist monks generally.
Moreover, the RRT's broader findings regarding the freedom of Buddhists to operate in and around Dhaka (based upon country information) must have entailed rejection of the particular claim now articulated, belatedly and for the first time, on the appellant's behalf.
19 Ground 5 asserts that the RRT failed to comply with its obligations under s 425 of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) by not giving the appellant an adequate opportunity to respond to independent evidence in the RRT's possession which suggested that it was possible for Buddhists to engage in religious activities in Bangladesh without being subjected to violence, or threats thereof.
20 The Minister submits that this issue was fully canvassed before the RRT.
Indeed, the RRT heard from a witness called on behalf of the appellant to address this very question.
Section 425 requires that an applicant be given an opportunity to give evidence and make arguments about "the issues arising in relation to the decision under review".
See the discussion of s 425 in SZBEL v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] HCA 63 ; (2006) 231 ALR 592 at [33] ---[35] and [45]---[49].
The section does not, however, require an opportunity to be given to respond to every item of particular evidence.
That aspect of procedural fairness is, rather, dealt with by s 424A: see WAID v Minister for Immigration  Multicultural  Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCA 220 at [57] per French J.
21 Ground 6 contends that the RRT ought to have accepted the appellant as a credible witness, particularly since his evidence was supported by that of a particular witness.
That witness had confirmed the appellant's claims of general mistreatment of Buddhists in Bangladesh.
22 The Minister submits that this ground simply invites merits review.
23 Ground 7 asserts that the RRT failed to consider all the materials readily available and/or accessible.
The ground does not condescend to particulars.
24 The Minister submits that failure to take account of particular evidence, as opposed to a distinct claim would, even if established, not amount to an error going to jurisdiction.
See generally Applicant WAEE v Minister for Immigration  Multicultural  Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCAFC 184 at [46] ; Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Yusuf [2001] HCA 30 ; (2001) 206 CLR 323 at [74] ; and Paul v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2001] FCA 1196 ; (2001) 113 FCR 396 at [79] .
Insofar as the ground seeks to agitate the same matters that were raised before Scarlett FM, the Minister submits that the RRT does not have a legally enforceable duty to make enquiries: see WAGJ v Minister for Immigration  Multicultural  Indigenous Affairs [2002] FCAFC 277 at [24] ---[25] citing Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Anthonypillai [2001] FCA 274 ; (2001) 106 FCR 426 at [86] .
25 Grounds 8, 9 and 10 challenge findings of fact made by the RRT.
26 The Minister submits that these all invite merits review.
Accordingly, had they been raised before Scarlett FM, his Honour would have rejected them.
This Court, on appeal, should do no less.
27 Before me, the appellant appeared unrepresented.
His submissions did not take any of the grounds of appeal, as set out in the notice of appeal, any further.
In substance, he simply contended that the RRT ought to have accepted his evidence, and that the Federal Magistrate should have quashed its decision because it had wrongly disbelieved him.
28 In my view, the Minister's submissions should be accepted.
Grounds 6, 8, 9 and 10 simply invite merits review.
There is no substance to grounds 2, 3, 4 and 5.
Ground 7 was dealt with correctly, and in accordance with well established authority, by Scarlett FM.
29 There being no appealable error, the appeal should be dismissed.
The appellant must pay the first respondent's costs.
I certify that the preceding twenty-nine (29) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Weinberg.
Associate:

Dated: 9 August 2007


 
 The Appellant appeared in person 
 
 Counsel for the Respondent: Mr G Kennett 
 
 Solicitor for the Respondent: Clayton Utz 
 
 Date of Hearing: 9 August 2007 
 
 Date of Judgment: 9 August 2007 


 
 
 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2007/1204.html 
 
 
