
 
1 The applicant, Mr Horn, has been concerned for some time that the construction and lay-out of polling booths used in federal elections do not adequately screen him from observation by others while he is in the process of marking his ballot-paper.
Essentially Mr Horn contends that the voting compartment should have a door, screen or curtain on the front of it to screen the voter.
He contends that the respondent Commission has failed to comply with the provisions of the Commonwealth Electoral Act 1918 (Cth) in that regard.
These proceedings have been listed urgently as the Federal Election is scheduled to be held tomorrow.
2 Section 206 of the Electoral Act relevantly reads:
 
 Polling booths shall have separate voting compartments, constructed so as to screen the voters from observation while they are marking their ballot-papers ... 

3 It is helpful and necessary to read s 206 with s 233 which relevantly provides:
 
 
 (1) Except as otherwise prescribed the voter upon receipt of the ballot-paper shall without delay: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) retire alone to some unoccupied compartment of the booth, and there, in private, mark his or her vote on the ballot-paper; 
 (b) fold the ballot-paper so as to conceal his or her vote and: 
 (i) ... deposit it in the ballot-box ...; 
 (ii) ... 
 (c) quit the booth.

 
 

4 In 2006 Mr Horn instituted proceedings in this Court seeking relief against the Commission in respect of this alleged non-compliance with the Electoral Act .
The proceedings were heard by Justice Nicholson who dismissed them on 19 December 2006 ( Horn v Australian Electoral Commission [2006] FCA 1778).
In the initial proceedings two issues were raised.
The first was whether there were reasonable prospects of success in arguing that non-compliance had occurred.
The second issue was whether or not there was a justiciable controversy.
The question was whether Mr Horn at that particular time held a sufficient material interest in the subject matter of the action such as to warrant the grant of the relief claimed.
5 His Honour held that Mr Horn did not have the requisite interest because his interest in the subject matter of the action was contingent on the occurrence of future events.
Specifically, in December last year Mr Horn did not have a sufficient material interest that would warrant the relief he was claiming even if he were otherwise entitled to it.
As held by his Honour at [25]-[26]:
 
 
 [25] ...
While he may presently have the view that he will not vote in a booth the same as or similar to that present at the 2004 federal elections in the Manjimup Town Hall, that would not warrant the grant of the relief claimed until at least the issue of the writs for the next federal election and more probably not until he determines his view on facing the booths provided at the polling place which he attends on the occasion of that election.
The structure, layout and appearance of the election booths at the next election cannot be prejudged; until a federal election day there is nothing that can found a basis for a claim that the respondent has failed to comply with the Electoral Act .

 [26] Expressed in other ways, the applicant in the claim in the draft application is not asserting any immediate right or duty.
If s 206 arguably gives rise to a right or duty, it could only do so when Pt XVI has application to a polling; that is, after the issue of writs for an election.

 

6 These proceedings however are to be determined on the eve of the Federal Election, well after the issue of writs.
Presumably the proceedings have been commenced in such close proximity to the election date in light of the reasons expressed by his Honour in the initial proceedings.
Nevertheless, the Commission still contends that Mr Horn does not yet have standing to seek relief in these proceedings as there is no justiciable controversy until, at the earliest, he has declined to vote without good cause at the election.
I will come to that argument shortly.
RELIEF SOUGHT AND PROCEDURE 
 
7 Mr Horn has sought certain orders for production of documents, information and objects from the Commission.
In particular he has sought an example of each kind of electoral polling booth containing voting compartments that it intends to provide at the Manjimup Town Hall.
This is the relevant polling place for Mr Horn for the Federal Election for the Senate and House of Representatives to be held tomorrow.
The Commission agreed to comply with that request and has now produced items sought by Mr Horn to his apparent satisfaction.
The information supplied has enabled him to advance his argument on the basis of the actual situation which will prevail at the Election tomorrow.
8 In the substantive relief, Mr Horn seeks a declaration that the Commission, in using polling booths of the kind described to the Court has failed to comply with ss 206 and 233 of the Electoral Act .
It is asserted they fail to comprise separate compartments constructed and arranged in such a manner as to screen voters from observation while marking their ballot-papers so as to allow a voter to mark his or her vote on the ballot-paper in private.
Mr Horn also seeks a declaration that he may decline to vote under s 245(1) of the Electoral Act without incurring a threat of penalty for breach of s 245(8) of the Electoral Act .
He further seeks an order in the nature of mandamus against the officers of the Commonwealth who comprise the Commission and who are to administer the polling at the polling place.
Against those persons orders are sought requiring that they provide polling booths that comply with the relevant provisions.
9 Following the filing and service of the application by Mr Horn, the Commission also filed a motion to dismiss the proceedings pursuant to s 31A(2) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) and O 20 r 5 of the Federal Court Rules on the grounds that Mr Horn has no reasonable prospect of successfully prosecuting the proceedings and that they are frivolous, vexatious or an abuse of process of the Court.
10 The Commission has proceeded with the motion to dismiss the proceedings.
At the same time in light of the urgency of the matter, given the imminence of the Federal Election, I allowed Mr Horn's opposed application to determine the substantive final hearing of the application as a matter of urgency.
I agreed to this course as the evidence was of relatively narrow compass and as Mr Horn was and is genuinely concerned as to his rights and obligations in the immediate future at this election.
If I were to conclude that the dismissal motion should not be allowed, Mr Horn would still have been left with uncertainty as to his rights and obligations.
Quite properly, that motion did not, in these proceedings, raise the statutory construction point.
By hearing and concluding the matter, both he and the Commission will know where they stand.
NOTICES UNDER s 78B OF THE JUDICIARY ACT 1903 (CTH) 
 
11 Each of the parties has issued notices under s 78B of the Judiciary Act .
Mr Horn's notice was directed to the argument that a construction and application of ss 206 and 233 (1)(a) of the Electoral Act must be compatible with the Commonwealth Constitution .
In particular, it must be compatible with the terms 'directly chosen by the people' in ss 7 and 24 of the Constitution .
The Commission's notice goes to the question of whether Mr Horn has standing in the sense of whether there is a justiciable controversy for the purposes of Ch III of the Constitution .
I am satisfied in the unusual circumstances that there has been sufficient time for the purposes of s 78B(1) of the Judiciary Act for each notice.
I am particularly mindful that each of the Attorneys has responded to each notice indicating that there is no wish to intervene.
THE ISSUES 
 
12 The primary issues falling for determination at this hearing have been first, whether Mr Horn has standing to pursue the proceedings and second, whether Mr Horn has discharged the onus of demonstrating that the Commission has failed or will fail to comply with the requirements of ss 206 and 233 of the Electoral Act .
HISTORY SUBSEQUENT TO THE 2006 DECISION ( Horn [2006] FCA 1778) 
 
13 It is common ground that Mr Horn has persisted with his requests of the Commission for information as to whether the Commission intended to supply polling booths of the same kind that were supplied and to which he took objection in the 2006 proceedings.
On 7 September 2007 Mr Horn wrote to the Commission seeking to inspect examples of the kind of polling booths that it would provide at nominated polling places within the division of Forrest as well as plans of the relevant layout of those polling places.
On 18 September 2007 the Commission's Chief Legal Officer declined Mr Horn's request regarding information about the details of the polling booths to be provided at the 2007 Federal Election and refused to engage in further correspondence on the matter.
Accordingly he has issued these proceedings.
MOTION TO DISMISS 
 
14 To the extent that the Commission relies upon s 31A in its motion, it is required to establish that there is 'no reasonable prospect of success' on the jurisdiction argument advanced by Mr Horn.
As observed by Heerey J in Duncan v Lipscombe Child Care Services Inc (2006) 150 IR 471, s 31A of the Federal Court Act 1976 (Cth) was introduced to establish a lower standard for strike outs (either of claims or defences) than that previously laid down by the High Court's decisions in Dey v Victorian Railway Commissioners [1949] HCA 1 ; (1949) 78 CLR 62 and General Steel Industries Inc v Commissioner of Railways (NSW) [1964] HCA 69 ; (1964) 112 CLR 125.
Nevertheless, while the test is lower, as Barrett J in Degiorgio v Dunn (No 2) [2005] NSWSC 3 ; (2005) 62 NSWLR 284 held, for the purposes of the comparable provision in New South Wales ('without reasonable prospects of success') meant 'so lacking in merit or substance as to be not fairly arguable'.
In Swain v Hillman [2001] 1 All ER 91, Court of Appeal per Lord Woolf MR said at 92:
 
 The words "no real prospect of succeeding" do not need any amplification, they speak for themselves.
The word "real" distinguishes fanciful prospect of success or ... they direct the court to the need to see whether there is a "realistic" as opposed to a "fanciful" prospect of success.

 JURISDICTIONAL ARGUMENT 
 
15 As in the initial proceedings as amended, Mr Horn has sought to invoke the jurisdiction of this Court under s 39B of the Judiciary Act .
The Commission contends in its dismissal motion that there is no present obligation to vote (and, as yet, no refusal without good cause to vote).
It follows, it is said, that no 'matter' for the purposes of s 76 of the Constitution has arisen and the Court therefore has no jurisdiction.
16 The Court has jurisdiction to resolve the whole of a dispute in circumstances where a Commonwealth statute is involved in the dispute (s 39B(1A)(c) of the Judiciary Act ).
This general conferral of non-criminal federal jurisdiction suffices to support jurisdiction so long as there is actually a 'matter' in dispute.
(Section 39B(1A)(c) is authorised by s 77 of the Constitution when read together with ss 75 and 76 ).
17 What is in dispute in this challenge by the Commission is whether there is a 'matter' where that expression is used in the sections of the Constitution to which I have referred.
The Commission is quite correct in saying that the Court cannot merely give an advisory opinion.
The Court is not empowered to give merely advisory opinions because its jurisdiction emanates from Ch III of the Constitution , specifically ss 75 and 76 which empowers the Court to resolve 'matters'.
18 It was established in Re Judiciary and Navigation Acts [1921] HCA 20 ; (1921) 29 CLR 257 (the Navigation Act case) at 264-266, that there can be no 'matter' unless there is '... some immediate right, duty or liability to be established by the determination of the Court'.
But as observed by Griffith CJ in The State of South Australia v The State of Victoria [1911] HCA 17 ; (1911) 12 CLR 667 at 675, 'the word "matter" was in 1900 in common use as the widest term to connote controversies which might come before a court of justice'.
19 There is no dispute about the basic principle.
The issue is whether the declaratory relief now sought by Mr Horn is in the nature of an 'advisory opinion'.
20 What is instructive, in my view, is that a very short time after the Navigation Act case, the Court did pronounce on the validity of the amendments to the Navigation Act .
In the Newcastle and Hunter River Steamship Co. Ltd. v Attorney-General for the Commonwealth [1921] HCA 31 ; (1921) 29 CLR 357, the plaintiff ship owners and the State of Western Australia, sought a declaration from the Court as to the invalidity of those amendments.
They asserted that their specific rights (the right to carry on shipping operations without incurring the expense required to comply with the amendments) were under threat as the Commonwealth proposed to take action in respect of their failure to incur the expense.
The action at that point had not been taken but was 'imminent'.
21 The argument that there was not yet any 'matter' was not raised in the sequel.
The Court proceeded to deal with the argument on its merits.
There could be little doubt that it was mindful of the recent jurisdictional debate, but appeared to accept that a threat to take action was sufficient an interest.
22 As held by Brennan CJ, Dawson and Toohey JJ in Croome v Tasmania [1997] HCA 5 ; (1997) 191 CLR 119 at 125 it is a misconception of the principle in the Navigation Act case to suggest that, in proceedings for a declaration of invalidity of an impugned law, no law is administered unless the Executive Government has acted to enforce the impugned law.
23 In this regard I particularly have in mind the imminence of the Federal Election and the inference I draw from the evidence discussed below that in the absence of a ruling from the Court, it is presently more probable than not that Mr Horn will not vote tomorrow.
He will expose himself to a penalty.
The facts as to the details of the booths, the compartments, the general lay-out of the polling place, the directions given to polling officers and many other matters are now clearly known.
Mr Horn asks the Court to rule that on that evidence there will be non-compliance with ss 206 and 233.
He seeks that ruling so that by not voting tomorrow he will not be exposed to a penalty.
24 I consider it is at least arguable that there is now an impending personal liability (in the sense discussed by the High Court in Croome 191 CLR at 126-127 per Brennan CJ, Dawson and Toohey JJ and by Gaudron, McHugh and Gummow JJ at 136) so as to constitute a 'matter'.
25 The next ground in the Commission's motion for dismissal of the proceedings is that the application is frivolous and vexatious and an abuse of the process of the Court because:
 
(a) it has no prospects of success for the standing reason discussed above;
 
 (b) it threatens a significant and unjustified commitment of public money in both the Court resources and for the Commission to respond at a time when its resources are fully committed to meeting the public expectation that the Commission will conduct a successful federal election tomorrow;
 (c) it threatens not only an important national public interest in the successful completion of polling Australia wide for the new Commonwealth Parliament and representative government but the significant sum of public money committed and expended in the conduct of the poll and the 2007 Federal Election.


26 This limb of the motion was not developed at the hearing but neither was it abandoned.
In any event I would not dismiss the proceedings on this ground.
I am satisfied that Mr Horn's concerns are genuinely held, well articulated and have been ventilated in a responsible manner historically and through these proceedings.
In that regard I also take into account some of the unchallenged background to his concerns.
I refer to the following passages in his affidavit sworn on 21 November 2007:
 
 
 6.
I have not brought these proceedings, the prior proceedings giving rise to the decision of Justice Nicholson ( Horn v Australian Electoral Commission [2006] FCA 1778) , or any of my related complaints and concerns communicated to the Respondent, lightly.
I am pursuing these grievances in the forum that I sincerely consider to be appropriate because the sanctity of the secret ballot is to me, such an indispensable part of a proper and fair system of representative democracy that I can see no other alternative.
To properly explain the importance of this issue to me, it is necessary for me to say some more about my background, beyond the matters contained in my earlier affidavit.

 7.
