
 

 
 1 The first defendant, Ross Investments (Aust) Pty Ltd, is the holder of an Australian Financial Services Licence.
Subject to the conditions of that licence, including compliance with the applicable financial services laws and regulations, Ross Investments is licensed to deal in (issue, acquire and dispose of) securities and retirement savings accounts to retail clients.
The second defendant, Robert Douglas Ross, is the sole director of Ross Investments and is identified as the "key person" for the purposes of Ross Investments' financial services licence.
Mr Ross holds a majority of the ordinary shares in Ross Investments.
2 Cambridge Credit Corporation Ltd was a significant property developer and financier.
It was placed in receivership in 1974, following a period of high interest rates and falling property prices.
At the time, Cambridge Credit owed substantial sums to debenture holders under instruments not traded on the Australian Stock Exchange.
For the past 33 years, the receivers have been developing and selling the company's significant land holdings.
During the course of the receivership property prices increased and the sale of Cambridge Credit's property has enabled debenture holders to be repaid their principal in full.
Debenture holders do, however, remain entitled to interest.
3 There are two types of debenture holders: ordinary debenture holders who hold debentures with various coupon rates which are calculated and paid quarterly; and cumulative debenture holders who hold debentures with various coupon rates which are calculated quarterly and accumulate until maturity.
Given the nature of the debentures, the interest entitlement of ordinary debenture holders does not continue to grow whereas the interest entitlement of cumulative debenture holders continues to accrue.
4 In November 2005, and again on several occasions in January 2007, Ross Investments made unsolicited offers to purchase from retail debenture holders ordinary and cumulative debentures in Cambridge Credit.
The offers were contained in offer documents sent to ordinary debenture holders on 9 November 2005 and 16 and 29 January 2007 and to cumulative debenture holders on 8 and 23 November 2005 and 22 January 2007.
5 The plaintiff, Australian Securities and Investments Commission, alleges that the offers did not comply with Division 5A of Part 7.9 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth).
Division 5A regulates unsolicited off-market offers to purchase financial products.
Specifically, ASIC contends that Ross Investments did not comply with the requirements of s 1019I of the Corporations Act .
That section relevantly provides that where there is an unsolicited offer to purchase a financial product off-market and there is no market value for the financial product on a licensed market, an offer document must contain "a fair estimate of the value of the product as at the date of offer, and an explanation of the basis on which that estimate was made": s 1019I(2)(c).
6 ASIC seeks declarations that by sending the Cambridge offer documents to retail investors Ross Investments contravened s 1019I(2)(c) and that by causing the offer documents to be sent Mr Ross aided, abetted, counselled, procured or was knowingly concerned in, or party to, that contravention.
ASIC also seeks an order, in the form of a mandatory injunction, that Ross Investments post to each debenture holder who accepted an offer a notice advising them of the market value of their debenture and informing them that, should they wish to terminate their agreement with Ross Investments and recover the debentures sold by them, they should do so within 30 days of receiving the notice.
The final order sought is that Ross Investments return or re-transfer the debentures, along with any distribution it may have received from the receivers, to any debenture holder who elects to terminate their agreement to sell within the stipulated period.
7 It is common ground that Ross Investments made unsolicited offers to purchase ordinary and cumulative debentures in Cambridge Credit from retail debenture holders by way of the offer documents sent to debenture holders.
The only issues in dispute are whether the offer documents contained "a fair estimate of the value of the [debentures] as at the date of offer" and an explanation of the basis upon which each estimate was made, as required by s 1019I(2)(c).
8 The offer price for ordinary debentures was 2.15c, 3.05c and 3.05c respectively.
The offer documents did not include, as a separate figure to the offer price, a fair estimate of the value of the ordinary debentures.
However each offer document contained the following statement: "This fair estimate of value of the ordinary debentures is made by Robert D Ross on behalf of Ross Investments (Aust) Pty Ltd and is not the product of other independent research".
9 The offer price for cumulative debentures was 35.05c, 35.05c and 36.05c respectively.
The offer document sent to holders of cumulative debentures differed from the offer document sent to holders of ordinary debentures in that it referred to a circular issued by Permanent Trustee Company, the trustee organisation for the debenture stock.
Thus, the offer document dated 8 November 2005 stated:
 
 " Fair Estimate of Value : Debenture holders have previously received payment of their principal IN FULL.
On 1 December 2003, a circular to Cumulative Debenture holders was issued by Permanent Trustee Company Limited stating that "Debenture holders' entitlements as at 1 December 2003 exceed $116 million and accordingly, debenture holders may ultimately receive a further 18 to 20 cents in the dollar on your entitlement of outstanding accrued interest" (See enclosed "Background to this offer).
" 
 

The offer (apart from the offer dated 22 January 2007) enclosed a document entitled "Background to this offer".
The background document extracted a paragraph from a circular issued by the trustee.
This is what was said: 
 
 " FAIR ESTIMATE OF THE VALUE 
 An explanation of the basis on which the offer was made: 
 In a letter dated 1 st December 2003, Permanent Trustee Company Ltd, the Trustee for the debenture holders stated: 
 'Debenture holders' entitlements as at 1 December 2003 exceed $116 million and accordingly, debenture holders may ultimately receive a further 18 to 20 cents in the dollar in your entitlement of outstanding accrued interest.
However, it must be stressed that this indication of worth is based on present circumstances and information which may be effected by future market and economic conditions.
It should not be taken as a valuation of debenture stock'.

 There has been no further communication or material regarding distributions in relation to the debenture since 1 December 2003.
" 
 

The offer document dated 22 January 2007 did not include the background document, nor did it extract the trustee's statement to the effect that that the trustee's estimate of further dividends was based on present circumstances and should not be taken as a valuation of debenture, despite the trustee's circular having included words to that effect.
10 The defendants filed an affidavit of Kevin Young, a chartered accountant, which provided an opinion as to the fair value of each ordinary debenture on each of the dates the offer was sent.
Mr Young said that in his opinion, after discounting for delays in payment, the fair value of each ordinary debenture was 9.725c.
As regards the cumulative debentures, Mr Young said that, after discounting, the fair value of each cumulative debenture on each of the dates those offers were sent was $1.195.
11 ASIC obtained a report from Anthony McGrath of McGrathNicol, a chartered accountant, setting out his estimate of the value of the Cambridge Credit cumulative and ordinary debentures at the time each offer was sent.
Mr McGrath said that a fair estimate of the Cambridge ordinary debentures at the relevant dates was between 7.2 and 8.8 cents (on 9 November 2005) and between 7.1 and 8.7 cents (on each of 16 January and 29 January 2007).
As regards the cumulative debentures, Mr McGrath said that a fair estimate of their value was between 99.2 and 120.8 cents (on each of 8 November 2005 and 23 November 2005) and between 100.9 and 123.0 cents on 22 January 2007.
These estimates, as was the case with Mr Young's, are well in excess of the amounts offered by Ross Investments.
12 The requirement in s 1019I(2)(c) can be broken into three components: did the offer document contain an estimate of the value of the product as at the date of the offer; was that estimate a "fair" estimate of the value of the product; and did the offer document explain the basis upon which the estimate was made?
13 The defendants' case is that the offer documents included an estimate of the value of the relevant debentures, either by reference to the "indication of worth" given by the trustee or by reference to the amount being offered by Ross Investments which should be taken to be its estimated value.
I am prepared to accept that the offer documents for cumulative debentures included an estimate of value, albeit by reference to the trustee's statements.
The case is less clear in relation to the offer documents for ordinary debentures.
In my view, however, a reasonable debenture holder would take the statement "this fair estimate of value" to refer to the offer price for each debenture, there being no other figure to which the comment could relate.
In my view, therefore, the offer documents did contain an estimate of the value of the debentures.
The question remains, however, whether those estimates were "fair" estimates of the value of the debentures.
14 The defendants submit that "if a measure of value is the amount that a person is willing to pay for something, then the offer documents themselves are key components in assessing the value of the Cambridge debentures".
I do not accept that the amount one offeror is willing to pay for a debenture is, by itself, a proper measure of the value of that debenture.
Rather, the value of a debenture would be its exchange value or the price that it would bring when exposed to competition.
(I put to one side the situation, that sometimes arises, where it is necessary to value an item that is not marketable).
The cases say that value is to be determined by reference to the amount that an hypothetical ordinary purchaser who is willing but not anxious to buy would be prepared to pay for the debenture, and an hypothetical ordinary seller who is also willing but not anxious to sell would be prepared to accept for it, assuming both parties were fully informed and had regard to all the circumstances which might affect value: see Spencer v Commonwealth [1907] HCA 70 ; (1907) 5 CLR 418, 432 and 440-441; Marks v GIO Australia Holdings Ltd [1998] HCA 69 ; (1998) 196 CLR 494, 514; Holt v Cox (1994) 15 ACSR 313, 333-334; Gregory v Federal Commissioner of Taxation [1971] HCA 2 ; (1971) 123 CLR 547.
Where there is a regular market for a product, the market price should reflect the exchange value of a product.
Where, as here, there is no regular market for a product, it is necessary to estimate the (exchange) value.
15 Proceeding on the basis that the offer documents do contain an estimate of the value of the debenture, it is necessary to decide whether this estimate is a "fair estimate" for the purposes of s 1019I(2)(c).
The defendants submit that the fairness (or otherwise) of an estimate of the value of a debenture refers not to whether the estimate is "accurate" or "precise", but rather whether the estimate has been given in the absence of bias, dishonesty or injustice, and whether it has legitimately been arrived at.
They rely on the definition of "fair" in the Macquarie Dictionary, being "free from bias, dishonesty or injustice" or "that which is legitimately sought, pursued, done or given".
If by their argument the defendants mean that any estimate will be fair provided it is not arrived at dishonestly or for an improper purpose then I disagree.
However, if the defendants mean that an estimate will be fair if it is honestly obtained using of an appropriate or suitable valuation method, then they are obviously right.
The word "fair" in s 1019I(2)(c) , in my view, refers to the method by which the estimate is arrived at; it means reasonable, proper or satisfactory.
An estimate of the value of a product will be "fair" if it is obtained by a proper method of valuation that attempts to determine, or at least closely reflect, the underlying (or exchange) value of the product.
16 Mr McGrath's report outlines the valuation methodology he adopted in order to arrive at his estimates of the value of the debentures.
His preferred method of valuation was the discounted cash flow method.
This method estimates the value of a debenture as the net present value of expected cash flows arising from the debenture, discounted at a rate that reflects the time value of money and the risk of the cash flows.
According to Mr McGrath this method is appropriate as it "allows assumptions to be drawn regarding the future cashflows arising from distributions from the receivership, the timing of those cashflows, and the risks associated with these two elements..." For context, Mr McGrath also applied the net asset value methodology which takes a balance sheet assessment of the realisable value of the underlying assets less outstanding liabilities.
These methods of valuation are widely accepted in the marketplace.
Plainly, the estimates provided by Mr McGrath are a "fair estimate of the value" of the debentures.
17 The defendants attacked Mr McGrath's report on several bases.
One was that it ignored the fact that Ross Investments' offer had been accepted by some debenture holders and those acceptances showed that the offer price was fair value.
This is not a logical argument.
The defendants' second complaint was that some aspects of the annual reports for Cambridge Credit, particularly the net realisable values of inventories, cannot be verified.
While not ideal, this is to be expected.
In the absence of any evidence to the contrary (and none was available) it was proper for Mr McGrath to have regard to the information in the Cambridge Credit annual reports for the purpose of his valuation.
The defendants' final complaint with the report was that the costs incurred by Ross Investments in making the offers and the actual positions of the offerors or offerees (age, preferences) had not been properly taken into account.
They submit, for example, that "it is reasonable to assume that tens of thousands of dollars were spent... in order to make the offers contained in the offer documents" and that "it is reasonable to assume that a significant proportion of such a class of debenture holders is likely to value immediate cash payments substantially more favourably than uncertain and irregular distributions in the future".
However, to take those matters into account would amount to speculation and Mr McGrath cannot be criticised for refusing to do that.
18 While it is less clear how Mr Young arrived at his estimates of the value of the debentures, it may be inferred from the fact that his estimates were broadly comparable to those of Mr McGrath that Mr Young's methodology (briefly outlined in his report) also resulted in a "fair estimate of the value" of the debentures.
The same cannot be said of the defendants' estimates.
Not only did the offer documents not adequately explain to debenture holders the method by which the estimates of value were determined, but the estimates themselves, when compared to the estimates given by Mr McGrath and Mr Young, strongly point to the conclusion, which I think must inevitably be reached, that the estimates were not "fair estimates" of the value of the debentures.
19 Even if this were not the case, it is apparent that each of the offer documents failed to provide an explanation of the basis upon which the estimates were made.
The defendants' argument was that the obligation was discharged because the offers for the cumulative debentures expressly referred to the indication of worth given by the trustee and the offers for ordinary debentures stated that the amount being offered was "a purely subjective matter of judgment".
This cannot be regarded as an appropriate explanation.
Not only did the circulars issued by the trustee expressly state that "this indication of worth... should not be taken as a valuation of the debenture stock", but even if, contrary to the trustee's express statement, the indication was to be taken as an estimate of the value of the cumulative debentures, there is no further explanation of how the valuation was arrived at.
Likewise, even if the amount offered by Ross Investments for the ordinary Cambridge debentures was to be taken as its estimate of their value, the mere statement that the amount was a "purely subjective matter of judgment" does not disclose the basis upon which that estimate was made.
Were statements such as these sufficient to discharge Ross Investments' obligations, the requirement to explain the basis of each estimate imposed by s 1019I(2) would, for all practical purposes, be illusory.
At a minimum, in order to satisfy the statutory requirement, any explanation must disclose the key factors and assumptions upon which the estimate is based.
20 The result is that Ross Investments contravened s 1019I(2)(c).
There will be declarations to that effect and orders made as sought against Ross Investments.
21 I note in passing the defendants' submission that, as a holder of an Australian Financial Services Licence, Ross Investments is required, as a condition of its licence, to include in any offer a statement to the effect that "the licensee is not recommending that the offeree should accept the offer".
The defendants contend that "in this context" Ross Investments is "constrained by the nature and detail of information which it can properly set out in any offer document to purchase off-market financial products".
I must admit I do not fully understand this submission.
Not only is the condition referred to by the defendants not inconsistent in its terms with the obligations imposed by s1019I(2) , but it is an express condition of Ross Investments' financial services licence that it establish and maintain compliance measures that ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, that it complies with the provisions of the financial services laws: condition 4.
In any event, the conditions of a financial services licence cannot modify the operation of an Act of Parliament so as to relieve Ross Investments of its obligations under Division 5A of Part 7.9.
22 The second defendant, Mr Ross, was the sole director of Ross Investments at the time each offer was sent out.
It was not contested that Mr Ross was aware of the contents and approved and authorised the sending of the offer documents.
Each offer document bears his signature.
According to the offer documents, Mr Ross personally provided the estimate of value contained in the offer documents sent to ordinary debenture holders.
As the key officer of Ross Investments Mr Ross was well aware, or should have been, of the obligations imposed on Ross Investments by the Corporations Act .
It is clear that Mr Ross was the conscious moving force behind the infringing act, the knowing aider or abettor.
I will therefore make the orders sought against Mr Ross.
23 As regards costs, I see no reason why they should not follow the event.
There will be an order that the defendants pay ASIC's costs.
I certify that the preceding twenty-three (23) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Finkelstein.
Associate:

 Dated: 18 September 2007


 Counsel for the Plaintiff: S Rubenstein 
 
 Solicitor for the Plaintiff: Australian Securities and Investments Commission 
 
 Counsel for the Defendants: N Dragojlovic 
 
 Solicitor for the Defendants: Cahills 
 
 Date of Hearing: 29 May 2007 
 
 Date of Judgment: 18 September 2007 

 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2007/1433.html 
 
 
