
 
1 On 30 March 2006 Lee J ordered that the applicants and the then first to eighth respondents give discovery on oath by 28 April 2006.
On 11 May 2006 the first respondent gave discovery on behalf of himself and the second to fifth respondents.
2 On 7 May 2007 the applicant's solicitors wrote to the solicitors for the first to fifth respondents asking that they swear a separate affidavit of discovery.
They also sought discovery of particular Austrade documents, copies of which had already been provided informally.
The respondents' solicitors declined to comply.
However, by a letter dated 22 May 2007 they enclosed a document entitled "Fourth Respondent's Further List of Documents".
3 The solicitors for the applicant complained that they did not know which of the documents referred to in the respondents' discovery list related to which respondent.
Nor did they know whether the fourth respondent's further list of documents were additional documents in the possession of the fourth respondent over and above the documents set out in the earlier affidavit sworn on behalf of all respondents.
By their letter dated 22 May 2007 the applicant's solicitor sought particular discovery of various documents.
The solicitors for the respondents replied on 1 June 2007 rejecting the request in various of the classes of specified documents and conceding others.
4 On 28 June 2007 the applicant filed a motion seeking discovery by each of the first, second, fourth and fifth respondents separately and particular discovery of specified documents or classes of documents.
They also sought leave to further amend the statement of claim.
5 On 10 July 2007 I made orders on the motion giving leave to the applicant to amend its statement of claim in terms of the minute filed with the motion and giving the respondents leave to file amended defences by 31 July 2007.
Directions were made for the filing of written submissions on the motion for particular discovery and the matter otherwise adjourned and set down for decision on 8 August 2007.
The adjourned directions hearing was subsequently relisted until today.
6 I have considered the written submissions and the affidavits filed by the parties in relation to the motion for particular discovery.
Certain of the documents or classes of documents, discovery of which is sought in the motion, have been discovered.
These are the documents mentioned in paragraphs 1(b), 2(c), 2(g), 2(h), 2(k)(iii), 2(k)(iv), 2(k)(v), 2(k)(vi) and 2(k)(vii), and 2(m).
The other documents for which discovery is sought are the subject of specific justification in the applicant's submissions and supporting affidavits.
They are met by generic opposition from the respondents.
7 I make the following rulings in relation to each of the documents or classes of documents sought by the applicant having regard to the provisions of O 15 r 8.
I accept that the language of the Rule allows that additional discovery may be ordered on the basis that it may lead to a train of inquiry: Spyer v Cuddles 'N' Mum (Franchise) Pty Ltd (No 3) [2002] FCA 1563.
It is not appropriate, as a matter of routine, to require a wider range of discovery under O 15 r 8.
In this respect I do not accept that additional discovery under the so-called Peruvian Guano test is routinely available.
By that I refer to the test mentioned in Compagnie Financiere et Commerciale du Pacifique v Peruvian Guano Company (1882) 11 QBD 55.
8 The rulings which follow refer to the classes of documents in relation to which discovery has not been given.
They are as follows: 
 Paragraph in the Motion Ruling 
1(a) Discovery allowed.
1(c) Discovery allowed.
1(d) Discovery declined --- chain of inquiry justification insufficient.
1(e) Discovery declined --- class of documents not defined by reference to relevance.
Chain of inquiry insufficient.
2(a) Discovery allowed, limited to documents evidencing the purchase and/or payment by the second respondent for product labels for the sale of automotive products exported by the second respondent to the sixth respondent and/or Gold Leaf Products Co Ltd for the period 12 February 2004 to 31 January 2005.
2(b) Discovery declined --- relevance not established.
2(d) Discovery allowed.
2(e) Discovery declined --- relevance not established.
2(f) Discovery allowed, limited to labels proof read at the meeting of 1 March 2004.
2(i) Discovery declined --- class not defined by reference to criteria of relevance.
2(j) Discovery declined --- class not defined by reference to criteria of relevance.
2(k)(i), (ii), (viii) to (xi) Discovery declined, relevance not established.
2(l) Discovery allowed.
2(n) Discovery declined --- claim not defined by criteria of relevance.
3(a) Discovery allowed.
3(b) Discovery allowed.
3(c) Discovery declined.
3(d) Discovery declined.
3(e) Discovery allowed.
4(a) Discovery allowed.
9 I will make orders to give effect to these rulings.
I will not direct that the respondents revisit their earlier discovery with separate affidavits.
The costs of the motion so far as it related to particular discovery will be costs in the cause.
I certify that the preceding nine (9) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice French.
Associate:
Dated: 17 August 2007


 Counsel for the Applicant: Mr G Rabe 
 
 Solicitor for the Applicant: Stables Scott 
 
 Counsel for the Respondent: Mr R Grayden 
 
 Solicitor for the Respondent: Hammond Worthington 
 
 Dates of Submissions: 23 and 31 July 2007 
 
 Date of Judgment: 17 August 2007 



 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2007/1259.html 
 
 
