
 
1 On 5 September 2007 this matter came before me for hearing.
At the hearing I ordered that the decision of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal ("the Tribunal") in this matter be set aside and the matter be remitted to the Tribunal for rehearing, and reserved my decision as to costs.
Although this order followed a concession by Counsel for Ms Sergeant that the matter should be remitted to the Tribunal, I informed Counsel that I would provide short reasons for the decision to assist the Tribunal at the rehearing.
This judgment contains those reasons, in addition to my decision as to costs in this matter.
Background 
 
2 The decision under review is a decision of Tribunal constituted by Senior Member McDermott delivered 21 March 2007.
The Tribunal had set aside the decision of the Veterans Review Board of 25 November 2005, which had affirmed the decision of the Repatriation Commission dated 27 September 2004.
In making its decision, the Tribunal found that the death of a Veteran, Mr Charles Harvey Michael Sergeant, on 28 April 2004 aged 78 years, was war-caused within the meaning of s 9 Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 (Cth) ("the Act ").
The respondent, Mrs Sergeant, is the widow of the Veteran.
3 In this Court, the applicant Repatriation Commission sought the following orders:
 
 
 1.
The decision of the Tribunal whereby the Tribunal set aside the decision of the Veterans' Review Board made on 22 November 2005 and decided "that the death of the late Mr Charles Sergeant is war-caused within the meaning of s 9 of the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 " be set aside.
2.
The matter be remitted to the Tribunal to have the question whether the death of the late Mr Charles Sergeant is war-caused heard and decided again.
3.
The respondent pay the applicant's costs of the appeal.

 
 The hearing 
 
4 The course of reasoning which ss 120 and 120A of the Act require a decision-maker to take in relation to a claim lodged under the Act for a pension arising out of operational service rendered by a Veteran was authoritatively articulated by the Full Court in Repatriation Commission v Deledio (1998) 83 FCR 82.
The relevant principles are as follows:
 
 
 1.
The Tribunal must consider all the material which is before it and determine whether that material points to a hypothesis connecting the injury, disease or death with the circumstances of the particular service rendered by the person.
No question of fact finding arises at this stage.
If no such hypothesis arises, the application must fail.
2.
If the material does raise such a hypothesis, the Tribunal must then ascertain whether there is in force a Statement of Principles determined by the Authority under s 196B(2) or (11).
If no such Statement of Principles is in force, the hypothesis will be taken not to be reasonable and, in consequence, the application must fail.
3.
If a Statement of Principles is in force, the Tribunal must then form the opinion whether the hypothesis raised is a reasonable one.
It will do so if the hypothesis fits, that is to say, is consistent with the "template" to be found in the Statement of Principles.
The hypothesis raised before it must thus contain one or more of the factors which the Authority has determined to be the minimum which must exist, and be related to the person's service (as required by ss 196B(2)(d) and (e)).
If the hypothesis does contain these factors, it could neither be said to be contrary to proved or known scientific facts, nor otherwise fanciful.
If the hypothesis fails to fit within the template, it will be deemed not to be "reasonable" and the claim will fail.
4.
The Tribunal must then proceed to consider under s 120(1) whether it is satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that the death was not war-caused, or in the case of a claim for incapacity, that the incapacity did not arise from a war-caused injury.
If not so satisfied, the claim must succeed.
If the Tribunal is so satisfied, the claim must fail.
It is only at this stage of the process that the Tribunal will be required to find facts from the material before it.
In so doing, no question of onus of proof or the application of any presumption will be involved.

 

5 I note that, in interpreting and applying ss 120(3) and 120A (3) of the Act , the Tribunal is required to ask and answer the question whether there is in force a Statement of Principles, or multiple Statements of Principles, determined under s 196B of the Act , that upholds the whole , not just part, of the Veteran's hypothesis: McKenna v Repatriation Commission [1999] FCA 323 ; (1999) 86 FCR 144 at 150-151.
Further, a relevant hypothesis must consist of a link or links which connect, at one end, the type of death suffered by the Veteran, which is the basis of the claim under the Act , with, at the other end, the circumstances of the particular service rendered by the Veteran: McKenna 86 FCR at 151.
Each of these links must be upheld by a Statement of Principles and, if need be, more than one Statement of Principles: McKenna 86 FCR at 151.
6 In this case the cause of death on the Veteran's death certificate was stated to be:
 
 "1.
(a) ?Cerebrovascular accident with ?seizure
 (b) Hypertension
 (c) Epilepsy 
 
 
 2.
Ischaemic heart disease, cerebral haemorrhage, transient ischaemic attack.
