
 Introduction 
 
1 On 6 June 2007, the Registrar of Aboriginal Corporations issued a notice to Billabong Aboriginal Corporation under s 71 of the Aboriginal Councils and Associations Act 1976 (Cth) ('the Act') calling upon Billabong to show cause by 22 June 2007 why an administrator should not be appointed.
The date by which Billabong is to respond to the notice has been extended by agreement between the parties.
2 The notice was issued and signed by Mr Peter Armstrong as the delegate of the Registrar.
It set out in some detail the grounds which Mr Armstrong considered may exist to require the appointment of an administrator.
3 Prior to issuing the notice, the Registrar obtained a report from a firm of chartered accountants, Messrs Scolari Comerford, pursuant to s 60 of the Act, drawing attention to what were said to be irregularities in the affairs of Billabong.
The Scolari Comerford report refers, in turn, to an earlier report into Billabong's affairs prepared by Ernst  Young.
4 Some of the grounds referred to in the notice made reference to the Scolari Comerford report.
5 The application, as initially filed, sought to contend that the exercise of the power to appoint an administrator would offend the rules of natural justice if Billabong were not first provided with a copy of the Scolari Comerford and Ernst  Young reports.
6 After initially refusing to do so, Mr Armstrong provided Billabong with a copy of the Scolari Comerford report on 6 July 2007.
He supplied a full copy of the Ernst  Young Report two days before the hearing, which commenced on 13 September 2007.
7 Billabong's amended application now seeks declaratory and injunctive relief precluding the Registrar from appointing an administrator without first providing Billabong with access to the Registrar's entire file of documents and correspondence "relating to the applicant".
8 Mr Armstrong has given sworn evidence in these proceedings that there are no other documents on the Registrar's file upon which he, "as the relevant delegate", intends to rely when deciding whether to appoint an administrator or which might assist Billabong in responding to the notice.
9 Counsel for the Registrar therefore relies upon the following statement of Kenny J, with whom O'Loughlin and Mansfield JJ agreed, in McLachlan v Australian Securities and Investment Commission [1999] FCA 244 ; (1999) 85 FCR 286 at [52] :
 
 "By seeking access to all documents relating to the subject-matter of the hearing, the appellants seek, in effect, to conduct a search into the ASIC's records about them.
That is not a purpose sought to be met by the rules of natural justice.
" 
 

10 However, counsel for Billabong points to the well-known statement of principle of Brennan J in Kioa v West [1985] HCA 81 ; (1985) 159 CLR 550 at 629 that a person affected by the exercise of the power should be given an opportunity to deal with any adverse information that is "credible, relevant and significant" to the proposed decision.
His Honour continued by saying:
 
 "It is not sufficient for the repository of the power to endeavour to shut information of that kind out of his mind and to reach a decision without reference to it.
Information of that kind creates a real risk of prejudice, albeit subconscious, and it is unfair to deny a person whose interests are likely to be affected by the decision an opportunity to deal with the information.
" 
 

11 Billabong relies upon a series of cases in which this principle has been applied, including the decision of Allsop J in NIB Health Funds Ltd v Private Health Insurance Administration Council [2002] FCA 40 ; (2001) 115 FCR 561 at [90] --- [94].
12 Counsel for Billabong submitted that the history of this matter shows Mr Armstrong's view of what material is, or is not, required by the rules of procedural fairness, is so erroneous that I ought not accept his evidence that no further documents exist.
In particular, counsel points to Mr Armstrong's view that it was unnecessary for him to furnish the Scolari Comerford and Ernst  Young reports, although he did so as a matter of convenience.
The legislation 
 
13 Section 60 of the Act provided, relevantly:
 
 "(1) The Registrar may, at any time, cause a person authorised by the Registrar for the purposes of this section to examine the documents of an Incorporated Aboriginal Association and to report to the Registrar on the results of that examination, drawing attention to any irregularity in the operations or financial affairs of the Association disclosed by that examination.

 
 (2) The authorised person is entitled at all reasonable times to full and free access to the documents of the Association.

 
 (3) The authorised person may make copies, or take extracts from, any such documents.
" 
 
 

14 Section 71 of the Act provided:
 
 
 "(1) If the Registrar considers that there may be grounds for appointing an Administrator, the Registrar may serve on the public officer of the corporation a notice in writing calling upon the corporation to show cause, within a reasonable period specified in the notice, why an Administrator should not be appointed.

 
 
 
 
 
 (2) After that period, and having considered any representations made by the corporation, the Registrar may appoint an Administrator if satisfied that any of the following grounds have been established: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) in the case of an Incorporated Aboriginal Association--the Association has been trading at a loss for at least 6 months during the preceding period of 12 months; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) the Council or the Governing Committee, as the case may be, has failed to comply with a provision of this Act, the regulations or the Rules, and has failed to provide a satisfactory explanation; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) in the case of an Incorporated Aboriginal Association--the members of the Governing Committee have acted in the affairs of the Association in their own interests rather than in the interests of the members of the Association or otherwise in a way that appears to be unfair or unjust to members of the Association; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d in the case of an Incorporated Aboriginal Association--the appointment of an Administrator is required in the interests of members and creditors of the Association; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) in the case of an Aboriginal Council--the appointment of an Administrator is required in the interests of adult Aboriginals in the Council area; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (f) the appointment of an Administrator is otherwise required in the public interest.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 (3) The Registrar must not appoint an Administrator without the prior approval of the Minister.
" 
 
 

15 Since the commencement of these proceedings, the Act has been repealed by Schedule 2 of the Corporations (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander) Consequential Transitional and Other Measures Act, 2006 (Cth) ("the CATSI Act " ).
Section 88 of Schedule 3 of the CATSI Act provides that the CATSI Registrar may proceed on the notice to show cause as if it had been issued under s 487-10 of the Corporations (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander) Act 2006 (Cth).
The federal background 
 
16 On 24 October 2006, the Commonwealth Department of Families, Community Services  Indigenous Affairs ("FACSIA") wrote to Billabong advising that the Commonwealth was conducting a review of Billabong's performance under certain funding agreements and that Ernst  Young had been authorised to conduct the review.
17 Ernst  Young prepared a report dated 30 November 2006 which was delivered to FACSIA on or about that date.
18 On 9 February 2007, FACSIA sent an email to an employee of the Registrar.
The email was copied to various persons within the office of the Registrar, FACSIA and others.
The email stated that FACSIA wished to arrange a meeting to discuss Billabong.
The email referred to various "issues" with Billabong's reporting requirements experienced by FACSIA's Australian Capital Territory office and the Australian Capital Territory Government.
19 The email of 9 February 2007 continued as follows:
 
 "BAC has received in excess of $2,300,000 funding from FaCSIA since the 2003/04 financial year, and a significant contribution from the ACT Government.

 
 Both the Commonwealth and the ACT Government decided to conduct an 'Audit' of the organisation because of our concerns, Ernst and Young were contracted to do this, however at the last minute, BAC decided not to work with the Commonwealth and advised they would only work with the ACT Government.

 
 As a result FaCSIA requested access to the records and staff working under the terms and conditions of the current contracts, to gain access to the organisation for the purposes of the Audit.
When the contractors from Ernst and Young approached BAC, adequate information was not provided; a solicitor was present and filtered the requested information.
The ACT Government requested access to their records and were refused by BAC, in contrast to what the organisation advised to the Commonwealth.

 
 A report was presented to FaCSIA on 30 November 2006 from Ernst and Young, this report contained recommendations and highlights significant risks and issues with the organisation.
The report also advised '... BAC was unable to provide sufficient documentation and/or explanation to fully substantiate that Commonwealth funds have been appropriately expended'.

 
 Many issues were raised, for example housing maintenance; an expense was recorded of '...$20,000 as Cyclical Maintenance expenditure for which no actual cost has been borne by BAC'.
Other significant issues were raised with operational expenditure and were documented with the statement 'This finding provides evidence for the potential for misappropriation of funds'.

 
 A significant recommendation was to conduct a forensic audit of Billabong Aboriginal Corporation's management, administration and expenditure of CHIP, OFOCUS and, if possible, Interconnect program funds between 2002 and 2006'.
Included was a recommendation to 'hold discussions with ACT Government with a view to including its funding to Billabong Aboriginal Corporation within the scope of the forensic audit'.

 
 The issues we are facing with the organisation are of significant risk to the Department, and this risk needs to be managed appropriately.
The ACT Office has concerns regarding the board structure and the capacity of the organisation to address the governance and financial management issues within BAC.

 
 We would like to meet to discuss the issues we are experiencing with the organisation, and discuss the possibility of conducting a forensic audit with the support of ORAC that would encompass funding from both the Commonwealth and ACT Government.
" 
 

20 On 29 March 2007, the Registrar wrote to Mr Best of Billabong to confirm that Scolari Comerford had been appointed to conduct an examination under s 60 of the Act.
The letter stated that the review was being conducted as part of the ongoing program by the Registrar's office to assist corporations in, inter alia, their level of compliance with statutory reporting and record keeping requirements.
21 The Scolari Comerford Report was prepared in May 2007.
The following appeared under the heading "Executive Summary":
 
 "Billabong Aboriginal Corporation has a number of serious issues that need rectifying as soon as possible.
The Corporation appears to be predominantly controlled by the one person, the CEO and Chairperson Jim Best who is seemingly at odds with funding bodies that are not happy with the service delivery being provided by the Corporation.
Part of the problem is due to the Corporation entering into seemingly overambitious projects such as the new Administration block instead of it concentrating on getting real outcomes from the funding monies it has been provided with.
There are concerns that due to the way the Corporation currently operates, funding may be lost thereby risking its viability.
" 
 

22 The following was included among the "Specific Concerns" set out in the Scolari Comerford Report:
 
 "The Ernst  Young report is correct in that internal entries are being created to get monies out of the funding buckets (although this is usually in the budgets) and these monies cannot then be verified as being spent correctly.
These monies are creating surpluses and being ineffectively managed by the CEO and Governing Committee through the Corporation's lack of governance.
It would also appear that the fencing monies have been 'double dipped' as suggested.
" 

23 The s 71 notice was dated 6 June 2007.
I will refer to it in more detail later.
24 On the same day, that is 6 June 2007, the following conversation took place between Mr Armstrong and Mr Best, the Chairman of Billabong:
 
 
 
 Armstrong: 'We are issuing a s.71 notice to you today.
I am sorry about this, it is not personal.
We look at the top 150 Aboriginal organisations and keep an eye on them.
Yours came up in January 2007.
We were not sure whether to conduct a s 60 process because of the lack of available funds, due to the changes at ORAC that take effect on 1 July.
But we received some information from FACSIA indicating some concerns.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Best: What information did you receive from them?
Could I have a copy of the Scolari Comerford report and the Ernst  Young report.
It is unfair if we do not have access to those.

 
 
 
 
 Armstrong: We do not generally give out copies of reports like that.
" 
 

25 On 29 June 2007, the solicitors for the Registrar wrote to Billabong stating, without admission, that the Registrar was prepared to provide Billabong with a copy of the s 60 Report.
However, the letter stated that she was under no obligation to provide the Ernst  Young Report.
The letter continued:-
 
 "Our client did not rely upon the E  Y Report when preparing the show cause action.
So much is evident from the fact that neither our client nor Mr Peter Armstrong, the Delegate of the Registrar who prepared the show cause notice, has read the E  Y Report.
Further, our client does not intend reading or relying upon the E  Y Report when ultimately deciding whether or not to appoint an administrator.
We will let you know if that position changes.
However, as matters stand, it follows that procedural fairness does not call for production of the document.
Our client will defend the application if your client presses for the production of the E  Y Report.
" 
 

26 These proceedings were commenced on 13 September 2007.
27 A copy of the Scolari Comerford report was supplied to Billabong's solicitor on 6 July 2007.
28 A bowdlerised version of the Ernst  Young Report was provided to Billabong on or about 27 August 2007 under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth).
29 An unexpurgated copy of the Ernst  Young report was supplied to Billabong's solicitor a day or two before the hearing.
Mr Armstrong acknowledged in the witness box that he had read the report at about that time.
However, he maintained that he did not intend to rely on its contents and that he could shut that information from his mind when making his decision.
The s 71 notice 
 
30 The notice contains numerous grounds.
I will set out some of the more relevant portions of the notice as follows:
 
 1 "The Governing Committee (' Committee ') of the Corporation has failed to comply with a provision of the Act and/or the regulations and/or a provision of the Corporation's Rules that is to say: 
 
 
 Section of the Act Description of Non-Compliance 
 
 Regulation or Rule 
 
 
 
 1.1 Section 49C Members of the Committee have not acted diligently in exercising their powers and performing functions and duties under the Act, the regulations and the Rules.
