
 
1 I have before me an amended notice of motion filed on 22 August 2007 by the respondents to the substantive proceedings seeking, inter alia , that the substantive proceedings be dismissed or otherwise stayed.
The specific orders sought are as follows:
 
 
 1.
As to the relief sought in paragraphs 5 (under the heading, Details of Claim) and 1 (under the heading, Claim for Interlocutory Relief), that the Applicant's proceeding against the First Respondents be:
 1.1 dismissed; or
 1.2 stayed.
1A.
Further and alternatively to paragraph 1, that the relief sought in paragraphs 1 to 4, 6 and 7 (under the heading, Details of Claim), and 2 and 3 (under the heading, Claim for Interlocutory Relief) be:
 1A.1 dismissed; or
 1A.2 alternatively, stayed.
2.
Further and alternatively to paragraph 1A, that the Applicant's proceeding against the Seventh Respondent be dismissed.
3.
That the affidavit of Lynne Maree Rogers filed herein on 14 June 2007 be taken off the file.
4.
That the affidavit of Gregory Eric Rogers filed herein on 14 June 2007 be taken off the file.
5.
That the Applicant pay the Respondents' costs of and incidental to the proceedings to be taxed and paid forthwith.

 

2 For convenience I shall continue to refer to the respondents to the substantive proceedings as "the respondents" notwithstanding that they are applicants to the notice of motion before me; similarly I shall continue to refer to Mrs Rogers as "the applicant" notwithstanding that she is the respondent to this notice of motion.
3 I note that the respondents were represented by Mr Handran of Counsel.
The applicant was self-represented.
Background 
 
4 The substantive proceedings, which were commenced by application filed 14 June 2007, concern a "Claim for relief under the ASIC Act Unconscionable Conduct, Undue Harassment  Coercion  Deceptive  Misleading Conduct contrary to Sections 12DA(1) and 12DJ".
Specifically the applicant seeks the following relief:
 
 " A.
Details of Claim 


 
On the grounds stated in the accompanying affidavits or statement of claim, the applicant claims.
1.
An order that any loan agreements, mortgages and deeds of settlement are void.
2.
An order that any or all security documents in relation to a property at 2 Crown Street Fingal Head, NSW are void
 
3.
An order for damages for financial loss and psychological or mental damage
 
4.
Any other orders that the court deems fit
 
5.
An order to set aside a Bankruptcy Notice filed by the Second Respondent on 19 April 2007 and served on 25 May 2007 on the grounds of set off or counterclaim
 
6.
An order for the return of interest paid, return of costs incurred as a result of any or all agreements between the parties.
7.
An order for costs in the proceeding.
"
 

 
5 The applicant also claims the following:
 
 " B.
Claim for Interlocutory Relief 
 
 AND the applicant claims by way of interlocutory relief:
 
 
 
 1.
An order extending time to comply with a Bankruptcy Notice served by the Second Respondent dated 19 April 2007 served on 25 May 2007
 2.
An order that the respondents do not harass, intimidate or coerce the applicant or her immediate family 
 
 
 3.
Any other orders that the court deems fit.
"
 

6 There is history to this dispute which has involved both the applicant and her husband bringing a number of claims in this Court against the respondents.
