
 
1 At this stage of the proceeding there are four matters before me for determination: 
 
 a) whether the respondents can plead to the alleged loss or damage suffered by the applicant that such be reduced to the extent that is just and equitable having regard to the applicant's own failure to take reasonable care;
 b) whether the respondents are entitled to rely upon the provisions of Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act 1958 (Vic) ('the Wrongs Act ');
 c) whether the respondents are entitled to seek discovery under O 15A r 6 of the Federal Court Rules ('the Rules'): 

(i) from KPMG of certain audit files in its possession; and 
 
(ii) from Property Investment Research Pty Ltd ('PIR') of certain documents in its possession.
2 In the main proceeding, the applicant raises a number of claims against the respondents and seeks the following relief:
 
 a) damages pursuant to s 852 for contravention of s 851 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) as in force prior to the commencement of the Financial Services Reform Act 2001 (Cth) ('the old Corporations Act ');
 b) damages pursuant to s 852 for contravention of s 849 of the old Corporations Act ;
 c) damages pursuant to s 12GF for contravention of s 12DB of the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001 (Cth) ('the ASIC Act'); and 
 d) damages pursuant to s 1022B for contravention of s 1012A of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) as amended by the Financial Services Reform Act 2001 (Cth) ('the amended Corporations Act ') 
 (collectively referred to as 'the Commonwealth Legislation').


3 In the applicant's amended statement of claim a number of matters are alleged against the respondents.
In relation to the first respondent ('Wealthcare'), it is alleged that it was involved in the promotion of investments in York Street Mezzanine Pty Ltd ('York Street') and Market Street Mezzanine Pty Ltd ('Market Street').
It is alleged that the second respondent ('Mr Roberts') was a financial planner and principal of Wealthcare.
In essence it is alleged that the applicant made investments in York Street and Market Street which were designated as investment vehicles by Westpoint Corporation Pty Limited ('Westpoint') in reliance upon wrongful advice given by the respondents.
It is alleged that the applicant suffered loss or damage when York Street and Market Street were placed into external administration.
Plea of reduction of loss  damage suffered by the applicant 
 
4 At the outset, the respondents argued that the question of whether to allow the plea of reduction of loss and damage suffered by the applicant need not and should not be determined now.
This was because the same material facts raised in that plea were relied upon by the respondents to support the separate allegation in the defence that as a matter of causation the applicant's own actions caused the relevant loss, an allegation not sought to be struck out.
5 There would normally be much force in this submission.
After all, it may just be a question of degree as to whether there will be a finding of contribution or a finding of no causation because of the actions of an applicant: see eg Argy v Blunts  Lane Cove Real Estate Pty Ltd (1990) 26 FCR 112 at 138.
However, for the purposes of proper case management, I consider it will assist in the further conduct of this proceeding to make a decision now on this issue, particularly as I have come to a clear view on the matter.
In any event, my later consideration of the applicability of Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act necessarily includes a consideration of this issue.
6 It was accepted by the respondents that if the relief being sought was pursuant to s 82 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ('the Trade Practices Act ') then the position would be clear, and the plea of contributing fault sought to be relied upon the respondents could not be maintained based upon the authority of the High Court of Australia in I  L Securities Pty Ltd v HTW Valuers (Brisbane) Pty Ltd [2002] HCA 41 ; (2002) 210 CLR 109.
I  L Securities [2002] HCA 41 ; 210 CLR 109 is binding authority for the proposition that the loss that can be claimed under s 82 of the Trade Practices Act cannot be apportioned between contributing causes, and that once the causal link is established between the injury and the contravention, the measure of the loss for which s 82 provides, to which the person bringing the action is entitled, is the amount of the loss or damage sustained and not some lesser amount.
Further, s 87(1) does not confer a discretion to reduce or modify an award of damages made under s 82(1).
7 The issue before the court in that case was one of statutory construction of the Trade Practices Act .
Similarly, the question here is one of statutory construction of the Commonwealth Legislation.
8 It was contended by the respondents that there is a relevant distinction between the provisions of the Trade Practices Act referred to by the court in I  L Securities [2002] HCA 41 ; 210 CLR 109 and the various provisions that are now relied upon by the applicant in this matter, so that the plea of contributing fault could be maintained, or at least was not clearly untenable.
The respondents sought to rely upon the difference in wording of the Trade Practices Act and the Commonwealth Legislation.
9 In my view the difference in wording is not sufficient to take away the force of the court's reasoning in I  L Securities [2002] HCA 41 ; 210 CLR 109 .
The use of the words "because", or "as a result of" found in the old Corporations Act (for instance) seems to me to be relevantly equivalent in their context to the word "by" in the Trade Practices Act , which was a focus of the attention of the court in I  L Securities [2002] HCA 41 ; 210 CLR 109.
10 Further, just as a relevant purpose of the Trade Practices Act is to proscribe misleading and deceptive conduct and, in aid of that purpose, to provide for compensation by an award of damages to a victim of such conduct, so here the Commonwealth Legislation similarly makes the respondents, if found liable, legally responsible for the whole of the loss.
11 As Gleeson CJ said in I  L Securities 210 CLR at [33]:
 
 The relevant purpose of the statute was to proscribe misleading and deceptive conduct in circumstances which included those of the present case.
In aid of that purpose, the statute provided for compensation, by an award of damages, to a victim of such conduct.
The measure of damages stipulated was the loss or damage of which the conduct was a cause.
It was not limited to loss or damage of which such conduct was the sole cause.
In most business transactions resulting in financial loss there are multiple causes of the loss.
The statutory purpose would be defeated if the remedy under s 82 were restricted to loss of which the contravening conduct was the sole cause.
What is there, then, in the justice and equity of the particular case that might lead to a conclusion that the respondent should not be regarded as legally responsible for the whole of the loss, even though the contravention was a cause of the whole of the loss?
Upon what principle might such responsibility be diminished?
In a financing transaction, a lender takes security to protect itself against the risk of default by the borrower.
One aspect of that risk is that the lender might have failed adequately to assess the borrower's capacity to service the debt.
I cannot see why, as a matter of principle, such failure by a lender should be treated, in the application of s 82 , as a factor which diminishes the legal responsibility of a valuer by negativing in part the causal effect of the valuer's misleading conduct.
The statutory rule of conduct found in s 52 , when applied to the relationship between a valuer and a prospective lender, gives rise to a legal responsibility in a case such as the present which extends to the whole of the loss of which the valuer's misleading conduct is a direct cause.


Further, as Gaudron, Gummow and Hayne JJ observed at [50]:
 
 If the causal link between injury and contravention is established, the measure of the compensation for which the section provides, and to which the person bringing the action is entitled, is the amount of the loss or damage sustained, not some lesser amount.
In particular, it follows from the decision in Henville v Walker that there is nothing in s 82(1) , in other provisions of the Act, or in the policy of the Act, to suggest that a claimant's carelessness may be taken into account to reduce the amount of the loss or damage which the claimant is entitled to recover under s 82(1).


Finally, as McHugh J stated at [102]-[104]:
 
 But there was one indivisible loss in this case.
It might be just and equitable to hold that HTW should be held responsible for only two-thirds of that loss.
But in terms of causation doctrine and in the absence of a statutory power of apportionment, it is liable for the whole loss.
The approach of Williams J accords with apportionment cases involving contributory negligence.
But, in the absence of any power in the Act to apportion responsibility for loss or damage under s 82 , it is not open to a court to make such an apportionment in making an award under s 82.

 
 HTW contends that, unless the approach of Williams J is adopted, the policy of the Act to control smart practices and encourage fair trading would be frustrated.
It submits that the construction for which I  L contends would encourage a sophisticated, commercial lender, to treat the Act as providing a form of mortgage guarantee insurance.

 
 However, as I said in Henville , the policy behind the legislation is furthered if the party whose conduct contravenes the legislation bears the entire loss.
Moreover, relief under s 82 is available not only for breaches of s 52 but for breaches of other provisions in Pt V as well as those in Pt IV of the Act and Pts IVA , IVB and s 51AC after the amendments.
The reasoning adopted by Williams J would be likely to lead to inconsistencies in applying s 82 across such a broad spectrum of regulatory provisions.
Moreover, it is unlikely that rejecting the construction that Williams J placed on s 82 will have the consequences predicted by HTW.
Intentionally refusing to make proper inquiries when advancing loan funds will usually be held to be a voluntary act that breaks the chain of causation between the breach of the Act and the lender's loss.
A loss caused by the intentional conduct of the applicant will not ordinarily be characterised as a loss caused "by" the contravening conduct of the respondent.


12 In the same way, the contributing fault plea is contrary to the express purpose of the Commonwealth Legislation.
The Commonwealth Legislation aims to regulate corporate and individual behaviour by prescribing rules of conduct and ascribing consequences for breaches of those rules of conduct.
To allow the contributing fault plea would be to allow an interpretation of the Commonwealth Legislation contrary to its purposes in exactly the same way as reasoned by the court in I  L Securities [2002] HCA 41 ; 210 CLR 109.
13 It is to be observed that the Commonwealth Parliament has introduced contributing fault provisions focusing on the conduct of an applicant in the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (' Corporations Act ') that would, if here applicable, found a basis for a contributing fault plea: see eg s 1041I(1B).
However, Parliament has not extended those provisions to cover ss 945A and 947C (2)(e) of the amended Corporations Act (which are the corresponding provisions to ss 851 and 849 respectively of the old Corporations Act ) or to cover s 1012A of the amended Corporations Act .
Thus, Parliament has enacted express statutory contributing fault mechanisms into some but not all parts of the amended Corporations Act .
Parliament has also enacted a contributing fault mechanism into s 12GF of the ASIC Act (s 12GF(1B)), which applies to conduct in contravention of s 12DA (but not s 12DB) of the ASIC Act.
14 It was contended by the applicant that these amendments confirm that a plea of contributing fault is not available under the Commonwealth Legislation.
In respect of ss 851 and 849 of the old Corporations Act and s 1012A of the amended Corporations Act it was contended that the position has been maintained by the subsequent legislative changes, whereas the introduction of an express provision allowing for contributing fault in s 12GF of the new ASIC Act showed (it was contended) that it was not envisaged such a plea of contributing fault was available under s 12DB of the ASIC Act.
I do not consider it necessary to consider the impact of these subsequent amendments, as I have come to a clear view as a matter of construction of the Commonwealth Legislation.
In any event, it may not be appropriate to interpret the applicable legislation by reference to amending provisions: see generally Pearce  Geddes, Statutory Interpretation in Australia (6 th ed, 2006) p 97 et seq.
15 In light of the above, I am of the view that the respondents cannot plead that the applicant's loss or damage can be reduced having regard to the applicant's own failure to take reasonable care in the manner pleaded by the respondents.
Part IVAA of the Wrongs Act 
 
16 The respondents plead Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act .
Section 24AF(1)(a) provides that Pt IVAA applies to:
 
 a claim for economic loss or damage to property in an action for damages (whether in tort, in contract, under statute or otherwise) arising from a failure to take reasonable care.


17 In view of the definition of "damages" in s 24AE of the Wrongs Act , Pt IVAA would apply to the claims such as those made in these proceedings.
I note that the definition includes "any form of monetary compensation".
In my view, Pt IVAA would also apply to a claim for a sum certain (contrast with Commonwealth Bank of Australia v Witherow [2006] VSCA 45 at [10] to [11] although the extended definition of "damages" does not seem to have been discussed).
18 There are no proportionate liability provisions in the old Corporations Act .
Proportionate liability provisions were introduced into the amended Corporations Act by the Corporate Law Economic Reform Program (Audit Reform and Corporate Disclosure) Act 2004 (Cth) ('CLERP Act'), Sch 3(4), which commenced on 26 July 2004: see s 2(1) of the CLERP Act.
They are contained in Div 2A of Pt 7.10 and apply only to conduct done in contravention of s 1041H (which prohibits misleading or deceptive conduct in relation to a financial product or a financial service).
They do not apply to ss 945A and 947C(2)(e) of the amended Corporations Act .
Nor do they apply to s 1012A of the amended Corporations Act .
Accordingly, there is no provision of the old Corporations Act or the amended Corporations Act which applies a proportionate liability regime to the causes of action pleaded by the applicant.
19 The proportionate liability provisions in subdiv GA of Div 2 of Pt 2 of the ASIC Act were introduced by Sch 3(2) of the CLERP Act, and apply to claims for damages under s 12GF for conduct done in contravention of s 12DA.
They do not apply to the cause of action pleaded by the applicant under s 12DB of the ASIC Act.
20 Therefore, the respondents must and do rely upon the proportionate liability provisions of Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act .
21 However, the Wrongs Act cannot apply of its own force to proceedings in this Court exercising federal jurisdiction: John Robertson  Co Ltd (in liq) v Ferguson Transformers Pty Ltd [1973] HCA 21 ; (1973) 129 CLR 65; Bass v Permanent Trustee Company Ltd [1999] HCA 9 ; (1999) 198 CLR 334 at [35] ; Solomons v District Court (NSW) [2002] HCA 47 ; (2002) 211 CLR 119 at [21] ; British American Tobacco Australia Ltd v Western Australia [2003] HCA 47 ; (2003) 217 CLR 30 at [3] and [44] to [45]; Agtrack (NT) Pty Ltd v Hatfield [2005] HCA 38 ; (2005) 223 CLR 251 at [58] .
22 The application of Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act therefore depends upon the operation of s 79 of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) (' Judiciary Act ').
23 Section 79 of the Judiciary Act provides:
 
 The laws of each State or Territory, including the laws relating to procedure, evidence, and the competency of witnesses, shall, except as otherwise provided by the Constitution or the laws of the Commonwealth, be binding on all Courts exercising federal jurisdiction in that State or Territory in all cases to which they are applicable.


24 It was argued by the respondents that just as other provisions of the Wrongs Act could apply based upon the operation of s 79 , there was no reason to form a different view in relation to Pt IVAA , and reliance was placed upon the authority of Bialkower v Acohs Pty Ltd (1998) 83 FCR 1.
That case concerned the applicability of Pt IV of the Wrongs Act .
Under Pt IV , contribution between defendants and third parties does not detract from the ability of a plaintiff to seek full damages or compensation against a defendant.
A plaintiff is entitled to his or her full entitlement even though the defendant seeks contribution from another person.
On the other hand, Pt IVAA will impact upon the ability of a plaintiff to obtain relief against a particular defendant.
The defendant has the benefit of the limitation on liability.
The considerations affecting the operation of Pt IVAA in my view are therefore entirely different to the considerations affecting the operation of Pt IV of the Wrongs Act as considered in Bialkower 83 FCR 1.
25 It is therefore necessary to consider the specific provisions of Pt IVAA relied upon by the respondents.
26 The first matter to determine is whether Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act is applicable in any event having regard to its own terms.
27 I am prepared to accept that the reference to "under statute" in s 24AF(1)(a) of the Wrongs Act would include Commonwealth statutes such as the Commonwealth Legislation.
In any event, the Commonwealth Legislation may fall within the "or otherwise" part of the provision if a restrictive approach was to be taken to the term "statute" as referring only to an enactment of the Victorian Parliament.
28 The question then arises as to whether or not there is a claim for economic loss in an action for damages "arising from a failure to take reasonable care".
The respondents contended that the words "arising from a failure to take reasonable care" should be interpreted broadly.
The submission of the respondents was that when one looks at the pleading one can conclude that the claims brought against the respondents arise out of a failure to take reasonable care in the sense that they have a close association with or are incidental to a failure to take reasonable care or they spring out of, or have their origin in, a failure to take reasonable care.
29 As the respondents observed, in drafting the provisions of Pt VIAA of the Wrongs Act , the legislature deliberately chose to define "apportionable claim" by reference to an action for damages arising from a failure to take reasonable care.
The provisions do not require that the claim itself be a claim in negligence or for a breach of duty --- it only requires that the claim arise from a failure to take reasonable care.
The expressions "arising from" or "arising out of" are of wide import --- see the discussion in A Stephenson, "Proportional Liability in Australia --- The Death of Certainty in Risk Allocation in Contract" (2005) 22(1) ICLR 64 at 71 to 73, and generally B McDonald, "Proportionate Liability in Australia: the Devil in the Detail" (2005) 26(1) ABR 29.
30 In my view, Pt IVAA could apply in the circumstances of this proceeding according to its own terms.
Where a claim brought by an applicant does not have as one of its necessary elements any allegation of failing to take reasonable care, an additional enquiry into the failure to take reasonable care may become relevant in the course of a trial to determine the application of Pt IVAA.
Even though the claims in this proceeding themselves do not rely upon any plea of negligence or a "failure to take reasonable care" in a strict sense, a failure to take reasonable care may form part of the allegations or the evidence that is tendered in the proceedings.
At the end of the trial, after hearing all the evidence, it may be found that Pt IVAA applies.
31 In these circumstances, where a respondent desires to rely upon Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act , it will need to plead and prove each of the statutory elements, including the failure to take reasonable care.
In a proceeding where the applicant does not rely upon any such failure, then the need for a particularised plea by a respondent may be particularly important for the proper case management of the proceedings: see eg Ucak v Avante Developments Pty Ltd [2007] NSWSC 367 at [41] .
It would be desirable at an early stage of proceedings for a respondent to put forward the facts upon which it relies in support of the allocation of responsibility it contends should be ordered.
If a respondent calls in aid the benefit of the limitation on liability provided for in Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act , then the respondent has the onus of pleading and proving the required elements.
The court, after hearing all the evidence, will then need to determine, as a matter of fact, whether the relevant claim brought by the applicant is a claim arising from a failure to take reasonable care.
32 However, even if Pt IVAA applies to these proceedings according to its own terms, I am of the view that Pt IVAA is not picked up by s 79 of the Judiciary Act because the Commonwealth Legislation "otherwise provides".
In my view, the operation of the Commonwealth Legislation would so reduce the ambit of Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act that the provisions of the Commonwealth Legislation are irreconcilable with it: Northern Territory v GPAO [1999] HCA 8 ; (1999) 196 CLR 553 at [78] to [83] per Gleeson CJ and Gummow J, and at [135] per Gaudron J; Austral Pacific Group Ltd v Airservices Australia [2000] HCA 39 ; (2000) 203 CLR 136 at [17] per Gleeson CJ, Gummow and Hayne JJ, at [53] per McHugh J, and at [106] per Callinan J; Macleod v Australian Securities and Investments Commission [2002] HCA 37 ; (2002) 211 CLR 287 at [22] per Gleeson CJ, Gaudron, McHugh, Gummow, Hayne and Callinan JJ.
33 For the reasons I have enunciated above in relation to the express purpose of the Commonwealth Legislation, in my view the Commonwealth Legislation has otherwise provided for the determination of liability to compensate a person who has suffered loss or damage by conduct in contravention of the Commonwealth Legislation.
The purpose of the Commonwealth Legislation is to impose a specific and comprehensive regime imposing liability according to its terms, and to give an entitlement to an applicant to recover the whole amount of which it is established under such enactments the applicant is entitled to recover.
34 I do not accept that Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act is complementary to the operation of the Commonwealth Legislation.
This would be inconsistent with the whole purpose of the Commonwealth Legislation, for to allow Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act to apply would be to detract from the operation and effect of the Commonwealth Legislation, as the applicant would not necessarily be entitled to full compensation from a wrongdoer as is contemplated.
35 In support of the contention of the respondents that the provisions of Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act should be seen as complementary, reliance was placed upon s 5E(1) and 5E (4) of the Corporations Act .
Even if otherwise applicable to the Commonwealth Legislation, s 5E(1) and 5E (4) themselves cannot be of any assistance to the respondents in this regard.
They deal with not excluding or limiting the concurrent operation of any State law provided there is no direct inconsistency.
For the same reasons as indicated in Gordon v Tolcher [2006] HCA 62 ; (2006) 81 ALJR 507 at [30] , s 5E can have no impact in the present proceeding.
Of its own force, the Wrongs Act can have no application in this proceeding without the aid of s 79 of the Judiciary Act .
36 Therefore, Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act cannot be relied upon by the respondents in this proceeding.
37 Finally on this issue, I mention that in the applicant's written outline, reference was made to s 109 of the Constitution although this matter was not further elaborated upon by the parties.
In view of my conclusions, the operation of s 109 does not need any specific attention by me.
Application of O 15A Rule 6 to KPMG 
 
38 As described above, the respondents sought an order pursuant to O 15A r 6 of the Rules that KPMG file and serve a list of documents in respect of certain audit files relevant to the audit conducted of York Street and Market Street.
39 Order 15A r 6 provides as follows:
 
 Where: 
 
 
 (a) there is reasonable cause to believe that the applicant has or may have the right to obtain relief in the Court from a person whose description has been ascertained; 
 (b) after making all reasonable inquiries, the applicant has not sufficient information to enable a decision to be made whether to commence a proceeding in the Court to obtain that relief; and 
 (c) there is reasonable cause to believe that that person has or is likely to have or has had or is likely to have had possession of any document relating to the question whether the applicant has the right to obtain the relief and that inspection of the document by the applicant would assist in making the decision; 
 
 
 the Court may order that that person shall make discovery to the applicant of any document of the kind described in paragraph (c).


40 For the reasons set out above, Pt IVAA cannot be relied upon by the respondents for the purposes of seeking relief against KPMG.
If reliance could be placed upon Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act , it was argued by the respondents that the existence of a duty of care being owed by KPMG to the applicant to avoid the relevant economic loss, as distinct from some other relevant party, may not be required.
In my view, having regard to the language of ss 24AH(1) and 24AI (1), the operation of s 24AJ , and the fact that the loss or damage referred to in s 24AH(1) is not divisible in terms of causation, it seems to me that the concurrent wrongdoers must each have committed the relevant legal wrong against the applicant.
This conclusion seems to be implicit in the reasoning of the Court of Appeal in Witherow [2006] VSCA 45 , although the issue does not appear to have been addressed specifically.
41 I need not delay considering this question any further, as the respondents can rely upon Pt IV of the Wrongs Act in seeking contribution from KPMG.
Unlike Pt IVAA , Pt IV does apply to these proceedings by reason of the operation of s 79 of the Judiciary Act (see Bialkower 83 FCR 1).
Of course, the respondents accepted that it is a requirement that KPMG owe a duty of care to the applicant to avoid the relevant economic loss if reliance is to be placed upon Pt IV of the Wrongs Act .
42 I now turn to the operation of O 15A r 6.
It is convenient to deal with one preliminary matter, although it is unnecessary to do so in light of my conclusion that Pt IVAA has no application in these proceedings.
KPMG submitted that O 15A r 6 had no application because there was no basis for the respondents to rely upon Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act in support of the contention that they may have a right to obtain relief from KPMG.
I do not accept that submission.
If the respondents could rely upon Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act so as to limit their liability to the applicant, the respondents must in the first instance be able to identify the existence of a concurrent wrongdoer within the meaning of s 24AH of the Wrongs Act .
The alleged concurrent wrongdoer must then be joined as a party to the proceeding (see s 24AI(3)) , and will be a defendant within the meaning of s 24AE of the Wrongs Act .
The respondents would then be able to rely upon any reduction in liability.
The respondents before me would be able to seek, inter alia, declaratory relief against KPMG to the effect that KPMG is a concurrent wrongdoer within the meaning of s 24AH.
It seems to me that any joinder of KPMG in these circumstances gives rise to the right to obtain relief by the respondents against the potential concurrent wrongdoer, namely KPMG, within the meaning of O 15A r 6.
It does not matter that KPMG has no liability in monetary terms to the respondents, just that the respondents may have the right to obtain relief from KPMG, in the events postulated, by way of declaration.
There would clearly be a controversy between the respondents and KPMG, as there would be between each of them and the applicant.
43 In any event, as I have already indicated, in relation to the claims brought by the applicant against the respondents, the respondents may have a right to obtain contribution from KPMG pursuant to Pt IV of the Wrongs Act .
There would be no question that the right to recover contribution within the meaning of Pt IV of the Wrongs Act would constitute a right to obtain relief against KPMG, irrespective of what the position may be if reliance could only be placed upon Pt IVAA of the Wrongs Act .
44 The main issue that was argued before me was whether, within the meaning of O 15A r 6, there is reasonable cause to believe that the respondents may have the right to obtain relief from KPMG.
