
 

 RELEVANT STATUTORY FRAMEWORK 
 
1 Under the Wheat Marketing Act 1989 (Cth) (the Act), the consent of the Wheat Export Authority (the Authority) is required for the export of wheat from Australia.
In certain circumstances, the Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Forestry (the Minister) must first agree to the giving of such consent by the Authority.
This proceeding concerns related decisions of the Authority and the Minister regarding the proposed export of wheat by OzEpulse Pty Ltd (OzEpulse) and OzEgrain Pty Ltd (OzEgrain) for which the Authority has refused to give the necessary consent.
Before stating the issues, it is desirable to say something about the legislative framework within which the issues arise, including some legislative history.
2 Under s 4 of the Act, the Australian Wheat Board (the Board), which was established under the Wheat Marketing Act 1984 (Cth) (the 1984 Act), was continued in existence as the Authority.
Section 5 provides that the functions of the Authority include the controlling of the export of wheat from Australia.
Under s 5A, in performing that function, the Authority must seek to complement any objective of AWB (International) Limited (AWB) to maximise net returns for pools operated by AWB, while at the same time seeking to facilitate the development of niche and other markets where the Authority considers that that may benefit both growers and the wider community.
3 Part 4 of the Act, which consists of ss 57 to 59, deals with the control of wheat exports.
Under s 57(1), a person must not export wheat unless the Authority has given its written consent to the export of the wheat and the export of the wheat is in accordance with the terms of that consent.
There are penalties for contravention of that prohibition.
However, the prohibition in s 57(1) does not apply to AWB.
Further, s 57(3A) provides that, before giving a consent, the Authority must consult AWB and, s 57(3B) provides that, unless a consent is limited to export of wheat in bags or containers, the Authority must not give a consent without the prior approval in writing of AWB.
Those provisions reflect the policy of maintaining AWB as a single desk for the export of wheat from Australia.
4 Section 58 of the Act provides that the Authority may vary a consent given under s 57 on request by the person to whom the consent was given.
If the Authority makes a variation, the variation must be in accordance with the request or, if it is not in accordance with the request, the variation must not be less favourable than the consent to which the request relates.
Before making a variation, the Authority must consult AWB.
Under s 58(7), a consent cannot be varied otherwise than in accordance with s 58.
5 When Part 4 was originally enacted in 1989, s 57 provided that a person other than the Board must not export wheat unless the Board had given its written consent to the export and the export was in accordance with the terms of that consent.
There was no express power to vary such a consent.
6 The Wheat Marketing Amendment Act 1997 (Cth) (the 1997 Amendment) was enacted to put in place the first phase of a Government plan to restructure the Board from a statutory marketing authority to a grower owned company.
The 1997 Amendment established AWB and other companies as privately owned bodies to take over the commercial activities of the Board.
No amendment was made to s 57 by the 1997 Amendment.
7 The Wheat Marketing Legislation Amendment Act 1998 (Cth) (the 1998 Amendment) amended s 4 to provide that the Board was to continue in existence as the Authority and s 57 was amended to substitute references to the Authority for references to the Board.
However, s 57(1A) was inserted to exempt AWB from the need to obtain the Authority's consent.
The provisions that require the Authority to consult with AWB before giving consent under s 57 and the provisions that prohibit the Authority from giving consent without the prior approval in writing of AWB were inserted in the Act by the 1998 Amendment.
Even after those changes, however, there was no express power conferred by the Act to amend a consent given by the Authority.
8 Section 58 of the Act was inserted by the Wheat Marketing Amendment Act 2003 (Cth) (the 2003 Amendment).
The 2003 Amendment also introduced s 5A into the Act.
The 2003 Amendment was part of arrangements that were intended to provide a funding mechanism for the wheat industry to meet the operational costs of the Authority.
The explanatory memorandum published in connection with the Bill for the 2003 Amendment stated that, at the time of the privatisation effected in 1999, the Authority was established as a regulatory body to control the single desk wheat export arrangements, including the issuing of export consents to persons other than AWB, and AWB became the manager of the single desk.
The explanatory memorandum said that the Bill included provisions to simplify the process to make minor variations to export consents and strengthen the Authority's powers to monitor compliance by exporters of wheat under consents.
9 In his speech on the second reading of the Bill for the 2003 Amendment, the then Minister said that the Government had repeatedly confirmed its support for a single desk for the export of wheat while ever there was a benefit to Australian wheat growers and Australia's export performance.
He said that, at the same time, it was recognised that there needed to be flexibility to allow other exporters to take advantage of market opportunities and that was an important function of the Authority through its consent system.
The Minister said that those principles, as they were to apply to that function of the Authority, would be spelt out through the 2003 Amendment.
10 Part 5 of the Act, which consists of ss 60 to 65, creates special rules concerning the application of Part 4 during a temporary period that commenced on 9 December 2006 and presently continues up to 30 June 2008.
During the temporary period, the Authority must not make a decision under s 57 to give a consent that is not limited to export in bags or containers, unless the Minister has agreed in writing to the giving of the consent.
Further, the Authority must not make a decision under s 57 to refuse to give such a consent unless the Minister has agreed in writing to the refusal to give the consent.
During the temporary period, the prohibition on the Authority giving a consent without the prior approval in writing of AWB does not apply.
Further, during the temporary period, the Minister may direct the Authority to give a consent to a person who has made an application to export wheat under s 57 and may direct the Authority to refuse to give a consent to a person who has made such an application.
Section 63 provides that, for the purposes of deciding whether to agree or to refuse to agree to the giving of a consent, or deciding whether to give a direction, the Minister must have regard to the public interest.
Nothing in Part 5 otherwise restricts the considerations that the Minister may take into account in making such a decision.
11 Part 5 of the Act was inserted by the Wheat Marketing Amendment Act 2006 (Cth) (the 2006 Amendment).
The explanatory memorandum published in connection with the Bill for the 2006 Amendment stated that the purpose of the Bill was to effect the transfer from AWB to the Minister, on a temporary basis, of the right to veto bulk wheat export applications.
The explanatory memorandum said that the changes did not amend the functions or objectives of the Authority or AWB's authority to engage in export activities and that the Authority would continue to control the export of bulk wheat.
However, the Authority would need to seek the agreement of the Minister before approving or rejecting an application for bulk export by any person other than AWB.
The Minister was to have a broad ranging discretion to permit the Government to assess whether allowing bulk exports by traders other than AWB would be in the public interest.
12 Under s 57(3E) of the Act, which was introduced into s 57 by the 1998 Amendment, the Authority is required to issue guidelines about the matters that it will take into account in exercising its powers to give consent to the export of wheat.
Further, unless a variation of a consent to the export of wheat is of a minor nature, the Authority must take into account the matters included in any guidelines issued by it before making the variation.
In accordance with s 57(3E), the Authority has published guidelines.
13 The guidelines provide, first, that the Authority will consider the Eligibility Criteria , namely, whether the applicant is a suitable person to be granted a consent with regard to the need to maintain effective control over the export of wheat from Australia, and Australia's reputation in overseas markets as a reliable supplier of wheat.
The guidelines state in more detail what the Authority may look at when applying the Eligibility Criteria.
14 Next, the Authority will consider the Market Assessment Criteria in relation to four different markets, being Niche markets, Non-Niche markets, Seed Wheat and Minimally Processed Wheat.
