
 
1 On 15 May 2007 the Australian Securities  Investments Commission ('ASIC') commenced an investigation pursuant to s 13 of the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001 (Cth) ('ASIC Act') in relation to acts or omissions that may constitute contravention of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) ('the Corporations Act ') by the following six related corporations ('Australvic Group'):
 
(a) Australvic Property Management Pty Ltd (ACN 113 858 021) ('APM');
 
(b) Australvic Home Loans Pty Ltd (ACN 113 976 257) ('AHL');
 
(c) Australvic Construction Services Pty Ltd (ACN 117 868 256) ('ACS');
 
(d) Australvic Finance Pty Ltd (ACN 113 860 638) ('AF');
 
(e) Australvic Property Management No 2 Pty Ltd (ACN 121 301 175) ('APM 2'); and
 
(f) MK River Pty Ltd (ACN 109 065 312) ('MK River').
2 The relationship between these companies was as follows:
 
 (a) All companies in the group had as their principal place of business Suite 721, 1 Queens Road, Melbourne, Victoria 3004;
 (b) The corporations were incorporated in or about May 2004, April 2005, and January and August 2006;
 (c) Michael Kyriackou, Walter Edwards and Brian Leslie Fisher or one or more of them were directors, officers or members of each of the Australvic Group corporations; and
 (d) Other than Messrs Kyriackou, Edwards and Fisher, members and officers of the Australvic Group corporations included Pareskevi Katranis (Mr Kyriackou's wife), other Australvic Group corporations and other corporations controlled by Messrs Kyriackou, Edwards and Fisher.


3 ASIC was concerned that:
 
 (a) The Australvic Group operated an unregistered managed investment scheme and solicited funds from investors and financiers for this purpose;
 (b) The remaining assets of the Australvic Group, and any further funds obtained, would be appropriated and dissipated to the detriment of the corporations within that group;
 (c) Assets of the Australvic Group had become intermingled with the personal assets of at least one of its officers making them hard to locate;
 (d) Each company within the Australvic Group had failed to keep the appropriate written financial records;
 (e) Mr Kyriackou was unlikely to cooperate with any investigation into the affairs of the Australvic Group; and 
 (f) Mr Kyriackou would not remain within the jurisdiction to be available to assist with any independent investigation into the affairs of the Australvic Group and may be difficult to locate if he left Australia.


4 In light of these concerns, ASIC made an application to the Court under ss 459B , 461 (1)(k), 464 , 472 (2), 473 (1), 601EE , 1323 and 1324 of the Corporations Act , s 12GD of the ASIC Act and ss 21 , 22 and 23 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) ('the Federal Court Act').
5 Before me ASIC sought interlocutory relief which, so far as now relevant, is for the appointment of provisional liquidators to the corporate defendants (other than APM) within the Australvic Group, injunctions restraining the transfer of property held in the name of the defendants, and various injunctions in relation to the conduct of the corporate defendants and of Mr Kyriackou, along with ancillary orders.
6 Interim orders are in place preventing the disposal of property and in relation to the financial records held by APM, AF and MK River.
No restraining order is currently in place affecting AHL.
On 5 October 2007, in related proceedings before the Court that were heard concurrently with this proceeding, APM was wound up in insolvency pursuant to s 459A of the Corporations Act and Mr Michael Wesley McCann was appointed liquidator.
Whilst ASIC initially sought the appointment of Mr Andrew James McLellan as provisional liquidator to all the corporate defendants, I understand that it is accepted by ASIC that the same liquidator should be appointed (at least initially) to all the corporate defendants.
As Mr McCann has been appointed as liquidator to APM, I propose to proceed on the basis that he would be the appropriate person to be appointed as provisional liquidator to the other corporate defendants if it were otherwise appropriate to appoint a provisional liquidator.
7 The main issue in this interlocutory hearing raised by ASIC is whether in fact the Australvic Group operated an unregistered managed investment scheme.
In the application, final relief is sought winding up 'the Scheme' as described by ASIC but, for the purposes of this interlocutory application, no order is sought specifically relating to the Scheme, but only in relation to its participants.
8 It is necessary then to consider the nature of the arrangements which primarily involve APM and other third parties.
It will be apparent from my reasons that follow that no view needs to be now expressed as to the legal nature of the Scheme.
However in light of my approach to this interlocutory hearing, I propose to set out the basic operation of the arrangements agreed to by the parties and to say something of the participants to the Scheme as contended for by ASIC.
9 The purpose of APM was to effectively 'bail out' land owners and builders under financial pressure by providing borrowing capacity to the existing owners of property by acting as a trustee and developing the acquired property to increase its value.
Upon final development of the acquired property, APM would dispose of the acquired property and make payment to the beneficiaries after payment of its costs and remuneration.
10 A case study of the way the arrangements worked can be seen by looking at the properties under the control of Mr Rocco Antonio Calderone.
APM was trustee of various properties owned by Mr Calderone and his associated companies the ('the Calderone Properties').
It seems that in respect of those properties, first mortgagees were in the process of entering into possession, and one of Mr Calderone's companies was being wound up.
At a meeting between Mr Kyriackou and a number of financiers, the concept of APM 'bailing out' the Calderone properties by acting as trustee and providing borrowing capacity, developing the acquired properties to increase their value, and making payment to the beneficiaries after payment of costs and remuneration, was discussed.
The proposal of APM acting as trustee was approved by all of the financiers of the Calderone Properties.
11 Further discussions ensued, culminating at a meeting on 3 August 2005 at which an agreement was formalised by way of a memorandum of agreement dated 3 August 2005, prepared by Mr Edwards as director of APM ('the Calderone Trust Agreement').
