
 
1 This is an appeal against a decision of Driver FM delivered 20 August 2007, dismissing an application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ("the Tribunal").
I note that a previously constituted Tribunal in a decision dated 6 February 2006 had earlier affirmed a decision of a delegate of the Minister refusing to grant a protection visa to the appellant, but that the Federal Court in a decision of 4 October 2006 allowed an appeal against that decision and remitted the matter to the Tribunal for reconsideration.
The matter before this Court concerns a subsequent decision of the Tribunal dated 11 January 2007 concerning the same visa applicant for a protection visa, where the Tribunal has again affirmed the decision of a delegate of the Minister to refuse to grant a protection visa to the appellant.
2 The appellant seeks the following orders:
 
 "1.
To set aside the judgment of Driver FM dated 20 August 2007.

 
 
 2.
To remit the matter to the Tribunal to determine according to law.
3.
An order that no action taken to remove the applicant from Australia while the decision is pending.
4.
An order of cost.
And any further order that this honourable court may deem appropriate.
"
 
 
 BACKGROUND 
 
3 The appellant is a citizen of Pakistan who arrived in Australia on 9 March 2005.
On 22 April 2005 the appellant lodged an application for a protection visa.
A delegate of the first respondent refused the application for a protection visa on 20 June 2005.
The appellant claimed that he had suffered persecution by the local Sunni majority on the basis of his Shi'a religion.
He asserted that in 1994 he was part of a group that was attacked by local Sunni Muslims, and he was jailed and later that year there was another attack and one of the group members was killed.
The appellant claimed that the attackers were sent to jail but threatened to kill the appellant from jail, saying he was not a "true Muslim" and that it was a "jihad" to kill him.
After they were released, the appellant claimed that they continued threatening him whereby he left his village but the Sunnis followed him and continued threatening him.
The appellant asserted that in 2005 the Sunnis abducted him, but that he managed to escape and continued hiding until he left Pakistan.
The appellant feared he will be killed should he return to Pakistan.
THE TRIBUNAL'S DECISION 
 
4 The Tribunal found that although the appellant was a Shi'a, and had been persecuted in 1994, and had threats made against him and his family in the village, he did not have a well-founded fear of persecution because he had not been persecuted for a Convention reason since 1994.
The Tribunal found that the incident in 2005 was simply the result of his car being robbed by criminals.
Further, the Tribunal found he had lived in Lahore for five years before his departure without being harassed, and that the people making the threats had remained in the village.
The Tribunal was satisfied that there was no real chance that the appellant would suffer harm amounting to persecution for the reason of his religion in the future.
DECISION OF THE FEDERAL MAGISTRATE 
 
5 On 23 February 2007 the appellant sought judicial review of the Tribunal's decision in the Federal Magistrates Court.
