
 Introduction 
 
1 On 5 February 2007, Mr Aaron Rilstone, a workplace inspector employed in the then Office of Workplace Services ("OWS") brought a proceeding in the Federal Magistrates Court of Australia against BP Australia Pty Ltd and No 1 Riverside Quay Pty Ltd.
The proceeding was subsequently transferred to this Court.
The proceeding is brought under the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) ("the Act ") and the applicant seeks orders imposing upon the respondents a pecuniary penalty under subs 407(1)(b) of the Act for contravention of subs 400(5) and of subs 410(1) of the Act and a civil penalty under subs 846(2)(g) of the Act for contravention of reg 8.11(1)(c) and of reg 8.13(2) of the Workplace Relations Regulations 2006 (Cth).
2 On 7 August 2007, I made an order that the applicant file and serve on or before 21 August 2007 a list of documents enumerating each document in its possession, other than those that are reasonably believed to be in the respondents' possession.
By consent, the date for filing and serving the list of documents was varied to 28 August 2007 by order made on 21 August 2007.
On 29 August 2007 the applicant filed its list of documents.
Claims of legal professional privilege were made in respect of several of the documents in the list.
In respect of some documents, legal advice privilege was claimed; in respect of others, litigation privilege was claimed.
An affidavit of Mr Steven David Ronson sworn on 28 August 2007 was filed in support of the claims of privilege.
3 By notice of motion filed on 17 September 2007, the respondents moved for an order that:
 
 "The Applicant produce for inspection each of the documents that are dated with a date on or before 23 October 2006 and in relation to which advice privilege is asserted as set out in the Applicant's Further List of Documents excluding the documents numbered 3.1, 3.3 and 4.34.
"
 

4 On 3 October 2007 I ordered that the applicant produce for inspection those documents referred to in the respondents' notice of motion.
My reasons for making that order follow.
The Documents in Dispute 
 
5 The respondents' notice of motion related to those documents which bore a date on or before 23 October 2006 and in respect of which advice privilege was claimed, with the exception of three identified documents.
At the hearing of the notice of motion, the applicant identified seven documents in his list of documents in respect of which a claim of advice privilege was no longer made.
The documents in relation to which advice privilege is claimed by the applicant and disputed by the respondents are tabulated in the appendix to these reasons ("the documents").
In summary, they are documents which were made in the course of an investigation by the OWS into the respondents' possible breaches of the Act and provided to the OWS' Legal and Advice Branch.
6 The OWS was abolished as from 1 July 2007.
From that date, its functions have been exercised by the Workplace Ombudsman.
The OWS was an executive agency within the responsibility of the Minister for Employment and Workplace Relations whereas the Workplace Ombudsman is a statutory agency.
The documents in issue on the notice of motion are documents created on or before 23 October 2006.
In that sense, reference to the Workplace Ombudsman is irrelevant.
However, Mr Ronson, who is the State Director of the Workplace Ombudsman and was previously the State Manager of the OWS, gave his evidence as if, for the purposes of this application, there was no material difference between the OWS and the Workplace Ombudsman.
The parties proceeded on that basis and I will as well.
7 For reasons which will later become apparent, it is convenient to state now that a subset of the documents in issue comprises records of interviews conducted during the investigation and related documentation ("the interview documents").
This subset is identified in the last column in the table of the appendix to these reasons.
The documents within the subset were identified by counsel for the applicant from the bar table for the purposes of the submission discussed below [17]-[18].
Background Facts 
 
8 The applicant relied upon the evidence of Mr Ronson to support his claims for privilege.
Mr Ronson has been involved, and has participated at an investigatory level, at all stages of the case which has given rise to the present proceeding.
In addition to his affidavit, Mr Ronson gave oral evidence at the hearing of the notice of motion.
I found Mr Ronson to be an honest and straightforward witness and I accept his evidence.
