
 Context to the proceedings including the sale of medical centre assets from the applicant to the first respondent --- an outline of the pleadings and of the issues arising 
 
1 These proceedings were commenced on 18 October 2004 by application and statement of claim filed by Idoshore Pty Limited ('Idoshore') against each of the respondents, being related companies of the Foundation corporate group effectively controlled in the context of the same ultimate corporate ownership.
The context was the leasehold estate of a city building in Sydney and medical practices conducted in different rooms located in that building.
The causes of action pleaded in chief were based principally upon and otherwise related to a comprehensive agreement in writing styled Business Sale  Purchase Agreement ('the Agreement') bearing date 14 December 2000, to which the parties to the proceedings were solely privy, concerning the sale to the first respondent Foundation company, then named Foundation Medical Centres (NSW) Pty Limited, of the medical centre business conducted by the applicant, Idoshore.
The business involved the provision of facilities and services to medical practitioners for the conduct of their respective professional practices in consultation rooms located within that city building.
The second respondent company, then named Foundation Healthcare Limited (at the time of the Agreement a public company), was a party to that Agreement as guarantor of the first respondent's obligations under that Agreement.
The cross-claim involved an issue also purportedly arising under the Agreement for monetary claims made by Foundation against Idoshore.
2 By an originating application, Idoshore made the following claims:
 
 (i) damages pursuant to sections 82 and/or 87 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ('the Trade Practices Act ') for losses suffered as a result of its detrimental reliance on misleading and deceptive conduct of the first and second Foundation respondents by way of representations collateral to the formation of the Agreement;
 (ii) further or in the alternative, damages as a result of certain breaches of the Agreement by the first and second respondents; and
 (iii) repayment of a sum of $85,000, being the balance of the deposit paid by Foundation to Idoshore pursuant to the Agreement, which was released by Idoshore by way of loan to the first Foundation respondent pursuant to a Deed of Variation made in relation to the Agreement, the repayment of which the second respondent guaranteed, and which in breach of the Agreement and the Deed of Variation was not repaid on the due date, nor since has been repaid, by the first respondent and/or second respondent.


By a comprehensively amended statement of claim later filed on 21 March 2006, claim was made by Idoshore for the additional sum of $125,000 relating to what may be described as the Dr Fox issue.
A number of matters pleaded by the amended statement of claim, inclusive of certain of the alleged representations collateral to the formation of the Agreement and of certain alleged implied terms, were not ultimately pursued.
3 The circumstances of the case are complex, as is evident from the pleadings as subsequently amended, and also from the comprehensive written submissions provided by counsel to the Court.
A defence to the amended statement of claim and an amended cross-claim were filed by the respondents on 27 April 2006.
An amended defence to that amended statement of claim and the amended cross-claim were subsequently filed on 12 March 2007 by the respondents, being the first day of what was in excess of a four day final hearing conducted upon the basis of the tender of the affidavit evidence in the first instance, followed by oral evidence.
Issues principally raised by the time of filing of the amended defence and amended cross-claim, additionally to joinder of issue upon the material averments of the amended statement of claim, were first, that the representations and the collateral warranties pleaded were not promissory in nature nor otherwise went to the root of the contract, secondly were not representations as to future matters within section 51A of the Trade Practices Act , and thirdly involved representations which the Foundation respondents had reasonable grounds for making.
The amended cross-claim of the Foundation respondents sought remedies by way of damages from Idoshore for breach of certain warranties and/or conditions.
The change to the present names of both respondent companies, whereby there was substituted the prefix IPN in the place of Foundation, apparently took effect after the commencement of the proceedings, but consistently with the extensive written submissions of the parties, the convenient course is for me to refer generally to the respondent companies, whether alone or together, as 'Foundation', except to the extent where otherwise necessary to the context.
4 Comprehensive written submissions were provided by both parties.
Those provided in chief by Idoshore on 29 March 2007 extended over 39 pages, divided into seven parts and headed respectively as follows:
 Part 1 --- Background to the Transactions
 Part 2 --- The Representations and Warranties
 Part 3 --- Adjusted Foundation/Gower Accounts
 Part 4 --- Gower's Impossible EBITDA Thesis
 Part 5 --- Payments to Dr Fox and Breach of the Business Relocation
 Part 6 --- EBITDA Calculations by Deloitte (Mr Phillps)
 Part 7 --- General Assessment  Comparison of Damages
 
Foundation responded on 17 April 2007 by 14 pages of submissions, and Idoshore replied on 24 April 2007 with 21 pages of submissions in reply.
The consequences flowing from what I have therefore recorded was that the material presented to the Court for resolution is of considerable complexity, and not precisely or conveniently partitioned in presentation.
Idoshore's acquisition in 1995 of the subject Oxford Square Medical Centre operations and its subsequent expansion of those operations 
 
5 The managing director of Idoshore Pty Limited ('Idoshore') has been at all material times Mr P G O'Shanassy, a legal practitioner of the Supreme Court of New South Wales since 1999, and the managing director of Sagacious Legal Pty Limited ('Sagacious Legal'), the incorporated legal practitioner for Idoshore on the record of the present proceedings.
In addition to his legal qualifications, Mr O'Shanassy holds a Masters of Business Administration, having majored in what he described as 'new business ventures'.
It appears that he had engaged in commercial business affairs prior to the transactions the subject of the proceedings.
He exercised personally on behalf of Idoshore the management of the subject Oxford Square Medical Centre ('OSMC') during times material to its operation as a modern medical centre in the usable space comprising the ground and first floor(s) or level(s) within the building complex located at Nos 10-14 Oxford Square Darlinghurst, Sydney.
6 That location was described in the evidence as 'premium' for a medical centre, by reason of its high pedestrian traffic and its close proximity to the Central Business District of Sydney.
It was said to traditionally attract a demand for 'walk in' patient treatment.
The lessor of that building complex appears to have been a member of the Meehan group of companies, being related corporately, whether directly or indirectly, to the Foundation group of companies (inclusive of the respondents), whereof Mr Graham Meehan had been at all material times chief executive officer.
7 It was in or about the years 1994-1995 that Mr O'Shanassy caused to be acquired by Idoshore, pursuant apparently to an assignment of the head leasehold estate, the occupation of certain level(s) in that building complex.
There was by then in operation a medical centre conducted by about four or five general medical practitioners assisted by two or three employed support staff, that medical centre by then being already named the 'Oxford Square Medical Centre' and being located on at least the ground floor level.
Medical services had been provided at the premises since about 1975 or 1976.
That acquisition took place pursuant to arrangements made by Idoshore with the liquidator of the then corporate operator of that medical centre.
Included within the scope of the acquisition were fixtures and fittings, and also patient medical records.
At the time of that acquisition, part of the ground floor was sublet to an unrelated operator of an x-ray clinic, and part of the first floor was sublet to a beautician.
As I have foreshadowed, Idoshore caused to be operated in due course on the ground and first of those levels the activities of a composite medical centre, under the continuing designation of 'Oxford Square Medical Centre', until the sale in December 2000 of what may be described imprecisely as the medical centre assets of that going concern to the first Foundation respondent as a corporate member of the Foundation Healthcare group of companies, being a transaction which provided the context to the disputes the subject of the present proceedings.
No issue arises as to the standing of Idoshore to bring the present proceedings.
8 From the time of the commencement in 1995 of Idoshore's business operations appertaining to the OSMC, the occupancy of rooms with associated facilities, inclusive of support staff, was provided for medical practitioners for the time being engaged professionally at the OSMC, in return for payment of service fees equivalent to about 50 per centum of each such resident doctor's gross billings.
I use the description 'resident doctor' in the particular sense just described, none of the practitioners for the time occupying any part of the OSMC in any residential sense.
The occupancy/facility arrangement made with each of those medical practitioners was described by Mr O'Shanassy as 'simply a longstanding arrangement' whereby each doctor 'used Oxford Square['s] medical facilities' at the material times for financial reward to Idoshore.
I would infer that the set-up originally was that no medical practitioner had exclusive rights at all times to occupation of a particular room within the OSMC.
Mr O'Shanassy explained in his comprehensive affidavit evidence that '[t]he ability of Oxford Square medical to retain its medical practitioners was... dependent on (in the main) its ability to provide them with quality facilities in a good location'.
Mr O'Shanassy claimed to have adopted at the OSMC the objective that the size of a medical clinic accommodating discrete practices of various medical practitioners, crucially affected profitability of the clinic operator, in circumstances where each practice was thus conducted 'within one roof', with the attendant savings in costs and other pecuniary advantages.
It may be inferred that, at least generally speaking, the patients of the OSMC practitioners were 'bulk billed' in respect of his or her treatment, so that the ultimate pecuniary source of each OSMC medical practitioner's gross earnings was confined essentially to the Commonwealth Medicare funding of the patients of the practices conducted at the OSMC.
9 Following upon completion in or about 1995 of Idoshore's acquisition of the occupation and conduct of the operations of the OSMC, being operations (as I have foreshadowed) extending beyond the grant of occupation of rooms to what may be described as the conduct of a clinic, Mr O'Shanassy took up occupation individually of an administrative office on level 1 of the OSMC building in order to manage those operations.
He described that administrative role which he exercised as 'supervisory'.
Thus he would liaise with the medical practitioners who used the premises the subject of the OSMC for their respective practices, and arranged their attendance rosters, and resolved finance, accounting and management issues for the practitioners, inclusively of attending to bulk billed Medicare claims.
Idoshore did not acquire the freehold title to the OSMC at any material time and hence found itself from time to time in negotiation with the building owner.
Until certain activities and innovations took place in 1998 and 1999, which I will address in the following segment of these reasons, Mr O'Shanassy said that '... there was little change in... the structure or staffing of Oxford Square medical'.
There were a number of important aspects to the successful operation of that business at all times, the key aspect being the retention of competent medical practitioners for regular engagement in practice at the OSMC at specified times of the day or evening.
As I have foreshadowed, during Idoshore's operation of the OSMC Mr O'Shanassy caused to be engaged for the most part general practitioners with differing specialist interests in areas such as sports medicine, sexual health, casualty and women's health.
Mr O'Shanassy testified that a further factor, significant to what he described as the success of the OSMC, was Idoshore's retention of well-trained and experienced support staff, including a registered nurse, a centre manager (being the point of communication between the doctors and the administrative support staff and having a supervisory role in relation to other support staff) and a receptionist.
10 Mr O'Shanassy described the corporatisation of the medical services industry, as it emerged and evolved at least by the late 1990s, as the aggregation through purchase and/or takeover of smaller medical services businesses by larger corporate operations or infrastructures.
He identified the then 'primary players' in that corporatisation process, apart from the Foundation Healthcare corporate group (inclusive of the respondents), as the Endeavour Healthcare and Primary Healthcare corporate groups, and he explained that '[c]ompetition between these entities for market share in the medical services industry involved the acquisition of medical centres and pathology labs across Australia'.
The second respondent Foundation company was a public company which changed to a proprietary company in about January 2003, and thus subsequently to the sale of the OSMC assets from Idoshore to Foundation made in December 2000.
11 In or about 1999 Mr O'Shanassy caused to be further established and developed a complementary multidisciplinary services corporate group, which provided from time to time legal, consulting and associated services to its clients inclusive of medical practitioners, the parent company of that group being Sagacious Group Pty Limited.
Throughout the submissions of the parties, the description 'Oxford Square Medical' was used synonymously for the expression Oxford Square Medical Centre.
That corporate group was said to have retained the individual services of various professional and business employees, directly or indirectly.
As managing director and major shareholder of the Sagacious Group of companies, Mr O'Shanassy caused to be offered business consulting services, as well as legal services, in the latter case in the name of Sagacious Legal.
He also set about the development of retainer relationships at the OSMC with the medical specialists to whom general practitioners in practice at the OSMC could refer patients.
Those specialists would attend the OSMC at pre-arranged dates and times on a weekly basis, for which they would pay an occupation fee to Idoshore.
That became in time a significant source of revenue for the OSMC operations conducted by Idoshore.
12 At about the beginning of July 2000, Mr O'Shanassy caused to be leased additional space within the OSMC premises (that is additional to the status quo at the time of Idoshore's original acquisition of the OSMC) in the form of consulting rooms, which additional space produced rental income of about $30,000 per annum, and thereby added in relation to the OSMC operations a so-called 'bottom line revenue'.
One such subtenant was Dr Diamond, a specialist obstetrician, and another was Dr Hakim, a specialist gynaecologist.
In addition, he made an arrangement with Dr Tornya for the provision of consulting rooms on an ad hoc basis, in return for which Idoshore received one half of that consulting doctor's revenue derived from practice at the Centre.
Those additional sources of income were said to have boosted OSMC's 'medical profitability', yet without any material increase in costs.
Those operations did not bear directly upon the circumstances arising for present resolution.
13 The expanded corporatisation of medical services implemented by Idoshore from about 1999 involved an increase in the number of general practitioners from time to time engaged in individual medical practices conducted at the OSMC.
I use the expression 'individual' in the sense that none of the general practitioners appear to have operated in partnership at the OSMC.
For the purpose of advancing that professional reorganisation within the OSMC, Idoshore retained the services of Dr Peter Gesovic to secure an increase in the number of general, and also specialist, practitioners engaged professionally in practice at the OSMC.
Dr Gesovic had formerly practised medicine at the subject OSMC premises, in or about 1995, being shortly prior to Mr O'Shanassy's commencement of Idoshore's activities.
Dr Gesovic was a resident of the inner eastern suburbs, and Mr O'Shanassy explained that '[a]s a consequence ... he knew a lot of the local doctors', and further that '... unlike other professions, there is an advantage of having local doctors, as they tend to retain their patients'.
Dr Gesovic continued to be retained by Idoshore until February 2002 as a liaison between Idoshore and the general practitioners engaged at the OSMC.
He did not testify at the hearing of the proceedings.
The amalgamation in 1999 of the operation of the Oxford Square Medical Centre conducted by Idoshore with the Kings Cross medical practices operated by Dr Grech 
 
14 It was at least by 1999, as Mr O'Shanassy further explained, that the Commonwealth Government commenced to offer financial incentives by way of lump sums for the amalgamation or so-called corporatisation of small partnerships and sole practitioner medical practices, and did so in order to improve economies of scale and efficiencies in particular in the general practitioner segment of medical service providers.
It was apparently at about the time of Idoshore's corporatisation of an increased number of general practitioners that Mr O'Shanassy set about negotiations for the amalgamation of the practices of then existing medical practitioners at the OSMC with two medical practices located at Kings Cross operated by Dr Joseph Grech in conjunction with two other medical practitioners.
15 Mr O'Shanassy expressed the view that '[t]he Commonwealth financial incentives were not the only reason why Idoshore entered into the merger with the Kings Cross practices, [since] [b]ringing in more doctors could generate more revenue and mean that Oxford Square Medical could become more profitable', and moreover that '[i]f my anticipation of the impending corporatisation in this sector of the industry was correct, increased revenue and profitability would enhance the value of Oxford Square [M]edical to an incoming purchaser, and increase the purchase price which Idoshore could obtain on any sale'.
It was the circumstances related to and involving the subsequent sale of the entire OSMC operations and the assets thereof from Idoshore to Foundation that gave rise to the present complex litigation.
16 On 21 August 1999, the amalgamation of the practices by then conducted at the OSMC on the one hand, and of the Kings Cross practices of Dr Grech on the other, was formalised upon the following basis in outline:
 
 (i) payment of $60,000 by Idoshore to Dr Grech for the acquisition by the OSMC of his Kings Cross practices; 

(ii) Dr Grech's appointment as medical director at the OSMC;
 
 (iii) putting in place an incentive scheme for Dr Grech based upon the financial performance of the OSMC;
 (iv) provision of a remuneration rate for Dr Grech based upon sixty per centum (60%) of his patient billings;
 (v) a minimum appointment term of 18 months subject to termination on six months' notice;
 (vi) a restraint of trade imposed upon Dr Grech after termination of the arrangements for a period of two years and within a two kilometre radius from Oxford Square; and 
 (vii) a grant of first right of refusal to Dr Grech to purchase what may be described broadly as the OSMC operational structure in the event that Idoshore might decide to sell the same.


17 In or about September 1999, the OSMC and Dr Grech each received the amalgamation incentives payment by then available from the Commonwealth Government as a consequence of that medical practice amalgamation.
As a consequence, the Kings Cross general practitioners Drs Grech, Paull and Mackenzie continued the provision of their respective services within the auspices of the OSMC, and as part of its overall or consolidated operations with those two Kings Cross practices.
18 Mr O'Shanassy testified that after the amalgamation of the OSMC with the Kings Cross practices of Dr Grech, the operating costs of the OSMC practice as thus reconstituted increased temporarily, by reason of first, the costs associated with the physical merging of the practices (for example stationery, advertising and removal costs), and secondly, of the short term retention of Dr Grech's support staff during the transition period.
From about 1 July 2000, those additional costs were said by Mr O'Shanassy to have 'fallen away', and he testified to beginning 'to see positive benefits' from having these additional three doctors in operation under the OSMC administrative umbrella.
That was said to be because of a significant increase in revenue coupled with a reduction in costs asserted by Mr O'Shanassy to have been achieved because of the two practices being thus assimilated, and because of Dr Grech's support staff, after a relatively brief time, being no longer retained.
Negotiations to sell the Oxford Square Medical Centre structure and operations undertaken by Idoshore as prospective vendor with Foundation as prospective purchaser --- finalisation of Heads of Agreement between Idoshore and Foundation 
 
19 In September 2000, Mr O'Shanassy attended a meeting with representatives of the corporate group comprising the Foundation Healthcare companies, being Messrs Meehan and Murphy, concerning what Mr O'Shanassy described as 'aspects of the commercial lease between Idoshore and HMP Finance Pty Limited'.
As already indicated, a related or corporate member of the HMP Finance group was apparently at all material times the freehold owner of the OSMC property.
The Foundation Healthcare companies included of course the respondents.
Medical centres with which the Foundation corporate group was by about that time associated were located in Auburn, Edgecliff, Liverpool and Penrith, and also on the Central Coast of New South Wales.
Mr Meehan informed Mr O'Shanassy as to the sale of 'my medical centres into Foundation Healthcare Limited' and as to his having taken up an executive position in relation thereto.
Mr Meehan enquired of Mr O'Shanassy as to whether he would be interested in selling the OSMC to Foundation and Mr O'Shanassy had replied in the affirmative.
By about that time, the OSMC had assembled a management team, inclusive of Mr O'Shanassy as the chief executive officer, and comprising otherwise Mr S Nijssen-Smith as the chief financial officer, Mr Laere as a director, the earlier mentioned Dr Gesovic as the administrative director, and more recently the abovementioned Dr Grech as the medical director.
Those persons headed up what was described as the support and practising medical staff in administrative office in relation to the OSMC.
20 Either at or a short time after that meeting in September 2000, Mr O'Shanassy had given to Mr Meehan a document bearing date July 2000 and headed 'Oxford Square Medical Centre' and 'Business Overview Prepared for Foundation Healthcare Limited', explicitly for the purposes of furnishing to Foundation '... an accurate summation of the medical practice known as the Oxford Square Medical Centre... and thereby provide sufficient information so that Foundation Healthcare can consider the acquisition of OSMC'.
Attached to that document was comprehensive financial information bearing the description 'Maintainable Earnings Calculation' and containing the primary subheadings mentioned in the next paragraph below, each such segment relating to the year ended 30 June 1999 together with the further quarters ended 31 March 2000, 31 December 1999 and 30 September 1999.
21 In addition to that extent of comprehensive historical financial information related to OSMC earnings, there was set out figures for each of those corresponding financial periods of time relating to OSMC's 'Costs of Sales', 'Gross Margin', 'Expenses', 'Other Income', 'Profit (Loss) before Tax', 'EBITD Normalisation Adjustments', 'Adjusted EBITDA' and 'Annualised EBITD'.
'Explanatory Notes' were additionally provided, along with other explanations and details.
The expression EBITDA is the abbreviation for 'Earnings Before Interest Taxation and Depreciation', and thus reflected the notion for measurement of income achievement used in the proceedings.
Under the sub-heading '5.
Financials  Growth Strategy', it was stated that '[b]y virtue of the... relocation and other initiatives, the revenue stream of the medical practice could be increased substantially, resulting in an EBIT of $400,000 - $500,000 per annum'.
'EBITDA' and the more restricted term 'EBIT' were both reflective of measurements of income derived from business operations, such as here in the case of the OSMC.
The assets the subject of sale and purchase by the Agreement were described by the documentation subsequently entered into between the parties as 'Business', 'Goodwill' and 'Facilities and Service Contracts', and hence what may be described, in part, as intangible assets of the OSMC.
22 Mr O'Shanassy also met in September 2000 with Dr Ken Jones, the chief executive officer of Foundation Healthcare Pty Limited, Mr Meehan as chief executive officer of Foundation Medical Centres (NSW) Pty Limited (of course the previous name of the first respondent to the present proceedings), and Doctors Fox and Grech (by then of the OSMC).
Each of those doctors have already been identified in these reasons.
After a tour of the OSMC property, there occurred at the meeting a further discussion, in the course of which Mr Meehan was said by Mr O'Shanassy to have remarked, for what it may ultimately matter, that '[t]here is huge potential for this medical centre --- strategically speaking, it is ideally located and has the ability to expand in sheer size by either expanding into level 1 or relocating to larger premises', and '[t]o optimise the medical centres potential it would need to grow in size to benefit from the economies of scale etc'.
23 Thereafter Mr Meehan wrote to Mr O'Shanassy's legal firm (Sagacious Legal) on 5 September 2000 on the letterhead of Peak Health Pty Limited, a corporation apparently related to Foundation, which stated as follows (omitting formal parts):
 
 'I apologise for the delay in writing to you.
This was due to the pressure of completing other Medical Centre purchases.
We are prepared to purchase the above Medical Centre on a formula basis, based on 3x last year's earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) with a further payment to be made at the end of either the first year after completing the purchase of the above Medical Centre or at the end of the second year where we would be prepared to pay the multiple of 5x the difference between purchase price EBITDA and the EBITDA achieved in whatever year (first or second year) were [ sic ] taken as the earn out year.
The principle is that, if you are able to amalgamate the current medical centre and its doctors with other medical practices in the area and grow the business to the size required by Foundation, then they would be prepared to pay you a premium.
The EBITDA would have to increase to at least $500,000 pa before the increased EBITDA was paid.
Any costs incurred in achieving the earn out would be for your account or would be deducted from the increase in purchase price.
There would be no claw back from the initial purchase price.
We would wish to see all of your doctors sign a three-year Service Contract.
I enclose the standard Foundation Health Care Service Agreement for doctors.
Please amend this Contract so that your doctors would be comfortable to sign.
I also enclose the Standard Foundation Health Care Purchase Contract, which will need to be amended.
If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact me with regard to any matters relating to the purchase of the Medical Practices at the Oxford Street Medical Centre.
Representing the owners of the property (10, 12 and 14 Oxford Square, Darlinghurst), I would see no problem in you surrendering your lease of the ground and first floors, subject to you giving suitable notice to the landlords, and allowing the landlords a reasonable amount of time after you vacate the premises to get a new letting in place.
I would see this time frame as being a maximum of six months, if a tenant were in place before the six months had elapsed, we would refund to you any portion of the rent payment not needed to cover the rental shortfall.
If it assists you, we would be prepared to take a surrender of the first floor lease before the ground floor lease.
Alternatively, you may prefer to sub-lease the premises yourself.
The above comments are without prejudice and would be subject to Contract.
'` 


Apart from the references to 'EBITDA' as a means of measurement of quantification of purchase price to be payable by Foundation for the OSMC, the Foundation requirement that 'your doctors sign a three-year Service Contract' may be observed; such service contracts were thus required to be entered into by the medical practitioners then practising at the OSMC in favour of Foundation as the incoming operator of the OSMC.
Foundation's offer was described as 'performance based', being made referrable to a starting base equal to OSMC's existing performance criteria, and thereafter to OSMC's performance criteria involving one or two years earnings etc (as the case may be) following upon completion of the takeover, being criteria in both instances related to the EBITDA formula.
24 A meeting occurred subsequently on 15 September 2000 between Mr O'Shanassy (of course of Idoshore) on the one hand and with Messrs Meehan and Mr Murphy together (of course of Foundation) on the other.
Mr O'Shanassy stated that the Foundation offer was 'way too low', despite what he referred to as the 'additional incentive of a further earn up at the times multiple of [five] but this is all too uncertain...', and he further stated that '...
I have a strong preference for just a competitive times multiple figure --- which I believe to be 7.5'.
He added 'this is comparable, as I understand it, with the initial purchase price paid by Foundation... in recent acquisitions'.
Mr Meehan was said by Mr O'Shanassy to have stated, by way of representation or warranty inter alia :
 
 'Based upon what I have outlined, you will be financially far better off accepting a lower initial purchase price that provides you with further earn up capacity.
I can assure you that you can rely upon the underlying assumption, as I've just stated, because I intend to be involved in the management of Foundation and I have a vested interest in ensuring that Foundation is successful... the best I can do is increase the initial times multiple from 3 to 4.5 and give you two... further "earn ups" --- the 1 st earn up at the end of the first year and a 2 nd earn up upon relocating Oxford Square medical to a larger premises... you have my assurance that it will go the way I have described to you.
'
 

Those notions of 'earn ups' were of course performance based criteria.
Mr Meehan was said by Mr O'Shanassy to have further added 'I will in the meantime get Foundation to contact you for the purposes of undertaking the due diligence to establish the sustainable EBITDA', which was of course to comprise the benchmark formula as to performance of the OSMC at the material time for the purpose of the calculation of the sale price to ultimately crystallise for payment by Foundation.
In response, Mr O'Shanassy deposed to having said the following:
 
 'That's a good idea, I would like to think we could enter into a sale agreement with the benchmark EBITDA having been agreed to.
'
 

25 Mr O'Shanassy explained in his affidavit evidence that in relation to '... the determination of the purchase price, in my experience of the industry, the normal manner in which the purchase price for medical centres was determined was by applying a times multiple to the sustainable earnings of the business in question', being 'usually expressed as either: Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and Amortisation [abbreviated as above to 'EBITDA'] or Earnings before Interest and Tax [abbreviated to 'EBIT']'.
Of course the precise terms and conditions of the transaction the subject of the complex formal documentation which ensued (being essentially the subject Business Sale  Purchase Agreement later predominantly extracted in these reasons) govern the operation of the purported transaction negotiated between the parties, but the circumstances leading to the formation of that transaction assist at least to explain the circumstances attendant upon the unique nature of the ongoing contractual documentation between Idoshore and Foundation thereby formed.
More than that, from the perspective of Idoshore, those circumstances provided the context to the controversial collateral warranties which Idoshore pleaded.
26 Following upon that meeting held on 15 September 2000, Mr O'Shanassy instructed Mr Douglas, a chartered accountant employed by the Sagacious Group of companies, to participate as that Group's representative in the due diligence process thereafter undertaken by Foundation in respect of the OSMC annual earnings and assets.
Mr Douglas subsequently prepared a three page document headed 'Maintainable Earnings Calculation', which purported to identify the income, cost of sales, gross margin, expenses and other income which went to make up the periodic profit or loss before tax of Idoshore's OSMC practice and its operations, which figures were said by Mr O'Shanassy to have been then 'normalised' or 'adjusted' to remove 'extraordinary (usually "one off") income or expenditure'.
The document contained calculations styled 'Adjusted EBITDA' and 'Annualised EBITDA', described by Mr O'Shanassy as 'designed to determine a suitable profit figure for the business'.
The material containing those calculations appears on pages 48, 49 and 50 of TAB 6 of exhibit PGO-1 attached to Mr O'Shanassy's affidavit under the description 'Maintainable Earnings Calculation' of 'Idoshore Pty Ltd t/a Oxford Square Medical Centre'.
Upon the footing of that material, Mr O'Shanassy considered that '... an estimated EBITDA... in excess of $250,000' was shown to be derived annually in respect of the OSMC as at November 2000.
27 In amplification of that estimate of 'in excess of $250,000', which sum was precisely reflected relevantly in the Business Sale  Purchase Agreement and denoted as the 'EBITDA Benchmark', it is appropriate that I reproduce pars 51 to 54 of Mr O'Shanassy's affidavit of 20 February 2006 and the calculation exercise which Mr O'Shanassy thereby undertook, the references therein to 'Oxford Square Medical' being of course to the OSMC:
 
 
 '51.
Whilst I did not prepare the "Maintainable Earnings Calculation", I was and am familiar with the financial statements and records of Oxford Square medical.
I agree with the estimates of "Annualised EBITDA" shown on the "Maintainable Earnings Calculation".
In particular, I consider that the adjustments made in relation to the month of November 2000 were appropriate and resulted in an estimated EBITDA for Oxford Square medical, as at November 2000, in excess of $250,000.
52.
The actual reported income and expenses of the medical centre, with the annualised EBITDA calculations (as at November 2000) for the 3 months period ending 30 September 2000 was as follows:
 
 
 
 Income Sources: 
 
 $ Amount 
 
 
 
 a) Doctors patient billings 
 
 284,090 
 
 
 
 b) Other medical fees 
 
 13,843 
 
 
 
 c) Subtenancies 
 
 29,195 
 
 
 
 Total income 
 
 327,128 
 
 Expenditures 
 
 
 d) Direct costs Doctors commissions 
 
 142,045 
 
 
 
 e) Medical supplies 
 
 13,402 
 
 
 
 f) Operating expenses 
 
 123,418 
 
 
 
 Total expenses 
 
 278,865 
 
 
 
 Net profit before tax 
 
 48,263 
 
 
 
 Dedications/Additions 
 
 
 
 
 g) Eliminate related party 
 consulting expenses 
 
 8,000 
 
 
 
 h) Eliminate first floor rent
 expenses 
 
 18,568 
 
 
 
 i) Normalise salaries and wages
 expenses 
 
 (1,558) 
 
 
 
 Sustainable EBITDA 
 
 73,273 
 
 
 
 Annualised sustainable EBITDA 
 
 293,092 
 
 
 
 53.
To explain the figures in the above table I note as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) The focal period for determining the benchmark or sustainable EBITDA for the purpose of the intended transaction with Foundation was the quarter ended 30 September 2000;
 
 (b) The net profit before tax for the quarter ended 30 September 2000 was $48,263;
 
 (c) Various adjustments were calculated to restate the net profit before tax into the format of sustainable EBITDA.
