
 

 Introduction 
 
1 On 16 July 2007 the Minister exercised his power under s 501(2) of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) to cancel the residency visa of Mr Bruce Lee Ngaronoa.
The Minister was satisfied that Mr Ngaronoa did not pass the character test stated in the Act because he had a substantial criminal record consisting of a prison sentence of four and a half years for serious assaults.
He was sentenced to that term of imprisonment in August 2002.
2 In exercising his discretion to cancel the visa, the Minister considered matters which had occurred after Mr Ngaronoa's imprisonment for the convictions for assault in 2002.
In particular, the Minister had regard to further charges of violence against Mr Ngaronoa arising out of an attack made in January 2006 upon a Ms Haug with whom Mr Ngaronoa was then living.
3 The attack upon Ms Haug resulted in five charges against Mr Ngaronoa, of which two were for assault.
He was found guilty of the assault charges and, in May 2007, was sentenced to a term of imprisonment of two years with a non-parole period of six months.
He was found not guilty on the other three charges.
4 Nevertheless, in exercising his discretion to cancel the visa, the Minister took into account information protected under s 503A of the Act relating to all of the charges arising from the attack on Ms Haug, including information apparently relating to the three charges on which Mr Ngaronoa was acquitted.
In his statement of reasons, the Minister said:
 
 "The protected information provided me with a detailed account of the allegations against Mr Ngaronoa.
I thought it unlikely that it was wrong in every regard.
I did not accept that the finding of not guilty on three charges meant that some elements of the assault described did not in fact occur.
" 
 

5 The Minister went on to say that having regard to the protected information, a matter of great concern to him was that Mr Ngaronoa appeared to have attempted to force his own anti-depressant medicine into Ms Haug's mouth during the assault.
The Minister found that Mr Ngaronoa's conduct in the attack on Ms Haug was very serious and he gave it considerable weight in exercising his discretion to cancel the visa.
6 The protected information which the Minister took into account was not disclosed to Mr Ngaronoa.
However, the Notice of Intention to Consider Cancellation of Mr Ngaronoa's visa dated 17 May 2007, which was given to him on that date, was accompanied by a summary of the protected information.
The summary included the statement that Mr Ngaronoa attempted to force the anti-depressant medication into Ms Haug's mouth.
7 Mr Ngaronoa responded to the Notice but he made no specific reference to the matters set out in the summary of the protected information which accompanied the Notice.
8 Counsel for Mr Ngaronoa raised three grounds of jurisdictional error in the decision of the Minister.
9 The first ground is that in taking into account matters going to the three charges on which Mr Ngaronoa was acquitted, the Minister took into account irrelevant considerations in the exercise of his discretion to cancel the visa.
10 The second ground is that in finding that "some elements" of the charges, on which Mr Ngaronoa was acquitted, had in fact occurred, the Minister applied an incorrect standard of proof.
11 This ground is based upon a statement in the Minister's reasons that the standard of proof he applied in making his decision was the balance of probabilities, not the criminal standard.
Mr Ngaronoa's counsel submitted that the Minister ought to have applied the Briginshaw standard: see Briginshaw v Briginshaw [1938] HCA 34 ; (1938) 60 CLR 336.
12 The third ground is that Mr Ngaronoa was denied procedural fairness in relation to the use that was made of the protected information.
Although the substance of the protected information was provided to Mr Ngaronoa, his counsel submitted that he was not told, nor was it apparent on the face of the material, that the conduct would be taken into account in the exercise of the Minister's discretion.
13 Mr Ngaronoa's counsel also contended that this proceeding involves a matter arising under the Constitution or involving its interpretation.
A direction was sought for notice to be given to the Attorneys-General of the Commonwealth and States under s 78B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth).
14 The Constitutional matter was said to be that, by taking into account charges upon which Mr Ngaronoa was acquitted, the Minister impinged upon the express guarantee in s 80 of the Constitution that the trial of an indictable offence is to be by jury.
15 After some debate, I came to the view that the question was "manifestly unsound" and did not require a notice to be given under s 78B: see Applicant S453 of 2003 v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCA 1106 at [36] .
16 I will set out my reasons on that question later.
The Background Facts 
 
17 The background facts are set out in the Issues Paper supplied to the Minister to seek his decision on whether Mr Ngaronoa passed the character test and, if not, whether to cancel the visa.
18 Mr Ngaronoa is a citizen of New Zealand, where he was born in July 1975.
He first entered Australia on 2 September 1995, aged 20 years.
He was granted a Subclass 444 --- Special Category (class TY) visa which allowed him to enter and remain in Australia.
Other than three departures for very short periods, he has lived in Australia since that time.
He held a Subclass 444 --- Special Category (class TY) visa at the time of the Minister's decision.
19 On 16 August 2002 Mr Ngaronoa pleaded guilty to four counts of assault under the Crimes Act 1900 (NSW).
The charges arose out of an incident that occurred at Terrigal on 4 October 2001.
The circumstances were described in the sentencing remarks of Judge English who set out the events which occurred when Mr Ngaronoa entered a home at Terrigal armed with a shovel and attacked the occupants.
20 Her Honour referred to medical evidence that Mr Ngaronoa met the diagnostic criteria for bipolar disorder.
She said that when he took his medication and abstained from using illicit substances, he had demonstrated that he can be a worthwhile member of the community.
21 Her Honour continued as follows:
 
 "Having said that however, I cannot overlook the objective seriousness of the offences which he has committed.
His victims sustained serious injuries requiring hospitalisation and ongoing medical treatment.
They were no doubt terrified to be confronted by a large young man who not only punched his victims, but chose to assault them with a wooden shovel handle inflicting serious injuries.

 
 The fact that he was depressed and abusing drugs and alcohol at the time is no excuse.
These were vicious assaults on innocent victims.
" 
 

22 On 17 September 2003 the Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs gave Mr Ngaronoa a notice of intention to cancel his visa under s 501(2) of the Act.
The Notice stated that the matters to be taken into account by the Minister included Judge English's remarks on sentencing.
23 I will refer to the Notice of 17 September 2003 as "the First Notice".
It was sent to Mr Ngaronoa at Cessnock Correctional Centre where he was serving his term of imprisonment.
24 There was correspondence between the Department and Mr Ngaronoa during the period from September 2003 and August 2004.
It is unnecessary to refer to it.
25 On 9 November 2006 the Department sent Mr Ngaronoa a second Notice of Intention to Consider Visa Cancellation ("the Second Notice").
It was sent to him at Goulburn Correctional Centre.
26 The Second Notice was apparently given because of concerns within the Department that the First Notice did not contain a copy of the relevant provisions of the Act.
The Second Notice contained a list of matters which the Minister proposed to take into account which included Judge English's remarks but added material that post-dated the conviction of 16 August 2002.
27 On 4 May 2007 Mr Ngaronoa was convicted of two charges of assault on Ms Haug occasioning actual bodily harm.
The assault occurred on 27 January 2006.
Judge Finnane of the District Court of New South Wales imposed a sentence of two years imprisonment on both counts, to be served concurrently.
His Honour set a non-parole period of six months.
