
 
 HIS HONOUR: 
 
1 On 15 December 2006 I delivered judgment in the matter, dismissing the application with costs.
I now provide reasons for that decision.
2 This is an appeal from a decision of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal ('the Tribunal') setting aside a decision of the applicant.
In lieu of that decision, the Tribunal determined that pursuant to s 14 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 (Cth) ('the Act'), the respondent, Ms Roberts, was entitled to compensation in respect of post-traumatic stress disorder suffered in May 2000.
That Tribunal decision was based on and applied an earlier decision of the Tribunal holding that an assault suffered by the respondent in May 2000 was an injury which arose out of her employment by the Royal Australian Air Force ('RAAF').
3 This case concerns the meaning of the expression 'arising out of ... the employee's employment' in the definition of 'injury' in s 4 of the Act, the construction and operation of s 6(1)(a) of the Act, and the sufficiency of the Tribunal's reasons for decision.
BACKGROUND 
 
4 Ms Roberts enlisted in the RAAF in 1997 at the age of 27.
In 2000, she was a Leading Aircraft Woman working as a signals operator at the Defence Signals Directorate at Russell, Canberra.
She had been officially permitted, although she was not required, to live 'on base', and was free to exercise her discretion as to her living arrangements.
At the time of the events in question, she lived at the RAAF base known as RAAF Fairbairn in rented and subsidised accommodation provided by her employer.
5 On 13 May 2000 the respondent was rostered 'off duty'.
During the evening she attended an informal social function at the Airmen's Club at RAAF Fairbairn.
The people attending the function were wearing civilian clothes and brought their own alcohol to the function.
The respondent had some drinks at the function, and left to retire to bed at approximately 11 pm.
6 At approximately 2.30 am on 14 May 2000 the Tribunal found that a man had entered her room uninvited through an open window in her quarters.
The intruder indecently assaulted her but later left her room after she demanded that he do so.
The respondent had recognised the man as one of her colleagues who lived in the same accommodation block, but in his own quarters across the hall.
7 The respondent reported the incident to military police who conducted an investigation.
The man in question was charged with military offences contrary to the Defence Force Discipline Act 1982 (Cth), but was later found not guilty.
8 Ms Roberts suffered from a psychiatric condition as a consequence of the incident in her room and was medically discharged from the RAAF on 28 March 2003.
However, she has now resumed full time employment and no longer suffers from that condition.
The relevant Tribunal decision 
 
9 An agreed statement of facts was provided by the parties to the Tribunal.
It said:
 
 '1.
The applicant was born on 12 October 1970.

 
 
 
 2.
The applicant enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Force ("the RAAF") on 16 November 1997.

 
 
 
 
 
 3.
In the year 2000 the applicant was a Leading Aircraft Woman working as a signals operator at the Defence Signals Directorate at Russell, Canberra.

 
 
 
 
 
 4.
The applicant was living at RAAF Fairbairn in rented accommodation.

 
 
 
 
 
 5.
The applicant was not required to live on base and was free to exercise her discretion as to her living arrangements.

 
 
 
 
 
 6.
On 13 May 2000 the applicant was rostered "off duty".

 
 
 
 
 
 7.
On the evening of 13 May 2000 the applicant attended an informal social function at the Airman's Club RAAF Fairbairn.

 
 
 
 
 
 8.
The people attending the function were wearing civilian clothes and brought their own alcohol to the function.

 
 
 
 
 
 9.
The applicant drank beer at the function and left to retire to bed at approximately 11 pm.

 
 
 
 
 
 10.
At approximately 2.30 am on 14 May 2000 the applicant alleges a male person entered her room uninvited through an open window in her condominium.

 
 
 
 
 
 11.
The applicant alleges the person indecently sexually assaulted her by touching her breasts and genital area.

 
 
 
 
 
 12.
The male person later left her room after the applicant asked him to leave.

 
 
 
 
 
 13.
The applicant recognised the male person as one of her colleagues who lived in the same accommodation block as the applicant but in his own condominium across the hall.

 
 
 
 
 
 14.
The applicant reported the incident to the military police who conducted an investigation.

 
 
 
 
 
 15.
The male person was charged with offences contrary to the Defence Force Discipline Act 1982 ("the DFDA").

 
 
 
 
 
 16.
On 11 May 2001 the male person was found not guilty of the charges of "act of indecent without consent" and "assault on superior" contrary to section 61 and subsection 25(1) of the DFDA.

 
 
 
 
 
 17.
The applicant suffered from a psychiatric condition as a consequence of the incident described above.

 
 
 
 
 
 18.
On 28 March 2003 the applicant was medically discharged from the RAAF.

 
 
 
 
 
 19.
The applicant has now resumed full time employment and no longer suffers from a psychiatric condition.
' 
 
 
 

10 Senior Member J W Constance found that the alleged assault had in fact taken place.
The Member also noted that the respondent had lived at RAAF Fairbairn under a 'Living In Policy' which had been issued pursuant to s 9A of the Defence Act 1903 (Cth).
The Tribunal Member found that at the time of the assault, the respondent was not required to 'live in', but had been granted permission to do so, and that this arrangement was to her financial advantage.
11 The Commission had agreed that the assault fell within the concept of an 'injury' (other than a disease) for the purposes of the Act, on the basis that her psychiatric condition constituted a 'mental injury' within the meaning of par (b) of the definition of 'injury' in s 4 of the Act.
The sole question for the Tribunal was whether the assault was an injury 'arising out of, or in the course of' the respondent's employment within the meaning of the Act.
12 The Tribunal Member held that the respondent's injury arose out of her employment.
He relied on and sought to apply the decision of the High Court in Roncevich v Repatriation Commission [2005] HCA 40 ; (2005) 222 CLR 115.
The Member noted that in that case the fact that a serviceman's accident occurred on a military base after a social gathering was held to be a relevant matter as to whether the event arose out of Defence service.
The Member considered that the High Court had adopted a broad interpretation of the words 'arose out of' in a particular section comparable to that to be considered under the Act, and that this broad interpretation was to be applied here.
13 On his application of the Roncevich principles, the Member said that the existence of several factors was sufficient to make the injury and the employment causally connected.
