
 
1 This is an appeal against the decision of Jarrett FM of 8 August 2006 dismissing an application for judicial review of a decision of an authorised officer of the Migration Review Tribunal ("the Tribunal") made on 28 January 2005.
The Tribunal officer had refused a request to waive a filing fee in respect of an application for review before the Tribunal of a decision by the Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs ("the Department") to refuse a Residence Visa (Class BS) to the appellant and her two sons.
Background 
 
2 The appellant is a citizen of Papua New Guinea.
The appellant arrived in Australia on 13 June 2000, after been evacuated from the Solomon Islands with the assistance of the Australian High Commission.
3 The appellant, as the de-facto partner of Mr Anthony Faddy (an Australian citizen), and the mother of their natural child (Trevor Faddy) and a child she and Mr Anthony Faddy adopted (Noel Faddy), applied for a Partner (Temporary) (Class UK) visa and a Residence Visa (Class BS) on 11 July 2002.
Her two children were dependent applicants to the visas.
A Partner (Temporary) (Class UK) visa was granted by the Department on 31 October 2003 pending a decision regarding her application for a Residence (Class BS) visa.
4 The appellant was advised by letter dated 19 November 2004 that the application for Residence Visa (Class BS) had been refused.
The Department found that the appellant failed to meet the criteria for the grant of the visa as she was not in a genuine and continuing interdependent relationship with Mr Anthony Faddy as defined by the Migration Regulations 1994 (Cth).
5 On or about 15 December 2004, the appellant applied to the Tribunal for a review of this decision of the Department.
On or about 15 December 2004, the appellant also applied to the Tribunal for a waiver of the fee for making an application for a review by the Tribunal.
Decision of the Tribunal 
 
6 The Tribunal communicated with the appellant in two letters.
7 First, in a letter dated 28 January 2005, the appellant was advised by the Tribunal that the application fee would not be waived on the basis that the signatory to the letter, Mr Manal Hajaj, was of the opinion that payment of the fee had not caused, nor was it likely to cause severe financial hardship.
