
 

 Introduction 
 
1 These are two appeals under Part IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) against the refusal of the respondent to grant Personal Services Business Determinations ("PSB determinations") pursuant to s 87- 65 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) (the "1997 Act") in respect of the applicants, Mr Kenneth Daniel Owen as trustee for the Owen Family Trust and IRG Technical Services Pty Limited ("IRG"), which was wholly owned and controlled, by Mr Ian Rodney Green, for the years of income ending 30 June 2002 and 30 June 2003, respectively.
Evidence in each proceeding was evidence in the other.
2 Before turning to the appeals, some common matters can be dealt with.
(All references to statutory provisions are references to the 1997 Act, unless otherwise stated.
)
 Statutory background 
 
3 Both applicants are "personal services entities", a term defined by s 86-15(2).
Section 86-15 is relevantly in the following terms:
 
 s 86-15 Effect of obtaining personal services income through a personal services entity 
 
 Amounts included in your assessable income 
 
 (1) Your assessable income includes an amount of * ordinary income or * statutory income of a * personal services entity that is your * personal services income.

 
 Example: Continuing example 1 in section 84-5: Assume that NewIT only provides services to one client.
Ron's assessable income includes ordinary income of NewIT from providing the computer programming services, because the income is Ron's personal services income.

 
 (2) A personal services entity is a company, partnership or trust whose * ordinary income or * statutory income includes the * personal services income of one or more individuals.

 
 Exception: personal services businesses 
 
 (3) This section does not apply if that amount is income from the * personal services entity conducting a * personal services business.

 
 ... 

(An asterisk denotes a term otherwise defined in the 1997 Act.
I will not set out all such definitions.
Many are well-known.
) 
 
4 Section 86-15 is found in the 1997 Act, Part 2-42, containing Divisions 84 to 87, which deal with "personal services income", a term which is defined by s 84-5 as follows:
 
 s 84-5 Meaning of personal services income 
 
 (1) Your * ordinary income or * statutory income, or the ordinary income or statutory income of any other entity, is your personal services income if the income is mainly a reward for your personal efforts or skills (or would mainly be such a reward if it was your income).

 
 (2) Only individuals can have personal services income.

 
 (3) This section applies whether the income is for doing work or is for producing a result.

 
 (4) The fact that the income is payable under a contract does not stop the income being mainly a reward for your personal efforts or skills.

 
 

5 Division 84 is an introduction to Part 2-42, containing a guide in s 84-1 (though part of the Act, it is available only for the limited purposes set out in s 950-150: s 2-40) and two operative provisions: the definition of "personal services income" (see above) and s 84-10 which provides as follows:
 
 s 84-10 This Part does not imply that individuals are employees 
 
 The application of this Part to an individual does not imply, for the purposes of any * Australian law or any instrument made under an Australian law, that the individual is an employee.

 

(It will be necessary to say something more of s 84-10 in due course.
)
 
6 Division 85 concerns deductions relating to personal services income.
7 Division 86 is entitled " Alienation of personal services income " and concerns the treatment of income of another entity as personal services income of an individual from the rendering of personal services by that individual.
The object of the Division is stated in s 86-10, as follows:
 
 s 86-10 Object of this Division 
 
 The object of this Division is to ensure that individuals cannot reduce or defer their income tax (and other liabilities) by alienating their * personal services income through companies, partnerships or trusts that are not conducting * personal services businesses.

 

8 The phrase "personal services business" is defined, through s 995-1, in s 87-15, and relevantly for these proceedings in subsections (1) and (2) as follows:
 
 s 87-15 What is a personal services business?

 
 (1) An individual or * personal services entity conducts a personal services business if: 
 (a) for an individual--a * personal services business determination is in force relating to the individual's * personal services income; or 
 (b) for a personal services entity--a personal services business determination is in force relating to an individual whose personal services income is included in the entity's * ordinary income or * statutory income; or 
 (c) in any case--the individual or entity meets at least one of the 4 * personal services business tests in the income year for which the question whether the individual or entity is conducting a personal services business is in issue.

 
 (2) The 4 personal services business tests are: 
 (a) the results test under section 87-18; and 
 (b) the unrelated clients test under section 87-20; and 
 (c) the employment test under section 87- 25; and 
 (d) the business premises test under section 87-30.

 
 ... 
 
 

9 Both applicants made their application for PSB determinations under the results test.
Section 87-18 sets out the results test as follows:
 
 s 87-18 The results test for a personal services business 
 
 
 (1) An individual meets the results test in an income year if, in relation to at least 75% of the individual's * personal services income (not including income referred to in subsection (2)) during the income year: 
 (a) the income is for producing a result; and 
 (b) the individual is required to supply the * plant and equipment, or tools of trade, needed to perform the work from which the individual produces the result; and 
 (c) the individual is, or would be, liable for the cost of rectifying any defect in the work performed.

 
 (2) Paragraph (1)(a) does not apply to income: 
 (a) that the individual receives as an employee; or 
 (b) that the individual receives as an individual referred to in paragraph 12-45(1)(a), (b), (c), (d) or (e) (payments to office holders) in Schedule 1 to the Taxation Administration Act 1953 ; or 
 (c) to the extent that it is a payment referred to in section 12 -47 (payments to * religious practitioners) in that Schedule.

 
 (3) A * personal services entity meets the results test in an income year if, in relation to at least 75% of the * personal services income of one or more individuals that is included in the personal services entity's * ordinary income or * statutory income during the income year: 
 (a) the income is for producing a result; and 
 (b) the personal services entity is required to supply the * plant and equipment, or tools of trade, needed to perform the work from which the personal services entity produces the result; and 
 (c) the personal services entity is, or would be, liable for the cost of rectifying any defect in the work performed.

 
 (4) For the purposes of paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c) or (3)(a), (b) or (c), regard is to be had to whether it is the custom or practice, when work of the kind in question is performed by an entity other than an employee: 
 (a) for the * personal services income from the work to be for producing a result; and 
 (b) for the entity to be required to supply the * plant and equipment, or tools of trade, needed to perform the work; and 
 (c) for the entity to be liable for the cost of rectifying any defect in the work performed; 
 as the case requires.

 

10 PSB determinations for individuals and (relevantly here) personal services entities are provided for in ss 87-60 and 87-65, respectively.
Relevantly, s 87-65 provided as follows:
 
 s 87-65 Personal services business determinations for personal services entities 
 
 Making etc. personal services business determinations 
 
 (1) The Commissioner may, by giving written notice to a * personal services entity whose * ordinary income or * statutory income includes some or all of an individual's * personal services income: 
 (a) make a personal services business determination relating to the individual's personal services income included in the entity's ordinary income or statutory income; or 
 (b) vary such a determination.

 
 (2) The Commissioner may, in the notice, specify: 
 (a) the day on which the determination or variation takes effect, or took effect; 
 (b) the period for which the determination has effect; 
 (c) conditions to which the determination is subject.

 
 Matters about which the Commissioner must be satisfied 
 
 (3) The Commissioner must not make the determination unless satisfied that, in the income year during which the determination first has effect, or is taken to have first had effect, the conditions in one or more of subsections (3A), (3B), (5) and (6) are met.

 
 First alternative----results, employment or business premises test met or reasonably expected to be met 
 
 (3A) The conditions in this subsection are that: 
 (a) the entity could reasonably be expected to meet, or met, the results test under section 87- 18 , the employment test under section 87-25, the business premises test under section 87-30 or more than one of those tests; and 
 (b) the individual's * personal services income included in the entity's * ordinary income or * statutory income could reasonably be expected to be, or was, from the entity conducting activities that met one or more of those tests.

 
 ... 
 

11 The terms of s 87- 1 (the Guide to Division 87) should be noted:
 
 s 87- 1 What this Division is about 
 
 Divisions 85 and 86 do not apply to personal services income that is income from conducting a personal services business.

 
 It is not intended that the Divisions apply to independent contractors.

 
 A personal services business exists if there is a personal services business determination or if one or more of 4 tests for what is a personal services business are met.

 
 Regardless of how much of your personal services income is paid from one source, you can self-assess against the results test to determine whether you are an independent contractor.
The results test is based on the traditional tests for determining independent contractors and it is intended that it apply accordingly.

 
 ... 
 
 (Emphasis added, other than the section heading.
)
 

12 In understanding the content of the results test, s 87- 1 , being a Guide in the 1997 Act, can be used for the following purposes set out in s 950-150(2):
 
 
 ... 
 
 
 Guides form part of this Act, but they are kept separate from the operative provisions.
In interpreting an operative provision, a Guide may only be considered: 
 
 (a) in determining the purpose or object underlying the provision; or 
 (b) to confirm that the provision's meaning is the ordinary meaning conveyed by its text, taking into account its context in the Act and the purpose or object underlying the provision; or 
 (c) in determining the provision's meaning if the provision is ambiguous or obscure; or 
 (d) in determining the provision's meaning if the ordinary meaning conveyed by its text, taking into account its context in the Act and the purpose or object underlying the provision, leads to a result that is manifestly absurd or is unreasonable.

 
 

 13 There was a measure of agreement upon the issues in the two appeals.
These were set out in the "Respondent's Statement of Issues" filed in each proceeding.
Expressed in a way that is referrable to both applicants, those issues were as follows:
 
(a) It was agreed that the applicants were personal services entities whose ordinary income or statutory income included the personal services income of Mr Owen and Mr Green for the purposes of s 87-15.
(b) Consequently, fees received by the applicants under their respective contracts with Dare Holdings Pty Limited ("Dare") were:
 
(i) a reward for the personal efforts and skills of Messrs Owen and Green;
 
(ii) personal services income of them under s 84-5; and
 
(iii) attributed to them as their ordinary income under s 86-15
 
unless the applicants had PSB determinations.
(c) The results test in s 87-18(3) was the only basis upon which the applicants sought PSB determinations for the relevant years of income.
(d) The applicant in each case bears the onus of proving that it or he satisfies the requirements of the results test in s 87-18(3) (and thus that the decisions refusing the PSB determinations should not have been made and that the PSB determinations should have been granted).
(e) To satisfy the results test, the applicants must satisfy each of the requirements in s 87-18(3)(a), (b) and (c):
 
(i) whether the income received was for producing a result ((3)(a));
 
(ii) whether the relevant applicant supplied the equipment or tools needed to do the work from which the result was produced ((3)(b)); and
 
(iii) whether the applicant was liable for the cost of rectifying any defective work ((3)(c)).
(I have expressed (ii) above in the language used by the respondent in its statement of issues.
The terms of s 87-18(3)(b) are that the personal services entity is " required to supply the plant and equipment, or tools of trade, needed to perform the work from which the personal services entity produces the result .
")
 
14 The word "plant" is defined in s 45-20 (through s 995-1) in wide terms, most of which are not relevant to the circumstances of Mr Owen and Mr Green.
It is sufficient to note that the definition included " articles, machinery, tools and rolling stock".

 Essential factual context 
 
15 It will be necessary in due course to examine the facts in each appeal in a little detail.
Before doing so, and before dealing with the content and operation of the relevant provisions, the basic structure of the facts should be noted.
The overlay and encrustation of detailed facts placed upon the essential structure tends to obscure its essential simplicity.
16 Each of Mr Owen and Mr Green was and is a skilled working engineer.
Each has worked in the field of international construction, in particular the design and construction of oil and gas plants, for many years.
In that time, each has worked solely as a so-called "contractor" obtaining work through labour procurement agencies such as those mentioned in these reasons.
This method of recruiting skilled workers is common, but not uniform, in the international construction industry.
Some centres such as Perth, Houston and Calgary use this method almost universally to obtain skilled engineers such as Mr Owen and Mr Green to be involved in the design and construction of plant and equipment.
17 Here, both Mr Owen and Mr Green were recruited to work on the design of a facility for Woodside Petroleum called an LNG (liquefied natural gas) train or plant.
It was Woodside's fourth such plant.
A joint venture of construction companies (the so-called Kellogg Joint Venture, or "KJV") was responsible for the construction of the LNG train 4, costing in the order of some billions of dollars.
The KJV retained various labour procurement companies in order to obtain skilled engineers to work on the design of the LNG plant.
Two such companies, HR Connect Pty Limited ("HR Connect") and Dare Holdings Pty Limited ("Dare"), entered into contracts with IRG and with Mr Owen in his capacity as trustee of the Owen Family Trust.
HR Connect and Dare were independent of Messrs Owen and Green and of IRG.
They were also independent of the KJV and Woodside (though they contracted with the KJV).
18 Thus, the KJV paid HR Connect and Dare for the procurement and provision of Messrs Owen and Green.
HR Connect and Dare paid IRG and Mr Owen as trustee sums pursuant to their respective contracts.
IRG and Mr Owen as trustee say that they are entitled to PSB determinations because they satisfy the results test in s 87-18(3).
In making this assertion, it is important to appreciate that, through their counsels' submissions, they place most weight on the terms and effect of the two relevant contracts between the two personal service entities (IRG and Mr Owen as trustee), respectively, and Dare.
(The contracts with HR Connect are not the subject of direct dispute, though, as will be seen, they assist to illuminate the issues and their resolution.
)
 
19 The respondent, on the other hand, says that in applying s 87-18(3) one must "look through" to the reality at the level of the acquirer or taker of the personal services (at the level of KJV) to see how s 87-18(3) works in these particular circumstances.
20 The correct approach from, or prism through, which to examine the facts depends upon the proper construction and interpretation of the relevant provisions of the 1997 Act, in particular of s 87-18(3).
The meaning of the relevant provisions 
 
21 The parties put detailed submissions on the proper approach to the construction and interpretation of the 1997 Act.
I take the principles of statutory interpretation in the common law of Australia, so far as relevant to these proceedings, to be as follows.
The relevant words of the statutory provision are read in the context of the statute as a whole and in their legal and historical context, having regard to the aim and purpose of the provision and the legislation, to any established canons of legal construction and to any inconvenience or improbability of result of any given construction.
Such inconvenience or improbability of result may assist the Court to reach an available alternative construction reasonably open and more clearly conforming with the legislative intent otherwise discovered.
No initial textual or other ambiguity need be divined before context is examined.
Fundamental to the task is the giving of close attention to the text and structure of the relevant provisions as the words used by Parliament.
This approach, expressed substantially in these terms by the Full Court in Braverus Maritime Inc v Port Kembla Coal Terminal Ltd [2005] FCAFC 256 ; (2005) 148 FCR 68 at 81 [36] , was extracted from the decisions of the High Court such as K  S Lake City Freighters Pty Limited v Gordon  Gotch Ltd [1985] HCA 48 ; (1985) 157 CLR 309 at 312, 315 and 321; Bropho v Western Australia [1990] HCA 24 ; (1990) 171 CLR 1 at 20, citing, specifically, McHugh JA in Kingston v Keprose Pty Ltd (1987) 11 NSWLR 404 at 421-424; CIC Insurance Ltd v Bankstown Football Club Ltd [1997] HCA 2 ; (1997) 187 CLR 384 at 408; Project Blue Sky Inc v Australian Broadcasting Authority [1998] HCA 28 ; (1998) 194 CLR 355 at 381-382 [69] - [70] and 384 [78]; Eastman v Director of Public Prosecutions (ACT) [2003] HCA 28 ; (2003) 214 CLR 318 at 368 ftnt 99, agreed in by the whole Court: [1], [32]-[36]; Network Ten Pty Ltd v TCN Channel Nine Pty Limed [2004] HCA 14 ; (2004) 218 CLR 273 at 280-281 [10] - [12] ; and Stevens v Kabushiki Kaisha Sony Computers Entertainment (2005) 224 CLR 193 at 206-208 [30]-[34] and 230-231 [124]-[125].
22 For the use of this approach in respect of respect of revenue statutes, see Jeffrey James Prebble Pty Limited v Commissioner of Taxation [2003] FCAFC 165 ; (2003) 131 FCR 130 at 137-144 [24] - [51] ]; HP Mercantile Pty Limited v Commissioner of Taxation [2005] FCAFC 126 ; (2005) 143 FCR 553 at 564-568 [44] - [63] ; and Cameron Brae Pty Limited v Commission of Taxation [2007] FCAFC 135 at [3] .
23 The extent to which secondary material is to be considered in the ascertainment of context in "its widest sense": CIC Insurance 187 CLR at 408, may be seen to be affected by the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 (Cth), s 15AB(3): Stevens v Kabushiki Kaisha Sony Computers Entertainment 224 CLR at 230-231 [124]-[125].
24 The issue of the alienation of income from personal exertion was addressed in chapter 7 of the Review of Business Tax: A Tax System Redesigned, July 1999 (the "Ralph Report").
This chapter dealt with three specific concerns about equity in the taxation system: (a) the need for a minimum company tax, (b) deferring losses from non-commercial activities and (c) the alienation of income from personal services.
25 In respect of alienation of income from personal services, the Ralph Report noted an increased use of the technique of employing entities interposed between the acquirer of the services and the individual who performs, or is responsible for performing, the services.
The practice, undertaken in order to attract a lower tax rate in the interposed entity, to obtain deductions in the interposed entity that would not or may not be available to the individual and to split income among family or associates of the individual (and thereby reduce overall tax rates and revenue), was seen to pose " significant issues of equity and ... a growing threat to the income tax base.
" (See the Ralph Report pp 287-288.
) The Ralph Report recommended that a "systemic approach" be taken as follows at 289:
 
 ...The recommended approach is directed towards cases where income should be correctly attributed for taxation purposes to an individual who carries out personal services in a manner broadly similar to the way those services would be carried out if that person was an employee of the person or entity who required the services .

 
 Recommended by the Review is an approach designed solely to address the taxation implications resulting from the commercial arrangements under which labour (including professional and creative activities) may be engaged.
The approach does not impinge, and should not be seen as impinging, in any way on any commercial or contractual obligation that may be present between any or all parties concerned with the arrangement, nor as preventing similar arrangements being entered into in the future.
Most importantly, the approach recommended does not, of itself, under any circumstances and for taxation or any other purpose make the service provider a common law employee.

 
 Where an individual provides personal services through an interposed entity or a chain of interposed entities, however structured, and one of the interposed entities contracts with the end user of those services (`service requirer'), the income derived from the contract (`payment in respect of personal services') is often split with members of the family of the individual performing the services (`service provider') thereby reducing the overall amount of tax payable.

 
 Payments in respect of personal services include amounts that are wholly or predominantly for the labour or skill of an individual who performs that labour or exercises that skill including those rendered to provide a specific result or outcome.
Personal services also include the performance of professional and creative activities.

 [emphasis added]
 

26 At p 291 of the Ralph Report there was a discussion under the heading "employee-like manner", as follows:
 
 The Victorian payroll tax arrangements, along with those that operate in other States and Territories, provide a model for framing the criteria to be considered in determining if payments in respect of personal services relate to services undertaken in an employee-like manner.

 
 A range of criteria concerning the service requirer, the interposed entity and the service provider along with details of the manner in which the services are performed would need to be taken into account.
