
 
1 This is an appeal from the decision of Cameron FM dated 17 August 2007, dismissing an application seeking judicial review of a decision of the second respondent ("the Tribunal").
The Tribunal had affirmed a decision of the delegate of the first respondent to refuse to grant a protection visa to the appellant.
2 The appellant seeks the following orders:
 
 "1.
An order that the appeal be allowed.
2.
The orders of Federal Magistrate Cameron set aside.

 
 3.
The writ of certiorari quashing the decision of the Second Respondent signed on 8 February 2007.
4.
A writ of mandamus issue directing the Second Respondent to determine according to law the Appellant's application before it.
5.
An order that the First Respondent pay the Appellant's costs of the appeal and the proceedings in the Federal Magistrates Court.

 
 6.
Such further or other orders as the Court thinks fit.
"
 
 Background 
 
3 The appellant is a citizen of Nepal who arrived in Australia on 26 August 2005.
On 23 September 2005 the appellant lodged an application for a protection visa.
On 31 October 2005 a delegate of the first respondent refused the application.
A previously constituted Tribunal in a decision dated 30 January 2006 had earlier affirmed a decision of a delegate of the Minister refusing to grant a protection visa to the appellant.
The Federal Magistrate's Court in a decision dated 19 September 2006 allowed an appeal against that decision and remitted the matter to the Tribunal for reconsideration.
The matter before this Court concerns a subsequent decision of the Tribunal dated 8 February 2007, concerning the same appellant for a protection visa, where the Tribunal has again affirmed the decision of a delegate of the Minister to refuse to grant a protection visa to the appellant.
4 The appellant claimed to have well-founded fear of persecution because she belonged to a particular social group and because of her political opinion or imputed political opinion.
The appellant claimed she was the wife of a Royal Nepalese army soldier and worked in the media.
The appellant claimed that Maoist rebels constantly came into her home threatening her and her husband.
The appellant claimed she was told by Maoists that she would be punished or killed if her husband did not leave the army.
She claimed that her husband was unable to leave the army as he would face persecution from authorities if he did so.
The appellant further claimed that she was involved in making a documentary that the Maoist rebels did not want made, and that as a result she had received threatening letters.
Decision of the Tribunal 
 
5 The Tribunal accepted that the appellant was a wife of a Nepalese army soldier and that she worked in the media.
The Tribunal also accepted that the appellant and her husband had been threatened by Maoist rebels prior to the implementation of the peace accord.
However the Tribunal found that since the accord, neither the appellant nor her husband had suffered serious harm amounting to persecution for a Convention reason.
The Tribunal noted that the appellant's husband had continued to work after the threats without anyone suffering any problems as a result, and the appellant did not leave Nepal for over two years after she was able to do so.
6 Having considered the evidence, the Tribunal found it could not be satisfied that the appellant was a member of a particular social group of internally displaced people or that she had a political or imputed political profile in Nepal due to her work in the media.
The Tribunal did not accept that the appellant was under Maoist rebel surveillance or that they would try to kill her for leaving Nepal.
7 Finally the Tribunal was not satisfied that the appellant had a well-founded fear of persecution for a Convention reason.
Grounds before Cameron FM 
 
8 On 19 March 2007 the appellant applied for judicial review of the decision of the Tribunal.
There were seven grounds raised in the amended application filed on 26 June 2007 but only the following two grounds were pressed before the Federal Magistrate.
1.
The Tribunal failed to consider whether the appellant had a well founded fear after finding there may be some "future incidents" of violence; and
 
2.
The Tribunal breached s 424A Migration Act 1958 (Cth) (the Migration Act ) in respect of information that the appellant could have gone to India immediately upon receiving her passport in 2003.
Decision of Cameron FM 
 
9 The Federal Magistrate considered the grounds in light of the Tribunal's decision but found no jurisdictional error.
In relation to the first ground, his Honour held that, notwithstanding occasional further incidents of persecution in Nepal, these incidents did not justify the applicant having a well-founded fear of persecution.
The key findings of his Honour in relation to this ground were at [15]-[16] where his Honour said:
 
 15.
What the Tribunal was saying was that notwithstanding occasional further incidents of persecution in Nepal, these did not justify the applicant having a well-founded fear of persecution.
It was not necessary for the Tribunal to "consider the nature of such further incidents and whether the applicant might be the recipient of further incidents" as alleged in the application, as this suggests that the Tribunal had an obligation either to speculate or to make inquiries when, in fact, it was the applicant's task to make out her claim.
It was for the Tribunal to determine, based on the facts before it, whether there was a real chance of the claimed persecution occurring and thus whether the applicant's claimed fear was a well-founded one.
16.
Based on the evidence before it, in a decision which was open to it, the Tribunal concluded that the peace accord would last, that the chance of harm from the Maoists was at that time extremely remote and it did not accept that the applicant had a well-founded fear of persecution in the changed circumstances in Nepal.
The Tribunal applied the correct test and no jurisdictional error is demonstrated in relation to this asserted ground of review.


10 In relation to the second ground of appeal, the appellant submitted that the following passage from the Tribunal's decision relied on information which should have been supplied to the applicant in accordance with s 424A(1) , but was not:
 
 "In short, the Tribunal is satisfied that if for any reason the Applicant had a well founded fear of serious harm from the Maoists or from any other source, she would have immediately left Nepal when she was issued with her passport and would have gone to another country such as India in order to seek international protection and either sought protection in that country or would have applied for a visa to a third country from this position of safety.
"
 

11 Cameron FM dismissed this claim.
His Honour found in particular at [19] that:
 
 19.
There is more than one answer to this submission.
First, information regarding Nepalese subjects not needing to obtain a visa to travel to India would be information falling within the s.424A(3)(a) exception to s.424A(1).
Secondly, what the applicant characterises as information is, in reality, a conclusion of the Tribunal that had she really feared persecution she would have used her passport to escape even if she did not have a visa.
The Tribunal's conclusions and thought processes are not "information" as that term is understood by s.424A: SZBYR v Minister for Immigration  Citizenship [2007] HCA 26.
Thirdly, the information which underlay the conclusion, namely the dates of the passport and departure from Nepal, were put to the applicant in the Tribunal' s s.424A letter dated 17 January 2007 (CB 178) and it was in her response to that letter, by way of her statutory declaration made 29 January 2007, that the applicant said she could not leave Nepal during that period as she lacked a visa (CB 190).


12 Accordingly, in his Honour's view no breach of s 424A was disclosed in respect of this issue.
In addition to this, his Honour found that the information which underlay the Tribunal's conclusion, namely the dates of the passport and departure from Nepal, were put to the appellant in the Tribunal's s 424A letter dated 17 January 2007 and it was in her response to that letter, by way of her statutory declaration made 29 January 2007, that the appellant said she could not leave Nepal during that period as she lacked a visa (at [21]).
13 Finally, his Honour considered the submission of the first respondent that, in any event and notwithstanding matters raised by the appellant, the Tribunal's decision could be sustained on another ground, namely that the appellant was disbelieved.
In finding for the first respondent in relation to this issue, his Honour said:
 
 22.
The first respondent submitted that, notwithstanding the matters raised by the applicant, the Tribunal's decision can be sustained on another ground, namely that the applicant was disbelieved.
The first respondent pointed out that the Tribunal's decision could be divided into two separate parts, the first dealing with the claims which the applicant made to fear persecution on the basis of prior events, in respect of which the Tribunal concluded against the applicant at the end of the first paragraph at CB 244 and the second part which dealt with the changed circumstances in Nepal which led the Tribunal to the conclusion that the applicant had no well-founded fear of persecution in the new political environment.
23.
The Tribunal's principal conclusion, which was based on the applicant's experiences prior to the change of political situation in Nepal, was that she had embellished her claim and had no well-founded fear of persecution.
In essence, she was disbelieved.
This was a conclusion which was open to the Tribunal on the material before it.
This conclusion provides a basis for the Tribunal's decision independent of its second and logically secondary conclusion regarding the applicant's lack of a well-founded fear of persecution in Nepal in the new political environment.


14 His Honour was therefore unable to discern any jurisdictional error and dismissed the application.
Appeal to this Court 
 
15 Both parties filed written submissions prior to the hearing, and both parties were represented by Counsel at the hearing.
16 The notice of appeal to the Federal Court filed by the appellant on 6 September 2007 raises the following grounds:
 
 "1.
The Federal Magistrate erred in not finding that the Second Respondent had failed to complete its jurisdictional task by considering whether the Appellant was at risk in relation to incidents of violence which the Second Respondent found had occurred and by inference were likely to recur.
2.
The Federal Magistrate erred in not finding that the Second Respondent breached s 424A of the Migration Act, 1958 .

 
 3.
The Federal Magistrate erred by finding: 
 
 i. that information that the Appellant could have travelled to India immediately she was issued with a passport fell within the s 424A(3)(a) exception to s 424A(1) 
 ii.
that such information was the thought process of the Second Respondent and not information
 iii.
that the underlying information had been put to the Appellant in the s 424A letter.
"
 

17 Grounds of appeal 2 and 3 relate to the same issue, and I intend to consider them together.
18 At the hearing Mr Young for the appellant sought the leave of the Court to raise a fourth ground of appeal.
This was not opposed by Ms Clegg for the first respondent.
I gave the appellant leave to raise this fourth ground, and the appellant filed an amended notice of appeal on 16 November 2007 with an additional ground of appeal as follows:
 
 "4.
The Federal Magistrate erred by finding at [22] and [23] that there was no independent basis of the decision of the Second Respondent, being 'in essence (the Appellant) was not believed'.
" 
 
 

19 I shall now consider each of these grounds of appeal in turn.
Ground of appeal 1: The Federal Magistrate erred in not finding that the second respondent had failed to complete its jurisdictional task by considering whether the appellant was at risk in relation to incidents of violence which the second respondent found had occurred and by inference were likely to recur 
 
20 Mr Young for the appellant submitted, in essence, that once it was accepted by the Tribunal that in a country where acts of persecution by the Maoists had been widespread, further incidents would occur notwithstanding the commencement of the peace accord, then the peace accord cannot be a complete answer to a claim of persecution at the hands of the Maoists.
Counsel submitted further that where the Tribunal found that there were some occasional acts of persecution to occur, it was bound to consider whether these might affect the appellant.
21 In my view, however, the comments of Cameron FM in this respect at [15]-[16] of his Honour's judgment are correct.
I agree with his Honour that it was not necessary for the Tribunal to consider the nature of such further incidents of violence and whether the appellant might be the recipient of further incidents as alleged, as this suggests that the Tribunal had an obligation either to speculate or to make inquiries when it was the appellant's task to make out her claim.
In any event, in my view it is clear that the Tribunal had completed its task in considering whether, because of the accord, the appellant continued to have a well-founded fear of persecution.
As Ms Clegg submitted, the majority of the High Court in Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v QAAH of 2004 [2006] HCA 53 ; (2006) 231 ALR 340, in particular at [43]-[50], held that it is open to the Tribunal to take into account changed country circumstances in order to conclude that the appellant was not a refugee at the time the Tribunal's decision was made.
Further, as Gleeson CJ and Hayne and Heydon JJ observed in Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Respondents S152/2003 [2004] HCA 18 ; (2004) 222 CLR 1 at 11 in relation to relevant random and uncoordinated acts of violence in that case,
 
 "No country can guarantee that its citizens will at all times, and in all circumstances, be safe from violence.
Day by day, Australian courts deal with criminal cases involving violent attacks on person or property.
Some of them may occur for reasons of racial or religious intolerance..."
 

22 In this case, in considering the claims of the appellant and the independent country information before it, the Tribunal considered that the peace accord in Nepal was holding, and that both sides remained fully committed to it, and assessed the chance of harm from the Maoists at that time as extremely remote.
Accordingly, the Tribunal did properly complete the task before it in relation to assessing whether the appellant had a well-founded fear of persecution.
In my view, the first ground of appeal cannot be sustained.
Grounds of appeal 2 and 3: The Federal Magistrate erred in not finding that the second respondent breached section 424A of the Migration Act 1958 , and by finding that information that the appellant could have travelled to India immediately she was issued with a passport fell within the section 424A(3)(a) exception to section 424A(1) , that such information was the thought process of the second respondent and not information, and that the underlying information had been put to the appellant in the section 424A letter 
 
23 These grounds of appeal require consideration of s 424A Migration Act , a provision which frequently arises for consideration in the context of review of decisions of the Tribunal.
It is not in contention that breach of this section by the Tribunal constitutes jurisdictional error: SAAP v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2005] HCA 24 ; (2005) 215 ALR 162.
24 Section 424A provides as follows:
 
 (1) Subject to subsections (2A) and (3), the Tribunal must:
 (a) give to the applicant, in the way that the Tribunal considers appropriate in the circumstances, clear particulars of any information that the Tribunal considers would be the reason, or a part of the reason, for affirming the decision that is under review; and
 (b) ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, that the applicant understands why it is relevant to the review, and the consequences of it being relied on in affirming the decision that is under review; and
 (c) invite the applicant to comment on or respond to it.
(2) The information and invitation must be given to the applicant:
 (a) except where paragraph (b) applies--by one of the methods specified in section 441A ; or
 (b) if the applicant is in immigration detention--by a method prescribed for the purposes of giving documents to such a person.
(2A) The Tribunal is not obliged under this section to give particulars of information to an applicant, nor invite the applicant to comment on or respond to the information, if the Tribunal gives clear particulars of the information to the applicant, and invites the applicant to comment on or respond to the information, under section 424AA.
(3) This section does not apply to information:
 (a) that is not specifically about the applicant or another person and is just about a class of persons of which the applicant or other person is a member; or
 (b) that the applicant for review gave for the purpose of the application; or
 (ba) that the applicant gave during the process that led to the decision that is under review, other than such information that was provided orally by the applicant to the Department; or
 (c) that is non-disclosable information.
