
 
1 On 24 January 2006 the tug "Tom Tough" was assisting the vessel "Global Peace" to berth in Gladstone Harbour.
The plaintiff in each of these actions alleges that in so doing, the tug came into contact with the hull of the Global Peace causing damage which led to the discharge of oil into harbour waters.
The plaintiff in action NSD 124 of 2006 alleges that oil came into contact with the hull of its vessel, "Medi Vitoria", causing loss and damage.
The plaintiff in action NSD 125 of 2006 alleges that oil damaged its vessel, "Nord Stream".
Each plaintiff sues the first defendant as owner of "Global Peace", seeking damages.
It is not presently necessary to address the potentially difficult legal questions concerning the extent of the first defendant's responsibility for the conduct of the tug, its master and crew.
The first defendant denies liability.
On 18 April 2007, after I had received submissions in connection with the motion with which I am presently concerned, Adsteam Harbour Pty Ltd, the owner of the tug, was joined as second defendant in each action.
THE MOTION 
 
2 On 23 October 2006, on the application of the plaintiff in each case, the Registrar issued a subpoena directed to: 
 
 'The Proper Officer 
 Australian Transport Safety Bureau 
 15 Mort Street 
 Canberra City ACT 2601.
' 
 

3 Although it is not entirely clear, it seems that the subpoena was intended to compel production of documents in each case, and not attendance to give oral evidence.
I am presently considering a notice of motion which seeks an order that in each case, the subpoena be set aside.
The applicant is said to be Australian Transport Safety Board.
However counsel announced that they appeared for Australian Transport Safety Bureau, the body named in the subpoena.
I have been unable to identify any such legal entity.
The Transport Safety Investigation Act 2003 (Cth) (the "Act") contemplates the appointment of an Executive Director of Transport Safety Investigation (the "Executive Director").
That officer and his delegates have numerous responsibilities and powers under the Act.
It may be that the subpoena ought to have been directed to the Executive Director, but no such point has been taken.
I infer that the Australian Transport Safety Bureau comprises the Executive Director's staff, and that there is a person who is recognizable as the "Proper Officer" of that organization to whom a subpoena might properly be addressed.
I proceed upon the basis that such person is the applicant pursuant to the notice of motion.
THE SUBPOENA 
 
4 Pursuant to s 21 of the Act the Executive Director investigated the collision between Global Peace and the tug and, in August 2006, published a report.
This report is publicly available.
In effect, the plaintiffs seek access to the material upon which the report is based.
A schedule to the subpoena provides as follows:
 
 Schedule 
 
 The documents and things you must produce are as follows, copies of: 
 
 
 
 (Note: In this Subpoena the term "Incident" means the collision between MV "Global Peace" and the Tug "Tom Tough" resulting in the discharge or escape of oil from the "Global Peace" into Gladstone Harbour at Gladstone on 24/25 January 2006).

 
 
 
 
 
 1.
Any documents or other records in relation to oil analysis, sampling analysis, testing or testing results of the oil discharged from the "Global Peace" on 24 and 25 January 2006.

 
 
 
 
 
 2.
Any documents or other records or reports or survey reports or status or situation reports or similar documents in relation to the extent or known extent, spread, range and distribution of the oil discharged or escaped from the "Global Peace" as a result of the Incident.

 
 
 
 
 
 3.
Any photographs or other images, whether electronic or hard copy of the extent or known extent, spread, range and distribution of the oil discharged or escaped from the "Global Peace" as a result of the Incident.

 
 
 
 
 
 4.
Any Gladstone vessel traffic service (VTS) records or documents in relation to the incident, whether audio, digital, electronic or written from 12 noon on 24 January 2006 to the time of the departure of the "Global Peace, including but not limited to the extent or known extent, spread, range and distribution of the oil discharged or escaped from the "Global Peace" as a result of the Incident.

 
 
 
 
 
 5.
Any documents, statements or other records of interview of the Master, Pilot, officers or crew of the "Global Peace" or the "Tom Tough" in relation to the Incident, including but not limited to the extent or known extent, spread, range and distribution of the oil discharged or escaped from the "Global Peace" as a result of the Incident.

 
 
 
 
 
 6.
Any records or records of investigation or inspection or reports or survey reports or similar documents in relation to the extent of damage and/or holing of the shell plating of the "Global Peace" by way of the port deep fuel oil tank at or about frames 42-46 as a result of the Incident.

 
 
 
 
 
 7.
Any records or records of investigation or inspection or reports or survey reports or similar documents in relation to the fender and support beam arrangement of the starboard quarter fender of the "Tom Tough".

 
 
 
 
 
 8.
Any Master's Notes of Protest in relation to the Incident, including but not limited to the extent or known extent, spread, range and distribution of the oil discharged or escaped from the "Global Peace" as a result of the Incident.
