
 
 1 The appellant appeals from a judgment of the Federal Magistrates Court.
The Federal Magistrate dismissed his application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal (Tribunal).
The Tribunal had affirmed a decision of a delegate of the respondent Minister not to grant the appellant a protection visa.
2 The appellant is a citizen of Bangladesh.
He claimed to fear persecution if returned to Bangladesh by reason of his political opinion, religion and membership of a particular social group.
3 Before the Court below, the appellant claimed that the Tribunal was affected by apprehended bias, denied him procedural fairness and failed to comply with s 424A of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) (Act).
The Federal Magistrate rejected those submissions.
The appellant contends that his Honour erred in doing so.
4 The issues for determination on this appeal are: 
 
 
 (a) Did the Tribunal fail to accord procedural fairness to the appellant by not providing him with an opportunity to comment on allegations made about him, in writing, which were read by the Tribunal but not conveyed to the appellant?
(b) Was the Tribunal's decision affected by apprehended bias as a consequence of it being aware of the allegations made against the appellant?
(c) Did the Tribunal fail to comply with s 424A of the Act by not providing the appellant with certain information, in writing, which the appellant alleged formed part of the reasons for the Tribunal's decision to affirm the delegate's decision to reject his application?

 
 The procedural fairness/bias issues 
 
 5 The appellant attended a "pre-hearing interview" with the Tribunal on 5 August 2004.
The Tribunal hearing was also conducted on that day.
The Tribunal's decision record, handed down on 22 March 2005, states that on that day the appellant raised with the Tribunal his concern that certain information contained in documents which were "exempt" from disclosure to the appellant under the Freedom of Information Act 1982 (Cth) (exempt documents) might be taken into account by the Tribunal in considering the appellant's "good faith".
6 At p 4 of its decision record, the Tribunal said: 
 
 
 As discussed with the Applicant on 5 August 2004, the exempted documents are not considered by the Tribunal to be relevant to his protection visa application and have been put aside.
Neither those documents nor any references to them in any other document form any basis for the Tribunal's decision in the present matter.

 
 
 
 7 The Federal Magistrate said in his Honour's reasons for judgment at [17]: 
 
 
 It is common ground that the confidential material in question...was never seen by the applicant or his representatives at any time prior to the hearing in this Court on 10 August 2006.
At all times after its existence was discovered, the Minister has claimed public interest immunity in relation to its disclosure upon grounds which were previously upheld by Madgwick J and which, on my own reading of the material, appear to have justification.
Although the material is exhibited to an affidavit, I have ordered that its publication should be severely confined.

 
 
 
 8 His Honour observed at [18]: 
 
 
 ...the Minister consented to disclosure of the material to such of the applicant's legal representatives who have given the Court an undertaking in terms acceptable to the Minister.

 
 
 
 9 The Federal Magistrate observed at [22] that at a hearing on 19 November 2003, Madgwick J upheld the Minister's claim for public interest immunity in respect of the exempt documents.
His Honour set out some extracts from the transcript of that hearing.
Those extracts showed that Madgwick J had a concern that "a reasonable outsider knowing that the...adjudicator has read that material would have a reasonable suspicion...that the adjudicator couldn't bring a fair and unbiased mind to bear on the subject matter".
Justice Madgwick was inclined to the view that "the Tribunal should do what it can to inform the applicant of the burden of the material..." and said that "...procedures would have to be crafted probably by the President of the Tribunal by which the matter is reassigned without that material".
10 That proceeding before Madgwick J was a challenge by the appellant to a previous Tribunal's decision to affirm the delegate's decision not to grant him a protection visa.
Justice Madgwick, on 5 December 2003, set aside that Tribunal's decision by consent, on the basis that certain country information which the Tribunal relied on was not brought to the appellant's attention, nor was he given a chance to comment on it.
In Applicant S416 of 2003 v Refugee Review Tribunal [2003] FCA 1630 ( Applicant S416 of 2003) , Madgwick J said at [3]: 
 
 
 There may well have been other reasons which the applicant would have wished to urge as to why the Tribunal Member's decision should be quashed.
I am aware, for example, that certain material was sent to the authorities on a confidential basis, making serious allegations against the applicant.
I upheld a claim for public interest immunity, made by the Minister, against a requirement that the relevant documents making allegations should be produced to the applicant's legal advisers.
The nature of that material, it seems to me, was such that it might well give rise to a claim that if a Member of the Tribunal were to look at it and not show it to the applicant or apprise him of sufficient of the substance as to enable him to deal with it for fear of compromising the identity of the informant, among other things that could give rise to a claim of apprehended bias on the part of the Tribunal Member.
It therefore seems to me that in order to forestall, so far as possible, any such dispute, it would be desirable upon the remitter of the matter to the Tribunal for re-consideration according to law that the President of the Tribunal should, with the benefit of legal advice, give the matter his consideration.
(Emphasis added.
) 
 
 
 
 11 The Federal Magistrate set out this paragraph of Madgwick J's judgment in Applicant S416 of 2003 [2003] FCA 1630 at [23] of his Honour's reasons and emphasised a passage commencing with the words "(t)he nature of that material" until the end of the paragraph.
12 The Federal Magistrate considered at [25] that "a fair-minded lay observer" would appreciate Madgwick J's warning offered to the Tribunal, but would also note that Madgwick J had left it to the Tribunal "to form its own judgment on how to deal with that material".
13 The Federal Magistrate said at [28]: 
 
 
 ...once the material did reach the Tribunal, it was the duty of the member constituting the Tribunal personally to consider its potential relevance, weight and usefulness.
To allow another person to perform this assessment, would mean that the Tribunal, as properly constituted by a member designated under ss.
421 and 422, had failed to perform the "review" required by ss.
414 and 415.

 
 
 
 14 The Federal Magistrate set out passages from the transcript of the hearing before the Tribunal on 5 August 2004 at [33].
