
 

 "As the judge remarked the day that he 
 acquitted my Aunt Hortense, 
 'To be smut 
 It must be ut- 
 Terly without redeeming social importance.
'" 
From "Smut" by Tom Lehrer


 
 Introduction 
 
1 Viva Erotica is a film which contains real depictions of actual sexual activity between consenting adults.
It contains no violence, sexual violence, coercion or sexual fetishes.
The Classification Review Board, established under a co-operative legislative scheme providing for uniform classification of films throughout Australia, determined that the film is offensive to a reasonable adult.
It classified the film as X18+.
2 Adultshop.Com Limited, which submitted the film for classification, contended that the Review Board should classify the film as R18+.
Both the X18+ and the R18+ classifications are restricted to persons 18 years and above.
The practical effect of the higher X18+ classification is that it is not legally available for sale or hire in Australia, other than in the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory.
3 Adultshop seeks review of the decision of the Review Board under s 5 of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) ("ADJR Act").
It raises a number of questions of statutory construction of the legislative scheme under which the classification is made.
It also relies upon various grounds of review of administrative action.
4 The uniform classification scheme was established under an agreement made in 1995 between the Commonwealth, States and Territories.
An integral part of the scheme is the Classification (Publications, Films and Computer Games) Act 1995 (Cth) ("the Act ").
The scheme incorporates a code which describes the different classification categories.
This is known as the National Classification Code ("the Code").
5 The Code contains a table of classifications which I will set out in more detail later.
For present purposes it is sufficient to say that the X18+ classification applies to films that contain real depictions of actual sexual activity between consenting adults "in a way that is likely to cause offence to a reasonable adult.
"
 
6 The legislative scheme also includes Guidelines for the Classification of Films and Computer Games 2005 ("The Guidelines").
The Guidelines were made under s 12 of the Act which empowers the Minister, (that is, the Attorney-General of the Commonwealth), with the agreement of participating State and Territory Ministers, to determine guidelines to assist the decision-maker in applying the criteria set out in the Code.
7 The Guidelines state that the X18+ classification applies to films that contain real depictions of actual sexual intercourse but they do not include the words in the Code which refer to the likelihood of offence to a reasonable adult.
The Guidelines recognise that the R18+ classification may contain depictions of realistically simulated sexual activity.
But they go on to say:
 
 "The general rule is 'simulation, yes --- the real thing, no.
'" 
 

8 Adultshop contends that these two aspects of the Guidelines led the Review Board into error by determining the classification of the film without considering whether it met the criterion for the X18+ classification in the Code.
That is to say, Adultshop contends that the Review Board failed to consider whether the film was likely to cause offence to a reasonable adult.
9 Adultshop raised a number of grounds of review.
First, it contended that the Guidelines are beyond the power of the Minister under s 12 of the Act because they dictate an X18+ classification without regard to s 11(a) of the Act or the provisions of the Code.
10 Second, Adultshop contended that if the Guidelines are valid, the Review Board applied them without regard to the merits of the case.
This ground embraces a number of separate heads of review, namely inflexible application of policy, failure to take into account relevant considerations under the Act and the Code and Wednesbury unreasonableness.
11 Third, Adultshop contended that the Review Board failed to give effect to a proper construction of the phrase "likely to cause offence to a reasonable adult".
Adultshop argued that this test was to be determined by asking whether a majority of Australian adults consider sexually explicit films to be offensive.
12 Fourth, Adultshop contended that the Review Board's approach to the task led it to wrongly reject or discount certain survey and expert evidence called by Adultshop in support of its claim for an R18+ classification.
13 Fifth, Adultshop pointed to a finding made by the Review Board that there was extensive community consultation in the process of updating the Guidelines in 2005.
Adultshop contended that the 2005 review of the Guidelines did not consider the X18+ classification and there was no community consultation on that issue.
Accordingly, Adultshop sought to raise a "no evidence" ground of review.
The legislative scheme 
 
14 The legislative scheme was described by Merkel J at first instance in Brown v Classification Review Board (1997) 145 ALR 464 at 466-468, and, on appeal from that decision, in Brown v Classification Review Board (1998) 82 FCR 225 at 231-233 (per French J), and at 252-254 (per Sundberg J).
See also New South Wales Council for Civil Liberties Inc v Classification Review Board (No.
2) [2007] FCA 896 at [4] - [8] (per Edmonds J).
15 The present scheme replaces an earlier co-operative legislative scheme providing for censorship of films and other publications.
The revised scheme was established under an agreement made 28 November 1995 between the Commonwealth, States and Territories ("the Agreement").
16 The Agreement provided for a revised co-operative legislative scheme for censorship in Australia.
The effect of the Agreement was to provide for the classification of films, publications and computer games through the provisions of the Act , and to leave the enforcement of the classifications and the legislative consequences of them to the States and Territories.
17 The Agreement provided for the scheme to be administered by the Standing Committee of Attorneys-General.
It also provided that the Code and the classification guidelines are not to be amended without the agreement of the responsible Ministers of the Commonwealth, States and Territories.
18 Section 3 of the Act states that its purpose is to provide for the classification of publications, films and computer games.
The section goes on to say that the Act is intended to form part of a Commonwealth / State / Territory scheme for classification of, inter alia , films, and for the enforcement of those classifications.
19 The Act provides for the establishment of the Classification Board and the Classification Review Board: ss 45 and 72 .
In the appointment of Members to the Board and the Review Board, regard is to be had to the desirability of ensuring that membership is broadly representative of the Australian community: ss 48(2) and 74 (2).
20 The Code is defined by s 5 to mean the National Classification Code, set out in the Schedule to the Act as originally enacted, as amended in accordance with s 6 of the Act .
Section 6(2) provides that if the Minister and each participating Minister agree to an amendment of the Code, it is taken to be amended accordingly.
21 Section 7(2) sets out the different types of classification for films in ascending order of seriousness.
The classifications are:
 
 G General
 PG Parental Guidance
 M Mature
 MA15+ Mature Accompanied
 R18+ Restricted
 X18+ Restricted
 RC Refused Classification
 

22 Division 2 of the Act deals with the classification of publications, films and computer games.
Classifications are to be made by the Board in writing on application: see s 10(1) and s 14.
23 Section 9 provides that films are to be classified in accordance with the Code and the Guidelines.
Section 11 sets out matters to be considered in making the classification.
Those provisions are central to the questions in issue in these proceedings and I will set them out in full (as they were at the time of the Review Board's decision):
 
 "9 Publications, films and computer games are to be classified in accordance with the Code and the classification guidelines.

 
 
 ... 
 
 
 11 Matters to be considered in classification 
 The matters to be taken into account in making a decision on the classification of a publication, a film or a computer game include: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) the standards of morality, decency and propriety generally accepted by reasonable adults; and 
 (b) the literary, artistic, or educational merit (if any) of the publication, film or computer game; and 
 (c) the general character of the publication, film or computer game, including whether it is of a medical, legal or scientific character; and 
 (d) the persons or class of persons to or amongst whom it is published or is intended or likely to be published.
" 
 

24 I referred earlier to s 12 which provides for the determination of classification guidelines.
Section 12(1) is in the following terms:
 
 "(1) The Minister may, with the agreement of each participating Minister, determine guidelines to assist the Board in applying the criteria in the Code.
" 
 
 

25 Section 12(3) provides that if the Minister and each participating Minister agree to an amendment to the Classification Guidelines, they are taken to be amended accordingly.
26 Section 20(1) requires the Board to determine consumer advice giving information about the content of a film where the Board classifies the film PG, M, MA, R18+ or X18+.
If the Board classifies a film G, it may exercise its discretion to determine consumer advice providing information about the content: s 20(2).
27 Part 3 of the Act deals with approval of advertisements.
Although no question arises in relation to the advertising of Viva Erotica , counsel for the Attorney-General placed some emphasis on the provisions of s 29(4) which requires the Board to refuse approval for advertising in certain circumstances.
I will therefore set out that sub-section in full as follows:
 
 "The Board must refuse to approve an advertisement if, in the opinion of the Board, the advertisement: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) describes, depicts or otherwise deals with matters of sex, drug misuse or addiction, crime, cruelty, violence or revolting or abhorrent phenomena in such a way that it offends against the standards of morality, decency and propriety generally accepted by reasonable adults to the extent that it should not be approved; or 
 (b) depicts or describes, in a way that is likely to cause offence to a reasonable adult, a person who is, or appears to be, a child under 18 (whether the person is engaged in sexual activity or not); or 
 (c) promotes crime or violence, or incites or instructs in matters of crime or violence; or 
 (d) is used, or is likely to be used, in a way that is offensive to a reasonable adult.
" 
 

28 Part 5 deals with the review of decisions.
A person who applies to the Board for classification of a film may apply to the Review Board for a review of the Board's decision: s 42(2)(b).
So too may the publisher of the film: s 42(1)(c).
29 The Review Board must deal with an application for review of a decision in the same way that the Board deals with the application for classification: s 44(1).
The Review Board is therefore required to classify the film in accordance with the Code and the Guidelines as provided in s 9 and to take into account the matters referred to in s 11.
30 Part 6 deals with the Board.
I referred above to the provisions dealing with the establishment of the Board and the broad representation of its membership: s 45 and 
 s 48(2).
31 Part 7 deals with the Review Board.
I referred above to the salient provisions of this Part dealing with establishment and broad representation: s 72 and s 74(2).
The Code 
 
32 The Code states that classification decisions are to give effect, as far as possible, to four principles set out in [1] as follows:
 
 
 "(a) adults should be able to read, hear and see what they want; 
 (b) minors should be protected from material likely to harm or disturb them; 
 (c) everyone should be protected from exposure to unsolicited material that they find offensive; 
 (d) the need to take account of community concerns about: 
 
 
 (i) depictions that condone or incite violence, particularly sexual violence; and 
 (ii) the portrayal of persons in a demeaning manner.
" 
 

33 Films are to be classified in accordance with a table set out in [3] of the Code.
The table lists the classifications in descending order of gravity.
34 The table is as follows: 
 

 Item Description of film Classification 1 Films that: (a) depict, express or otherwise deal with matters of sex, drug misuse or addiction, crime, cruelty, violence or revolting or abhorrent phenomena in such a way that they offend against the standards of morality, decency and propriety generally accepted by reasonable adults to the extent that they should not be classified; or (b) describe or depict in a way that is likely to cause offence to a reasonable adult, a person who is, or appears to be , a child under 18 (whether the person is engaged in sexual activity or not); or (c) promote, incite or instruct in matters of crime or violence RC 2 Films (except RC films) that: (a) contain real depictions of actual sexual activity between consenting adults in which there is no violence, sexual violence, sexualised violence, coercion, sexually assaultive language, or fetishes or depictions which purposefully demean anyone involved in that activity for the enjoyment of viewers, in a way that is likely to cause offence to a reasonable adult; and (b) are unsuitable for a minor to see X 18+ 3 Films (except RC films and X 18+ films) that are unsuitable for a minor to see R 18+ 4 Films (except RC films, X 18+ films and R 18+ films) that depict, express or otherwise deal with sex, violence or coarse language in such a manner as to be unsuitable for viewing by persons under 15 MA 15+ 5 Films (except RC films, X 18+ films, R 18+ films and MA 15+ films) that cannot be recommended for viewing by persons who are under 15 M 6 Films (except RC films, X 18+ films, R 18+ films, MA 15+ films and M films) that cannot be recommended for viewing by persons who are under 15 without the guidance of their parents or guardians PG 7 All other films G 

 
 The Guidelines 
 
35 The Introduction to the Guidelines states that they are a tool for classifying films and that they help to explain the different classification categories and the scope and limits of material suitable for classification under each category.
The Introduction also states that the Guidelines "are revised from time to time, with extensive community input.
" 
 
36 The Guidelines list three essential principles which underlie their use.
