
 
1 In this proceeding the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority ("APRA") seeks various forms of relief including injunctive orders against the respondent ("Mr Siminton").
APRA alleges that Mr Siminton has engaged in a number of contraventions of the Banking Act 1959 (Cth) ("the Act ").
These contraventions are said to have occurred in the course of the implementation of a scheme, devised by Mr Siminton, under which a "country", the Principality of Camside, was established and that country became host to a "bank" called the Terra Nova Cache.
Members of the public were encouraged to make deposits in the "bank" in return for high interest payments.
Deposits were solicited at public meetings, through material placed on the internet and by other means.
It will be necessary, later in these reasons, to examine the activities of Mr Siminton and some of his associates in greater detail.
2 It is necessary first to examine the legislative provisions, on which APRA relies, to support its application.
Most of the relevant provisions are to be found in the Act .
3 Section 7 makes it a criminal offence for a natural person to carry on any banking business in Australia unless APRA, acting under s 11 , by order, determines that s 7 does not apply to a particular person.
Section 5 relevantly defines "banking business" to mean "a business that consists of banking within the meaning of paragraph 51(xiii) of the Constitution .
"
 
4 Section 66 of the Act makes it an offence for a person who "carries on a financial business" to assume or use the word "bank" in relation to such a business.
Two definitional provisions should be noted.
Section 66(4)(b) of the Act provides that:
 
 "(b) A reference to a word or expression being assumed or used includes the reference to the word or expression being assumed or used: 
 
 
 (i) as part of another word or expression; or 
 (ii) in combination with other words, letters or other symbols ..." 
 
 
 Section 66(4)(c) provides that, in s 66 , 
 
 "a reference to a financial business is a reference to a business that: 
 
 (i) consists of, or includes, the provision of financial services; or 
 (ii) relates, in whole or in part, to the provision of financial services.
" 

5 Section 65A of the Act confers power on this Court to grant certain forms of injunctive relief where a person has engaged, is engaging or proposing to engage, in conduct that constitutes, constituted or would constitute a contravention of ss 7 and 66 of the Act .
Section 65A(6)(a) confers standing on APRA to apply to the Court for the granting of injunctions.
Certain specific provisions deal with the nature and extent of the Court's power to grant injunctions and other relief under s 65A.
Sub-sections (2), (3) and (11) of s 65A provide:
 
 "(2) The injunction: 
 
 
 (a) may restrain the person from engaging in the conduct; and 
 (b) may also require that person to do a particular act or thing, if the Court thinks it desirable to do so.

 
 
 
 
 The Court may grant an injunction on such terms as it thinks appropriate.

 
 
 
 
 (3) The power of the Court to grant an injunction restraining a person from engaging in conduct may be exercised: 
 (a) whether or not it appears to the Court that the person intends to engage again, or to continue to engage, in conduct of that kind; and 
 (b) whether or not the person has previously engaged in conduct of that kind; and 
 (c) whether or not there is an imminent danger or substantial damage to any other person if the person engages in conduct of that kind.

 
 
 ... 
 
 (11) If the Court has power under this section to grant an injunction restraining a person from engaging in particular conduct, or requiring a person to do a particular act or thing, the Court may, either in addition to or in substitution for the grant of the injunction, order that person to pay damages to any other person.
" 
 

6 By section 65A(12) it is provided that these powers are conferred in addition to and do not derogate from any of the Court's other powers.
These other powers include the wide general power, conferred by s 23 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth), to make such orders as it thinks appropriate and the power to appoint a receiver which is provided for in s 57(1) of that Act .
CONSTITUTIONAL ISSUES 
 
7 Mr Siminton made a preliminary objection to the constitutional validity of s 65A of the Act .
His defence did not contain any assertion that any provision of the Act , on which APRA relied, was invalid for constitutional reasons.
Nonetheless, at a number of directions hearings, counsel appearing for him contended that s 65A of the Act was constitutionally invalid.
I directed that, if this contention was to be persisted with, the defence was to be amended and the notice, required by s 78B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth), should be given to Attorneys-General.
Eventually these steps were taken.
No Attorney-General intervened in the proceeding.
8 Mr Siminton argued that s 65A of the Act was "unconstitutional" and could not be relied on by APRA.
