
 
1 This is an appeal from an interlocutory judgment of a Federal Magistrate of 22 March 2007 dismissing an application for an extension of time pursuant to s 477(2) of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act') for the filing of an application pursuant to s 39B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) and Part 8 Div 2 of the Act for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ('the Tribunal') dated 4 September 2006 handed down 26 September 2006.
The Tribunal had affirmed a decision of a delegate of the then Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs ('the delegate') to refuse to grant a protection visa to the appellant under the Act.
BACKGROUND 
 
2 The appellant is a citizen of the People's Republic of China ('the PRC') who arrived in Australia on 25 March 2006.
On 10 April 2006 the appellant lodged an application for a Protection (Class XA) Visa with the then Department of Immigration and Multicultural Affairs (now the Department of Immigration and Citizenship).
On 15 May 2006 the delegate refused the application for a protection visa and notified the appellant of the decision and his review rights.
On 19 June 2006 the appellant applied to the Tribunal for a review of the delegate's decision.
CLAIMS BEFORE THE TRIBUNAL 
 
3 In his application for a protection visa, the appellant claimed to fear persecution because he is a Falun Gong practitioner in the PRC.
This fear was the result, he said, of being detained and mistreated by police who also made threats of life imprisonment if he did not desist his practice of Falun Gong.
It was because of these events that he came to Australia.
THE DECISION OF THE TRIBUNAL 
 
4 On 20 June 2006 the Tribunal sent the appellant a letter by post, acknowledging receipt of his application on 19 June 2006 and providing information as to the future disposition of his application.
5 On 28 June 2006, the Tribunal sent the appellant a letter by post, stating that the Tribunal had considered the material before it in relation to the appellant's application, but was unable to make a decision in favour of the appellant on this information alone.
The appellant, pursuant to s 425 of the Act, was invited to attend a Tribunal hearing on 23 August 2006, to give evidence and to present arguments in support of his claims.
He was also invited to send any new documents or written arguments which he wanted the Tribunal to consider and to complete the "Witnesses" part of the 'Response to Hearing Invitation' form if he wanted the Tribunal to get oral evidence from another person.
He was requested to return the completed form, with any new documents or written arguments, by 14 July 2006.
6 The appellant did not reply to the letter of 28 June 2006 and did not attend the hearing on 23 August 2006.
7 After the close of business on 24 August 2006, the appellant faxed a letter to the Tribunal indicating that he had been unable to attend the scheduled Tribunal hearing because of illness and that he had been sick for over a week.
The appellant indicated that he wished to have another hearing.
A medical certificate which was dated 23 August 2006 from Pacific Medical Centre Blacktown was provided, indicating that the appellant was 'unable to attend work/school' from 23 August 2006 to 24 August 2006 inclusive.
There was no list of doctors on the letterhead and the signature was illegible.
8 On 25 August 2006 the Tribunal wrote to the Pacific Medical Centre in Blacktown, from where the medical certificate was issued, asking for details regarding the issue of the medical certificate and for details about the patient.
Its contents reveal that the Tribunal was concerned to satisfy itself that the medical certificate was genuine.
The Tribunal outlined as follows :
 
 'Please find attached a fax which was received late yesterday afternoon at the Refugee Review Tribunal.
The Tribunal receives a number of medical certificates and, unfortunately, not all prove to be genuine.

 
 The attached certificate does not indicate which doctor attended to the patient: the signature is incomprehensible.
Court you please provide further details in response to the Member's concerns listed below, or at least the name of the doctor and a time when it may be convenient for the Member to speak to him or her directly by telephone?

 
 The person who sent this medical certificate noted in a covering letter that he has been ill for one week.
The medical certificate has indicated two days.

 
 The person listed as the patient is known to us as living in Ashfield, yet the medical practice is at Blacktown.
Is this the patient's usual medical practitioner?
If the patient was able to travel to Blacktown to see the doctor, is there any reason why he could not have travelled a much shorter distance to the city in order to keep an appointment with the Tribunal?

 
 Can the doctor indicate at what time of day the appointment was?
' 
 

9 A file note dated 29 August 2006 indicated that in response to the Tribunal's requests, the receptionist of the Pacific Medical Centre rang immediately (on 25 August 2006) and stated that the Medical Centre was not entitled to provide information about patients.
The Tribunal requested that the receptionist provide the name of the doctor who issued the medical certificate, a suitable time to contact and that the receptionist fax written comments to the Tribunal.
The receptionist indicated that she would send written information but did not do so.
10 On 29 August 2006 the Tribunal wrote to the appellant informing him that it had decided not to offer him a further hearing and advising him that it had also decided to exercise its powers under s 426A of the Act namely to make a decision on his case without taking further action to allow or enable him to appear before it.
The letter contained the following: 
 
 'The Tribunal member has considered your request for another hearing and has, on reflection, decided against offering one.

 
 The Tribunal notes that you were originally offered a hearing by letter dated 28 June 2006.
The letter noted in a highlighted box: "If you do not attend the hearing, and the Tribunal does not postpone the hearing, it can make a decision on your case without further notice.
" 
 
 The hearing was scheduled for 23 August 2006.
The letter about the hearing requested that you reply, stating your intention of attending or not attending, by 14 July 2006.
The letter also invited you to send any new arguments or any new documents you wanted the Tribunal to consider.
You did not reply by the given date; nor make any contact with the Tribunal whatever in the subsequent five weeks to the time of the hearing.

 
 Your first contact with the Tribunal was a fax sent after office hours on 24 August 2006, the day after your scheduled hearing.
In this fax, you note that you have been ill for over a week and "hope to another hearing".
The Member refers again to the instructions in the letter containing the offer of hearing: "If you think you may not be able to attend the hearing, you must contact the Tribunal immediately.
" If you were ill for over a week prior to 24 August 2006, you had ample opportunity to contact the Tribunal and postpone the hearing.
However, the Member notes that you did not go to the doctor until the actual day of the hearing: 23 August 2004.
The Member notes that the doctor stated that you were ill only for two days --- the day of the hearing and the following one.
The diagnosis --- "viral illness" --- could cover a range of disorders including a common cold.

 
 The Member also notes that despite the fact that you live in Ashfield, you travelled all the way to Blacktown in order to attend a medical practice there.
The Member notes that it would have been a much shorter and less arduous trip to go from Ashfield to the city and attend the hearing.

 
 In considering all the circumstances, the Member has decided to exercise her power under s 426A of the Act and make a decision on your case without taking further action to allow or enable you to appear before it.
' 
 

11 As it said, in the letter, that it would, the Tribunal then proceeded to make a decision without granting the appellant a further opportunity to appear before it.
The Tribunal's reasons relevantly, were as follows: 
 
 'The applicant was put on notice by the Tribunal that it was unable to make a favourable decision on the material available to it.
He did not send further material.
The applicant was put on notice in writing that the Tribunal could make a decision on his case with no further notice if it did not reply.
He did not do so.
He did not contact the Tribunal to say that he would attend a hearing and provide oral evidence.
He was notified in late June 2006 about a hearing that would take place in over seven weeks time.
He had ample opportunity to contact the Tribunal if he intended to come to a hearing.
However, he did not do so.

 
 Sometime on the day or the evening of the hearing (23 August 2006), the applicant apparently travelled from Ashfield (the address he gave the Tribunal) all the way to Blacktown --- a significant journey --- in order to go to a medical practice.
It would have been less arduous for the applicant, if he were not feeling well, to travel from Ashfield to the city and attend the hearing.
If the applicant had been demonstrably not well at the hearing, the Tribunal would have adjourned to another day.
However, the applicant travelled to Blacktown where a doctor noted that he was unwell on that particular day and the next.
The applicant, on the other hand, said in his fax to the Tribunal that he had been ill for over a week as of 24 August 2006 --- that is, since before 17 August.
This would have given him ample time to let the Tribunal know he was unable to attend a hearing, as he was requested to do in the original offer hearing letter.

 
 The Tribunal has an obligation to provide a mechanism of review which is "fair, just, economical, informal and quick".
Recent legislation has obliged the Tribunal to complete a case within 90 days of receiving it, unless there is a cogent reason why this cannot be achieved.
If the Tribunal were to offer the applicant another hearing, it would not be possible to schedule this until well into October - some two months after it was originally set down.
This would extend the decision-making process well beyond the prescribed 90 days.
Given the way he has failed to respond to invitations in the past, there is no reason to believe that he would come to a later-scheduled hearing.
He has not indicated that he has any new document or arguments he wants the Tribunal to consider.

 
 In the Tribunal's experience, people who believe that they have genuine claims for a protection visa are anxious to come to a hearing.
If they are taken ill, they contact the Tribunal immediately, and are able to supply satisfactory medical certificates setting out exactly why they are [sic] could not attend at the scheduled time.
If they have other problems, they ring the contact person listed on the Tribunal correspondence.

 
 In the case of this applicant, the Tribunal is not satisfied that the applicant has ever had a genuine intention of coming to a hearing.
He has had ample opportunity to make known his intentions to come to a hearing and has failed to do so.
In this case, the Tribunal stands by its advice to the applicant in its letter of 28 June 2006: that it is unable to make a decision in his favour on the basis of the material before it.
The Tribunal at the time of writing has only the same material before it.
This material lacks detail.
There is no evidence before the Tribunal to indicate that the applicant has any knowledge of the practice of Falun Gong, nor its history or philosophy.
He notes that it is deemed to be a "cult" and seems to indicate that the Government viewed it unfavourably after 1999, but this is common knowledge and does not indicate any specialized knowledge available to a practitioner.
There is no evidence before the Tribunal that the applicant has undertaken any Falun Gong practice or associated activities in Australia, which one would expect from a practitioner who was genuinely seeking a non-repressive place in which to practice.
' 
 
 

12 The Tribunal was not satisfied that the appellant had a well-founded fear of persecution for a Convention reason and affirmed the decision not to grant the appellant a protection visa.
However, it is to be remembered that the decision was made without the benefit of further material and submissions, which may have been presented by the appellant at a hearing.
PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE FEDERAL MAGISTRATE 
 
13 The application before the Federal Magistrate was to extend time, pursuant to s 477(2) of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ("the Act "), for the filing of an application pursuant to s 39B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) and Part 8 Division 2 of the Act for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ("the Tribunal") dated 4 September 2006 and handed down on 26 September 2006.
14 The applicant was notified of the decision of the Tribunal on 5 October 2006 but did not file his application for judicial review of that decision as well as for an extension of time pursuant to s 477 of the Act until 8 November 2006 which was several days outside the 28 day period provided for in s 477(1) of the Act .
However s 477(2) of the Act allows the Court to extend that 28 day period by up to 56 days if: 
 
 
 (a) an application for that order is made within 84 days of the actual (as opposed to deemed) notification of the decision; and 
 (b) the Federal Magistrate is satisfied that it is in the interests of the administration of justice to do so.

 

15 The application for an order to extend time was made within 84 days of 5 October 2006 and accordingly, the Court below was empowered to extend time subject only to it being satisfied that it was in the interests of the administration of justice to do so.
16 In an amended application the appellant raised two proposed grounds of review as follows:
 
 
 1.
The RRT failed to attain, or failed to exercise, jurisdiction, by reason that the RRT erred in law in finding that it could not reschedule a hearing of the RRT beyond the period set out in s 414A unless it had "cogent reasons".

 
 
 
 Particulars: 
 Decision Record CB 69.2 
 S 414A Migration Act 
 
 
 
 2.
The RRT failed to attain, or failed to exercise, jurisdiction, by reasons that the RRT erred in law in taking into account irrelevant considerations in finding that the RRT would not reschedule a hearing of the RRT.

 
 
 
 Particulars: 
 Decision Record (CB 69.2) 
 
 
 
 "given the way he has failed to respond to invitations in the past, there is no reason to believe that he would come to a later-scheduled hearing" 
 
 
 
 Decision Record (CB 69.3) 
 
 
 
 "he has not indicated that he has any new documents or argument he wants the Tribunal to consider" 
 
 
 
 Decision Record (CB 69.4) 
 
 
 
 "in the Tribunal's experience, people who believe that they have genuine claims for a protection visa are anxious to come to hearing.
If they are taken ill, they contact the Tribunal immediately......
Tribunal correspondence.
" 
 
 
 
 THE DECISION OF THE FEDERAL MAGISTRATE 
 
17 The Federal Magistrate considered the merits of the proposed grounds.
In respect to the first proposed ground, her Honour concluded that fairly read, the Tribunal, when it stated that it could not reschedule a hearing beyond the 90 day period, set out under s 414A(1) of the Act , unless there were "cogent reasons" was not really seeking to introduce a discretionary criterion to this statutory provision where none is expressly stated.
Rather, as her Honour implicitly found, this discretion arose pursuant to s 426A of the Act which confers upon the Tribunal a discretion, where the applicant does not appear before the Tribunal at the scheduled hearing, whether or not to enable the applicant to appear before it at a rescheduled hearing.
It was not suggested by the appellant before her Honour that such a discretion was not thereby open.
18 Her Honour found that it was perfectly proper for the Tribunal to take into account that its own timetable would not allow it to reschedule the hearing until a date beyond the 90 day period, as well as taking into account the failure of the appellant to respond to the Tribunal's letters of 28 June or 29 August 2006.
19 As to the second proposed ground, the Federal Magistrate concluded that the matters taken into account by the Tribunal were, in effect, relevant and open and that no error was disclosed.
20 Whilst the medical certificate was mentioned in the Federal Magistrate's reasons at [15], [18]-[20], her Honour did not, it seems, consider the effect of the certificate and its relevance to the appellant's request for a rescheduled hearing.
21 The Federal Magistrate concluded that the Tribunal had complied with its statutory obligations, both in the conduct of its review and in the making of its decision, which was not affected by jurisdictional error.
22 Having found that the proposed grounds had no reasonable prospect of success her Honour determined that it was not in the interest of justice that time be extended to the appellant to file his application.
The Federal Magistrate accordingly dismissed the application for an extension of time.
NOTICE OF APPEAL 
 
23 The Notice of Appeal filed by the appellant on 12 April 2007 contains two grounds of review:
 
 1.
Her Honour erred in holding ([39]) that: 
 
 
 
 "...it is a matter for the Tribunal the considerations to which it has regard in the exercise of its discretion" 
 
 
 
 2.
Her Honour erred in holding ([39]) that: 
 
 
 
 "Each were matters open to the Tribunal to consider in the exercise of its discretion and there is no error going to the Tribunal's jurisdiction established by the Tribunal's regard to those matters.
" 
 
 
 

24 The appeal in substance is a broad challenge to the manner of exercise of its discretion by the Tribunal and the failure by the Court below in turn, to find relevant error going to that question.
25 The first respondent contends that the appellant has failed to establish that the discretionary decision below is plainly wrong and, in turn, that the test for leave enunciated in Dcor Corporation Pty Ltd v Dart Industries Inc (1991) 33 FCR 397 has not been met.
26 The first respondent accepts, in effect, that where the relevant delay is short and there is no prejudice to the first respondent, an extension would normally be granted but, because it would be futile to do so, there being no merit in the proposed appeal, leave ought be refused.
This is to reiterate the opinion of the Federal Magistrate that the application lacked utility because substantively there were no reasonable prospects of success.
27 It is said by the first respondent that the grounds in the notice of appeal reproduce what was ground two before her Honour, and that no plain error is manifest in her Honour's reasoning or conclusions.
28 The first respondent also submits that, having regard to the construction placed upon s 426A by Greenwood J in NBBL v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] FCA 1045 , where the matters set out under s 426A(1)(a) and (b) are satisfied, the Tribunal's discretion whether to make a decision without a further hearing is constrained only by the requirement that it not act capriciously and that in this case the Tribunal did not so act.
REASONS 
 
29 In my opinion, s 426A of the Act confers a discretion upon the Tribunal to exercise its statutory power in one of two ways assuming the conditions in s 426A(1)(a) and (b) are first met.
Firstly, the Tribunal may make a decision on the review without taking any further action to allow or enable an applicant to appear before it [s 426(1)].
Secondly it may reschedule an applicant's appearance before it, or delay its decision on the review in order to enable the applicant's appearance before it as rescheduled [s 426(2)].
30 In this case the Tribunal exercised its discretion under s 426(1) and made its decision without taking any further action to allow or enable the appellant to appear before it.
In SZHSQ v Minister for Immigration  Multicultural Affairs [2006] FCA 1295 at [57] Rares J said: 
 
 'The seriousness of the possibility that a consequence of a decision to proceed to affirm a decision under s 426A(1) that the persecution feared could be suffered is in my opinion part of the subject matter, scope and purpose of the legislation and conditions the way in which the discretion in s 426A(1) falls to be exercised.
' 
 

I respectfully agree.
31 There are related questions as to whether the discretion miscarried because the Tribunal misdirected itself: NBGZ v Minister for Immigration  Multicultural  Indigenous Affairs [2005] FCAFC 119 at [52] - [56] per Allsop J, or failed to consider relevant material: NBBL v Minister for Immigration  Multicultural  Indigenous Affairs [2006] FCA 1045 at [21] and [24], the result of which was that the appellant was denied procedural fairness.
32 The Tribunal is not required, where there is compliance with ss 425 and 425A of the Act , to make further enquiries, if the applicant fails to attend the review hearing: Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs v SZFHC [2006] FCAFC 73 [38]-[39].
Nor is it required to give reasons for its exercise of discretion under s 426A: SZHSQ at [60].
Further, this is not one of those cases where there was requisite compliance by the Tribunal with ss 425 and 425A but the appellant did not, in fact, receive the letter of invitation to attend the Tribunal hearing.
See VNAA v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 134 at [16] ; NADK of 2002 v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2002] FCAFC 184 at [16] ; NASF v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 162 at [16] .
Nor is it a case where the appellant's non-appearance was the result of the negligence of a migration agent: Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v SZFDE [2006] FCAFC 142 ; (2006) 154 FCR 365 at [127] per French J, cited with approval by the High Court in SZFDE at [53].
33 In SZIGQ v Minister for Immigration  Citizenship [2007] FCA 328 , Downes J at [5] reiterated that the authorities are clear that the reason for non-attendance at a hearing does not matter.
If there is compliance with ss 425 and 425A , the Tribunal may proceed under s 426A to consider and decide the matter without conducting any further enquiries.
I do not take his Honour to be saying that where the Tribunal is in fact appraised of the reason for non-attendance at a scheduled hearing by an applicant for review that due consideration should not be given to this.
34 Nonetheless, where, as in this case, the discretion is unconfined, the Tribunal may have regard to a range of factors in the exercise of its discretion.
That range too is unconfined except in so far as the subject matter, scope and purpose of the statute by implication limit those factors to which the decision-maker may legitimately have regard: SZHSQ at [49].
See also Minister for Aboriginal Affairs v Peko-Wallsend [1986] HCA 40 ; (1996) 162 CLR 24 at 40.
35 I do not accept the submission of the first respondent that the only constraint upon the exercise of the discretion is that it not be exercised capriciously.
NBBL as I mentioned was said to be authority for this proposition.
A proper reading of Greenwood J's reasons however shows that his Honour referred to a capricious decision as but one example of a circumstance which might give rise to procedural unfairness [24].
At [21] of his Honour's reasons, a wider foundation is apparent.
36 In this case the Tribunal elected to make enquiries and to give reasons for the exercise of its discretion.
It did not make its decision on the day scheduled for the hearing but delayed its decision, it seems in effect, to consider whether, under s 426A(2) of the Act , it would reschedule the hearing in order to enable the appellant's appearance before it.
In my opinion it is relevant then to consider whether, arguably, it took irrelevant matters into account and/or failed to take relevant matters into account in exercising its discretion.
