
 
1 This proceeding results from the consolidation of two proceedings brought by the applicant, Stanislawa Bahonko.
Those proceedings were:
 
(a) An application pursuant to s 170CP(1) of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) ("the WR Act") (in the form it took in November 2005) alleging contraventions of ss 170CK(2) and 170CM of the WR Act and other unlawful or tortious conduct.
(b) An application pursuant to s 46PO(1) of the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Act 1996 (Cth) ("the HREOC Act") alleging unlawful discrimination under the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) ("the RD Act ").
2 In the course of the reasons which follow, the terms of a number of documents are set out verbatim .
In what might be regarded as a departure from conventional practice, I have refrained from noting the occurrences of obvious errors, either grammatical or typographical.
There are many such errors.
I thought it best to maintain loyalty to the original in each case, and not to clutter up the text with editorial notations.
In no case is the sense of any document obscured by the retention of the errors to which I refer.
THE FACTS IN OUTLINE 
 
3 The fourth respondent, La Kosta Child Care Centre  Kindergarten Pty Ltd ("La Kosta"), operates a child care centre and kindergarten in Hampton Park ("the centre").
The first and second respondents, Kosta Sterjov and Snezana Sterjova, are the principals of La Kosta.
The third respondent, Lisa McEwan, is the manager of the centre.
4 At the time which was relevant to the present proceeding, the children cared for at the centre were divided into five separate groups, or classes, according to age.
The youngest children were those aged one year or less, while the oldest children were those aged between four and five years.
It was the latter group which constituted the kindergarten at the centre.
Those children were under the care of a kindergarten teacher and an assistant.
At relevant times, the assistant was a young woman called Esther Matthew, who was Sudanese.
5 In late 2005, La Kosta advertised for a kindergarten teacher.
The applicant answered that advertisement and, after having been interviewed twice on behalf of La Kosta, was offered employment.
She commenced work on 7 November 2005.
The applicant was in charge of the kindergarten-level children at the centre, aged 4-5 years.
Ms Matthew was her assistant in the kindergarten room.
On 8 November 2005, the applicant signed a document to which I shall later refer in detail, to the effect that she was engaged for a trial period of up to three months on a casual rate of pay.
6 On the afternoon of 10 November 2005, there was an incident in the kindergarten room which involved the applicant and Ms Matthew.
I shall deal with the incident in detail later.
The result of the incident was that, at about the end of the working day on 10 November, Ms McEwan met with the applicant and told her, in effect, that it was best if she no longer worked for La Kosta.
