
 
1 This is an appeal against the judgment of a Federal Magistrate dated 13 February 2007 dismissing an application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal (the Tribunal).
The Tribunal's decision was made on 7 September 2006 and handed down on 19 September 2006, and affirmed a decision of a delegate of the first respondent to refuse to grant protection visas to the appellants.
An earlier decision made by a differently constituted Tribunal handed down on 2 March 2004, had been set aside in May 2006.
Background 
 
2 The appellants are a boy and his parents who were born in the People's Republic of China (China).
The father alleges that he first arrived in Australia in 1990, and then returned to China in 1993.
He came back to Australia on 12 December 1995.
The boy and his mother arrived in Australia on 8 May 1997.
The family applied, through the boy, for protection visas on 3 March 2003.
In his application for a protection visa, prepared by a migration agent, the son claimed to fear persecution in China because he had spent his formative years in the "West".
The son stated that he would not have access to state education in China, that he would not be recognised as a "normal" Chinese student and that his own attitudes to the Communist government would endanger him.
The father and mother offered no claims of their own and instead relied upon their membership of the son's family unit.
On 29 May 2003, the delegate refused to grant the visas.
The Tribunal 
 
3 The appellants sought a review of the delegate's decision by an application to the Tribunal dated 8 July 2003.
This application, completed by the appellants' new migration agent, stated that each of the appellants had his or her own claim, and that separate statements in support of the claims would be submitted.
The statements were received by the Tribunal on 8 January 2004 --- the day before the date of the hearing.
4 The appellants claimed that each of them had individual claims for refugee status.
The appellants claimed that due to the fault of their previous migration agent they mistakenly did not put in claims on their own behalf.
5 The father claimed that on his return to China from Australia in 1993 he was regarded as a dissident and was interviewed by the Public Security Bureau (the PSB) about subversive communications he had engaged in with a particular foreign journalist.
He claimed to have departed China in December 1995 because he had to escape scrutiny from the PSB.
It was further claimed that the wife and son faced persecution in China on account of the husband's political profile.
It was said that the mother was required to attend a labour camp and the son was denied access to school.
The father claimed that his wife and their son obtained their passports eventually, by paying bribes, and came to Australia.
6 A hearing of the Tribunal was held in January 2004.
The hearing was transcribed.
Only the adult appellants attended the hearing.
Their migration agent, Ms Grace X Chen, was present at the hearing.
Each of the father and the mother gave evidence.
On 2 March 2004, the Tribunal handed down its decision.
In its reasons for decision, the Tribunal recorded the evidence which had been given by the husband and the wife.
The Tribunal affirmed the delegate's decision.
7 The appellants applied for judicial review of the Tribunal's decision.
8 Pursuant to a consent order dated 29 May 2006, a Federal Magistrate quashed the decision of the Tribunal and remitted the matter to the Tribunal to be considered in accordance with law.
9 On 6 July 2006, the Tribunal wrote to the appellants.
The letter stated:
 
 The Federal Magistrates Court of Australia has remitted your case to the Tribunal for reconsideration.
You are invited to provide any documents or written arguments you wish the Tribunal to consider which you have not already provided to the Tribunal.
Any documents should be provided as soon as possible.
Any documents not in English should be translated by a qualified translator.
You should send both the documents and the translations.
In the meantime, your case will be allocated to a Member of the Tribunal who has not previously made a decision in relation to your case.
