
 
1 On 15 June 2007 I made orders extending the convening period for the meeting of creditors required to be held under s 439A of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (the Act) to midnight 23 July 2007 in relation to a number of companies, being the members of what is known as the Estate Property Group (the Group), together with some ancillary orders on the application of the administrators of the companies in the Group (the Administrators) ( Hayes, in the matter of Estate Property Group Limited (Administrators Appointed) [2007] FCA 935).
In a related application concerning Australian Capital Reserve Limited (Administrators Appointed) (ACR), on 12 June 2007 orders were made extending the "decision period" provided for by s 441A(1)(b) of the Act to the last day of the convening period for a number of companies in the Group ( Australian Capital Reserve Limited (Administrators Appointed) v High Tower Investments Pty Limited (Administrators Appointed); in the matter of High Tower Investments Pty Limited (Administrators Appointed) [2007] FCA 1028).
On 13 July 2007 the convening period for the second meeting of creditors of those companies was further extended to midnight on 31 August 2007 utilising the provisions of s 447A(1) of the Act to achieve that result and certain ancillary orders were made.
I indicated then that I would give reasons for those orders in due course.
These are those reasons.
These reasons should be read with those in Hall, in the matter of Australian Capital Reserve Limited (Administrators Appointed) [2007] FCA 1328 to be delivered contemporaneously.
The background to these reasons is set out in the various judgments to which I have referred and need not be repeated.
2 The Administrator of the Group with principal responsibility gave evidence as to what had occurred following the orders made on the last occasion and summarised the then current situation of the companies in the Group.
He also dealt with the probable form of advice to creditors.
I am satisfied that the task of investigating the position of each company and project, undertaking operational restructuring and taking advice as to the future, both generally and as to particular properties, was a major exercise that was approached diligently.
3 The Administrators have taken advice from a property agent on a property by property basis as to the current status of each property and the options available for realisation of them.
Development of a strategy has involved negotiations with each of the first mortgagee lenders and the Administrators of ACR, who have taken their own property advice.
A strategy has now been agreed on a property by property basis.
Interim funding has been arranged in relation to major project construction work.
There had been a confidential initial approach to the Administrators by a substantial company prior to the hearing that had the potential to affect the recommendation to creditors.
4 The Administrators have concentrated upon preparation of proposals in relation to the various companies which have been divided into three groups: Estate Constructions of Australia Pty Limited ACN 083 789 137 (Administrators Appointed), GC Condo Pty Limited (Administrators Appointed) ACN 123 133 013 --- which are the construction companies; secondly, Mayshine Pty Limited (Administrators Appointed) ACN 065 856 144, Sam Pogson Constructions Pty Limited (Administrators Appointed) ACN 050 288 394 and Seajazz Pty Limited (Administrators Appointed) ACN 069 288 204 --- known as the Mayshine companies; and thirdly, the remaining 21 companies within the Group known as the EPG subsidiaries.
5 Within the EPG subsidiaries there are 15 entities which have developments which are either completed, in the process of being developed or own properties which have not yet been developed.
There are six entities which do not carry on business, have no external creditors and are classified as dormant.
It was proposed that there would be a eeed of company arrangement put forward to cover the EPG subsidiaries, including both the active and dormant companies and it was envisaged that there would be a pooling arrangement.
6 The objective in relation to the construction companies is to formulate a proposal for a deed of company arrangement that would enable the construction companies to come out of voluntary administration and be sold to a third party and, thus, maintain a builder's licences.
7 The Mayshine companies are the ultimate holding companies for the EPG subsidiaries and the construction companies and are not borrowers from ACR.
These companies are owned by the directors of the Group.
At the time of the hearing the Administrators had not had an opportunity to properly investigate those companies to determine a recommendation to creditors.
8 The amount owed to external trade creditors of the Group is quite small compared with the amounts outstanding to secured lenders, including ACR.
9 The evidence of the Administrators in favour of the extension is entitled to considerable weight.
However, an extension of the convening period of what, in total, amounts to approximately three months after appointment of the Administrators is considerable.
The Parliamentary intention of maintaining tight time limits for this stage of voluntary administration has recently been reaffirmed.
10 The Parliamentary Joint Committee on Corporations and Financial Services Report, Corporate Insolvency Laws: a Stocktake, Canberra, June 2004, devoted attention to voluntary administration.
In Ch 5 it considered, amongst other things, a comparison between voluntary administration and the United States Ch 11 procedure.
It preferred voluntary administration and did not consider that wholesale amendments to the voluntary administration procedure were required (Ch 5.75).
