
 
1 Timothy James Malachi, Gavin James Kendall, Isobella Jennifer Coleman, Danny Timothy Coleman, Horace Lowdown, Jerry Ned, Freddie Glen Coleman, Paul Michael John Ballie and Ivan James Ned on behalf of the 'Strathgordon mob' have applied pursuant to the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth) ('the Act') for a determination that native title exists in and over certain land and waters comprising all of the area identified in an application lodged with the National Native Title Tribunal ('the Tribunal') on 29 May 2003 and described for the purposes of these reasons and Orders as the 'Determination Area' and more particularly described as Lot 1 on Determination Plan AP14817 as Schedule 1 to the Orders of the Court.
The Application was entered on the Register of Claims maintained by the Tribunal on 30 July 2003.
2 The claim area is an area of land and waters of 118,000 hectares bounded in part by sections of the Edward and Coleman Rivers of Cape York Peninsula on the western side of Cape York and described generally as 'Strathgordon'.
The area is the subject of an existing lease described more fully in these reasons.
3 For the purposes of this determination and the Orders of the Court, the term 'waters' has the meaning attributed to it by the Act and the term 'Water' has the meaning attributed to it by the Water Act 2000 (Qld).
4 The claimants are the descendents of a number of language groups identified in and around the Determination Area at the time of colonial contact, described as the Bakanh , Wik Iyeny and Olkol/Olkola language groups.
5 Dr John Taylor is an anthropologist who commenced fieldwork with members of the claimant groups in 1968.
In a Connection Report (Annexure 'D' to the affidavit of John Charles Taylor sworn 25 June 2007), Dr Taylor notes that the location of particular language groups in or near the claim area does not identify the actual claimants; the ethnographic evidence shows that in the claim area of Cape York Peninsula parcels of land were and are held by descendents ('lineages') based on patrifiliation (and occasionally by adoption); such groups are not regarded as 'tribes' but are properly described as 'clans'; detailed name mapping between 1992 and 2001 by Dr Taylor with senior clan members identified six clan parcels or 'estates'; and the members of the clans trace their descent to the following ancestors:
 
 
 (a) Old Ned (known as Bungkuw ) many of whose descendents carry the surname Ned and affiliate with the Bakanh language;
 (b) Manpungka , a Wik Iyeny speaker most of whose descendents carry the surname Shortjoe or Monday;
 (c) the Bakanh-speaking siblings Mimosa, Alison Yam, May Yam whose descendents are mostly identified by the surname Yam; 
 (d) Philip who spoke mixed 'Olkol and Yir Yoront' language and whose descendents are known by a variety of surnames including Coleman, Andrew, Barney and Josiah;
 (e) the Olkol-speaking Frank Yam whose wives were Alison Yam and May Yam and whose descendents are largely known by the surname Yam;
 (f) Iinchar , a Bakanh-speaking woman whose descendents carry the name Coglan or Goggle-Eye;
 (g) Clara Sellars an Olkola-speaking ancestor whose descendents include persons bearing the surname Sellars or Burns; and
 (h) Clara's fellow countryman Jim Coleman who also speaks the Olkola language and whose descendents bear family names including Lowdown, Coleman and Shepherd.

 


 
6 Dr Taylor says that he was able to independently verify the existence of these apical ancestors in mission records, notes and genealogies taken by early anthropologists and in archive material maintained by the State of Queensland.
The documentary records and oral evidence demonstrate that inter-marriage between various members of the descent lines has occurred creating a network of linked families.
7 Accordingly, the claimants seek recognition of the subsistence of native title in the land and waters of the Determination Area on behalf of the interlinked 'Strathgordon mob'.
8 The Determination Area has been the subject of a term lease for pastoral purposes.
The brief history is this.
9 In 1937, a man called Jim Gordon was granted an occupation licence over 1,478 square miles of land from the Holroyd River as a northern boundary to the Coleman River in the south.
This grant became known as the Denman Pastoral Holding and Jim Gordon became the lessee.
The oral traditions of the descendents of the Ned Family ( Bungkuw ) include references to a meeting between Bungkuw and Jim Gordon and his brother, Frank Gordon.
The Gordons were looking for a site for a head station.
Bungkuw took them to a site on the Edward River and then to Thaawunyuga (old Strathgordon) where the head station was built.
In 1993 and 1994, Dr Taylor assisted the Cape York Land Council in documenting connection factors as part of a proposal to purchase the Denman Pastoral Lease on behalf of the traditional owners of the identified area.
That proposal lapsed.
However, subsequent negotiations with the Indigenous Land Corporation led to the acquisition of the lease on behalf of the traditional owners in October 2000.
The lease was transferred to the Poonko Strathgordon Aboriginal Corporation .
The pastoral lease described as Lot 2 on Crown Plan 911380 issued under the Land Act 1994 (Qld) limits the use of the land to pastoral purposes.
10 The parties to the proceeding acknowledge that s 47A(1)(b)(ii) of the Act applies to the land and waters of the Determination Area the subject of the term lease for pastoral purposes.
The relevant instrument has a commencement date of 1 July 1986 and bears Title Reference No.
17668134.
The parties further agree that when the application was made for a determination of the existence of native title, one or more members of the claim group occupied the Determination Area.
Thus, any act of extinguishment contemplated by s 47A of the Act must be disregarded.
11 The application for a determination of native title under the Act the subject of these proceedings was filed with the Tribunal on 29 May 2003.
An application for a determination of native title over the land and waters comprising the Denman Pastoral Lease was first lodged with the Tribunal in 1997 (QC97/17).
Further anthropological work was undertaken by Dr Taylor to support that application.
However, the application was withdrawn after the enactment of the Native Title Amendment Act 1998 (Cth).
Further work was undertaken by Dr Taylor which led to the lodging of the 2003 application with the Tribunal.
12 The Tribunal gave notice of the application pursuant to and in accordance with s 66 of the Act.
Pursuant to s 84(3) of the Act, the State of Queensland, the Cook Shire Council and the Queensland Lapidary and Allied Craft Clubs Association were joined and remain as parties to the proceedings.
Telstra Corporation Limited ('Telstra') also became a party to the proceedings.
However, on 13 November 2006 Telstra filed a notice that it wished to cease to be a party.
13 The parties, consistent with Division 1C of Part 4 of the Act have now reached agreement arising out of a mediation process, upon the terms of a draft determination reflecting proposed orders to be made by the Court ('the agreement').
The agreement recognises that native title is held by the Strathgordon mob comprising:
 
 
 (a) the descendants of Old Ned ( Bungkuw ); Manpungka (father of Shortjoe, Stan Monday and Wonhtha ); the siblings Mimosa, Alison Yam and May Yam; Philip (father of Phil Coleman and Judy Killarney); Iinchar ; Frank Yam; the siblings Polly (wife of Mustard and mother of Clara Sellars) and Lilly Boxer; and Jim Coleman; and
 
 (b) those persons adopted by those descendants in accordance with the traditional laws acknowledged and traditional customs observed by those descendants.

 


 
 The Court is invited to note that the traditional laws acknowledged and the traditional customs observed by the claimants on behalf of the Strathgordon mob include the authority as between Aboriginal people to:
 
 
 (a) resolve disputes about who is or who is not a Native Title Holder;
 
 (b) determine as between the Native Title Holders what are the particular native title rights and interests that are held by particular Native Title Holders in relation to particular parts of the Determination Area;
 
 (c) exclude particular Native Title Holders from the exercise of particular native title rights and interests in relation to particular parts of the Determination Area; and
 
 (d) resolve disputes between Aboriginal people concerning native title rights and interests in relation to the Determination Area, with the assistance of traditional Aboriginal owners or native title holders of adjoining areas where such assistance is necessary.

 


 
14 The agreement provides that the nature and extent of the native title rights and interests (s 225(b) of the Act) and those rights said to be exclusive rights (s 225(e) of the Act) are these:
 
 
 3.
Subject to paragraphs 4 and 5 the nature and extent of the native title rights and interests in relation to the Determination Area are: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) except in relation to Water --- the right of possession, occupation, use and enjoyment to the exclusion of all others; and 
 
 
 
 
 (b) in relation to Water --- non exclusion rights to: 
 
 
 (i) hunt and fish in or on, and gather from, Water for the purpose of satisfying personal, domestic and non-commercial communal needs; and 
 
 
 
 (ii) take and use Water for the purpose of satisfying personal, domestic or non-commercial communal needs.

 
 
 
 
 The native title in relation to Water does not confer possession, occupation, use and enjoyment of the Water on the Native Title Holders to the exclusion of all others.

 
 
 
 4.
The native title is subject to and exercisable in accordance with: 
 
 (a) the Laws of the State and Commonwealth; and 
 
 
 
 
 (b) the traditional laws acknowledged and traditional customs observed by the Native Title Holders.

 
 
 
 
 5.
There is no native title in: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) 'minerals' as defined in the Mineral Resources Act 1989 (Qld); and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) 'petroleum' as defined in the Petroleum Act 1923 (Qld) and the Petroleum and Gas (Production and Safety) Act 2004 (Qld).

 
 
 
 

15 The agreement provides that the nature and extent of any 'other interests' are said to be these:
 
 
 (a) the rights and interests of the lessee and others under the term lease for pastoral purposes dated 1 July 1986 being Title Reference No.
17668134 comprising Lot 2 on Crown Plan 911380 and known locally as the Strathgordon Pastoral Lease; 
 


 
 
 (b) the rights and interests of Telstra Corporation Limited: 
 


 
 
 
 (i) as the owner and operator of telecommunication facilities installed within the Determination Area and as the holder of a carrier licence under the Telecommunications Act 1997 (Cth); 
 
 


 
 
 
 (ii) created pursuant to the Post and Telegraph Act 1901 (Cth), the Telecommunications Act 1975 (Cth), the Australian Telecommunications Corporation Act 1989 (Cth), the Telecommunications Act 1991 (Cth) and the Telecommunications Act 1997 (Cth); and 
 
 


 
 
 
 (iii) for its employees, agents or contractors to access its telecommunication facilities in, and in the vicinity of the Determination Area, in the performance of their duties; 
 
 


 
 
 (c) the rights and interests of the Cook Shire Council under its local government jurisdiction and functions and as an entity exercising statutory powers including its interests under an Indigenous Land Use Agreement dated 1 June 2007 between the Native Title Holders and the Cook Shire Council; 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) the rights and interests of the lessee of the Strathgordon Pastoral Lease, the Cook Shire Council, the State of Queensland, the applicant and the Native Title Holders under an Indigenous Land Use Agreement (known as the Strathgordon Roads Indigenous Land Use Agreement) dated 5 July 2007 between the Poonko/Strathgordon Aboriginal Corporation as lessee of the Strathgordon Pastoral Lease, the applicant, the Cook Shire Council and the State of Queensland; 
 


 
 
 (e) the rights and interests of the Queensland Lapidary and Allied Craft Clubs Association under a licence issued pursuant to the Fossicking Act 1994 (Qld); 
 


 
 
 (f) any other rights and interests held by the Crown or by reason of the force and operation of the laws of the State and the Commonwealth.

 
 
 

16 By clause 7 of the agreement, native title continues to subsist in the land and waters notwithstanding inconsistent 'other interests'.
However, the subsistence of native title has no effect upon the exercise of those other interests (or activities associated with or incidental to those other interests) for so long as those other interests exist.
17 Pursuant to ss 13 and 81 and Parts 3 and 4 of the Act, the Federal Court may make a determination concerning native title in relation to an area over which there is no existing approved determination.
Section 87 confers power on the Court to make Orders in, or consistent with, the terms agreed by parties to the proceeding without holding a hearing if an agreement contemplated by s 87(1)(a) is reached; written terms of it signed by the parties are filed with the Court (s 87(1)(b)); and the Court is satisfied that orders in or consistent with those terms would be within power (s 87(1)(c)).
18 By amendments to the Act commencing on 14 April 2007, s 87(1)(d) was inserted into the Act by the Native Title Amendment Act 2007 (Cth).
That section provides that the Court has no power to make an order under s 87 unless satisfied that an order in, or consistent with, the terms of the relevant agreement cannot be made under s 87A.
That section was also introduced into the Act by the Native Title Amendment Act 2007 (Cth).
Section 87A however applies only in circumstances where (among other things) agreement is reached by the parties in a proceeding relating to an application for a determination of native title and the agreement proposes a determination of native title in relation to 'an area included in the area covered by the application' [that is, a part of a claim area].
19 In this case, the agreement proposes a determination of native title for the entirety of the claim area and thus an order cannot be made under s 87A.
The appropriate source of the Court's power is s 87 of the Act.
20 Where the Court makes a determination of native title, s 94A of the Act requires the Court to set out details of the matters mentioned in s 225.
That section is in these terms:
 
 225 Determination of native title 
 
 
 
 A determination of native title is a determination whether or not native title exists in relation to a particular area (the determination area ) of land or waters and, if it does exist, a determination of: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) who the persons, or each group of persons, holding the common or group rights comprising the native title are; and 
 
 (b) the nature and extent of the native title rights and interests in relation to the determination area; and 
 
 (c) the nature and extent of any other interests in relation to the determination area; and 
 
 (d) the relationship between the rights and interests in paragraphs (b) and (c) (taking into account the effect of this Act); and 
 
 (e) to the extent that the land or waters in the determination area are not covered by a non-exclusive agricultural lease or a non-exclusive pastoral lease --- whether the native title rights and interests confer possession, occupation, use and enjoyment of that land or waters on the native title holders to the exclusion of all others.

 
 
 
 

21 The evidence in relation to each of these matters is this.
22 Dr Taylor has conducted a review of the archaeological reports and evidence and an extensive review of the anthropological literature relevant to the claim area and the broader Cape York Aboriginal communities in the region of the claim.
As to the archaeological evidence, the record in its present state is not sensitive enough to distinguish cultural 'signatures' that demonstrate a differentiation between Wik Iyeny, Bakanh, Olkol and Olkola sites.
No archaeological work has been carried out in the Determination Area and the environment and climatic conditions in the area are unfavourable to the preservation of material.
Dr Taylor refers to a survey conducted by David and Cordell in 1993 and a further survey by David and Courados in 1997.
23 As to contact by early explorers, the Dutch made three voyages to Cape York Peninsula: Janz in the Duyfken (1606); Carstensz in the Pera and Arnhem (1623); and Gonzal in the Rijder and the Buijs (1756).
Carstensz put ashore at the mouth of the Mitchell River, the closest point of contact to the claim area and encountered Aboriginal communities.
Ludwig Leichhardt traversed part of the Mitchell River south of the claim area in 1845 and approximately 40 kilometres south west of the claim area (at Scrutton Creek) encountered Aboriginal communities.
Frank and Alec Jardine in 1864 and 1865 led a party of 10 stockmen overland to a point of close contact with the claim area (that is, westward along the Staaten River to the coastal plain; north along the west coast flood plains and across the Kendall River).
The party noted many signs of Aboriginal occupation such as camp sites; fish weirs; and groups of up to 70 or 80 Aboriginal people fishing.
24 In the anthropological literature, Dr Taylor identifies nine maps dating from 1897 that purport to show the distribution of Aboriginal communities or 'tribes' (a term used in the anthropological literature that simply denotes differentiated language groups occupying a particular area of land).
Examples of the maps are a map drawn in 1897 by W E Parry-Okeden, Queensland Commissioner of Police, contained in a report to Home Secretary Tozer on the subject of 'Aborigines of North Queensland and the Native Police'; and a sketch map drawn by Walter Roth, Northern Protector of Aborigines in Queensland, in 1899 as part of a short ethnographic survey which included information about the Olkola People.
Roth's map shows a variety of 'tribal' names scattered over parts of the landscape with indications of the presumed range of occupation.
Ursula McConnel and Donald Thomson also conducted extensive survey work in the 1920s and, in particular, 1928.
25 Dr Taylor says the nine maps show a high degree of consistency in indicating the languages spoken in or near the claim area as Olkola (sometimes spelt Olkulo or Olkolo), Olkol (Olgol), Bakanh (or Pakanh, Bakanu or Aibakan) and Wik Iyeny (also Wik Iiyanh, Munganhu, Munkanu or Wik Ianji).
