
 
1 By an application (the first application) dated 8 February 2007 and filed on 8 March 2007 the applicant seeks to appeal against the objection decision described as follows:
 
 'Objection Reference Number: 5524626 against Amended Assessment on 02 November 2006 for the following periods: 
 
 Year ended 30 June 1993 
 Year ended 30 June 1994 
 Year ended 30 June 1996' 

The first application states that the manner in which the decision is to be varied is:
 
 'By allowing the objection lodged to the extent of allowing the following interest deductions: 
 
 $30 000 for Year ended 30 June 1993 
 $40 200 for Year ended 30 June 1994 
 $43 000 for Year ended 30 June 1996' 

2 By a further application (the second application) dated 5 April 2007 and received at the Court on that date but not treated as filed the applicant again asserted an appeal in the same terms.
3 The respondent contends that the first application was not valid because at the time it was made the applicant was subject to an administration order under the Guardianship and Administration Act 1990 (WA) (the Act).
The respondent further contends that the second application is not valid because it is out of time and there is no power to extend time.
4 The applicant contends that the respondent was aware at all times that he had an administrator appointed but chose to exclude the administrator from the proceeding on numerous occasions and only now relies on the appointment of the administrator when the effect of it may be to preclude the applicant appealing to this Court.
He also alleges he made the first application in his own name on advice from an officer of the respondent's department, the Australian Taxation Office.
He claims that the effect of the respondent's contentions being upheld would be to condemn him to bankruptcy without any right of appeal.
5 The respondent relies on written submissions and on the affidavit of Mr Devaney, a level 5 Australian public servant employed in the Legal Services Branch, Debt Litigation Area of the Northbridge Office of the Australian Taxation Office and an affidavit of M/s Redknap, the Acting Director of the MEI Technical Business Unit in the Upper Mount Gravatt Office of the Australian Taxation Office and, at the time of her dealings with the applicant, a Technical Advisor in that Unit.
6 The applicant relies on submissions to the effect set out above and on his affidavit.
THE ADMINISTRATION ORDER 
 History of the administration orders 
 
7 At the time the applicant filed the first application he was subject to an order under the Act made by the State Administrative Tribunal (the Tribunal) on 11 April 2006 which provided that:
 
 'Amin Haddad of 12 Garland Court, Kardinya, Western Australia be appointed limited administrator of the estate of the represented person with the following functions: 
 
 
 
 (a) The administrator is to bring and defend action, suits and other legal proceedings in the name of the represented person including the power to settle such actions.
' 
 

8 The administration order made on 11 April 2006 was made on review under s 84 of the Act of an earlier administration order dated 11 April 2005.
9 The administration order made on 11 April 2006 was itself reviewed under s 84 of the Act by the Tribunal on 4 April 2007 and was revoked on that day.
10 Although the administration order of 11 April 2006 does not set out in its terms the basis upon which that order was made, that is set out in an earlier administration order made by the Guardianship and Administration Board (the predecessor of the Tribunal under the Act), on 18 November 2002.
This order was itself an order made upon review of an earlier administration order dated 27 April 2000.
The administration order of 18 November 2002 which appointed a limited administrator on the same basis as the administration order of 11 April 2006, sets out that the Guardianship and Administration Board was satisfied that the applicant:
 
 
 '(a) remains unable, by reason of mental disability to make reasonable judgments in respect of matters relating to part of his estate; and 
 (b) is in need of an administrator of his estate; and 
 (c) cannot have such need met by other means less restrictive of his freedom of decision and action.
' 
 
 Relevant statutory provisions 
 
11 The Tribunal is empowered to make an administration order under s 64 of the Act.
That section relevantly provides:
 
 
 '64(1) Subject to section 4, where the State Administrative Tribunal is satisfied that a person in respect of whom an application for an administration order is made under section 40 --- 
 
 
 
 (a) is unable, by reason of a mental disability, to make reasonable judgments in respect of matters relating to all or any part of his estate; and 
 (b) is in need of an administrator of his estate, 
 
 
 the Tribunal may by order declare the person to be in need of an administrator of his estate, and if it does so shall appoint- 
 
 
 (c) a person to be the administrator; or 
 (d) persons to be joint administrators, 
 
 
 as the case may require, of the estate of the person in respect of whom the application is made.

 
 (2) Where under subsection (1) the State Administrative Tribunal declares that a person is in need of an administrator of his estate, it shall declare the matter or matters set out in paragraph (a) of that subsection of which it is satisfied.

 
 (3) An appointment under subsection (1) --- 
 
 
 
 (a) may be made subject to such conditions and restrictions as the State Administrative Tribunal thinks fit; 
 (b) may, subject to section 52 of the Public Trustee Act 1941 , include requirements as to the giving of security to the executive officer and the manner in which it is to be given.

 [(c) deleted].
' 

12 Section 84 of the Act empowers the Tribunal to review orders periodically and provides:
 
 '84.
The State Administrative Tribunal shall --- 
 
 
 (a) when it makes a guardianship order or an administration order or any order amending, continuing or replacing an order specify a period, not exceeding 5 years from the date of the order, within which the order shall be reviewed; and 
 (b) ensure that the order is reviewed accordingly.
' 

13 Section 69 of the Act deals with the authority of the administrator and provides:
 
 
 '69(1) Subject to section 64(3)(a) , the administrator has, or the joint administrators have, in respect of the estate of the represented person, such of the functions provided for by this Act as the State Administrative Tribunal vest in him or them, or directs him or them to perform, in the administration order.

 
 (2) An administrator may on behalf of a represented person execute all such documents and do all such things as are necessary for the performance of the functions vested in him.

 
 (3) An action taken, decision made, consent given or other thing done by an administrator in the performance of the functions vested in him has effect as if it had been taken, made, given or done by the represented person and he were of full legal capacity.

 
 (4) Nothing in this Act vests the estate of a represented person in an administrator.
' 
 

14 Section 71 of the Act deals with the authority which may be confirmed on an administrator and provides:
 
 
 '71(1) The State Administrative Tribunal may, under section 69, vest plenary functions in the administrator of the estate of a represented person.

 
 
 
 
 
 (2) Where plenary functions are vested in an administrator he may perform, or refrain from performing, in relation to the estate of the represented person, or any part of the estate, any function that the represented person could himself perform, or refrain from performing, if he were of full legal capacity.

 
 (3) Where the State Administrative Tribunal does not under section 69 vest plenary functions in an administrator, it may, under that section, authorise the administrator to perform any specified function, including one or more of those set out in Part A of Schedule 2.

 
 (4) The State Administrative Tribunal may require a function to be performed by an administrator and may give directions as to the time, manner or circumstances of the performance.

 
 (5) In exercising its jurisdiction, under this Part the State Administrative Tribunal may take a liberal view of the best interests of the represented person as mentioned in section 4(2)(a) , and in particular may, if the circumstances so require, empower an administrator to make a payment or enter into a transaction of a kind described in section 72(3) on behalf of the represented person.
' 
 

15 Part A of Sch 2 to the Act which sets out the various specified functions includes at item 15 the following function:
 
 '15 To bring, and defend, actions, suits and other legal proceedings in the name of the represented person.
' 

16 Section 77 of the Act is in the following terms:
 
 '77 Represented person incapable of dealing with estate 
 
 
 
 (1) So long as there is in force a declaration by the State Administrative Tribunal under section 64(1) that a person is in need of an administrator of his estate, that person is --- 
 
 
 
 (a) incapable of entering into any contract or making any disposition in respect of his estate or any part thereof or interest therein; or 
 (b) subject to Part 9 , appointing or conferring any power on an agent or attorney in respect thereof; 
 
 
 except to the extent that the administrator, with the consent of the Tribunal, in writing authorises him to do so.

 
 (2) Any money or property the subject of an attempted dealing by a represented person contrary to subsection (1) may be recovered by the administrator in any court of competent jurisdiction.

 
 (3) Nothing in this section affects --- 
 
 
 
 (a) any contract for necessaries entered into by a represented person; or 
 (b) any contract or disposition by a represented person made for adequate consideration with, or in favour of, any other person who proves that he acted in good faith and was unaware that that person was a represented person; or 
 (c) anything done under a power of attorney by a person who proves that he acted in good faith and was unaware that the donor of the power was a represented person.

 
 
 
 (4) Nothing in this section affects any legal incapacity attaching to a represented person by reason of infancy.

 
 (5) For the purpose of this section the acceptance of payment of the whole or any part of a debt shall be deemed to be a disposition in respect of the estate.
' 
 
 Relevant case law 
 
17 The respondent relies on the consideration of s 77 of the Act by the Full Court of the Supreme Court of Western Australia in Re "DDM" file number 02/0352; Ex Parte the Full Board of the Guardianship and Administration Board (2003) 27 WAR 475.
The Full Court there overruled an earlier decision of the Full Court of the Supreme Court of Western Australia in Johnson v Staniforth [2002] WASCA 97.
The principal issue in "DDM" 27 WAR 475 was whether s 77(1)(a) of the Act had any application to a will made by a testator who was subject to an administration order under s 64 of the Act.
The Full Court found that s 77(1)(a) had no application to a will made by a testator the subject of an administration order on the basis that the making of a will did not involve any disposition in respect of the estate or any part thereof or interest therein (as any disposition under the terms of a will would only take place following the death of the testator and because the functions which could be conferred on an administrator under the Act did not include the power to make a will or other testamentary writing).
18 The leading judgment, with which the other members of the Full Court concurred, was that of Heenan J.
In relation to the meaning of s 77(1)(a) of the Act Heenan J stated at [43] and [44]:
 
 '43 In the present case, therefore, the duty of the court is to ascertain the meaning which Parliament intended to be given to the word "disposition" in s 77(1))(a) of the Act, rather than to import a meaning given to the word "disposition" in some different statutory context or attributed to it in some decision dealing with differing considerations.
In this regard it seems essential to appreciate that the Guardianship and Administration Act is intended to provide for the guardianship of adults who need assistance in their personal affairs, for the administration of the estates of person who need assistance in their financial affairs ... and to make provision for a power of attorney to operate after the donor has ceased to have legal capacity, and for connected purposes (see the long title to the Act).
From this, and an examination of the entire Act, it is obvious that the legislation is designed for the protection of adult persons whose faculties may be impaired, for any reason, and who are therefore in need of protection and assistance so as to ensure that their financial affairs and other welfare is not jeopardised by improvident, or ill-considered personal decisions or action, or by unscrupulous or ill-advised influence of relatives, friends and others who may deliberately or inadvertently exploit the vulnerability of the person in need of assistance and protection.
' 
 
 
 
 44 These ends can be achieved, when it comes to dealing with the property and financial affairs of the person in need of assistance, by ensuring that any financial property or commercial transactions which would, or might, jeopardise the financial security or interests of the disabled person, are only effective when performed by a properly appointed administrator and with the Board's consent.
The emphasis is on conserving the property and financial resources of the disabled person to ensure that they are available for his or her own needs, welfare and enjoyment and are not dissipated.
These seem to be the primary objectives of the legislation and all the provisions of the Act can be seen to have meaning and effect as leading towards the achievement of those purposes.
In the main, these will be accomplished by conserving the resources and property of the person under administration for use to his or her own advantage or, in cases where expenditure or imminent disposition of property are necessary or advantageous, by scrutinising the transaction to see that it is justifiable or provident having regard to all the circumstances, bearing always in mind the continuing and future needs of the person whose estate is under administration.
' 
 
 

19 There are, however, other authorities of relevance.
In McVey v St Vincent's Hospital (Melbourne) Ltd [2005] VSCA 233 the Court of Appeal of the Supreme Court of Victoria was called upon to consider the validity of a notice of appeal issued by an appellant who was subject to an administration order.
The Court (Eames JA, with whom Ashley JA and Hollingworth AJA agreed) held the notice of appeal was void.
The reasoning of the Court was as follows:
 
 
 '[15] The first question which arises is whether the notice of appeal issued in those circumstances was valid.
By s 58B(1)(b) of the Act, upon appointment as administrator it is the duty of the administrator, inter alia, "to manage the affairs of the represented person and to exercise all rights statutory or otherwise which the represented person might exercise if the represented person had legal capacity".
Pursuant to s 58B(2)(l) an administrator may, in the name of and on behalf of the represented person, bring and defend actions and other legal proceedings in the name of the represented person.
By s 50(1) the administrator is empowered to sign and do all such things as are necessary to give effect to any power or duty vested in the administrator.

 [16] Section 52(1) provides that where an administration order has been made the represented person, until revocation of that order, "is to the extent that the represented person's estate is under the control of the administrator, deemed incapable of dealing with, transferring, alienating or charging her or his money or property or any part thereof or becoming liable under any contract without the order of the Tribunal or the written consent of the administrator".
By s 52(2) every dealing by a represented person "in respect of any part of the estate which is under the control of the administrator is void and of no effect and the money or property the subject of the dealing, transfer, alienation or charge by any represented person is recoverable by the administrator in any court of competent jurisdiction".

 [17] There is no definition of "estate" for the purpose of s 46(1)(a)(ii) (fn 2 The word "estate" is, however, defined in s 3 of the State Trustees (State Owned Company) Act 1994 to mean "real and personal estate" and by s 35 of that Act a new Div 3A of Pt 5 was inserted into the Guardianship and Administration Act 1986 , one of the new provisions being s 58B , in the terms in which it now appears.
) but the lodging of a notice of appeal rendered the applicant liable to orders as to costs and in lodging his notice of appeal while the administration order continued the applicant was dealing with that part of his estate which was the subject of the order, namely such rights as were concerned in legal proceedings against St Vincent's.
In my opinion, he was not empowered to take that step, nor, indeed, was he empowered to file a summons seeking an adjournment of the hearing of the s 23A application, because that step was also taken when the administration order applied to the proceedings.
That conclusion is consistent with authority.

 [18] The terms of s 54H and s 54I of the repealed Public Trustee Act 1958 were in nearly identical terms to those of s 52(1) and (2) of the Guardianship and Administration Act 1986 .
In Re Barnes, A Protected Person (fn 3 [1983] 1 VR 605, at 608.
) Beach J held, citing the decision of the Court of Appeal in Re Walker (fn 4 [1905] 1 Ch 160.
) , that whilst a person was subject to a protection order the estate of that person could be dealt with only by the Public Trustee.
Beach J quoted with approval the words of Eve J in Re Marshall (fn 5 [1920] 1 Ch 284 at 288---9.
) who, in applying the decision of the Court of Appeal held that were the situation otherwise "this unsatisfactory result would follow, that the affairs of the person of unsound mind, although put under the control of one person, the receiver, would in fact be controlled by two persons -- namely, the person of unsound mind and the receiver.
" 
 [19] The analysis by Beach J of the effect of the legislative provisions was accepted by all members of the New South Wales Court of Appeal in David by Her Tutor The Protective Commissioner v David and Anor (fn 6 (1993) 30 NSWLR 417, at 432, per Kirby P; at 438---9, per Sheller JA (with whom Priestley JA agreed) .

 [20] In my opinion, therefore, the notice of appeal was void (as was the summons whereby application was made for an adjournment).
That defect of the notice of appeal might, however, be capable of being overcome.
' 
 

A subsequent application to the High Court for special leave to appeal was refused: McVey v St Vincent's Hospital (Melbourne) Ltd [2006] HCATrans 169.
In dismissing the application Hayne J on behalf of himself and Crennan J said that there was no reason to doubt the correctness of the conclusions reached by the Court of Appeal.
20 In David by Her Tutor the Protective Commissioner v David (1993) 30 NSWLR 417 consideration was given to the effect of an order committing the management of an estate of a protected person to the Protective Commissions under the Protected Estates Act 1983 (NSW).
Sheller JA (with whose reasons Priestley JA agreed) said at 438-439, after reference to the decision of Beach J in Re Barnes [1983] 1 VR 605: 
 
 'It is true that s 54(1) of the Public Trustee Act 1958 provided, subject to immaterial exceptions, that every dealing transfer or alienation or charge by any protected persons should be void and of no effect.
There is no equivalent provision in the Protected Estates Act 1983 .
But, in my opinion, such a section would do no more than confirm the effect of committing the management of a person's estate with express consequential powers, authorities and duties to the Protective Commissioner .
' 
 Respondent's submissions 
 
21 The respondent submits that by reason of the terms of s 77 of the Act the applicant was incapable of dealing with his estate in respect of the specified function which was the subject of the administration order of 11 April 2006, that is, bringing and defending actions, suits and other legal proceedings including the power to settle such actions.
22 There is no evidence before the Court that the administrator of the applicant's estate as at 8 March 2007 had, with the consent of the Tribunal, authorised the applicant in writing to commence the proceeding WAD 51 of 2007.
23 Although not expressly stated in the administration order of 11 April 2006, the respondent submits that it can be inferred from the terms of the administration order of 11 April 2006 which continued the appointment of the limited administrator that the Tribunal remained satisfied of the matters set out in Order 2 of the administration order of 18 November 2002.
24 The respondent further submits that consistently with the terms of ss 77 and 69 (3) of the Act the making of the administration order of 11 April 2006 has the effect that the administrator was empowered to bring and defend actions, suits and other legal proceedings in the name of the applicant and that the applicant was thereby incapable of bringing and defending actions, suits and other legal proceedings in his name whilst the administration order remained in force.
If the applicant remained capable of bringing and defending actions, suits and other legal proceedings in his own name whilst the administration order was in force, this would render otiose the administration order of 11 April 2006 and defeat the only purpose for which that administration order was made.
25 The respondent submits that, consistently with the legislative intention found by the Full Court of the Supreme Court of Western Australia, the effect of s 77(1)(a) is that the particular functions in respect of the estate of the persons subject to the administration order which was vested in the administrator by s 69 of the Act can only be performed by the administrator and that the person who is the subject of the administration order is legally incapable of performing those functions whilst the administration order is in force.
26 The respondent also submits that as the administration order of 11 April 2006 was in force at the time the applicant purported to commence the proceedings WAD 51 of 2007 he was not legally capable of commencing those proceedings at that date and the proceedings should, accordingly, be dismissed.
27 In supplementary submissions the respondent addressed the effect of the McVey [2005] VSCA 233 case.
He argues that the decision supports the submissions of the respondent on the invalidity of the application.
It is pointed out that the administration order in McVey [2005] VSCA 233 , like the order in issue here, was limited to the conduct of legal proceedings in respect of the applicant.
It is contended that although the wording of the relevant section of the Guardianship and Administration Act 1986 (Vic) s 52 is in different terms to the corresponding s 77 of the Act, the reasoning of the Victorian Court of Appeal is equally applicable to the applicant's position.
Additionally it is argued that the reference in McVey [2005] VSCA 233 to Re Barnes [1983] 1 VR 605 and to David 30 NSWLR 417 are consistent with the respondent's earlier submission to the effect that if the applicant were to remain legally capable of bringing legal proceedings while the administration order was in force it would defeat the only purpose for which the administration order had been made.
Applicant's submissions 
 
28 The applicant is a self-represented person who could not be expected to address the submissions of law raised by the respondent.
The applicant's submissions are directed to two aspects of fact.
Inadvertence by respondent to administrator 
 
29 The first issue of fact is that the applicant says the respondent was aware at all times of the appointment of his administrator but chose to exclude his administrator from the proceeding on numerous occasions.
In his affidavit he states:
 
 '1.
The Australian Taxation Office brought a bankruptcy proceeding against me in June 2006 with no involvement of my Administrator (...), which show evidence that the Tax Office dealt with me alone.

 
 2.
I went and saw my local Member of Parliament (Mr Denis Jensen) and the Tax Office credited me with $8 367.81 (...).
On the 15 th August, 2006 a cheque for the amount of $8 367.81 was sent c/o Mr Amin Haddad, Administrator (...).
The Tax Office excluded my Administrator from this matter, but released the above cheque care of my Administrator.

 
 3.
On the 8 th January, 2007 a 'Notice of Decision on Objection' was sent to Mr Eric Veder, my Accountant.
The notice was sent to Mr Veder's P.O Box (...).

 I was not provided with any personal notification of this notice and neither was my Administrator.
I was made aware of this 'decision' by Mr Veder on the 15 th February, 2007, when Mr Veder gave me a copy of this 'notice'.

 
 4.
On the 15 th January, 2007, the Tax Office issued a 'Notice of Income Tax Audit', which was sent to Mr Veder (...).
' 

30 The respondent submits that at least in the case of items 3 and 4 the Australian Taxation Office would not, even on the applicant's submission, have been bound to deal with the applicant's administrator because the scope of the administrator's authority would not have extended to either of those matters.
That is, neither of them involved the bringing and defending of an action, suits or other legal proceedings in the name of the represented person.
31 As to paragraph 1 of the applicant's affidavit and the institution of a bankruptcy proceeding against him in June 2006, it is relevant to turn to the affidavit of Mr Devaney.
He states that on 13 April 2006 as part of his duties he was allocated instructions to seek a sequestration order against the applicant.
Prior to that involvement judgment had been handed down in the District Court on 29 November 2005 directing the applicant to pay the respondent $53 121.24 and $698.70 costs.
A bankruptcy notice was issued by the official receiver on 31 January 2006 for the amount of $53 819.94.
At the time Mr Devaney received these instructions he was not aware that the applicant had an administrator appointed.
32 His affidavit continues by stating that he arranged for the preparation and service of a creditor's petition in the Federal Magistrates Court and organised for the petition to be served personally on the applicant at his home address, which occurred on 11 May 2006.
On 1 June 2006 the applicant filed a notice stating grounds of opposition to the petition and an affidavit in support of this together with a notice of appearance.
It was not until 6 June 2006 in the Federal Magistrates Court, when the District Registrar advised the applicant that he could not represent himself as he was under an administration order, that Mr Devaney became aware of the appointment of an administrator.
The matter was adjourned until 8 August 2006.
33 The following day Mr Devaney sent a letter to the applicant's administrator, Mr Haddad, advising him of what had had happened in the proceedings and requesting him to contact Mr Devaney.
34 On 8 August 2006 Mr Devaney again appeared on behalf of the Deputy Commissioner in the Federal Magistrates Court before the District Registrar.
The applicant attended with his administrator.
Mr Devaney advised the District Registrar that the tax had been cleared by the issuing of a credit assessment and he sought on behalf of the Deputy Commissioner to have the petition dismissed, with the Deputy Commissioner's disbursements paid by the applicant.
The applicant objected to such payment.
It was later decided that the Deputy Commissioner would not pursue the issue of costs and a letter was written on 10 August 2006 advising the Court of this.
Accordingly, on 29 August 2006 the Federal Magistrates Court ordered that the matter be dismissed with no order as to costs.
35 It is apparent from these circumstances that as soon as Mr Devaney became aware of the appointment of the administrator he placed him with full knowledge of what had occurred on 6 June 2006 and the administrator thereafter attended on 8 August 2006.
From the evidence it cannot be inferred that the respondent was aware 'at all times' that the applicant had an administrator appointed and chose to exclude the administrator from the proceeding.
The inference which the applicant seeks to draw is not open on the evidence relating to any of the four matters on which he relies.
Advice from respondent 
 
36 The applicant also asserts in his submission that the respondent's office through M/s Patricia Redknap advised him that as the notice of assessment had been issued in his name he needed to lodge any appeal with the Federal Court under his name and that there was no need for his administrator to be involved.
In his affidavit the applicant states:
 
 
 '5.
On 8 th March, 2007 I spoke to Ms Patricia Redknap (Tax Office, Brisbane), and I asked her whether the application to the Federal Court in appealing the 'decision' should be made by me or my Administrator.
Ms Redknap stated that as the 'notice' was in my name that I needed to make the application to the Federal Court and not my Administrator.
It was on this advice that I lodged my application to the Federal Court.
' 
 

37 This requires reference to the affidavit of M/s Redknap.
She states she was the officer responsible for considering and deciding the objections lodged by the applicant's tax agent, Mr Veder, dated 2 November 2006 against the amended assessments dated 8 April 1999 for the years ended 30 June 1993, 1994 and 1996.
She states that she decided to disallow the objections and a formal notice disallowing the objections was sent to Mr Veder on 8 January 2007.
38 M/s Redknap accepts that a few weeks later the applicant telephoned her.
To the best of her recollection the conversation took place in January 2007.
She states that as it was just a general query, she did not make a written record of the conversation but has a good recollection of it.
She states:
 
 
 '6.
Mr Abuothman complained about the objection decision and asked me what he could do about it.
I advised him he had provided no evidence to support his claims and it was decided to disallow his objection.
I told him that he had a right of appeal that was set out in the attachments to the objection decision that had been sent to him.
We spoke in general terms and mainly about appealing to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.

 7.
I was aware from my earlier reading of the decision in his previous appeal to the AAT that he had an Administrator but this had slipped my mind at the time of our conversation.
At no time in my telephone discussion with Mr Abuothman did we discuss what the Administrator's role would be in an appeal.
I am quite certain that Mr Abuothman did not ask me nor did we ever discuss whether any application to the Federal Court needed to be made by the Administrator.
' 
 

39 There is a conflict in the evidence of the applicant and M/s Redknap.
They have different recollections of the conversation.
I am inclined to find that the effect of the evidence of both witnesses is that M/s Redknap advised the applicant that, as the notice was in his name, he needed to make the application himself to the Federal Court.
However, that was stated without any reference to the position of an administrator.
40 In any event, whatever the advice given by M/s Redknap it cannot preclude any effect which the statute law might have in relation to the validity of his application.
I therefore return to those issues.
Effect of McVey's case 
 
41 The applicant accepts that the decision in the McVey [2005] VSCA 233 case may support the respondent's submissions on the apparent validity of the present application.
However, he contends that the validity of the application would not have been an issue had it not been for the misleading advice of the officer Ms Redknap, as set out in the applicant's affidavit filed on 15 May 2007.
The applicant seeks an exercise of the discretion of the Court to grant leave for the fresh application to be lodged in view of that misleading advice.
Further the applicant asserts the Court should have regard to the likelihood of him succeeding before this Court.
Above all, he seeks that the issues be judged on their merits.
Validity of application 
 
42 I consider the applicant is correct in accepting that the decision of the Victorian Court of Appeal in McVey [2005] VSCA 233 may support the respondent's submissions on the validity of the application.
It is clear that it and the other authorities referred to in it do provide that support.
Not only should this Court follow the reasoning in McVey [2005] VSCA 233 but there is no apparent legal reason for not doing so.
In particular I agree that any differences in the wording of the legislation under consideration here and that considered in McVey [2005] VSCA 233 does not provide a foundation for making the reasoning in McVey [2005] VSCA 233 inapplicable here.
The consequence is that the application was invalid.
43 The plea of the applicant for his application to be considered on its merits is understandable.
However, given the invalidity of the application there is no discretion which arises in the Court to grant him leave to file a fresh application.
It is not open to the Court to take the steps which the supplementary submissions of the applicant seek.
EXTENSION OF TIME 
 
44 This issue arises in relation to the second application.
The objection decisions which the applicant seeks to appeal were made on 8 January 2007 and served on the applicant's tax agent by post sent on that day.
Consequently, the second application filed on 5 April 2007 was lodged outside the prescribed period of 60 days.
45 Section 14ZZN of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) (the TAA) is the substantive statutory provision which prescribes that an appeal to the Federal Court against an appealable objection decision must be lodged with the Court within 60 days after service of the notice of the decision.
46 Whether the Federal Court was empowered to extend the time limit prescribed by s 14ZZN of the TAA has been considered by the Federal Court in Bayeh v Deputy Commissioner of Taxation [1999] FCA 1194 ; (1999) 100 FCR 138 and Kimberley-Clark Australia Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Taxation (1994) 28 ATR 47.
47 In both Bayeh [1999] FCA 1194 ; 100 FCR 138 and Kimberley-Clark 28 ATR 47 the Court determined that there was no statutory provision giving it the jurisdiction to extend the time in s 14ZZN of the TAA to lodge and appeal.
This was unlike the positions in s 14ZZC of the TAA which modified s 29 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (Cth) (AAT Act) in respect of making an application for review of an objection decision by the AAT Act but expressly saved s 29(7) of that Act which gives the Tribunal power to extend time for the lodging of such an application.
48 No statutory provision that saves any former jurisdiction of the Court to grant an extension of time in making an application to appeal against an appealable objection decision was enacted by the TAA at the time that Pt IVC (which included s 14ZZN) was introduced to the TAA.
Although the Court in Bayeh [1999] FCA 1194 ; 100 FCR 138 and Kimberley-Clark 28 ATR 47 queried whether this was an oversight on the part of the legislature, no amendment to Pt IVC of the TAA has been made to address this issue.
On the authority of Bayeh [1999] FCA 1194 ; 100 FCR 138 and Kimberley-Clark 28 ATR 47 the second application was not lodged within the 60 day time limit prescribed by s 14ZZN of the TAA and is not, therefore, a valid application.
The respondent submits that the second application should therefore be dismissed.
49 In my view these submissions on the law are correct.
CONCLUSION 
 
50 The effect of the above reasoning is that the applicant is not able to pursue an appeal against the objection decisions in question to the Federal Court under Pt IVC of the TAA.
The applicant considers that that has the consequence that, 'contrary to justice' he is precluded from appealing his bankrupt status.
51 However, as s 29(7) of the AAT Act empowers the Tribunal to extend the time for the lodging of applications to the Tribunal for review of the objection decisions, it would appear the applicant may remain entitled to make an application to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal under s 29(7) to extend the time for the lodging of applications for review of the objection decisions in question.
52 For his own reasons, the applicant states he does not wish to make an application to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.
That must be for him to decide.
The fact is that he could not properly conclude he has no remaining remedies.
53 For these reasons the first and second applications must each be dismissed.
I certify that the preceding fifty-three (53) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Nicholson.
Associate:

Dated: 5 July 2007


 The Applicant represented himself 
 
 Counsel for the Respondent: T Burrows 
 
 Solicitor for the Respondent: Australian Government Solicitor 
 
 Date of Hearing: 12 June 2007 
 
 Date of Judgment: 5 July 2007 

 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2007/1026.html 
 
 
