
 
 Introduction 
 
1 These proceedings were commenced by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) on 29 March 2006 with the filing of an application seeking orders under s 1323 of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (the Act) against companies forming part of the Westpoint Finance and Property Development Group (Westpoint Group).
Orders were also sought against officers and former officers of those companies.
The first to eighth defendants were those named as defendants when the proceedings commenced.
2 On 20 April 2006 receivers were appointed to the property of all of those named as defendants with exception of the seventh defendant, Bowesco Ltd which was subject to a private receiver appointed under a security.
Freezing orders were made in relation to its property.
The reasons for all the orders made were set out in Re Richstar Enterprises Pty Ltd; Australian Securities  Investments Commission v Carey (No 3) (2006) 232 ALR 577.
Those orders commenced a long and winding trail of interlocutory processes involving the ultimate joinder of four additional defendants, orders in respect of each of them, other than the eleventh defendant, and variations to make all of the orders more effective and to deal with practical difficulties encountered in their administration.
3 The protective regime established by these proceedings has been extended from time to time.
Orders presently in place in respect of the first, fifth to tenth and twelfth defendants have been further extended to 5pm today, 4 September 2007.
Orders in relation to the second, third and fourth defendants, which are not before me for extension at this time, remain in force until 12 September 2007 in relation to the second and third defendants and the 26 September 2007, in relation to the fourth defendant.
ASIC now seeks, by consent, to extend and vary the regime by orders which may broadly be described as follows: 
 
 1.
Orders in terms of a proposed minute with respect to the first and fifth defendants.
2.
The discharge of existing orders against the sixth and eighth defendants.
3.
The extension of existing orders against the seventh, ninth and tenth defendants to 31 January 2008 unless otherwise discharged or varied.
4.
The extension of existing orders against the twelfth defendant to 31 January 2008 subject to agreed amendments.
For the reasons that follow I am satisfied that the orders proposed should be made.



 The Court's approach to consent orders generally 
 
4 When the Court is presented with a proposed order, agreed between the parties, it must be satisfied, before making it, that it is within the power of the Court to make it and that the proposed order is appropriate.
The requirement that the order be "appropriate" does not mean that the Court will refuse to make it simply because it thinks a different order would be preferable.
This is particularly the case where the parties are properly advised by competent legal representatives.
An appropriate order is one which lies within the range of orders that could reasonably be made on the materials before the Court.
The limiting factor is that in making any order the Court exercises the judicial power of the Commonwealth and cannot simply rubber stamp what is proposed without consideration of its substance.
The evidence in support of the orders 
 
5 For the most part the orders proposed raise no concern which would stand in the way of the Court making them.
There were, however, some specific issues which I raised with the parties at the hearing on 27 August 2007 which have since been addressed by the filing of additional affidavit material.
6 Before turning to that evidence it is clear that there is no difficulty with the proposed discharge of orders against Westpoint Realty Pty Ltd (Westpoint Realty) and Redchime Pty Ltd, the sixth and eighth defendants.
Any extension of orders against them or against any of the defendants would have to be justified to the level at which the Court could regard such an extension as "within power" for the purposes of s 1323.
If ASIC has concluded that it does not wish the existing orders under s 1323 to continue with respect to those defendants, then there is no basis for continuing them.
As they lapse of their own operation, there is probably no real need to make an order discharging them.
To put the matter beyond doubt however, I will do so.
7 In seeking the continuation of current s 1323 asset preservation orders against the other defendants, albeit subject to agreed variations, ASIC has filed submissions relying upon a number of affidavits in support of the application and on the assumption that the application was to be contested.
In that connection I have had regard to the affidavit of Brian Keith McMaster sworn 24 November 2006.
Mr McMaster is one of the current Court appointed receivers in respect of the first to sixth, eighth and ninth defendants.
That affidavit exhibited a report on the receiverships dated 24 November 2006.
A further affidavit sworn by Mr McMaster on 1 August 2007 exhibited additional reports.
They were as follows: 
1.
Report dated 28 June 2007 on the receivership of the first defendant.
2.
Report dated 4 July 2007 as a supplement to the report of 28 June 2007.
3.
Report dated 19 June 2007 on the receivership of the fifth defendant.
4.
Report dated 14 June 2007 on the receivership of the eighth defendant.
5.
Report dated 14 June 2007 on the receivership of the ninth defendant.
Mr McMaster deposed in his affidavit to the truth of the contents of each of those reports to the best of his knowledge, information and belief.
8 An affidavit of Mr Jacobson, a solicitor employed by the Australian Government Solicitor, exhibited a decision of the Real Estate and Business Agents Supervisory Board (the REBAS Board), delivered on 7 June 2007 which dismissed Mr Carey's application to renew his Real Estate and Business Agents Triennial Certificate --- Individual under Pt III of the Real Estate and Business Agents Act 1978 (WA).
Mr Jacobson's affidavit also exhibited a copy of Mr Carey's affidavit sworn 9 May 2007 in support of his application to the REBAS Board.
In the course of that affidavit Mr Carey referred to his extensive experience in the property development industry, academic and trade qualifications and other matters.
He denied any wrongdoing in the management of the Westpoint Group and maintained that as a director he had acted professionally in accordance with his duties and obligations.
He blamed the collapse of the Westpoint Group upon the intervention by ASIC and ill-conceived and negligent legal advice.
He also referred to his financial position both as to income and as to assets and liabilities.
That material is relevant to the appropriateness of continuing the protective regime and also arrangements for ongoing salary payments to Mr Carey by Richstar Enterprises Pty Ltd (Richstar).
9 In describing his financial position Mr Carey said that he has ongoing salaries of $405,451 per annum from which he draws a living allowance of $4,000 per week with the surplus accumulating in a bank account.
The weekly living allowance is that approved by the receivers pursuant to orders made in these proceedings.
Mr Carey exhibited an "updated statement of assets and liabilities" to his affidavit.
That statement showed assets with an estimated current value of $1,169,547, comprising employee entitlements of $27,000, a one-sixth share in a racehorse valued at $4,000, what appear to be interests in Healthcare Properties Pty Ltd (Healthcare) and Westpoint Realty valued at $700,000 and $400,000 respectively and superannuation valued at $32,547.
There was a sum for personal property valued at $6,000.
Liabilities were said to be nil.
A contingent liability comprising a claim by QBE Insurance (Australia) Ltd (QBE Insurance) under a guarantee was said to be $200,000.
A note to the statement indicated that the claim by QBE Insurance is being defended.
That company claims $3,600,000 against 18 other guarantors.
Mr Carey said that his contingent liability was based on the claim being successful and the liability being shared by the guarantors.
He told the REBAS Board that the statement of assets and liabilities was sufficient to satisfy the Board that he had enough assets to call upon to satisfy his obligations under the Act.
He also observed that while asset preservation orders were currently in place they were specifically worded to enable the continuation of the ordinary course of business.
He said he was able to access his assets and income to provide significantly greater financial resources than could ever be required on a worse case scenario under business models which he intended to operate.
10 Jan Louise Redfern, Executive Director of the Enforcement Directorate of ASIC swore an affidavit on 3 August 2007.
She is responsible for the management of ASIC's investigations into the affairs of the Westpoint Group.
She deposed that ASIC's investigation into Westpoint continues to be of national significance and high priority.
She said that significant resources at every level continue to be deployed across jurisdictions to meet the demands of that investigation and related litigation.
The investigation team established by ASIC currently numbers 28 persons, some of whom are in Perth and some of whom have transferred to interstate ASIC offices.
She said that to date ASIC has commenced 51 investigations nationally against 65 individuals in relation to the Westpoint Group.
11 Ms Redfern referred to the history of the asset preservation orders which it is useful to set out briefly here: 
 
 1.
On 20 April 2006 asset preservation orders were made in relation to the first to eighth defendants.
2.
On 10 May 2006 orders were made in relation to the ninth defendant.
3.
On 7 August 2006 orders were made joining the tenth and eleventh defendants and interim preservation orders were made in relation to the property of the tenth defendant but not in relation to the eleventh defendant.
4.
On 29 January 2007 and 5 February 2007 the Court made orders and extended existing orders in relation to the first, fifth to tenth and twelfth defendants.
Those orders provided for receivers and asset preservation orders to continue in effect until 30 June 2007.
5.
The Court has extended, by consent, existing orders relating to the second, third and fourth defendants from time to time to the following dates: 
 
 
 (i) in relation to the second defendant, 8 June 2006, 18 December 2006, 15 June 2007, 1 August 2007 and 15 August 2007;
 (ii) in relation to the third defendant, 22 December 2006, 30 April 2007, 31 May 2007, 15 June 2007, 1 August 2007 and 15 August 2007; 
 (iii) in relation to the fourth defendant, 22 December 2006, 14 April 2007, 30 April 2007, 31 May 2007, 18 June 2007, 1 August 2007 and 15 August 2007.

 
 
 6.
On 8 March 2007 the Court dismissed ASIC's application to make asset preservation orders in relation to the eleventh defendant.
7.
By orders made on 20 July 2007 current orders as against the first, fifth, seventh to tenth and twelfth defendants were extended to 27 August 2007.



I would add that all existing orders in relation to the first, fifth to tenth and twelfth defendants have been extended to 5pm today.
12 Ms Redfern's affidavit set out the progress of ASIC's investigations.
Given that the orders proposed are by consent it is not necessary to review the full detail of her evidence.
She indicated that ASIC has identified possible contraventions by the defendants of the Act, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001(Cth) (the ASIC Act) and/or relevant State criminal legislation.
Two primary investigations are referred to as the "fund raising investigation" and the "asset stripping investigation".
An estimated time for completion of each of these investigations was said to be: 
1.
31 December 2007 for the fund raising investigation.
2.
31 December 2007 for the asset stripping investigation.
She also referred to related investigations into the Kebbel Group of companies which found retail investors for the Westpoint Group.
Orders have been obtained pursuant to s 1323 in the Supreme Court of New South Wales against Kebbel (NSW) Pty Ltd and its sole director, Mr Neil Burnard.
13 Ms Redfern stated that ASIC's investigation into the alleged commission of serious criminal offences by persons of interest are continuing.
She anticipates that briefs of evidence will be provided to the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions for assessment at different stages by 31 December 2007.
This may or may not involve ASIC undertaking further investigative work following an assessment of the evidence by the Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions.
The question whether any criminal charges are laid would be a matter for the Director.
14 Logistical issues continue to affect the progress of the investigation.
These include the complexity of the conduct under investigation and its relationship to other Westpoint related investigations.
Documentary evidence has continued to grow.
As at 7 June 2007 ASIC's database contained 1,623,864 scanned hard copy documents and approximately 4,871,592 pages relevant to the Westpoint investigations.
This represents an increase of 15,326 scanned hard copy documents or 45,978 pages.
ASIC's review of the documents has been, and continues to be, a significant part of the Perth Westpoint investigation team's day to day activities.
Other elements affecting the progress of the investigations include extensive forensic review of electronic information, management of witnesses and information and assessment of evidence given, availability of witnesses and the necessity to provide ongoing support to existing civil and criminal litigation including various winding up applications, the extension of freezing orders and the Burnard prosecution.
15 Ms Redfern said in her affidavit that ASIC seeks to ensure that the property the subject of the asset preservation orders continues to be preserved for the benefit of creditors and investors.
She noted, inter alia, that external controllers have commenced or indicated they are likely to commence legal proceedings against some or all of the defendants for the ultimate benefit of creditors to the Westpoint Group.
Liquidators of Ann Street Mezzanine Pty Ltd (In Liquidation) have instituted proceedings naming Mr Carey, among others, as a respondent.
The ING receivers appointed to Westpoint Corporation Pty Ltd (Westpoint Corporation) have made demands upon Richstar and Silkchime Pty Ltd for payment of moneys and have indicated they will commence proceedings seeking recovery of the debts claimed.
ASIC is presently considering whether to issue proceedings in the public interest under s 50 of the ASIC Act in the name of various entities within the Westpoint Group against, among others, Mr Carey, seeking the recovery of damages and, where appropriate, tracing claims.
16 It is sufficient for present purposes to say that these matters and additional material referred to in that affidavit indicate that the criteria in s 1323 of the Act which enliven the Court's powers to make orders under that section would be satisfied.
17 In an affidavit of Mr De Kerloy sworn 24 August 2007, apparently sworn at the request of ASIC, he put various documents before the Court comprising email exchanges between his firm and the Australian Government Solicitor's office (AGS) acting for ASIC and Corrs Chambers Westgarth, acting for the receivers.
The affidavit exhibited a letter from AGS dated 16 August 2007 indicating ASIC's understanding that it was proposed that Healthcare as trustee of the Healthcare Property Trust (the Trust) distribute funds from the Trust to Westpoint Financial Services Pty Ltd (WFS) or for WFS to direct Healthcare to make the payment to its sole shareholder, Mr Carey.
The AGS expressed the view that it was necessary for Mr Carey to make application to the Court to obtain appropriate orders permitting his client to proceed with the proposed distribution.
Various concerns about the distribution were raised by AGS.
These were responded to by Mr De Kerloy on 21 August 2007.
By a further letter dated 23 August 2007 the solicitors for the receivers and managers of Westpoint Corporation Pty Ltd (Westpoint Corporation) referred to the proposal for the treatment of funds forming part of the Trust and confirmed that the Westpoint receivers were not aware of any claim they might bring against Healthcare and would be bringing an action on behalf of Westpoint Corporation to recover the sum of $81,518 plus interest and costs from WFS.
This is relevant to a proposed fund for legal expenses to be established in the name of Mr Carey subject to restrictions as to its application.
Proposed orders in relation to the first defendant, Norman Carey 
 
18 The orders proposed in relation to Mr Carey would appoint Mr McMaster as receiver of his property save for "Excluded Property" which is defined, inter alia, as the right to operate an account known as the Carey Account set up for the purpose of meeting legal, accounting and/or expert fees and disbursements in relation to various legal actions and matters.
The Excluded Property would also include any distribution or loan from the Hilton Trust or the Healthcare Property Trust for Mr Carey's benefit.
It would extend to any property paid or payable to Mr Carey in connection with the compromise or settlement of any claim or other chose in action.
The property covered by the orders generally and subject to the control of the receivers includes that held in some 28 trusts which are listed in the order.
Any wages payable to Mr Carey or distributions or loans from the Hilton Trust or the Healthcare Property Trust and any money held by the receiver under previous orders shall be paid into that account.
19 The receiver would have power to identify, preserve and secure Mr Carey's property for the benefit of potential creditors.
He would also be empowered to take possession and control of property but not to sell, let or encumber it without prior leave of the Court or Mr Carey's consent.
Mr Carey would remain free to carry on business.
However he could not remove any property from any State of Australia or mortgage or deal with it or diminish its value.
These restrictions also apply to the Excluded Property.
20 Clause 14 would allow Mr Carey to withdraw from the Carey Account legal, accounting and/or expert fees and disbursements in relation to various legal actions in which he is or has been involved and for securing legal, accounting and expert advice in relation to other specified matters.
Maximum figures are payable for each of the actions and matters referred to.
They total $125,000.
The maximum could be increased by a Registrar of the Court.
21 Paragraph 16 provides that Mr Carey may withdraw from the Carey account and pay ordinary living expenses in an amount approved by the receiver from time to time and that there will be liberty to apply in respect of ordinary living expenses should the receiver retire before 31 January 2008.
There are also travel restraint orders and record keeping and reporting obligations.
22 In my opinion the orders proposed in relation to Mr Carey are within power and are appropriate in the sense that they are within the range of appropriate orders that could be made.
I am therefore prepared to make the proposed orders.
23 In order to deal with conflicts of interest that might arise the receiver has proposed an amendment to the orders in respect of Mr Carey by the insertion of a new paragraph 8A.
I am prepared to make those orders.
Proposed orders in relation to Richstar 
 
24 Similar orders are proposed in relation to Richstar.
However Mr McMaster would be referred to as the "Supervisor" albeit with powers substantially the same as those he would exercise as receiver of Mr Carey's property.
The designation "Supervisor" was proposed to avoid difficulties with third parties arising from the use of the word "Receiver".
The difficulties were vaguely expressed.
The difference is entirely cosmetic.
However, a like term has been used in some other orders previously made.
The appointment of Mr McMaster as "Supervisor" can only be justified as an exercise of the power under s 1323 to appoint a receiver of the company's property.
Having reflected upon the appropriateness of the title, I doubt that any third party likely to be concerned about the existence of the receiver would have any difficulty in discerning that the "Supervisor" is in truth a Court appointed receiver.
Although I have some hesitation about this aspect of the order, the regulator which is properly concerned with the protection of the public interest, has agreed to the designation.
In the circumstances, I do not think I should interfere with that agreement.
25 There is a specific proposal that Mr Carey be paid by Richstar wages in the amount of $5,769.23 gross per fortnight, the net amount after PAYG withholdings to be paid into the Carey Account.
There is also provision for the payment of $2,660 gross per fortnight to his sister, Karen Carey Hazell, who is the sole director of Richstar.
I required some affidavit evidence of their ongoing roles in Richstar to be satisfied that there is a proper basis for the proposed payments.
Mr Carey filed an affidavit sufficient to satisfy me, having regard to the agreement between the parties, that there is such a basis for the proposed payments.
He said he is employed by Richstar as a property consultant and has been so employed with the consent of the Richstar receiver since July 2006.
He is currently paid the proposed amount per fortnight and the net amount, $3,865 is paid to his individual receiver from whom he then receives a living allowance.
26 I bear in mind that the orders made against Mr Carey and Richstar constitute a drastic interference with their freedom to deal with the various assets otherwise under their control.
Neither has yet been found to be liable for anything.
These orders are essentially "holding orders" while ASIC completes its investigation.
They cannot be used to impose any kind of penalty because of liabilities, criminal or civil, which might be sheeted home to Mr Carey at some time in the future.
The question of his liability (if any) will not be resolved in these proceedings.
I am satisfied that the quantum of the salary proposed is not such that the Court should refuse to make the orders.
It will be paid into the Carey Account.
The amount of the living allowance which may be drawn down from that account, remains subject to the approval of the receiver.
Ms Karen Carey Hazell has been receiving the same salary of $2,660 since 4 July 2006.
She says that she undertakes a variety of duties as a director of Richstar.
These are set out in her affidavit.
There is nothing to gainsay that.
27 I am prepared to make the orders proposed in respect of Richstar subject to an amendment to [14.2] proposed by the receiver.
Orders proposed for the seventh, ninth and tenth defendants 
 
28 I will make the orders proposed for the above defendants which merely extend existing orders to 31 January 2008.
Orders proposed for the twelfth defendant --- Healthcare 
 
29 The orders proposed for the twelfth defendant include provision for a sum of $200,000 to be paid into the Carey Account subject to the orders affecting Mr Carey and the operation of that account.
That sum would be available for the payment of legal fees and expenses already referred to.
ASIC does not consent to the order, but does not oppose it.
At the hearing I required an affidavit to be filed in relation to the way in which the proposed payment was to be effected.
30 Mr Carey's affidavit exhibited a letter of advice from Healthcare's accountants dated 28 June 2007.
In that letter the accountants advised that there is no tax liability payable for either Healthcare or its creditor, WFS.
WFS was owed $934,852 by Healthcare as at 30 June 2006.
That sum is currently in Healthcare's account.
The accountant pointed out that WFS could direct payment of the money to Mr Carey as its sole shareholder.
What is now proposed is that the sum of $200,000 be distributed to WFS by Healthcare and lent to Mr Carey who would pay it into the Carey Account.
31 I am satisfied, given the purpose of the proposed expenditure and the way in which the proposed payment into the Carey Account is to be effected, that the order is appropriate.
Mr Carey's involvement in the administration of these orders and associated legal issues is not cost free.
It is more efficiently handled with proper independent advice subject to controls on the maximum expenditures that may be incurred in respect of any individual item.
I will make the orders proposed in respect of Healthcare.
Flow of information between publicly and privately appointed receivers 
 
32 At the hearing on 27 August 2007 I directed that the receivers file an affidavit going to the question whether any conflict issue arose in relation to information flow between those occupying Court appointed offices and those acting pursuant to private appointments.
Mr McMaster filed an affidavit in that regard.
He and Mr Korda are currently jointly appointed Court receivers in relation to Mr Carey's property.
Under the proposed orders Mr McMaster will continue alone as receiver.
Mr Korda will not continue.
33 In his affidavit, Mr McMaster made reference to relevant private appointments.
He and Martin Madden were appointed on 16 January 2006 as receivers and managers of Westpoint Management Ltd (Westpoint Management), as trustee for the Paragon Commercial Syndicate by Perpetual Trustee Company Ltd. On 24 January 2006 Messrs Korda, Zohar and Winterbottom were appointed as receivers and managers of Westpoint Corporation and Huntingdale Village Pty Ltd (Huntingdale Village) in its own capacity and as trustee for the Huntingdale Village Unit Trust.
They were also appointed as receivers for Vannin Pty Ltd (Vannin) in its own capacity and as trustee for the Hay Family Trust.
Those appointments were all made by Perpetual Nominees Ltd acting as custodian of the ING Mortgage Pool.
Mr McMaster said he had formed the view that the inclusion of the property of the Controlled Entities the subject of his receivership under the orders relating to Mr Carey and the private appointments mentioned above might give rise to potential conflicts of interest.
The amendments which he proposed, and to which I have already made reference, have been agreed by the parties as an appropriate way to remove potential conflict.
34 Westpoint Management, Huntingdale Village and Vannin are all named in the orders relating to Mr Carey as trustees of property effectively under his control.
Under the proposed amendments Mr McMaster would have no power or authority in respect of those matters although the property held by those companies would remain subject to the general freezing order.
35 Mr McMaster also referred in his affidavit to claims that Westpoint Corporation may have against a number of companies associated with the Westpoint Group.
They arise out of loans assigned by Westpoint Corporation to other entities within the Group prior to the appointment of external controllers.
Under the proposed amendments, Mr McMaster would have no power or authority in respect of those claims or any transactions or matters relating to them.
At the time of swearing his affidavit he had not been privy to any confidential information in his role as Court appointed receiver, save for information made publicly available during the course of the hearing in respect of WFS.
He also referred to claims that Vannin may have against certain Westpoint entities and again pointed out that under the proposed amendments he would have no power or authority in respect of those claims.
He said he had not been privy to any confidential information in his role as Court appointed receiver in relation to those entities.
36 Although the position in this respect is not ideal, I accept that the steps which have been taken are practical and acceptable in the circumstances and on that basis will make the amendments proposed by Mr McMaster to deal with those issues.
Conclusion 
 
37 In conclusion I note that the proposed period of the extension of these orders is relatively short and takes them through to 31 January 2008.
The position will, of course, have to be reviewed in January.
I certify that the preceding thirty-seven (37) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice French.
Associate:
Dated: 4 September 2007


 Counsel for the Plaintiff Mr S Owen Conway QC with Mr J Vaughan 
 
 Solicitor for the Plaintiff Australian Government Solicitor 
 
 Counsel for the 1 st , 5 th , 7 th , 8 th , 9 th , 10 th and 12 th Defendants: Mr MH Zilko SC with Ms ML Coulson 
 
 Solicitor for the 1 st , 5 th , 7 th , 8 th , 9 th , 10 th and 12 th Defendants:

Counsel for the Receiver:

Solicitor for the Receiver:


 Mony de Kerloy



Mr JA Thomson 

Corrs Chambers Westgarth

Mr R Randall appeared for the Liquidator of Westpoint Finance.
Date of Hearing: 27 August 2007 
 
 Date of Judgment: 4 September 2007 



 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2007/1395.html 
 
 
