
 
1 This is an appeal against a decision of a Jarrett FM of 17 March 2006.
The Federal Magistrate dismissed an application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ("the Tribunal") handed down on 19 December 2003.
The Tribunal had affirmed a decision of a delegate of the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs ("the Minister") made on 26 July 2002 to refuse the grant of a protection visa to the appellant.
2 The appellant seeks the following orders:
 
a. a writ of certiorari to quash the decision of the learned magistrate
 
b. a writ of prohibition against the first respondent acting on the decision
 
c. a writ of mandamus remitting the decision back to the second respondent to be determined according to law
 
d. an order that the first respondent pay the appellant's costs of the appeal and the application.
Background 
 
3 The appellant is a citizen of Iran.
He was born in Tehran in 1956.
However he has not lived in Iran since 1978, having lived for 21 years in the United States of America.
He arrived in Australia from the United States with his son on 20 July 1999 in possession of a three month visitor visa.
He did not depart Australia in accordance with the visa requirements and was located by the then Department of Immigration, Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs ("the Department") working illegally in Perth in May 2001.
At this time the appellant was granted a bridging visa to make arrangements to leave the country.
He did not do so, but instead relocated to Brisbane where he was again located by the Department in May 2002 and placed in detention.
4 On 31 May 2003 the appellant unsuccessfully applied for a protection visa.
On 29 July 2003 the appellant applied to the Refugee Review Tribunal for a review of the decision of the delegate of the Minister not to grant a protection visa.
The appellant subsequently appealed the Tribunal's decision to the Federal Magistrates Court and the Federal Magistrate's decision to this Court.
5 I understand that when leaving the United States in July 1999 the appellant held a United States permanent residence visa which was valid for a further two years at the time of his departure from the United States.
It appears that the appellant was unaware that the permanent residency visa would expire if he spent two years outside the United States.
Subsequently, his visa was not renewed.
I further understand that the appellants' legal representatives have made inquiries in the United States regarding the appellant's status, but I understand that the appellant now has no more right to reside in the United States than any other potential visa applicant seeking to enter that country.
This is further complicated by charges which are pending against the appellant which relate to, inter alia , his breach of the custody order in relation to his child.
I understand that this means that the appellant may not be able to enter the United States either temporarily or permanently.
The Tribunal's decision 
 
6 The appellant raised a number of issues before the Tribunal in support of his application.
7 The appellant stressed before the Tribunal that his fear of persecution in Iran was as a result of the combination of his claims.
In particular that he has not lived in Iran for 26 years and during most of that time he has been living as a Christian in a Christian country that is the sworn enemy of Iran, that he served for more than two years in the United States Navy and that he has publicly supported the former Shah and criticised the government that replaced him.
8 The Tribunal's findings are set out at pp 8-13 of the decision.
The Tribunal considered whether the appellant was someone to whom Australia owes protection obligations under the Refugees Convention 1951.
The Tribunal found that the appellant's political activity and comments in support of the Shah were now made over 25 years ago and that the appellant has not ever been an active Monarchist.
Further the Tribunal held that the available information suggests that many former supports of the Shah continue to live in or visit Iran without being persecuted.
While the Tribunal agreed that the appellant would most likely be questioned on his return, if for no other reason than that he has been outside the country for 26 years, it did not consider that he would be persecuted.
9 In regards to the appellant's religion the Tribunal found that the appellant would be able to fulfil his religious needs by attending church and meeting with fellow practitioners, as he did in Australia.
The Tribunal did not believe that there was a real chance of persecution for reasons of religion in the reasonably foreseeable future.
10 Further, the Tribunal did not accept that he appellant would be conscripted and that his fears relating to serving in the Iranian armed services are well founded.
It found that the authorities will have no interest in punishing him for his historical connections to the Shah regime, particularly in light of his lack of political activity in the intervening 25 years.
It further rejected the assertion that there was a real chance of persecution on account of his service in the United States Navy.
The Tribunal found that the authorities could satisfy themselves that he posed no threat to Iran, having only served in the United States Navy for two years some 13 years ago and having only reached a relatively low rank.
11 The Tribunal noted that some Iranian citizens are the subject of serious human rights abuses but that even when considering the cumulative claims of the appellant together the Tribunal could not be satisfied that he appellant had a well founded fear of persecution for a Convention reason.
As such he was not a person to whom Australia owed protection obligations.
12 The Tribunal noted at p 8 that they had not considered whether the appellant had effective protection in the United States as the issue did not arise for determination, the Tribunal having found that the appellant did not face a real chance of persecution in his country of nationality.
The Federal Magistrates Court 
 
13 On 16 January 2004 the appellant sought judicial review of the Tribunal decision in the Federal Magistrate's Court of Australia.

 

15 The Federal Magistrate was not satisfied that there was a breach of natural justice as alleged by the appellant (at [40]) or that the appellant demonstrated any error on the part of the Tribunal (at [41]).
Jarrett FM at [24] through [40] analysed the Tribunal's response to each claim of the appellant.
Appeal to this Court 
 
16 In this Court both the appellant and the first respondent were represented by Counsel.
20 At the hearing, Mr Estcourt QC for the appellant submitted that there were essentially three separate bases for the appellant's case, namely:
 
1.
No evidence: If there is no evidence in the case of a critical step in the Tribunal's ultimate conclusion then that constitutes a jurisdictional error.
The critical step in this case was in respect of the Tribunal concluding that, once the appellant went back to Iran and was intercepted and interrogated by the authorities, they would accept his explanation about his United States navy service.
There was no material as to how the Iranian authorities might react to the appellant's navy service and that is jurisdictional error: SFGB v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCAFC 231 and re Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs ex parte Epeabaka [2001] HCA 23 ; (2001) 206 CLR 128.
2.
" Wednesbury unreasonableness".
The Tribunal's decision must be rational and logical and based on findings: Wednesbury Corporation [1947] EWCA Civ 1 ; [1948] 1 KB 223, SFGB v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2003] FCAFC 231.
3.
The state of satisfaction that there was no well founded fear of persecution was not formed reasonably on the material before the Tribunal: Applicant M164/2002 v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] FCAFC 16.
21 There is clear overlap between bases 2 and 3.
I will deal with each of these bases in turn.
No evidence 
 
22 An administrative decision made on the basis of no evidence is invalid: Sinclair v Mining Warden at Maryborough [1975] HCA 17 ; [1975] 132 CLR 473 per Barwick CJ at 479-480, Gibbs J at 483, Stephen J at 485, Murphy J at 488; Mason CJ in Australian Broadcasting Tribunal v Bond [1990] HCA 33 ; (1990) 170 CLR 321 at 358; Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs v SGLB [2004] HCA 32 ; [2004] 207 ALR 12 at [39] - [41] .
This may be contrasted with a decision against the evidence or the weight of the evidence, which does not form the basis of jurisdictional error: Collins v Minister for Immigration and Ethnic Affairs (1981) 36 ALR 598 at 601.
23 It is clear that in reaching its decision, the Tribunal is not limited to the evidence that is formally put before it: s 353(2) Migration Act .
As observed by the Full Court in SFGB [2003] FCAFC 231 at [21] :
 
 "Subject to the other provisions of the Act, including the implied and express requirements of procedural fairness, the Tribunal can inform itself as it thinks fit, including acting on information that is 'public'.
Nor should it be forgotten in this context that in the course of their duties Tribunal members may well come to have a relatively detailed understanding of the political and legal situation in various parts of the world.
Within the limits imposed by the Act itself there is nothing to prevent members from using this information.
"
 

24 In this case the Tribunal considered both information provided by the appellant, and "public" information.
The report also noted that:
 
 
 "There is no evidence of any pattern of action by the regime today against Iranians simply because at one time they were middle-level or low ranking functionaries of the Shah's bureaucracy.
25 The appellant submits that, in reaching its decision, the Tribunal erred in concluding that, once the appellant went back to Iran and was intercepted and interrogated by the authorities, they would accept his explanation about his United States military service.
The appellant draws attention to the findings of the Tribunal that:
 
 "It is likely that he will be questioned and his past will be examined and will disclose that his family members were supporters of the Shah, that the Applicant made some critical comments about the government some 25 years ago and that he worked in the USA Navy for more than two years.
The Tribunal finds that the authorities will have no interest in punishing him for historical connections to the Shah's regime or for criticising the Revolutionary government when it first came to power, particularly as he has not been politically active or otherwise critical in the intervening 25 years.
His service was 13 years ago and he only reached the relatively lowly rank of airman.
He voluntarily left after a little more than two years.
The Tribunal does not accept the argument that he will be imputed to be an enemy of Iran because he was employed by the Navy.
The authorities can examine his service records and question him to satisfy themselves that his service does not disclose he is any threat of Iran.
He can inform them that he was never properly rewarded for his study efforts in the Navy.
It finds that he does not face a real chance of persecution related to his US Navy service, for that reason alone or in combination with other aspects of his claims..."
 

26 In particular, the appellant submitted that there was no material before the Tribunal as to how the Iranian authorities might react to the appellant's navy service.
Accordingly, the findings of the Tribunal in relation to the view the authorities might take was based on no evidence, and amounted to jurisdictional error.
27 In relation to this issue, at the hearing Mr Bickford for the first respondent submitted:
 
 "So the fact that the Tribunal, in making its finding that he was in its view not likely to suffer a real chance of persecution related to his US naval service for that reason alone or in combination with other matters --- doesn't necessarily attract criticism by way of jurisdictional error simply because there was no direct evidence before the Tribunal as to what would happen if he was placed in that situation.
In other words, inevitably in cases of this nature there won't be perfect evidence before the Tribunal.
The Tribunal can't know for absolute certain what will happen in the event that this gentleman is returned to Iran and questioned about these matters.
It can only make findings based upon the evidence that it does have and based upon its own experience and its own views.
That's all it can do.
So to say there's no evidence to support a finding that - the actual findings being that he would not be imputed to be an enemy of Iran because he was employed by the Navy, well, that's a finding that's open to them on the evidence that they have.
It's not a finding that they must make.
They might have gone the other way, but that's their role.
It's a fact-finding role and the fact-finding has to be based on the evidence available, which is the evidence offered by the applicant.
" (TS p 14 ll 27-43)
 

28 In the case before me, it is clear that the Tribunal considered the submissions of the appellant concerning his pro-monarchist views, his activities over time, and his claims as to his religion and formed conclusions based on the facts as submitted by the appellant and evidence before them, including public evidence.
In my view, in relation to his Honour's consideration of the findings of the Tribunal with respect to these issues, no error appears from the decision of his Honour.
29 However, once the Tribunal accepted that the United States was the "sworn enemy" of Iran, as it appeared to have done in its findings, it is difficult to identify the basis upon which the Tribunal could then conclude that appellant would not have a well-founded fear of persecution upon returning to Iran, having served in the armed forces of that "sworn enemy".
The material I have considered, and to which the Tribunal referred, did not appear to be relevant to the findings of the Tribunal with respect to that service - indeed the Tribunal appeared to mix in its findings the clearly separate issues of the political views and religious beliefs of the appellant with his active service in the United States armed forces.
By implication, the Tribunal similarly mixed the evidence upon which it was relying in reaching its findings in respect of these issues.
30 In my view, it is noticeable that, notwithstanding the concerns of the appellant as expressed at the hearing before the Tribunal, no reference at all is made by the Tribunal to the obvious and serious tensions existing between the United States and Iran at the time of and in the year prior to the Tribunal decision, or to evidence of those tensions which were widely reported during 2003 and the subject of commentary in reports including those of the United States Department of State (see, for example, www.globalsecurity.org/security/library/report/2003/dos-pgt2002.htm).
31 The only obviously relevant evidence to which the Tribunal referred in concluding that the Iranian authorities would have no or little interest in the appellant because he "only reached the relatively lowly rank of airman" was that relevant to former low-level bureaucrats in the Rastakhiz Party in Iran to which I have referred earlier, namely the report from UK Home Office and evidence from that report that "there is no evidence of any pattern of action by the regime today against Iranians simply because at one time they were middle-level or low ranking functionaries of the Shah's bureaucracy ".
However the analogy cannot be supported.
There are clearly different circumstances attending membership of a "compulsory" party in Iran several decades ago, compared with the voluntary service by the appellant in the United States Navy, a branch of military service of - as found by the Tribunal - the "sworn enemy" of Iran.
33 Further, I acknowledge the submission of Mr Bickford that evidence before the Tribunal will not necessarily be "perfect".
However, I cannot see how, in these circumstances, it was open to the Tribunal to conclude on the material before it that the Iranian authorities would have little or no interest in the fact that a returning Iranian had not only lived in the United States for over twenty years, but had served in the armed forces of - as the Tribunal accepted - the "sworn enemy" of Iran.
By way of comparison only, I note that Australian law treats as very serious the service by an Australian citizen in the armed forces of an enemy state (for example, s 35 Australian Citizenship Act 2007 (Cth), div 80.1 in the Schedule to the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth)).
The appellant had contended that the cumulative effect of factors relevant to him, including his United States navy service, meant that he had a well-founded fear of persecution.
In my view the finding of the Tribunal with respect to the view the Iranian authorities would take of his United States navy service, and accordingly the unlikelihood of the appellant being subject to persecution in Iran, was not open on the evidence before it.
Accordingly, the decision of the Tribunal in this respect is attended by jurisdictional error.
Unreasonableness/irrationality/want of logic 
 
34 In view of my decision with respect to evidence in this case, it is not strictly necessary for me to consider the alternative issues raised by the appellant with respect to Wednesbury unreasonableness and irrationality and want of logic of the Tribunal's decision.
However, I note the findings of his Honour below that reasoning of the Tribunal was neither illogical nor irrational and, having reviewed the decision of the Tribunal, consider that there is no error in his Honour's findings in relation to these contentions.
In any event, these grounds do not appear to support claims of jurisdictional defect in terms of Australian law.
In particular, I note the decision of the Full Court in Andary v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs [2003] FCAFC 211 with respect to Wednesbury unreasonableness, and the decisions of the High Court in Bond 170 CLR (particularly per Mason CJ at 356 with whom, on this point, Brennan, Toohey and Gaudron JJ agreed) and the Full Court in VWST [2004] FCAFC 286 that want of logic does not form a valid basis of judicial review.
Conclusion 
 
35 In light of my findings the appeal must be allowed.
The matter should be remitted to the Tribunal for further consideration in accordance with the law.
The appellant should have his costs of this appeal and his costs of the appearance before his Honour below.
THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 

 
 1.
The appeal be allowed.
2.
The decision of the Jarrett FM dated 17 March 2006 be set aside.
3.
The decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal be quashed.
4.
The decision be remitted back to a differently constituted Tribunal to be heard and decided again according to law.
5.
The first respondent pay the appellant's costs of the appeal and the application.



 I certify that the preceding thirty-five (35) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Collier.
Associate:

Dated: 6 December 2007

 Counsel for the Appellant: S Estcourt QC, M Plunkett 
 
 Solicitor for the Appellant: Fisher Dore 
 
 Counsel for the Respondent: P Bickford 
 
 Solicitor for the Respondent: Clayton Utz 
 
 Date of Hearing: 5 February 2007 
 
 Date of Judgment: 6 December 2007 

 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2007/1918.html 
 
 
