
 
1 By this appeal, the appellant, a United States national, seeks to set aside the Orders of Federal Magistate Baumann made on 16 November 2006 ( Loessi v Minister for Immigration  Anor [2006] FMCA 1697) dismissing an Application to that Court pursuant to s 476(1) of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act') to review on the ground of jurisdictional error, a decision of the Migration Review Tribunal ('the MRT') affirming a decision of the Delegate of the Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs to refuse the appellant a 'Temporary Business Entry (Class UC)' visa, under the Act.
2 The Act provides for prescribed classes of visas and the prescription of criteria, by regulations, for a visa or visas of a specified class (s 31 of the Act).
By Regulation 2.01 of the Migration Regulations ('the Regulations') prescribed classes of visas are those set out in Schedule 1 to the Regulations.
Schedule 2 to the Regulations is divided into 'Parts' which identify a number of 'Subclasses' of visa within a Schedule 1 class so set out.
A 'Part' or 'Subclass' within Schedule 2 is 'relevant to' a particular class of visa set out in Schedule 1 if that Part of Schedule 2 referring to the particular Subclass is 'listed' under the item 'Subclasses' in Schedule 1 in connection with the primary 'class' of visa to which it relates.
3 In this case, Schedule 1 and Part 2 of that Schedule sets out, by class, a number of 'Temporary visas (other than bridging visas)' and one class of such a visa, set out at clause 1223A of Schedule 1, is a 'Temporary Business Entry (Class UC)' visa.
Under Item 4 of clause 1223A of Schedule 1, two 'Subclasses' are 'listed' and the relevant one for present purposes is a Subclass described as 'Business (Long Stay)', being Subclass 457.
4 Schedule 2, at clause 457.21, sets out the criteria to be satisfied by an applicant for such a visa at the time of application.
Clause 457.22 sets out the criteria to be satisfied at the time a decision is made on the Application.
Subclause 7 of clause 457.223 addresses criteria applicable to an applicant who is an 'independent executive' and who proposes to develop in Australia a business activity that will be conducted by the applicant as a principal and will be of benefit to Australia.
Subclause 7 sets out a number of criteria (a) to (f) and those criteria include criterion (d) that the applicant has net assets of not less than $AUD250,000 to conduct or establish the business or alternatively a lesser amount that the Minister considers to be adequate to conduct or establish the business.
Subclause (7A) of clause 457.223, the subclause relevant in this appeal, is concerned with a person who holds a subclass 457(7) visa under the Act and who has been conducting a business as principal in Australia for at least 15 months and the Minister is satisfied of a number of things including that the applicant has net assets of not less than $AUD250,000 to conduct the business or alternatively, a lesser amount that is adequate to conduct the business.
5 In this case, the applicant as the holder of a subclass 457 visa granted on the basis that the applicant met the requirements of subclause (7) applied for a further or extension visa under subclause (7A).
Clause 457.511(c) provides that a visa granted under clause 457.223(7A) entitles the holder to remain in Australia for a period of two years from the date of the grant.
6 The Minister's Delegate refused the appellant's application under clause 457.223(7A) on a number of grounds including a ground that the Delegate was not satisfied that the visa applicant had net assets of $AUD250,000 and therefore did not satisfy clause 457.223(7A)(c)(iv)(A).
In the Application for Review before the Tribunal, the appellant simply asserted that the Delegate's decision was wrong.
The Tribunal considered both limbs of subclause (7A)(c)(iv), namely, whether the appellant had net assets of not less than $AUD250,000 to conduct the business or, alternatively, net assets of a lesser amount adequate to conduct the business.
7 Subclause 457.223(7A) is in these terms:
 
 (7A) The applicant meets the requirements of this subclause if: 
 
 (a) either: 
 
 
 
 
 (i) the applicant holds a Subclass 457 visa granted on the basis that the applicant met the requirements of subclause (7) or Subdivision 457.32; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) the applicant does not hold a substantive visa, and the last substantive visa held by the applicant was of a kind mentioned in subparagraph (i); and 
 
 (b) on the day on which the application is made: 
 
 (i) the applicant had been conducting the business in Australia as a principal for at least 15 months; or 
 
 (ii) if the applicant had been conducting the business in Australia as a principal for less than 15 months --- a government of a State or Territory had endorsed the business as beneficial to the State or Territory; and 
 
 (c) the Minister is satisfied that: 
 
 (i) the business is of benefit to Australia; and 
 
 (ii) the applicant has a genuine and realistic commitment: 
 
 (A) to maintain an ownership interest in the business; and 
 
 
 
 
 (B) to maintain a direct and continuous involvement in the management of the business; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (C) to make decisions that affect the overall direction and performance of the business from day to day; and 
 
 
 
 
 (iii) nothing adverse is known to Immigration about the applicant's business background; and 
 
 (iv) the applicant has net assets of: 
 
 (A) not less than AUD250,000; or 
 
 (B) a lesser amount that is adequate; 
 
 to conduct the business; and 
 
 (v) the applicant has demonstrated that there is need for the applicant to be temporarily resident in Australia to conduct the business.

 
 
 

8 In conducting a review of the Delegate's decision, the Tribunal on 6 July 2005 invited the appellant, in accordance with s 359A of the Act, to comment upon information drawn from the balance sheet of a company, Faulkner Technologies Pty Ltd, being the vehicle used for the conduct of the business, in these terms:
 
 Your business is Faulkner Technologies Pty Ltd and a balance sheet as at October 2004 shows that the business liabilities exceed assets to the sum of $92,410.14.

 
 

9 In accordance with s 359(2), the Tribunal by its letter of 6 July 2005 invited the appellant to provide additional information to the Tribunal directed to these topics.

 
 1.
A statement that clearly lists the net personal assets of you and your wife.
