
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 The applicant, Victor Claveria, commenced work at the respondent's factory at Laverton, in Victoria, on 21 April 1994.
Save for a brief period, Mr Claveria had been working there for very nearly thirteen years, when, on 24 January 2007, the respondent terminated his employment.
Mr Claveria applies to this Court for relief, on the ground that the respondent, Pilkington Australia Ltd ('Pilkington'), contravened s 659(2)(e) of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) ('the Act') when it terminated his employment for the reason, or for reasons including the reason, that he had complained to his trade union about his treatment at Pilkington's factory.
Mr Claveria seeks reinstatement, compensation and the imposition of a penalty on Pilkington.
2 Also before the Court was the respondent's notice of motion seeking to have pars 20, 21 and 22 of the applicant's statement of claim struck out.
Although the respondent filed this motion and a supporting affidavit prior to the hearing, it falls for determination now.
3 Section 663 of the Act provides for applications to the Court for orders under s 665 in respect of alleged contraventions of s 659.
The preconditions to the Court's jurisdiction under s 665 are met: see s 663(5) and (6) of the Act.
The Australian Industrial Relations Commission ('the Commission') has issued a certificate under s 650(2) of the Act and the applicant has lodged a notice of election in conformity with s 651.
4 Section 665(1) provides that, if the Court is satisfied that an employer has contravened s 659 of the Act, the Court may make one or more of the following orders:
 
 
 (a) an order imposing on the employer a penalty of not more than $10,000; 
 
 
 (b) an order requiring the employer to reinstate the employee; 
 
 
 (c) subject to subsections (2), (3), (4) and (5), an order requiring the employer to pay to the employee compensation of such amount as the Court thinks appropriate; 
 (d) any other order that the Court thinks necessary to remedy the effect of such a termination; 
 
 
 (e) any other consequential orders.


5 For the reasons that follow, Mr Claveria's claim that Pilkington breached s 659(2)(e) of the Act should be upheld and he is entitled to orders that reflect this.
THE LEGISLATION 
 
6 This case turns on the interpretation and application of s 659(2)(e) of the Act.
Section 659 relevantly provides:
 
 
 (1) In addition to the principal object of this Division set out in section 635 , the additional object of this section is to make provisions that are intended to assist in giving effect to: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) the Convention concerning Discrimination in respect of Employment and Occupation, a copy of the English text of which is set out in Schedule 1 to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 ; and 
 (b) the Family Responsibilities Convention; and 
 (c) the Termination of Employment Recommendation, 1982, which the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation adopted on 22 June 1982 and is also known as Recommendation No.
166.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 (2) Except as provided by subsection (3) and (4), an employer must not terminate an employee's employment for any one or more of the following reasons, or for reasons including any one or more of the following reasons: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) temporary absence from work because of illness or injury within the meaning of the regulations; 
 (b) trade union membership or participation in trade union activities outside working hours or, with the employer's consent, during working hours; 
 (c) non-membership of a trade union; 
 (d) seeking office as, or acting or having acted in the capacity of, a representative of employees; 
 (e) the filing of a complaint, or the participation in proceedings, against an employer involving alleged violation of laws or regulations or recourse to competent administrative authorities ; 
 (f) race, colour, sex, sexual preference, age, physical or mental disability, marital status, family responsibilities, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, national extraction or social origin; 
 (g) refusing to negotiate in connection with, make sign, extend, vary or terminate an AWA; 
 (h) absence from work during maternity leave or other parental leave; 
 (i) temporary absence from work because of the carrying out of a voluntary emergency management activity, where the absence is reasonable having regard to all the circumstances.

 (Emphasis added)
 
 
 

Neither subs (3) nor subs (4) have any bearing on any issue in this proceeding.
7 Section 659 forms part of Div 4 of Pt 12 of the Act.
Section 635 states that the principal object of Div 4, headed "Termination of employment" is:
 
 
 (a) to establish procedures for conciliation in relation to certain matters relating to the termination or proposed termination of an employee's employment in certain circumstances; and 
 (b) to provide, if the conciliation process is unsuccessful, for recourse to arbitration or to a court depending on the grounds on which the conciliation was sought; and 
 (c) to provide for remedies appropriate to a case where, on arbitration, a termination is found to be harsh, unjust or unreasonable; and 
 (d) to provide for sanctions where, on recourse to a court, a termination or proposed termination is found to be unlawful; and 
 (e) by those procedures, remedies and sanctions, and by orders made in the circumstances set out in Subdivision D, to assist in giving effect to the Termination of Employment Convention.

 (Emphasis added) 
 

As s 635 states, amongst other things, Div 4 is intended "to assist in giving effect" to the Termination of Employment Convention, which is to be found in Sch 4 of the Act.
8 By virtue of s 664, the respondent bears the onus of proving that it did not terminate the applicant's employment for a proscribed reason, or for reasons that included a proscribed reason.
Section 664 reads as follows:
 
 In any proceeding under s 663 relating to a termination of employment in contravention of section 659 for a reason (a proscribed reason ) set out in a paragraph of subsection (2) of that section: 
 
 
 
 (a) it is not necessary for the employee to prove that the termination was for a proscribed reason; but 
 (b) it is a defence in the proceedings if the employer proves that the termination was for a reason or reasons that do not include a proscribed reason (other than a proscribed reason to which subsection 659(3) or (4) applies).

 
 
 
 (Emphasis original) 

Section 664 is substantially identical to s 170CQ of the Act as it stood prior to the Workplace Relations (Work Choices) Act 2005 (Cth).
The authorities on s 170CQ and predecessor provisions are therefore relevant: see, e.g., Laz v Downer Group Ltd (2000) 108 IR 244 (' Laz ') at 255 per Moore J.
THE PARTIES' SUBMISSIONS 
 
9 Counsel for Mr Claveria argued that Pilkington had terminated Mr Claveria's employment in contravention of s 659(2)(e) of the Act, because Pilkington included in its reasons for termination the fact that: (1) Mr Claveria had recourse to competent administrative authorities; and (2) that he had filed a complaint against his employer involving alleged violation of laws or regulations.
Relying on s 664, Mr Claveria submitted that it was incumbent on Pilkington to establish, on the balance of probabilities, that his complaint to the union was not one of the reasons for Mr Dunstan's decision to terminate his employment.
10 The first part of Mr Claveria's argument was that, by seeking the assistance of the union on the morning of 24 January 2007, he had recourse to "competent administrative authorities" within the meaning of s 659(2)(e).
He relied on Catusanu v Ray's Guard Security Services (unreported, MD Murphy JR, IR Court of Australia, 29 July 1997) (' Catusanu' ).
His counsel argued that the expression "competent administrative authorities" was to be broadly construed and, having regard to the status and rights accorded trade unions under Australian law, the expression applied to the union to which Mr Claveria had recourse.
Counsel added that s 659(2)(e) was essentially a remedial provision designed to protect an employee against retaliatory termination where the employee took certain legitimate action against an employer in order to redress a relevant grievance.
In view of its remedial character, the provision was to be liberally construed to constitute in substance "a catch-all" to cover the range of avenues available at law for the redress of grievance, including resort to a trade union.
11 Mr Claveria also argued that he filed a complaint within the meaning of s 659(2)(e) when he made his complaint to Mr Skourdoumbis by telephone on the morning of 24 January 2007.
Alternatively, he argued that a complaint was filed when his complaint to Mr Skourdoumbis about the respondent's treatment was relayed by Mr Seneviratne to Mr Dunstan on the afternoon of that day.
Mr Claveria contended that a complaint might be filed, although there was nothing in writing.
12 Counsel for Mr Claveria argued that reinstatement was appropriate and that the respondent's challenge to his work performance was unsubstantiated.
In relation to penalty, counsel submitted that the Court should have regard to the serious nature of the contravention: namely, there had been an infringement of a basic right or freedom.
Counsel also submitted that there has been a degree of duplicity about Pilkington's reasons and the Court should have regard to this.
13 Pilkington argued that Mr Claveria was continually absent from work and that he had been warned and been subject to a final warning.
It was Pilkington's case, so counsel argued, that "the problem involved the Applicant being repeatedly absent from his work cell and talking to Ms Julia Concepcion".
Counsel for Pilkington submitted that the evidence of Mr Dunstan was more reliable than the evidence of Mr Claveria and, generally, the respondent's witnesses should be preferred to the applicant's witnesses.
In particular, Pilkington contended that the Court should accept Mr Dunstan's evidence as to whether the words "bullying" and "harassing" were used on 24 January 2007 and the reasons for Mr Claveria's frequent absences from his cubicle.
Pilkington contended that Mr Claveria's evidence on this score was improbable because of the number of matters that he could not recall.
14 In opposition to Mr Claveria's case and in support of its strike-out motion, Pilkington submitted that, on no view, could Mr Claveria sustain his contention about "filing a complaint".
It was, so Pilkington said, nonsensical to argue that a telephone call could constitute the filing of a complaint within the meaning of s 659(2)(e) of the Act.
15 Pilkington further submitted that the expression "competent administrative authority" did not cover the union or, indeed, any trade union.
Counsel for Pilkington referred to the legislative history of s 659(2)(e), the legislative context and dictionary definitions.
He submitted that the decision in Catusanu was wrong.
Counsel argued that the expression described an authority with the capacity and the right to determine a controversy, which is properly raised with it.
In written submissions, counsel said:
 
 No attempt to aggregate different sources of authority into a composite 'competent administrative authority' should be considered to create the authority required by section 659(2)(e) of the [Act] .

 

Pilkington contended that: (1) the union was not an administrative authority because it had nothing to administer.
Rather, it was "a partisan player in the industrial field"; (2) the 'administration' of the award is not the sole province of the union; (3) s 659(2) "serves the public policy aim of preventing retaliation"; and (4) the powers of the union are not the powers of a 'competent administrative authority'.
In the latter regard, Pilkington said:
 
 The flavour of the 659(2)(e) section is that of dragging the employer to some third party capable of exercising coercive or investigatory powers.
The union fundamentally lacks these.
...
The powers of entry and inspection are not sufficient.


16 Counsel for Pilkington argued that, in the circumstances of the particular case, Mr Claveria's allegation of bullying by 'watching' him in the factory could not amount to a complaint of violating any law, in view of the type of work that Mr Claveria performed and his circumstances, including the warnings he had already received.
Alternatively, he argued that there was no relevant relationship between the termination and the 'filing of a complaint' or Mr Claveria's recourse to the union.
17 Pilkington argued that, if a contravention of s 659(2)(e) were found, compensation in lieu of reinstatement was the more appropriate remedy.
If a penalty were to be imposed, then, so its counsel argued, it should be a modest one in view of Pilkington's good record.
EVIDENCE 
 
18 Mr Claveria gave evidence at the hearing.
Others giving evidence on his behalf were Julia Concepcion, his co-worker; Alwin Seneviratne, the workplace union delegate employed full-time at the factory on day shift as a quality auditor; Leo Skourdoumbis, the branch secretary of the FFTS division of the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union ('the union'); and Frank Vari, assistant secretary of the union, FFTS branch.
Three other union employees with organising roles also gave statements, which were admitted into evidence without objection.
19 Pilkington relied principally on the evidence of its human resources manager, John Findlay, and its line manager at the Laverton factory, Michael Dunstan.
Amanda Bowkett also gave evidence.
At the relevant time, she was the quality engineer and group developer at the Laverton factory.
Relevantly for this proceeding, she acted as scribe at the meeting on 24 January 2007, at which Mr Dunstan told Mr Claveria that his employment was terminated.
Loi Chan Ly (at the hearing referred to sometimes as "Mr Ly" and sometimes as "Mr Chan") also gave evidence.
Mr Ly was the shop steward for the afternoon shift at the Laverton factory and he also attended the 24 January 2007 meeting.
THE ACCEPTED AND INCIDENTAL FACTS 
 
20 I set out first the undisputed facts, together with the facts that may be disputed but are not critical to the issues falling for resolution.
21 The Laverton factory was a single-level factory of about 3,000 square metres.
The factory produced glass windscreens for cars.
At the time Pilkington terminated Mr Claveria's employment, he worked on the assembly line during the afternoon shift.
This shift began at 3 pm and ended 11 pm.
Mr Claveria's principal task was to prime the glass, by applying certain chemicals to it.
22 When he was priming, Mr Claveria worked inside a cubicle at one end of the factory floor.
The cubicle was closed on all but one side.
There was also a window on one side adjacent to the cubicle opening.
Amongst other things, the cubicle contained a metal storage cabinet, an extractor, a turntable and workstation, and a 'snorkel'.
The cabinet, which stood towards the back of the cubicle, contained the chemicals used in priming.
Here was also the glass to be primed.
The operation of the extractor created a good deal of noise.
Accordingly, when priming, Mr Claveria wore earplugs, as well as a safety mask, gloves, long-sleeved overalls and boots.
The turntable and workstation for work in progress stood about the middle of the cubicle.
The snorkel was a pneumatic device used for lifting glass.
Primed glass was stored immediately outside the cubicle.
There was also a trolley for rejected glass.
23 Mr Claveria's priming work required him to move around his cubicle, from the back (where he collected glass for priming) to the centre (where he primed the glass) and to the front (where he stored the primed glass).
He was required to check the glass before he primed it and to put damaged glass aside.
He used the snorkel to lift the glass and the turntable to lay the glass in an appropriate position to be primed.
The snorkel moved when it lifted the glass.
It was possible to see the movement of the snorkel --- a long red object hanging from overhead rails --- from elsewhere in the factory, including from an upstairs vantage point adjacent to the line manager's office.
If he encountered no problem, Mr Claveria would complete about 200 or more units of primed glass over an eight hour shift.
He took about one to two minutes to prime one unit of glass.
24 In the course of his shift, Mr Claveria was required to leave his cubicle from time to time for work purposes, as, for example, in order to speak to the shift coordinator about materials and equipment or the forklift driver about the supply of glass.
He would also leave for personal reasons, as, for example, in order to go to the washroom and toilet.
Furthermore, from around June 2006 until his termination, Mr Claveria was the elected Health and Safety Representative under the Occupational Health and Safety Act 2004 (Vic) ('OHS Act').
In this capacity, he would, from time to time, speak to other employees about safety issues.
25 The line manager, Mr Dunstan, worked from an office on a mezzanine floor within the factory building.
Mr Dunstan could not see the factory floor from his office.
He could see the floor if he went to a particular vantage point on a deck beyond his office, but even from here he did not have a clear view of Mr Claveria's cubicle.
Mr Dunstan's evidence was that, from this vantage point, he could not see Mr Claveria's work station fully, but he could see the movement of the snorkel as Mr Claveria used it to lift glass.
Mr Dunstan said (and I accept) that he could see Mr Claveria as he put out the primed glass.
26 Mr Dunstan became line manager at the Laverton factory in August 2006.
In this capacity, he was supposed to supervise the team leaders and shift co-ordinators, who in turn supervised the process workers.
As it happened, almost as soon as he arrived at the factory, Mr Dunstan encountered problems.
His evidence was that this system of supervision was not working.
Furthermore, the plant and equipment at Laverton was not designed to meet the demand for production that had greatly increased from June 2006.
In evidence, Mr Dunstan said:
 
 I was supposed to have a Team Leader beneath me to do the supervision which I could not do on the shop floor.
I found that most of the tasks I allocated to the Team Leader were not done, and I did them myself.


He stated that the Laverton plant was not "running too well, there was a lot of machinery breaking down, so I would spend most of my day on the shop floor".
He added that "[a]s a consequence to that, all of our work cells ... they had no way of keeping up.
They were really under pressure, under the pump".
Furthermore, the workplace at Laverton had other problems too.
In cross-examination, Mr Dunstan said "[t]here was more gossip at Laverton than I've ever been associated with in any other employment place".
It was clear that, at the time Mr Claveria was terminated, Mr Dunstan felt under pressure as manager and that he had felt this way during December 2006.
27 Mr Claveria had not encountered any significant problems at the Laverton factory for about six years prior to the arrival of Mr Dunstan's immediate predecessor, Ian Hastie, in mid to late 2005.
In May 2006, however, Mr Claveria received a first written warning that his employment might be terminated.
Mr Claveria explained that he had been late on a few occasions.
This was because he was unable to leave his infant son until his wife returned home from the Laverton factory, where she worked day shift.
Mr Claveria received a final written warning from Mr Hastie in July 2006, not long before Mr Dunstan arrived as line manager.
28 Initially Mr Dunstan had no problems with Mr Claveria's work.
Sometime in August 2006, Mr Dunstan reminded him that he was on a final warning, but tempered this by saying, "I am a new manager and we're going to make this a clean slate".
Mr Claveria recalled Mr Dunstan telling him that he was starting again.
29 Sometime after this, as a result of something said to him by Mr Claveria's godmother (who was also an employee at the factory), Mr Dunstan commenced to monitor Mr Claveria's movement around the factory floor more closely than for other employees.
Mr Dunstan's evidence was that, in late September 2006, he told the shift coordinators that they were responsible for Mr Claveria's actions and that, from this point, he "took a greater interest in monitoring where [Mr Claveria] was, and whether he was at his work station".
Mr Claveria agreed that Mr Dunstan was often on the factory floor, where he would watch Mr Claveria at work and sometimes would stop Mr Claveria going to or from the toilet and ask him to return to work.
30 Mr Claveria received a notice recording Pilkington's dissatisfaction with aspects of his conduct shortly before the end of the year.
On 11 December 2006, Mr Dunstan gave him what he termed ' a written warning' stating:
 
 Victor was advised on three occasions in the week ending 7/12/2006.
He was observed spending more than 20 minutes and up to 34 minutes for tea break.
He was also advised he was regularly being observed leaving his work station and talking to people and distracting them.
[He] was advised his production output is significantly below other people ['s] performance.

 

This warning had an uncertain status.
The notice also recorded that Mr Claveria did not agree that the allegations against him were true.
Mr Claveria denied the allegations again at the hearing.
These allegations were not made in consequence of Mr Dunstan's observations of Mr Claveria.
Rather, they were made by a Mr Miller, who did not give evidence.
I return to this matter below.
EVENTS AT THE FACTORY ON 23 AND 24 JANUARY 2007 
 
31 This case concerns events at the Laverton factory on 23 and 24 January 2007, although not all the evidence about these events is disputed.
32 The afternoon of 23 January 2007 began badly for Mr Claveria.
He was not at his workstation at 3:10 pm.
At 3:20 pm (according to Mr Dunstan's file note made six days later) Mr Dunstan saw him walking in the direction of the toilets and said:
 
 You're late, you ['re] not at your work station ... we are going to be good this year aren't we?


33 Mr Dunstan did not ask for an explanation.
Rather, according to Mr Claveria, Mr Dunstan simply pointed to his watch.
Mr Claveria continued on his way.
In evidence, Mr Claveria said, "I just pass and go to my work because I know he is watching me".
In cross-examination, Mr Dunstan conceded that he did not regard this incident as particularly serious.
34 Somewhere between 6:15 pm (according to Mr Claveria) and 6:45-7:15 pm (according to Mr Dunstan) on 23 January 2007, Mr Claveria was at his workstation in his cubicle when Ms Concepcion, who was another process worker, came to ask him for some safety gloves to use in her work.
Mr Claveria said that he took off his mask to say he did not have a matching pair.
Since she said she did not mind this, he gave her two gloves, though they did not match.
Mr Claveria and Ms Concepcion gave clear evidence, which I accept, that the conversation lasted only about a minute before Ms Concepcion returned to her own workstation.
35 In the meantime, Mr Dunstan had noticed them talking together and walked over to Mr Claveria's cubicle.
In his witness statement, Mr Dunstan said that Ms Concepcion moved back to her work area only when she saw him coming towards Mr Claveria's cubicle and that he "did not see either of them handle a glove".
I prefer the evidence of Mr Claveria and Ms Concepcion as to these matters.
In cross-examination, Mr Dunstan admitted that he would not have been able to see whether they had anything in their hands at the time.
He also acknowledged that he "would expect a safety representative to have a full kit of PP, including surgical gloves on hand to give whoever needed it at the time".
36 Mr Dunstan reprimanded Mr Claveria for talking to Ms Concepcion and reminded him of the final warning he had been given by the former manager in July 2006.
Mr Claveria explained that he was responding to Ms Concepcion's request for gloves.
Ms Concepcion joined the discussion, reiterating that it was she who had asked for the gloves needed for her work.
Mr Dunstan admonished her, saying she was not supposed to talk to Mr Claveria and that she should ask for gloves from the shift coordinator.
In cross-examination, however, Mr Dunstan agreed with Mr Claveria and Ms Concepcion that there was nothing unusual about asking a worker in a priming cell for gloves because they invariably had some spare gloves close at hand.
37 The discussion ended on this basis.
Mr Claveria, Ms Concepcion and Mr Dunstan gave evidence to this effect.
Mr Dunstan said that he raised his hands palms facing Mr Claveria and moved away.
He agreed in cross-examination that he closed the discussion with something like "we'll leave it at that".
He conceded in cross-examination that he considered at that time that the matter was closed.
His file note of 29 January 2007, which records the incident in some detail, also makes it clear that he regarded the incident as concluded at the end of the discussion.
38 I accept, however, that Mr Claveria found this incident distressing because he perceived that it was part of an oppressive regime of surveillance that Mr Dunstan had put in place with respect to him.
As already mentioned, Mr Dunstan had set out to have Mr Claveria's movements closely monitored from the latter part of 2006.
Both Mr Dunstan and Mr Claveria's evidence was consistent on this point.
Mr Claveria's evidence was that he often noticed Mr Dunstan and sometimes others watching him while he worked; and that Mr Dunstan often watched him when he visited the toilet, talked to workmates, or moved about the workplace.
Mr Dunstan's evidence was entirely consistent with this.
39 Mr Claveria gave evidence that, if Mr Dunstan stopped him, he would say: "Don't worry.
I have to go back to my work".
Mr Claveria's evidence was that Mr Dunstan did not give him a chance to explain himself.
At the hearing Mr Claveria became distressed when asked about this monitoring, saying:
 
 ... every day he checked me.
Every minute, every time he check me.
I don't remember when is the exact time or exact date ...
I remember he check me most of the time when I move my car and I go to the toilet.


40 The following exchange between Pilkington's counsel and Mr Claveria illustrates the level of scrutiny to which Mr Claveria believed himself subject:
 
 Mr Claveria (through his interpreter): Yes, the problem is he [Mr Dunstan] is always keeping an eye on me --- like I haven't got any freedom.

 
 ... 
 
 Respondent's counsel: Mr Claveria, you are a process worker in a discrete cell performing priming; that is right, isn't it?

 
 Mr Claveria (through his interpreter): Yes.

 
 Respondent's counsel: So what freedoms do you imagine that you require in order to do your job?

 Mr Claveria (through his interpreter): Not to keep an eye on me all the time, almost continuously for eight months.


41 There is little doubt that, as at 23 January 2007, Mr Claveria was finding this surveillance particularly stressful and, for this reason, telephoned the union on the morning of the next day, 24 January 2007, to seek the union's assistance.
I would add that Mr Claveria impressed me as an honest witness, although he found it painful to recall the events of 23 and 24 January 2007 and his recollection of events was imperfect.
The clarity of his evidence was also impeded by his lack of command of the English language.
This undoubtedly contributed to some apparent inconsistencies in his evidence.
42 When he called the union on 24 January 2007, Mr Claveria spoke with Mr Skourdoumbis, the union's branch secretary.
Mr Skourdoumbis's evidence, which I accept, was that Mr Claveria related the incident about the gloves the previous day and told him that Mr Dunstan was constantly keeping an eye on him; that he was constantly being watched with regard to toilet and other breaks; and that he was feeling stressed on account of this treatment.
Mr Skourdoumbis said that Mr Claveria "sounded upset and agitated".
Mr Skourdoumbis said that, based on what he was told, he thought that Mr Claveria had been bullied and harassed.
Mr Skourdoumbis told Mr Claveria that he thought that what had happened to him amounted to bullying and harassment and that the union would do something about it.
Mr Claveria's evidence was entirely consistent with this.
So too was that of Mr Seneviratne, referred to below.
Having regard to the level of surveillance that Mr Claveria believed he was subject to and the distress it was occasioning him, Mr Skourdoumbis's evidence is entirely plausible.
43 Mr Skourdoumbis gave credible evidence that, in his conversation with Mr Claveria, he formed the view that Mr Dunstan had been subjecting Mr Claveria to bullying and harassment.
In cross-examination, he said that he took Mr Claveria's complaint seriously enough that, in accordance with the union's usual practice, he thought it should be raised with the union delegate at first instance.
This was Mr Seneviratne.
Later that day, Mr Skourdoumbis telephoned Mr Seneviratne.
Mr Skourdoumbis asked him to take up the matter.
In cross-examination, Mr Seneviratne said that Mr Skourdoumbis had specifically used the words "harassing and bullying" when describing Mr Claveria's allegations about Mr Dunstan's conduct.
Both Mr Skourdoumbis and Mr Seneviratne gave clear evidence to this effect.
I accept their evidence.
44 Mr Claveria went to work in the afternoon of 24 January 2007.
Some minutes after starting his shift at 3 pm, he spoke to Mr Seneviratne outside his cubicle about his concerns.
Mr Seneviratne worked day shift between 7 am and 3 pm.
Mr Seneviratne stated that he was going to speak with Mr Dunstan before he left for the day.
The conversation between Mr Claveria and Mr Seneviratne took less than 10 minutes.
45 Shortly after 3 pm Mr Dunstan looked out from his upstairs vantage point.
In evidence, he said that since he could not see the snorkel moving in Mr Claveria's cubicle, he assumed that Mr Claveria was not at his work station.
According to his witness statement, Mr Dunstan said to himself "I have had enough of this"; and decided at this point that he would terminate Mr Claveria's employment.
He reiterated this proposition at the hearing.
46 At the hearing, Mr Dunstan was at pains to say that the fact that Mr Claveria was not at work in his cubicle as he should have been was a "very, very typical occasion" and "at that point, that was enough".
When asked in cross-examination whether this observation "spurred" him to decide to terminate Mr Claveria, Mr Dunstan answered: 
 
 Typically, yes.
However, right at that point in time, Alwin [Seneviratne] came up to me to tell me that Victor had also been to the union again.


47 The exchange continued:
 
 Applicant's counsel: Yes, but just on the question of seeing Mr Claveria not there at his workstation, do you say that's the thing that pushed you over the edge?

 
 
 Mr Dunstan: Absolutely.

 
 Applicant's counsel: That was the final thing?

 
 Mr Dunstan: Yes 
 

48 As it happened, at this time, Mr Claveria was in fact talking with Mr Seneviratne.
Further, for the reasons that follow, I reject Mr Dunstan's statement that he decided to terminate Mr Claveria's employment at this point simply because he could not detect the snorkel moving in Mr Claveria's cubicle.
49 Sometime shortly after Mr Dunstan observed no snorkel movement in Mr Claveria's cubicle, Mr Seneviratne spoke to Mr Dunstan in his office.
Mr Seneviratne's evidence was that he expressly told Mr Dunstan that Mr Claveria had made a complaint to the branch secretary of the union that Mr Dunstan was "bullying and harassing" him and always keeping an eye on him.
According to Mr Seneviratne, in this conversation, Mr Dunstan denied that he was always keeping an eye on Mr Claveria.
Mr Seneviratne asked Mr Dunstan to meet with Mr Skourdoumbis or the union organizer (who was on leave at the time) and Mr Claveria.
Mr Dunstan told Mr Seneviratne that he would first have to speak with Mr Findlay, Pilkington's human resources manager, and called Mr Findlay in Mr Seneviratne's presence.
50 Mr Dunstan's account of this part of his conversation with Mr Seneviratne on 24 January 2007 was different from Mr Seneviratne's account.
In his witness statement Mr Dunstan stated that, in this conversation, Mr Seneviratne said:
 
 'Victor has been to the union again'.
He also said he 'had been to see Leo'.
He did not say anything about harassment.
He did not use the words 'bullying' or 'persecution', or words of that kind.


His file note of 29 January 2007 was a little different.
In this file note, Mr Dunstan said that Mr Seneviratne had "advised me that Victor had contacted the Union Branch alleging his concerns and required another meeting".
Mr Dunstan said in cross-examination that he did not then know what these concerns were.
He reiterated that he did not know what Mr Claveria would have said to the union and that he had "no idea what the union would have become involved in".
51 I find Mr Dunstan's statement in evidence that he did not ask Mr Seneviratne for some account of Mr Claveria's "concerns" (the word used in his 29 January 2007 file note) is implausible, having regard to Mr Dunstan's position as manager, Mr Seneviratne's role, and Mr Dunstan's relationship with Mr Claveria and Mr Seneviratne.
Mr Seneviratne's evidence about his conversation with Mr Dunstan at this point is consistent with Mr Dunstan's file note.
More particularly, it is consistent with Mr Skourdoumbis's and Mr Claveria's evidence about their respective conversations with Mr Seneviratne and with the fact that Mr Seneviratne apparently went to speak with Mr Dunstan on account of these conversations.
As I explain below, where the evidence of Mr Seneviratne conflicts with that of other witnesses, I prefer the evidence of Mr Seneviratne.
52 Mr Dunstan telephoned Mr Findlay in Mr Seneviratne's presence, and spoke with him over the speakerphone.
Mr Findlay's evidence was that he received the telephone call from Mr Dunstan about 3:45 pm on the afternoon of 24 January 2007.
The call proceeded on speakerphone.
In his witness statement, Mr Findlay said that:
 
 Immediately Dunstan began talking about the Applicant's work.
Michael said words to the effect that 'the Applicant had been away from his work station', and 'he had enough of it'.
Dunstan also mentioned other occasions after the factory had started up after the Christmas break where the Applicant had also been away from his work station.


Mr Findlay referred to Mr Seneviratne's proposal for a meeting with the union organiser, Mr Andrew Vendramini, adding:
 
 I said no to this.
I said to Dunstan and Alwin that 'any issues should be dealt with immediately', or similar words.

 
 ... 
 
 I said to Dunstan, 'if it's a repeat of the previous behaviour, and given the Applicant is already on a final warning for the same behaviour, and if there is no adequate explanation, the Applicant's services should be terminated'.
I also said that Michael needs to get Victor in, and get Victor's side of the story, and make sure that he, Dunstan, had witnesses and to make sure that he had representatives if Victor desired them.

 
 ... 
 
 I also said 'if it were my decision, I would terminate him'.

 
 ... 
 
 Alwin made no mention of the Applicant's contact with Skourdoumbis or that the Applicant had complained of bullying and/or harassment.


53 Mr Seneviratne's evidence was that, in this conversation, Mr Dunstan told Mr Findlay that Mr Claveria had complained to the union that Mr Dunstan was harassing and bullying him.
Mr Dunstan related the incident of the previous day.
Mr Seneviratne reiterated his request for a meeting.
Mr Seneviratne also gave evidence that Mr Findlay said:
 
 [H] e was sick of coming over to Laverton so often and that Victor should have been sacked already.
John [Findlay] said that he would leave it up to Michael to handle the matter.


He reiterated this account in cross-examination.
54 In cross-examination, Mr Findlay and Mr Dunstan denied that Mr Seneviratne had mentioned Mr Claveria's complaint to the union about bullying and harassment, although Mr Findlay conceded that he may have said that he was sick of coming to Laverton and that he may have forgotten part of the conversation.
55 In cross-examination, Mr Seneviratne said he could not recall Mr Dunstan saying "Victor is away from his workstation and I've had enough", as Mr Dunstan alleged.
Mr Seneviratne doubted that these words were said, because the conversation was about Mr Claveria's complaint and a proposed meeting with the union.
He denied that Mr Dunstan referred to terminating Mr Claveria's employment.
He also denied that the discussion was mainly about Mr Claveria's performance.
56 As indicated, to the extent that the evidence of Mr Findlay and Mr Dunstan was inconsistent with the evidence of Mr Seneviratne, I prefer the evidence of Mr Seneviratne.
His evidence through-out was clear, coherent, plausible and given with a conscientious regard for the truth.
He answered questions directly and in a balanced way.
In giving evidence, he indicated where his recollection was clear and where there was a possibility for mistake.
Both Mr Dunstan and Mr Findlay gave evidence that Mr Seneviratne was a person to be trusted.
Mr Dunstan added that he "involved Alwin in nearly every discussion I had that related to people within Laverton".
Mr Seneviratne was an entirely credible witness.
57 Further, it seemed that at times Mr Findlay tailored his evidence to suit the respondent's case.
At times Mr Findlay was evasive in the sense that he unwilling to answer questions directly.
On occasions, in cross-examination, he sought to argue Pilkington's case, rather than answer the questions directed to him.
58 Mr Dunstan, who was the principal witness for the respondent, did not give his evidence clearly and directly.
He responded to questions defensively and, on some occasions, evasively.
He was anxious to justify himself and his actions towards Mr Claveria.
It was clear from his evidence that he felt that his position as manager at the Laverton factory was a very difficult one and that he took at least some of these difficulties personally, including the difficulties that he believed Mr Claveria presented.
Mr Dunstan was not a reliable witness.
I have already indicated that I found Mr Dunstan's evidence about one critical matter implausible.
I indicate below other respects in which I found his evidence implausible.
59 I reject the proposition that Mr Dunstan indicated in the conversation with Mr Findlay that he was proposing to terminate Mr Claveria's employment because he could not see the snorkel moving in Mr Claveria's work station at the beginning of the afternoon shift.
I accept that the catalyst for, and the substance of, this conversation was Mr Seneviratne's statement to Mr Dunstan that Mr Claveria had spoken with the union about his perceived mistreatment at the factory and, at least from Mr Seneviratne's perspective, a proposed meeting between management, the union and Mr Claveria to discuss the matter.
60 Mr Seneviratne left Mr Dunstan's office after the conversation with Mr Findlay, although, at Mr Dunstan's request, he did not leave for the day.
Mr Seneviratne waited for a while.
Eventually, Mr Dunstan came to advise him that he was going to terminate Mr Claveria's employment and to ask him to bring Mr Claveria to the office.
Shortly afterwards Mr Seneviratne and Mr Ly accompanied Mr Claveria to Mr Dunstan's office.
Ms Bowkett and Darryl Colt (a process improvement engineer) were also present.
Mr Claveria gave evidence (which I accept) that he was very upset during this meeting.
61 As noted previously, Ms Bowkett acted as the scribe for the meeting.
Her evidence was that Mr Dunstan invited her to attend the meeting shortly before it began and that prior to the meeting she knew nothing more than that Mr Claveria was to be the subject.
She stated, and I accept, that she wrote notes of the meeting as it progressed and typed up these notes some days later, on 29 January.
Ms Bowkett was plainly an honest and reliable witness and her notes were the most reliable evidence of what occurred at the meeting.
62 Ms Bowkett's evidence was that Mr Dunstan began the meeting by saying that he needed to talk about an incident on 23 January 2007 and that the discussion at the meeting was "all about the afternoon of the 23rd".
She also said that Mr Claveria claimed, in his own words, that Mr Dunstan was harassing and bullying him.
This is consistent with her typed notes, which recorded that Mr Dunstan invited Mr Claveria "to relay his concerns about the talk they had on the afternoon of 23/01/07".
