
 
1 This litigation concerns the extent to which, if at all, clauses imposing restraints of trade are enforceable, these clauses having been entered into in association with what I will inexactly describe as a joint venturer's withdrawal from the joint venture business.
Though the subject matter is prosaic, the litigation raises several novel issues.
The first concerns a matter of pleading.
A PRELIMINARY PLEADING ISSUE 
 
2 This proceeding commenced in an application which unequivocally invoked the jurisdiction of this Court.
It alleged that a Deed Poll of Restraint entered into by the first to fourth applicants in favour of the first to seventh respondents contained clauses (i) that were exclusionary provisions for the purposes of s 4D of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth); (ii) which, if given effect to, would contravene s 45(2)(b)(i) of the TP Act and would in the circumstances not be saved by s 51(2)(e) of that Act; (iii) that were void and unenforceable as a matter of public policy at general law; and (iv) which were the subject of a false representation as to rights and remedies in contravention of s 53(g) of the TP Act.
Declaratory and injunctive relief was sought.
3 In a Statement of Facts, Issues and Contentions filed prior to the hearing, the first, fourth, seventh and eighth respondents indicated they did not contest that the relevant restraints constituted exclusionary provisions for the purpose of s 4D of the TP Act.
They nonetheless indicated they relied by way of defence on s 51(2)(e) of the Act (this had been pleaded) and, in the alternative should a contravention of s 45(2) be found, they would seek orders pursuant to any or all of s 87(2)(b), s 87(3) and s 4L varying the terms of the objectionable clauses so as to prevent any further contravention (this had not been pleaded).
4 At the commencement of the hearing counsel for the applicant sought and was granted leave to discontinue against the second, third, fifth and sixth respondents.
Leave was then sought to amend the application to delete all of the TP Act claims, leaving the applicants' case simply as one founded on the common law.
The first, fourth, seventh and eighth respondents (to whom I will refer hereafter as "the respondents") neither consented to, nor opposed the amendment sought.
Leave was granted.
5 The respondents in turn sought leave to amend their defence to raise the TP Act issues to which it had pleaded in its defence (i.e.
s 51(2)(e)) or which it had foreshadowed (i.e.
s 87(2)(b), s 87(3) and s 4L).
This was opposed by the applicants on the basis that, with their TP Act claims now excised, there was no controversy between the parties concerning any contravention to s 45.
The respondents, it is contended, were seeking to self-generate a controversy to enliven the provisions of the Act upon which they wish to rely.
In consequence, it is said, a hypothetical question was being raised and advisory opinions were being sought.
6 While I do not in any way impugn the propriety of the forensic decisions taken by the applicants in amending their application and then in opposing the respondents' amendment, their tactical character is transparent.
They wish both to avail of the inflexibility of the consequences at common law of the deed being found to contain clauses contrary to public policy and to avoid those that may ensue under the TP Act (if a s 45 contravention is found), by virtue of the obligation imposed on the Court by s 4L and the discretions given by s 87(2)(b) and s 87(3).
7 Put shortly, the amended defence and cross-claim for which leave is sought raise the TP Act issues in the following way:
 
(i) it is denied that the actual restrains imposed are offensive at common law; 
 
 
 (ii) if the restraints are so offensive, they also are exclusionary provisions contravening s 45(2), not being ones to which s 51(2)(e) applies; 
 (iii) accordingly, the restraints can and should be varied pursuant to s 4L, s 87(2)(b) and s 87(3); and
 (iv) as the restraints are incapable of being varied at common law, the TP Act and the common law are incapable of operating concurrently and, for that reason, the TP Act prevails: s 4M.

 

The cross-claim seeks alternative relief reflecting the above contingencies.
8 For reasons I later give, I do not consider that s 87(2)(b) affords an appropriate avenue of relief to the respondents in this matter.
9 The hearing was conducted on the basis that the parties would address both the common law claim and the respondents' TP Act defences and cross-claim, with my ruling on the application to amend being given with my judgment in the matter.
10 I am satisfied now, as I was at the time of the hearing, that leave to amend ought be granted and that the proposed defence and cross-claim do not raise hypothetical questions or solicit advisory opinions.
11 I would preface my reasons by noting, first the provisions of s 4L, s 4M, s 51(2)(e) and s 87(3) of the TP Act.
Section 4L provides:
 
 "If the making of a contract after the commencement of this section contravenes this Act by reason of the inclusion of a particular provision in the contract, then, subject to any order made under section 87 or 87A, nothing in this Act affects the validity or enforceability of the contract otherwise than in relation to that provision in so far as that provision is severable.
"
 

Because of what I say below, I would emphasise that this provision on its proper construction requires severance of offending provisions: see SST Consulting Services Pty Ltd v Rieson [2006] HCA 31 ; (2006) 225 CLR 516 at [51] ; but that it operates subject to any order made under s 87 and it is upon s 87(3) that the respondents rely in particular.
12 Section 4M, a companion provision, provides, insofar as presently relevant, that: 
 
 "This Act does not affect the operation of:
 
 
 
 (a) the law relating to restraint of trade in so far as that law is capable of operating concurrently with this Act; 
 
 ...
 
 
 
 but nothing in the law referred to in paragraph (a) ... affects the interpretation of this Act.
" 
 

13 Section 51(2) provides for present purposes:
 
 
 "(2) In determining whether a contravention of [s 45] ... has been committed, regard shall not be had: 
 
 ...
 
 
 
 
 
 (e) in the case of a contract for the sale of a business or of shares in the capital of a body corporate carrying on a business --- to any provision of the contract that is solely for the protection of the purchaser in respect of the goodwill of the business".

 
 

I simply note in passing that there is a live issue between the parties as to whether the transaction of which the impugned deed poll was part, was itself a sale contract of a type envisaged by subpara (3).
The subpara also gives rise to the question whether, if the deed contained restraints that did not offend the common law of restraint of trade, it would for that reason fall within s 51(2)(e) (assuming the transaction was of the relevant type and the restraints related to the protection of goodwill): cf IRAF Pty Ltd v Graham (1982) 41 ALR 209 at 216.
14 Section 87(3) relevantly provides that:
 
 "(3) Where:
 
 
 
 
 (a) a provision of a contract made, or a covenant given, whether before or after the commencement of the Trade Practices Amendment Act 1977 : 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) in the case of a provision of a contract, is unenforceable by reason of section 45 in so far as it confers rights or benefits or imposes duties or obligations on a corporation; 
 
 
 
 
 ...
 
 
 
 
 
 the Court may, on the application of a party to the contract ... make an order: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) varying the contract ... or a collateral arrangement relating to the contract ... in such manner as the Court considers just and equitable.
"
 
 
 

I would again note in passing that the subsection unqualifiedly permits any party to the contract to apply for an order under it whether or not in a separate application.
It is not limited to a party burdened by a provision that contravenes s 45 , let alone a party who has suffered, or is likely to suffer, loss or damage by the contravening conduct.
In this last respect the subsection appears to be quite unlike s 87(1), (1A), (1B) and (2), each of which conditions the making of their respective orders "upon the court finding that a party to the proceeding has suffered, or is likely to suffer, loss or damage" (emphasis in original): I  L Securities Pty Ltd v HTW Valuers (Brisbane) Pty Ltd [2002] HCA 41 ; (2002) 210 CLR 109 at [46] .
The manifest object of s 87(3) is to permit the "restructuring on a just and equitable basis the rights and obligations of parties to contracts which have contravened certain sections [i.e.
s 45 , s 45B and s 47] of the Act": Heydon, Trade Practices Law , [18.1830].
The utility of a power so to do is obvious enough.
Section 87(3)'s object contrasts with the object of s 87(1), (1A), (1B) and (2) which confer powers to make orders compensating, preventing or reducing loss or damage arising from breaches of the Act: ibid.
I would note in passing that s 87(2)(b) would thus envisage that that object may in fact be furthered by an order varying a contract made between the person who suffered, or is likely to suffer, the loss or damage and the person who engaged in the contravening conduct.
15 I should also note that the Deed Poll of Restraint is, as its name signifies, a deed poll.
The covenant of restraint is made in favour of, and for the benefit of, the first seven respondents who are named in the deed.
As such, the covenant is enforceable by those respondents: see Re A  K Holdings Pty Ltd [1964] VR 257 at 261-262; Sunderland Marine Insurance Co v Kearney (1851) 16 QB 925 at 938.
It is unnecessary for present purposes to enter upon the questions (a) whether a deed poll is properly to be called a "contract" at law at all: cf Chitty on Contracts , Vol 1 at 2-003 (29 th ed, 2004); Furmston (ed), The Law of Contract , 2.135 (2 nd ed, 2003); or (b) whether this deed poll in fact embodies a contract supported by consideration: cf cl 3 of the Deed (not reproduced here); or else is properly to be regarded as a part of the performance of the Heads of Agreement or as part of an entire transaction: cf Norton on Deeds 86-88 (2 nd ed, 1928).
Given that the restraints are contained in an enforceable instrument that reflect what has been agreed by all relevant parties, if they are found to be unenforceable because they are exclusionary provisions that contravene s 45(2)(a) , I can see no reason consistent with the purpose and policy of s 87(3) for not treating them as provisions in a "contract" to which the covenantees are parties.
To interpret s 87(3) in this way is to do no more than to give it a purposive and contextual interpretation: see CIC Insurance Ltd v Bankstown Football Club Ltd [1997] HCA 2 ; (1997) 187 CLR 384 at 408; Acts Interpretation Act 1901 (Cth), s 15AB.
16 In the above legislative context, s 4M, in my view, is of pivotal importance in determining when leave to amend should be granted.
While the section saves the common law relating to restraint of trade, it does so qualifiedly.
The operation of the common law is not affected insofar as that law is "capable of operating concurrently with [the] Act".
That qualification is presently important.
In cl 9 of the Explanatory Memorandum to the Trade Practices Amendment Bill 1977 (which contained s 4L and s 4M) it was stated: 
 
 
 "9.
Common law and severance --- To the extent that the common law doctrine of restraint of trade and the principles relating to the severance of restrictive provisions from such contracts are not displaced by the prohibitions and remedies in the Trade Practices Act , it is intended that they should continue in operation ... New Sections 4L and 4M (clause 6 ) deal with these matters.
" 
 
 
 (Emphasis added)
 

I have emphasised the reference to "remedies" in the above.
As I earlier noted, the severance provisions of s 4L are subject to any order made under s 87 and, in particular for present purposes, s 87(3).
17 It may be accepted that where a common law claim alone is made (usually, but not necessarily, not in federal jurisdiction: cf O'Neil v Mann [2000] FCA 1180 ; (2000) 175 ALR 742 at [29] ), a respondent would not characteristically put in issue the possible incapability of the common law operating concurrently with the Act.
Often the Act would be of no conceivable relevance in a simple common law claim.
But when incapability is properly put in issue, the common law (including its remedies) will be displaced by the operation of the Act (including its remedies and relief) to the extent of that incapability.
18 In this matter the respondents seek to do no more than to put that matter in issue, albeit contingently because their primary position is that the restraints are inoffensive at common law in any event.
But if they are incorrect in that, and if the restraints are exclusionary provisions --- the applicants frankly concede they are --- and contravene s 45(2)(a) , the respondents, as of course, are entitled to apply for an order under s 87(3) to have the restraints varied.
They equally are entitled, subject to any order made under s 87 , to have the issue of severance under s 4L determined: see SST Consulting Services Pty Ltd v Rieson .
19 By relying simply upon a common law claim in the present factual setting, the applicants have perforce exposed themselves to the defensive use the respondents seek to make of the TP Act.
20 I grant the leave to amend that has been sought.
FACTUAL SETTING 
 
21 Though the issues raised in this proceeding fall within a fairly narrow compass, the factual setting is complex, and made the more so by the business structures employed by some of the principal actors and by the ease with which parties with similar names can be confused.
To avoid as best I can at least the last of these complications, I will refer to the principal members of the Nemer family by the first names they appear to have used.
I mean no disrespect in so doing.
22 In the 1950's the Nemer brothers, Les (the sixth respondent) and Antoine (the second applicant) started a dry cleaning business.
Since the 1970's they conducted as well a linen hire and laundry business.
These businesses were, until 2005, owned by the first respondent, International Linen Service Pty Ltd, as trustee of the International Linen Service Unit Trust ("the ILS unit trust").
In these proceedings the trustee company has been referred to as "Old Co".
On about 8 December 2005, Old Co ceased to own and operate the business.
From that date, the business the eighth respondent, a new entity given the name International Linen Service Pty Ltd, has been the operator of the business.
It has been referred to as "New Co" in these proceedings.
23 The units in the ILS unit trust were held (i) as to 45 per cent (9 units) by Fadu Pty Ltd, the first applicant, which was in turn the trustee of the George Nemer Family Settlement of which Antoine, his wife Linda and his son, George Anthony, are beneficiaries; (ii) as to a further 45 per cent (9 units), by Tiger (SA) Pty Ltd as trustee of the E  V Nemer Inheritance Trust No 2 of which Les Nemer is a beneficiary; and (iii) as to 10 per cent (2 units) by Peter James, the seventh respondent, who from 1 March 1996 has been a director of Old Co, and from 22 November 2005 has been a director of New Co. James is also a shareholder and director of the fourth respondent, Peter James Management Services Pty Ltd which since November 2005 has been the holder of the majority of ordinary shares in New Co.
 
24 Antoine Nemer and his family, and Les Nemer and his family each held 9 shares (or 45 per cent) of the shares in Old Co prior to the events to be narrated and Peter James held the remaining two shares.
25 In early 2005, Old Co engaged Equity and Advisory Ltd to value the trust's business and to advise on its potential sale.
The impetus for a sale was a falling out between Les and Antoine Nemer.
According to Mr James this was a "time of great dispute" between the two brothers.
Antoine indicated to Les that he understood that Spotless Services Australia Ltd, Old Co's principal competitor, had made an unsolicited expression of interest possibly to acquire the business and the lands it occupied (all held by the second respondent Minoris Pty Ltd as a trustee on trust for the unit holders of the ILS unit trust).
The price, he understood, was $22 million.
26 On 29 June 2005, Antoine met with Les and following a discussion about the future of the business, he both offered to sell to Les all of his interests in Old Co, Minoris and the lands held by Minoris and to accept a watering down to a nominal value of Fadu's rights in the ILS unit trust for a total of $8 million.
Antoine did not wish to wait for the uncertain outcome of a business sale process.
That offer was later confirmed by George Anthony, Antoine's son.
27 Les advised Antoine that he wished to accept the offer on the understanding that "it was his intention either to sell some of the interest acquired to senior management of [Old Co] or alternatively to sell the entire business at a premium to the value implied by Antoine's offer of $8M": recital 13 to the Heads of Agreement of 5 August 2005.
The Heads of Agreement 
 
28 This document was executed by all of the original parties to this proceeding save for New Co. Its recitals contain much of the above factual information.
29 The recitals also noted that (a) Peter James and PJMS Co were entitled to acquire a further 8.2 per cent interest in Old Co, the ILS unit trust, Minoris and the land, under pre-emptive rights they held; and (b) Equity  Advisory had advised Mr James and his company that, after taking into account minority and marketability discounts, the consideration sought by Fadu was fair.
30 The manner in which the watering down of Fadu's interest in the ILS unit trust to a nominal value was to be, and was achieved, first, through an amendment to the ILS unit trust deed to enable the issue of "Uplift Units" which would then be issued with differential entitlements (see below) and, secondly, through the issue of those units to Fadu, Tiger and Peter James.
The diluting effect of the issue of the Uplift Units with differential entitlements is thus exemplified in paras 25.13 and 25.14 of the respondents' Further Amended Defence and Cross-Claim:
 
 "25.13. the following Uplift Units were issued, carrying the following Uplift Unit Entitlements:
 
 Entity Uplift Units Uplift Unit Entitlement attached to each unit 
 Fadu 900,000 .00001
 
 Tiger 900,000 1
 
 James 200,000 1
 
 25.14. following the issue of the Uplift Units the sum of Ordinary Unit Entitlements of each of Fadu, Tiger and James was as follows: 
 
 Entity Entitlement attached Ordinary Combined Ordinary 
 to each Ordinary Unit Units Held Unit Entitlement 
 
 Fadu 2 9 18
 
 Tiger 100,001 9 900,009
 
 James 100,001 2 200,002"
 

31 The relationship of the consideration to be paid to the dilution so effected is revealed in the provision of the agreement dealing with "Watering down of Units and Sale of Shares and Equitable Interest in Land".
