
 

 
1 Objection is taken to a number of the paragraphs of Mr Jamie Thomas Stokoe, affirmed on 16 April 2007.
These paragraphs commence at [422] of Mr Stokoe's affidavit and extend to [478].
The method which has been adopted, for the purposes of argument, has been to take some of the earlier paragraphs, and in particular [426], [427] and the following paragraphs, up to about [438], as representative of some perceived fundamental defects in the structure and content of the evidence.
These reasons will not fully deal with all aspects of the respondents' objections to the evidence of Mr Stokoe up to and including [478], but they will, to a certain extent, clear the ground for the balance of the perceived problems.
2 The objection to the relevant parts of these paragraphs, in particular [426], [427], [428] and following, are, as I have said, fundamental.
The nature of this case should be briefly identified, to put in context what I am about to say.
3 In this proceeding in 2004, I came to the conclusion that Fresenius Medical Care Australia Pty Limited, the respondent, had infringed the Australian patent held by the second applicant.
In substance, with one qualification, that conclusion was upheld by the Full Court.
Thus, we are dealing with a claim for the monetary consequences of that infringement.
4 The applicants have chosen to seek to prove damages, rather than an account of profits.
The case concerns the conduct by the applicants and the respondent of a commercial business in Australia in the haemodialysis market, that is, the market for the commercial exploitation of machinery and goods which go towards remediation and alleviation of renal failure through the use of dialysis machines.
There are other methods of dealing with renal failure which are not relevant directly to the proceedings, nor to this particular argument.
5 Shortly before Fresenius entered the market in Australia, Gambro had begun to exploit the relevant invention.
The relevant invention was one which allowed the dissolution of water through a cartridge of powdered bicarbonate, which was affixed to or adjacent to the dialysis machine, thereby allowing an onstream saturated solution of bicarbonate (known, in the use of dialysis machines, as "Part B solution") to be fed into a line.
The Part B solution would then mix with another type of solution (relevantly called the "Part A solution"), which, in the appropriate combination, would feed into the dialysis machine on one side of the dialyser to form the combination solution to undertake haemodialysis and haemodiafiltration.
All this is set out in the main judgment on infringement: Gambro Pty Ltd v Fresenius Medical Care Australia Pty Ltd (2004) 61 IPR 442.
6 The first judgment on infringement attended to, amongst other things, the question of the practical utility of the invention.
Now is not the time to make final conclusions about the practical utility of the invention in the full commercial context, which will be debated.
However, it can be said, briefly, that there were a number of practical advantages, in particular the lack of the need to store pre-prepared liquid Part B in large, heavy containers and, secondly, the instantaneous or online production of the relevant saturated Part B solution from the dissolution of purified water through the cartridge at the time of the administration of the dialysis.
This obviated any risk whatsoever of deterioration of the bicarbonate solution which had been prepared in a premixed fashion.
The Part B solution was not entirely stable and did not have a shelf life beyond some months.
For this reason, it was perceived that the invention had some advantages.
7 The respondent, Fresenius, began to use its version of the patented invention once it entered the market.
It obtained a significant share of the market over the years, until it ceased to provide to the public this dry bicarbonate method in 2006 by reason of the cutting in of the orders in relation to infringement, after the last struggle in the infringement part of the proceedings with the dismissal of the application for special leave to appeal in the High Court.
8 The damages claim, therefore, comes back to a body of issues which, at least on one version of the damages, requires some analysis of what some have called a counterfactual; that is, ascertaining the damage, if any, caused to the applicant companies by Fresenius by the infringement.
One inquiry relevant to that is what would have happened in the Australian market had Fresenius not infringed.
The hypothesis of non-infringement is not put, as I would understand it, in any other way other than using the pre-existing methodology of pre-prepared or pre-mixed liquid Part B solution.
Thus, it is necessary, on this way of putting the case, for Gambro to adduce evidence going to the issue of how many additional sales it or they would have obtained from 1996 without the Fresenius infringement.
9 It is this issue to which Mr Stokoe's affidavit is largely directed.
One needs to understand who Mr Stokoe is and what his background is.
He was, from 1 January 2005, the Director, People and Organisational Development (that being the title of his position) of Gambro Industries SAS, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Gambro AB, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of the second applicant, Gambro Lundia AB (which used to be known as Gambro AB).
The Gambro Group is a Swedish health care consortium, if I may use that expression, operating worldwide in the field of health care, including, relevantly for this case, dialysis and haemodialysis.
The respondent, Fresenius, is the Australian subsidiary or member of a German group of companies which is engaged, relevantly speaking, in the same field of commercial endeavour.
10 Prior to Mr Stokoe taking up his employment with Gambro Industries SAS, he worked in Australia for approximately 28 years with the first applicant, being the Australian subsidiary of the second applicant.
He began his working life with Gambro Australia a year or two after he graduated from the University of New South Wales in science with majors in chemistry and biochemistry.
From December 1976 to 1980, Mr Stokoe was a technical sales representative; from 1980 to December 1986, he was a sales and marketing manager; and from January 1987 to the time he went to Gambro Industries SAS, he was the managing director of the Australian subsidiary of Gambro.
11 The tasks and roles and work experience which Mr Stokoe undertook in these various positions are set out in detail in [23], [24], [25], [27], [28], [29], [30], [31] and [32] of his affidavit, which are in the following form:
 
 
 23.
In my role as Technical Sales Representative I was responsible for the sales and marketing of all of Gambro Australia's products and services in New South Wales, Queensland, the Australian Capital Territory and New Zealand.

 
 
 
 
 
 24.
In my role as Sales  Marketing Manager I was responsible for the sales and marketing of all of Gambro Australia's products and services in the whole of the territory for which Gambro Australia was responsible, namely Australia, New Zealand and Micronesia.
As Gambro Australia expanded its operations in the early to mid 1980s it opened offices in Melbourne, Queensland and New Zealand, which meant that I had a number of employees in those places reporting to me in a number of sales functions.

 
 
 
 
 
 25.
In my role as Managing Director I was responsible for all of the operations of Gambro Australia in Australia, New Zealand and Micronesia, which included sales  marketing, manufacturing, clinics, technical service, warehousing  distribution, information technology and administration.
I was also responsible for the development of the Gambro Renal Products business division in Australia and New Zealand, and I reported to one of two Senior Vice Presidents of global sales in the Gambro Renal Products division of Gambro Lundia.
I also liaised with the Sweden head office of the Gambro Renal Products and Gambro Healthcare divisions of the Gambro Group on a regular basis and reviewed the strategic plans and business plans of Gambro Renal Products and Gambro Healthcare to fit Australia and New Zealand.

 
 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 27 In my role with Gambro Australia as a Technical Sales Representative in 1976 I first attended a two week basic training course in Sweden and Germany and a one week technical service course for Gambro HD Machines.
I also began attending the annual scientific meetings of the Australian Society of Nephrology and the Dialysis Society of Australasia, which I have continued to attend in almost every year of my employment with Gambro Australia.
In each year of my employment with Gambro Australia I also attended technical presentations and briefing sessions conducted by International Product Managers of the Gambro Group in Europe to educate Technical Sales Representatives regarding new HD products and treatments, including clinical and technical developments.
I usually also used these visits to conduct meetings with Technical Managers, International Product Managers and research staff of the Gambro Group to discuss particular developments in HD products and treatments in more detail.
In the course of these visits I also visited hospitals and renal units in a number of different countries.

 
 
 
 
 
 28.
On my return to Australia after attending overseas presentations conducted by the Gambro Group or international dialysis conferences, or having observed techniques or products not used in Australia, I usually gave presentations to Technical Sales representatives and other employees of Gambro Australia about these topics or developments.

 
 
 
 
 
 29.
In the course of my roles with Gambro Australia, first as Technical Sales Representative, then as Sales  Marketing Manager and later as Managing Director, I have made hundreds of visits to hospitals and renal units around Australia and introduced new HD products and practices to them.
In the course of these visits I have observed thousands of HD treatments being performed.
I have also given hundreds of demonstrations of the setting up, priming and use of HD machines and of the application and use of HD Consumables and HD Services.
I have also assisted hospital staff to set up HD Machines and prime them ready for HD treatments on dozens of occasions.

 
 
 
 
 
 30.
In the course of these visits I also observed nurses and hospital staff preparing Liquid Part B solutions for use in HD treatments and I observed the ways in which nurses and hospital staff in a large number of hospitals and renal units around Australia take delivery of, store and manage inventories of HD Consumables and Additional HD Products.
In the course of these visits I also observed nurses and hospital staff managing the day to day practicalities of operating renal units and dialysis clinics and I had many discussions with nurses and hospital staff regarding the clinical, technical and practical problems and difficulties associated with the use of available products for HD and the performance of HD treatments over many years.

 
 
 
 
 
 31.
In the course of my roles with Gambro Australia, first as Technical Sales Representative, then as Sales  Marketing Manager and later as Managing Director, I have had a very large number of discussions with customers of Gambro Australia, as well as those in the market for HD Machines, HD Consumables, Additional HD Products and HD Services, about the relative advantages and disadvantages of HD Machines, HD Consumables, Additional HD Products and HD Services available in the Australian market.
I also regularly read articles and abstracts of publications in scientific and medical literature on developments in renal medicine and treatments.

 
 
 
 
 
 32.
It was necessary for me to have a detailed and thorough knowledge of HD treatments and therapies, the products and services of Gambro Australia and those of its competitors and their relative advantages and disadvantages in order to perform my roles.
I gained this knowledge and kept it current by many detailed discussions with the Gambro Group's own international product experts, customers and potential customers in the market, by studying the available products of Gambro Australia's competitors, by reading relevant literature and regular competitor updates issued from the Gambro Group, as well as by attending the conferences, technical presentation and information briefings to which I have referred in paragraphs 27 to 31 above.

 
 
 

12 It is sufficient to say from these paragraphs that over the years, in all the capacities and positions in which Mr Stokoe has worked, he says that he had working contact and familiarity with not only the machinery used and sold in hospitals and dialysis units, but also person-to-person contact with those in those institutions who were involved in the haemodialysis and dialysis work.
Also, from those positions (in particular sales and marketing manager and managing director), he was involved with the promoting and selling of the equipment which is the subject of these proceedings.
13 At this level of proof, and until Mr Stokoe is cross-examined, and in particular depending upon whether he is cross-examined on the voir dire, I am prepared to work on the evidence set out in the paragraphs to which I have referred.
I conclude, for present purposes, that Mr Stokoe is a man with nearly 30 years' experience in the Australian haemodialysis market.
He had a close and detailed understanding of the equipment, the market and the people involved in using, as well as purchasing and selling, machines and the equipment.
14 The affidavit of Mr Stokoe then deals in a logical fashion with a number of integers of the market, insofar as it concerns the proceeding.
It deals with haemodialysis treatments, with the structure of the Australian market for machines, consumables and services; it deals with and exhibits a detailed body of market intelligence information obtained in the manner described in the affidavit, with which, I conclude (subject to any cross-examination) Mr Stokoe was intimately familiar for the purpose of his discharging his duties to his employer.
15 The affidavit deals with the introduction of the BiCart system, that is, the system of haemodialysis using dry bicarbonate, pursuant to the invention.
He deals with the structure of the Australian market both before and after the introduction of that BiCart.
He deals with what are, in his opinion, the significant advantages of the method employed by Gambro pursuant to the invention.
He deals with the arrival of Fresenius in the market in Australia and, based on information obtained from Fresenius in pre-trial discovery and other pre-trial steps, and also from the market intelligence systems, and partly also from assumed numbers of goods sold by Gambro, he gives evidence of the division of the market.
16 Having dealt with a description of the market, a description of the machines, a description of the method of selling and a description of, in his opinion, the perceived advantages of the invention, he turns to what loss has been caused to Gambro.
The first matter that he deals with in this respect is the capacity of Gambro to expand its production and sales to sell more of the dialysis system based on the patented dry bicarbonate, which, it is ultimately said, Gambro would have been able to sell and would have sold, had Fresenius not infringed and taken a portion of the market.
17 After that question of capacity, one then turns to the question of whether Gambro would have obtained any and, if so, what proportion, of the sales made by Fresenius using the dry bicarbonate powder system in infringement of the patent for the 10 years in which Fresenius carried on that infringement.
18 There are a number of ways that this matter could be sought to be proven.
One exhaustive way would be to seek to identify every potential customer in Australia of the dialysis machines and consumables and other services from 1996 to 2006.
That would involve the identification of each relevant institution, each part of each government or area health authority which did purchase the Fresenius equipment, then identifying the person or persons in each such organisation and inquiring of them what they would have done in a hypothetical situation over the 10-year period.
That body of evidence could then be collected, marshalled and deployed in court.
19 That method of dealing with the evidence has both advantages and disadvantages which, from a practical point of view, are evident to anyone familiar with attempts to run litigation about events over a decade long, involving tens, if not hundreds, of third parties who have no interest in dealing with the matter.
No attempt has been made by the applicants to prove the matter in that way.
At some point, no doubt, comment will be made about that.
20 What has been done is to produce a "before and after" snapshot of the position and, in the intervening period, to identify the relevant shares of the market, together with the identification of factual material, which does show that a significant, if not the total, percentage of the market was given over to the purveyors of the powdered system, that is, Gambro and Fresenius.
21 In addition to that material, Mr Stokoe seeks to give evidence about what he says would have happened.
I will come to the form of the paragraphs in a moment, but let me put one matter to one side.
It was initially said that this was not opinion evidence but, rather, evidence of fact in a hypothetical state of affairs, and some reliance was initially placed on cases such as Hughes Aircraft Systems v Airservices Australia (No 3) (1997) 80 FCR 276 and Allstate Life Insurance Co v ANZ Banking Group Ltd (No 28) (1996) 64 FCR 55.
That contention was, correctly in my view, not pressed.
The evidence is not evidence of a person stating what her or his state of mind would have been had another event occurred, thereby identifying, in a sense, a true potential or nascent state of mind at the time.
It is not the identification of a personal reaction to a state of affairs which might arise in either a negligent or fraudulent representation case or a case under s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth), or a case otherwise dealing with state of mind such as estoppel.
Nor is it a case about what an individual has been caused to do.
Rather, it is an attempt to say what customers in the market would have done in an alternative world hypothesis.
It was put by Mr Catterns in submission that this was not state of mind, but existing market trends.
I think the distinction is elusive, or really non-existent.
22 The terms of [426] of Mr Stokoe's affidavit are that if Fresenius had not infringed, in Mr Stokoe's opinion, Gambro would have supplied its HD machines with the BiCart system to over 90 per cent of customers.
He then goes on in [427] to say how a small number of customers would have behaved.
23 The issue is, I think, whether Mr Stokoe, with his experience, can say what he does about how the customers in the market would have reacted to a posited choice of dry or liquid Part B in the respective dialysis systems.
Mr Stokoe does not speak from the perspective of a psychologist or market research expert of the kind discussed by the Full Court of this Court in Sydneywide Distributors Pty Ltd v Red Bull Australia Pty Ltd (2002) 55 IPR 354.
However, notwithstanding the fact that he does not have Dr Beaton's or Ms Strachan's background, he does, on the evidence to date, have nearly 30 years of working in the specialised and particularised market, being familiar not only with the machines, but also with the participants and their purchasing in the market.
24 In one sense, it goes without saying that he cannot say what any particular individual person would have done on a particular day.
However, the evidence of the kind permitted in Red Bull 55 IPR 354, and also dealt with with a degree of generosity in Cadbury Schweppes Pty Ltd v Darrell Lea Chocolate Shops Pty Ltd (2007) 159 FCR 397, indicates that evidence in which an expert, who has some specialised knowledge which equips him or her to say something about how consumers will behave, is not inadmissible in limine as not being capable of being the subject of expert evidence.
25 The question is whether the opinions given by Mr Stokoe can be concluded at this point, on the balance of probabilities, as being wholly or substantially based on some specialised knowledge which equips him to give an opinion about how people would have reacted to a posited choice in a market in the previous 10 years.
26 It was submitted on behalf of Fresenius that there was no area of specialised knowledge.
It was said that he could speak to features of the market and of market shares, but he cannot speak about specialised knowledge of the states of mind of third party purchasers.
It is said that he is speculating on states of mind of third parties, which is not an area of specialisation.
With respect, I think that is an oversimplification.
He has a body of specialised knowledge of the activity of people, as well as the subject matter of the activity of people, in a reasonably specialised and confined area of human and commercial behaviour.
It was then submitted that he did not have a body of specialised knowledge because the relevant universe of discourse was understanding how people would behave in a market in which both sellers were of dry Part B.
With respect, I think that is an overdissection of the area of specialised knowledge.
His relevant specialised knowledge is of the haemodialysis market, its structure, the equipment used and sold within it and the people who both used the equipment and purchased the equipment.
From the evidence to date, Mr Stokoe has a body of specialised knowledge about all those things in Australia over the relevant period.
27 I am, at the present time, subject to any other matter that is raised in cross-examination in the case or on voir dire , satisfied that there is some body of specialised knowledge which provides a foundation for an opinion about how people in that market would have behaved.
From the totality of the affidavit, as well as from what Mr Stokoe has said from [422] onwards, as well as in [3] and the whole structure of the affidavit, I am prepared to accept that the opinion is being given on the basis of his specialised knowledge of the market in the way I have identified.
28 That leads to the next basis of objection, that there has not been laid out a sufficient body of reasoning and assumptions to ground the admissible reception of the evidence.
It is necessary to be clear about the legal framework in which I am dealing with this question.
I begin with the judgment which I wrote in 2003, not because of any reason other than that it is a convenient starting point.
In Evans Deakin Pty Ltd v Sebel Furniture Ltd [2003] FCA 171 , at [68] and following, I said some things about expert evidence.
It is important to understand the context of what I wrote, as it is always important to understand the context of the reasons of judges.
As can be seen from a discussion of the subject of the objection in that case (and once again with respect to the author of it, who is identified in that case) the expert report was a complete muddle of fact, assertion and opinion that was grounded in common sense only, if that, and with some very minor body of expert opinion sprinkled through over 300 paragraphs.
It reflected a trend which is, probably since Makita (Australia) Pty Ltd v Sprowles [2001] NSWCA 305 ; (2001) 52 NSWLR 705 and HG v The Queen [1999] HCA 2 ; (1999) 197 CLR 414 and other cases, somewhat on the wane, of throwing together litigation support reports and tendering them to judges on the basis that the discursive opinions of former auditors and accountants about how damages should be assessed in any particular case should be given weight.
That was what I was dealing with: It was that kind of muddled interweaving of argument, fact and assumption with any relevant accounting expertise camouflaged to the point of being unfathomable.
This is a somewhat different case.
The affidavit of Mr Stokoe does not suffer from that kind of admixture of material, and it was in that context that I said what I did, and from a full reading of HG v The Queen [1999] HCA 2 ; 197 CLR 414, though not a commercial case, it can be seen that it was that very kind of context and problem that the Chief Justice was dealing with in the clear language which he used in that case.
29 Having identified what I was dealing with in Evans Deakin [2003] FCA 171 , it is necessary to say something which was not necessary to say in Evans Deakin [2003] FCA 171.
There is a difference, I think, which has been identified between the approach of the Court of Appeal of New South Wales and the Federal Court of Australia about, in effect, the existence of a basis rule for the application under s 79 of the Evidence Act 1995 (Cth).
30 Though the two courts have been dealing with different Evidence Acts, they are in relevantly identical form and spring from the same exercise of law reform conducted in the 1990s.
Therefore, they can be seen as coordinate pieces of legislation that were attempts at national legislation, which have failed to obtain universal approval.
Nevertheless, they are statutes which are in relatively the same form, springing from the same source and, ordinarily, one would expect a body of coordinate jurisprudence on them conformable with such cases as Australian Securities Commission v Marlborough Gold Mines Ltd [1993] HCA 15 ; (1993) 177 CLR 485.
31 The first case which dealt with the question of the basis rule was a Full Court decision of this court in Quick v Stoland Pty Ltd (1998) 87 FCR 371.
In that case, Branson J, with whose opinions on the structure of the Evidence Act 1995 (Cth) Emmett J agreed, expressed the view that the opinion rule, qualified it as it is in section 79 of the Evidence Act , did not incorporate the common law rule that the admissibility of expert opinion depends upon proper disclosure and proof of the factual basis of the opinion.
Her Honour went on to identify that this was not an accidental omission, and that paragraph 750 of the ALRC Report No 26, volume 1 (the Interim Evidence Report) dealt with the matter expressly.
32 I should add at this point, without seeking in any way to be controversial, in particular given the debate between intermediate appellate courts, that the practice, at least in some courts in land and valuation matters in years past, can be seen not to have required a full discussion of the reasoning in valuation cases.
But valuation cases may be specialised creatures of their own and I do not need to dwell on them for those reasons.
33 In Ocean Marine Mutual Insurance Association v Jetopay [2000] FCA 1463 ; (2000) 120 FCR 146, the Full Court of the Federal Court dealt with the question of the content of an expert report.
The matter is conveniently dealt with in Makita [2001] NSWCA 305 ; 52 NSWLR 705, at [86] in which [21], [22] and [23] of the judgment of Black CJ and Cooper and Emmett JJ in Jetopay are set out.
Those paragraphs are in the following terms: 
 
 
 
 21.
The primary judge considered that it was permissible to examine the reports and draw inferences from the form and contents of them.
