
 
1 The proper construction of s 424A of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act'), as it was on 3 November 2006, lies at the heart of this matter.
On 9 January 2007, the Refugee Review Tribunal ('the Tribunal'), constituted by Tribunal Member Robert Wilson, handed down its decision of 21 December 2006, affirming the decision of the Minister's Delegate not to grant the appellant a Protection (Class XA) visa.
At the time s 424A relevantly provided:
 
 '424A(1) Subject to subsection (3), the Tribunal must: 
 
 
 (a) give to the applicant, in the way that the Tribunal considers appropriate in the circumstances, particulars of any information that the Tribunal considers would be the reason, or a part of the reason, for affirming the decision that is under review; and 
 
 (b) ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, that the applicant understands why it is relevant to the review; and 
 
 (c) invite the applicant to comment on it.

 
 
 
 ...' 
 
 
 
 

2 Since 29 June 2007 paragraph (b) of s 424A(1) has provided:
 
 
 '(b) ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, that the applicant understands why it is relevant to the review, and the consequences of it being relied on in affirming the decision that is under review; and' 
 


 
3 In this matter, a Federal Magistrate decided on 6 June 2007 to dismiss the appellant's application for constitutional writ relief in respect of the Tribunal's decision ( SZKDT v Minister for Immigration [2007] FMCA 870).
4 In SZBYR v Minister for Immigration and Citizenship (2007) 235 ALR 609 ('SZBYR'), which was handed down on 13 June 2007, the High Court gave close attention to the circumstances in which s 424A was engaged.
The Court's consideration was primarily directed at s 424A(1)(a) of the Act.
Whilst it did not deal expressly with s 424A(1)(b) , it made a number of general observations in respect of s 424A which demonstrate that the scope of the 'it' referred to in s 424A(1)(b) , namely the 'information that the Tribunal considers would be the reason, or a part of the reason, for affirming the decision that is under review' is limited.
In their joint reasons for judgment, Gleeson CJ, Gummow, Callinan, Heydon and Crennan JJ commenced their consideration of s 424A by observing that firstly, its effect was mandatory, in that a breach of it constituted jurisdictional error, and secondly, that its temporal effect was not limited to the pre-hearing stage, referring to the Court's earlier judgment in SAAP v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2005] HCA 24 ; (2005) 215 ALR 162 ('SAAP') (see SZBYR at [13]).
5 At [22] their Honours drew attention to the 'limited scope of s 424A ' and at [15] and [21] they said:
 
 ' [15] ... Section 424A does not require notice to be given of every matter the tribunal might think relevant to the decision under review.
... 
 ... 
 
 [21] ... Section 424A has a more limited operation than the appellants assumed: its effect is not to create a back-door route to a merits review in the federal courts of credibility findings made by the tribunal.
...' 


 
6 Importantly, their Honours found at [17] that the use of the future conditional tense (would be) rather than the indicative strongly suggested that 'the operation of s 424A(1)(a) [was] to be determined in advance --- and independently --- of the tribunal's particular reasoning on the facts of the case' (emphasis added).
7 At [18] their Honours approved a passage in the joint reasons for judgment of Finn and Stone JJ in VAF v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs (2004) 206 ALR 471 at 477 saying:
 
 '... Finn and Stone JJ correctly observed in VAF v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs that the word "information" :
 
 
 
 "... does not encompass the tribunal's subjective appraisals, thought processes or determinations ... nor does it extend to identified gaps, defects or lack of detail or specificity in evidence or to conclusions arrived at by the tribunal in weighing up the evidence by reference to those gaps, etc. ..." 
 
 
 If the contrary were true, s 424A would in effect oblige the tribunal to give advance written notice not merely of its reasons but of each step in its prospective reasoning process.
However broadly "information" be defined, its meaning in this context is related to the existence of evidentiary material or documentation , not the existence of doubts, inconsistencies or the absence of evidence.
...' 
 
 (footnotes omitted and emphasis added) 


 
8 Their Honours continued by saying, at [18], that in SZBYR the appellants were correct to concede that the relevant 'information' was not to be found in inconsistencies or disbelief as opposed to the text of a particular statutory declaration.
9 At [14] their Honours pointed out that the 'information' in SZBYR , if indeed there was information to which s 424A applied, consisted of the appellants' own prior statutory declaration, to which the Tribunal explicitly drew their attention during the course of the Tribunal hearing.
However, they pointed out, following SAAP , that once s 424A was engaged, only written notice would suffice.
10 In the appellants' written submissions in SZBYR they appeared to have focussed on the requisite 'information' as being the 'inconsistencies' between their statutory declaration and oral evidence.
However, as their Honours pointed out at [15], in oral argument they focussed on the provision of the relevant passages in the statutory declaration itself, from which the inconsistencies were later said to arise.
11 At the end of the day their Honours found that s 424A was not engaged at all.
They said at [21]:
 
 'The short answer to all these points is that, on the facts of this case, s 424A was not engaged at all: the relevant parts of the appellants' statutory declaration were not "information that the tribunal considers would be the reason, or a part of the reason, for affirming the decision that is under review".
' 


 
12 At [17] their Honours pointed out that the Tribunal did not operate in a statutory vacuum, and that its role was dependent upon the making of administrative decisions upon criteria to be found elsewhere in the Act.
They pointed out that the appropriate criterion in respect of a protection visa was to be found in s 36(1) of the Act.
They proceeded to say at [17]:
 
 '...
The "reason, or a part of the reason, for affirming the decision that is under review" was therefore that the appellants were not persons to whom Australia owed protection obligations under the Convention.
When viewed in that light [the operation of s 424A(1)(a) having to be determined in advance --- and independently --- of the tribunal's particular reasoning on the facts of the case] , it is difficult to see why the relevant passages in the appellants' statutory declaration would itself be "information that the tribunal considers would be the reason, or a part of the reason, for affirming the decision that is under review".
Those portions of the statutory declaration did not contain in their terms a rejection, denial or undermining of the appellants' claims to be persons to whom Australia owed protection obligations .
...' 
 
 (emphasis added) 


 
13 Proceedings before the Tribunal are not adversarial, but inquisitorial; the Tribunal is not in the position of a contradictor of the case being advanced by an applicant.
A Tribunal Member conducting the enquiry is not an adversarial cross-examiner but an inquisitor obliged to be fair.
In an application for review before the Tribunal it is for the applicant to advance whatever evidence or argument he wishes to advance, and for the Tribunal to decide whether his claim has been made out; it is not part of the function of the Tribunal to seek to damage the credibility of an applicant's story in the manner a cross-examiner might seek to damage the credibility of a witness being cross-examined in adversarial litigation.
The Tribunal, conducting an inquisitorial hearing, is not obliged to prompt and stimulate an elaboration which an applicant chooses not to embark on (see per Gummow and Heydon JJ in Re RUDDOCK (in his capacity as Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs); ex parte APPLICANT S154/2002 (2003) 201 ALR 437 at [57] --- [58]).
14 Whilst the present case focuses upon the statutory requirements of s 424A of the Act, it is not inappropriate to refer to what Gleeson CJ, Kirby, Hayne, Callinan and Heydon JJ said in SZBEL v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2006] HCA 63 ; (2006) 231 ALR 592 ('SZBEL') in relation to matters of procedural fairness at a Tribunal hearing, especially since Gleeson CJ, Gummow, Callinan, Heydon and Crennan JJ had said in SZBYR at [14], '... given the presence of s 422B , it might be surprising if s 424A were interpreted to have an operation that went well beyond the requirements of the hearing rule at common law'.
At [47]-[48] in SZBEL , their Honours said:
 
 ' [47] ...
It is not necessary (and often would be inappropriate) for the tribunal to put to an applicant, in so many words, that he or she is lying, that he or she may not be accepted as a witness of truth, or that he or she may be thought to be embellishing the account that is given of certain events.
The proceedings are not adversarial and the tribunal is not, and is not to adopt the position of, a contradictor.
But where, as here, there are specific aspects of an applicant's account, that the tribunal considers may be important to the decision and may be open to doubt, the tribunal must at least ask the applicant to expand upon those aspects of the account and ask the applicant to explain why the account should be accepted.

 
 [48] ... as Lord Diplock said in F Hoffmann-La Roche  Co AG v Secretary of State for Trade and Industry : 
 
 
 
 "... the rules of natural justice do not require the decision maker to disclose what he is minded to decide so that the parties may have a further opportunity of criticising his mental processes before he reaches a final decision.
If this were a rule of natural justice only the most talkative of judges would satisfy it and trial by jury would have to be abolished.
" 
 
 
 
 Procedural fairness does not require the tribunal to give an applicant a running commentary upon what it thinks about the evidence that is given.
On the contrary, to adopt such a course would be likely to run a serious risk of conveying an impression of prejudgment.
' 
 
 (footnotes omitted) 


 
15 In relation to the Tribunal's obligation under s 424A(1)(b) of the Act to 'ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, that the applicant understands why it [the information that the Tribunal considers would be the reason, or a part of the reason, for affirming the decision that is under review] is relevant to the review', the appellant relied upon the judgment of a Full Court, comprising Branson, Finn and Bennett JJ in Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v SZGMF [2006] FCAFC 138 ('SZGMF').
In that case the Tribunal's s 424A letter provided, inter alia, as follows:
 
 'The Tribunal has information that would, subject to any comments you make, be the reason, or part of the reason, for deciding that you are not entitled to a protection visa.

 
 The information is as follows: 
 
 The [respondent] submitted documents of support from prominent political figures in Bangladesh in support of his claims.
He also submitted documents purporting to be police documents involving a charge against him.

 
 The Tribunal has received reliable information as follows: 
 
 
 
 1.
Many members of the Awami League are prepared to offer such documents on request in a humanitarian way to help former supporters.
They are worded in a way to offer support to obtain economic refugee status, rather than to verify any particular status within the Awami League.

 2.
The purported police documents do not match with the original case documents held at the Moulvibazar Additional District Magistrates Court and are not authentic.

 ...' 
 
 
 

16 The reasons for decision of the Tribunal in SZGMF gave no weight to the respondent's letters of support because of advice which it received from the Australian High Commission in Dhaka.
That advice included advice that the letters were genuine.
The decision of the Tribunal to give no weight to the letters was based on a conclusion that, notwithstanding that the letters were genuine, the content of the letters was false (see per Branson, Finn and Bennett JJ at [39]).
17 In the Tribunal's s 424A letter (see SZGMF at [9]) it had attempted to satisfy the requirements of s 424A(1)(b) in respect of the information mentioned by saying:
 
 'This information is relevant because it may undermine the general credibility of the [respondent] and may cause these documents to be disregarded.
' 


 
18 In SZGMF the Federal Magistrates Court had quashed the decision of the Tribunal and ordered the Tribunal to redetermine the matter according to law.
The Minister's appeal was dismissed, the Full Court concluding that the Tribunal had failed to comply with its statutory obligations under s 424A(1)(b).
At [40] --- [41] and [43] the Full Court said:
 
 '40 As mentioned above, the obligation on the Tribunal was to ' ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable ', that the respondent understood why the information set out in the s 424A letter was relevant to the review.
No practical or other difficulty stood in the way of the Tribunal telling the respondent that the information which it had received about his letters of support caused it to disbelieve or doubt the content of those letters.
Yet the s 424A letter did not explicitly tell the respondent that the relevance to the review of the information which it had received about his letters of support was that the information indicated that the content of the letters was false.

 
 41 The Tribunal's failure to state explicitly the relevance to the review of the information concerning the respondent's letters of support is of importance because of the opaque nature of the particulars of the information provided to the respondent by the s 424A letter; the use that the Tribunal could make of the information as particularised was not self-evident.

 ... 
 
 43 In our view, it was reasonably open to the respondent to conclude from the s 424A letter that the information which the Tribunal had received was information about a class of documents rather than information specifically about his letters of support.
For this reason he may not have understood that the relevance of the information to the Tribunal's review was that it caused the Tribunal to disbelieve or doubt the content of his letters of support.
' 


 
19 The appellant in the matter presently before the Court was born in Bhulbhule-1 Lamjung, Nepal on 24 February 1981.
20 On 15 July 2002 he was issued with a Nepalese passport.
He left Nepal in January 2003 and moved to live in the United Arab Emirates under visas, one of which appeared to remain current until 21 April 2009.
On or about 3 July 2006 he secured an Australian visa in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates.
Travelling on his Nepalese passport and using his Australian visa he arrived in Australia from the United Arab Emirates on 10 July 2006.
21 By an application dated 16 August 2006 he applied for a Protection (Class XA) visa.
His application was refused by the Minister's Delegate on 30 August 2006.
On 20 September 2006 he applied to the Tribunal for review of the Minister's Delegate's decision.
22 The appellant attended a lengthy hearing before the Tribunal on 20 November 2006 having been invited to a hearing to give oral evidence and present arguments in support of his claims by letter dated 3 November 2006.
23 On 3 November 2006 two other letters were sent to the appellant.
One such letter sought information from the appellant in accordance with s 424 of the Act.
The third letter, which is central to this case, was the Tribunal's 's 424A letter'.
It relevantly provided:
 
 ' INVITATION TO COMMENT ON INFORMATION 
 
 The Tribunal has information that would, subject to any comments you make, be the reason, or part of the reason, for deciding that you are not entitled to a protection visa.

 
 The information is as follows: 
 
 1.
) Your passport, issued on 15 July 2002, states your next of kin is Mr [name of a person included who was later identified by the appellant as his father] of Bhulbhule --- 1 Lanjung (sic) , Nepal.
Your Application for a Protection visa stated that you lived at this address from 1981 to 2000, and that you were born there.
You have not included any details regarding your father.
In your typed statement accompanying your Application for a Protection visa you stated that your father was killed in 2001 in Kathmandu by miscreants.

 
 2.
) In your Application for a Protection visa you stated that you do have a right to enter or reside in the UAE, temporarily or permanently.
Your passport shows a current UAE Residence visa from 22 April 2004 to 21 April 2009.
It is the UAE visa from 24 March 2003 to 23 March 2006 which has been marked 'cancelled'.
In your application for a visa to travel to Australia it was noted that you have a right of return to UAE in the form of an emirate visa valid until 21 April 2009 (recently renewed).

 
 
 3.
) In your typed statement filed with your Application for a Protection visa, you stated 'There is no difference between staying in Nepal and India coz its basically same country.
' You also stated that 'I was planning to go to India coz we don't need any visa to stay over there.
' Country information indicates that as a citizen of Nepal you can enter, re-enter and live in India with all the rights and privileges available to nationals of India without any fear that you will be returned to Nepal.
County information indicates that India has a population in excess of one billion persons, and is a functioning democracy, where the state is willing and able to protect persons there.

 
 4.
) Your Application for a Protection visa states at Q.
' s 45 - 48 that you legally left Tribhuban airport on 29 January 2003, and you did not have any difficulties in obtaining a travel document (such as a passport).
In your typed statement you stated 'I left Nepal to avoid attack and sure death from the anger of the Maoist ...' In answer to Q.32 you stated that you travelled to the UAE to 'work as well as to avoid attack and death.
' There is no indication that you have returned to Nepal before travelling to Australia.
You indicated in answer to Q.55 that you have never applied for refugee status in a country other than Australia.

 
 5.
) In your visa application to travel to Australia you stated that the purpose of travel to Australia was family reunion.
You had strong representation and support from an Australian permanent resident and citizen, a strong employment record and a return right.
In this regard you were going to visit your cousin and sister-in-law in Sydney.
You stated that you were a line leader with a scaffolding and construction company, Scaffco, in Abu Dhabi.
You arrived in Australia on 10 July 2006, and applied for a Protection visa on 17 August 2006.
In your Application for a Protection visa and typed statement you stated that you were a machine operator/welder at Saffco Ltd in Abu Dhabi (UAE), you were seeking protection as a refugee, and that your then existing UAE visa had been cancelled, because the 'employer reported to the responsible authority of my failure to return to the job on time.
It is their rule.
' 
 
 6.
) Country information indicates that internal flight is viable.
Further, you have 12 years of education, have a trade(s), have worked overseas, have a solid work record, you are single, can speak read and write Nepali and English, and you are relatively young (born 1981).

 
 7.
) Country information indicates that there is peace in Nepal.
You have 12 years of education, trade skills (Machine welder), overseas work experience, young age (dob 24/2/81), solid work history, ability to speak, read and write English and Nepali, and your marital status is single.

 
 Why this information is relevant to the review.

 
 Numbers below correspond to the numbers above.

 
 1.
) If Mr [name of a person included who was later identified by the appellant as his father] is your father, then there is an inconsistency in your evidence in that he could not have died in 2001 and still be your next of kin in 2002.
This may reflect negatively on your credibility.
Further, if the Tribunal were to accept the evidence that your father is not dead, then it may consider that Kathmandu is a safe place, and not at all like you describe it in your written statement.
Further, your comments regarding the inability of the Nepalese authorities to protect you as they did not protect your father would also become irrelevant if he is still alive.

 
 2.
) As you appear to have this right, then Australia does not have any protection obligations to you.

 
 3.
) As you appear to have this right, then Australia does not have any protection obligations to you.

 
 4.
) As you did not seek refugee protection in the UAE, this would indicate that you had no fear of persecution in Nepal, but rather, you travelled to the UAE in order to work.

 
 5.
) The information provided in the two applications is inconsistent and suggests that your evidence is not plausible.
Further, your delay in applying for a Protection visa in Australia may indicate that you had no real fear of persecution in Nepal (and/or UAE if that is your claim).
Moreover, if the UAE employer's rule is as you stated, then you were aware of that rule and its consequences.
It could therefore be considered that by remaining in Australia you deliberately created a situation where you could not return to the UAE, thus cutting off your legal right to enter into and reside there.
This may also be considered as a deliberate attempt to create a sur place claim.

 
 6.
) This information suggests that you could successfully relocate in Nepal.

 
 7.
) This information suggests that you would not have a real fear of persecution if you were to return to Nepal.

 
 You are invited to comment on this information.
Your comments are to be in writing and in English.
They are to be received at the Tribunal by 17 November 2006.
' 


 
24 The appellant's case, as ably presented by his counsel, J R Young, was confined to whether, by setting out why the information contained in the appellant's Nepalese passport, issued to him on 15 July 2002, which stated that a named person with the same surname as the appellant was his next of kin, was relevant to the review, as it did (see the second paragraph numbered '1.
)' ), the Tribunal ensured, as far as was reasonably practicable, that the appellant understood why it was relevant to the review.
