
 
1 This judgment concerns issues arising in respect of native title determination application Edna Van Hemmen and Ors on behalf of the Kabi Kabi People #3 v State of Queensland and Ors QUD136 of 2006 ("Kabi Kabi #3").
The issues for decision are those remaining from a number of notices of motion which came before me on 3 May 2007.
However it is important to note as a preliminary point that Kabi Kabi #3 is one of a number of native title determination applications which have been before the Court, instituted by members of the Kabi Kabi community, and in relation to substantially the same land.
The other native title determination applications include Lance Hill and Ors on behalf of the Kabi Kabi People #2 v State of Queensland QUD65 of 2006 ("Kabi Kabi #2") and Gubbi Gubbi #2 v State of Queensland QG6034 of 1999 ("Gubbi Gubbi #2") (discontinued on 22 February 2005).
Whether an order should be made to dismiss the native title determination application in Kabi Kabi #3 filed 7 April 2006 ("the Kabi Kabi #3 Application"), pursuant to s 84C Native Title Act 1993 (Cth) ("the Act ") and/or O 20 r 2 Federal Court Rules , as sought by notice of motion filed 24 April 2007 by QSNTS; and
 2.
What (if any) orders should be made in respect of costs incurred by a non-party, namely the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant, as a result of the discontinuance of a notice of motion filed on 29 June 2006 ("the 29 June 2006 notice of motion") by the applicant in Kabi Kabi #3 ("the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant") to amend the Kabi Kabi #3 Application.

 
 The hearing of 3 May 2007 
 
4 At the hearing, so far as is relevant to this judgment:
 
 
 1.
As contemplated by my order of 9 March 2007, the 29 June 2006 notice of motion was listed to be heard.
However, by amended notice of motion filed 27 April 2007, the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant sought leave to discontinue the 29 June 2006 notice of motion.
At the hearing, I gave leave to the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant to discontinue that notice of motion.
The Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant sought leave at that hearing to make submissions as to costs in respect of that discontinuance, and I gave that leave.
2.
On 24 April 2007 QSNTS filed a notice of motion seeking to be joined as a party to the proceeding and seeking an order that the Kabi Kabi # 3 Application be dismissed.
At the hearing, I ordered that QSNTS be joined as a party, and heard argument as to the dismissal of the Kabi Kabi #3 Application.
3.
On 30 April 2007 the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant filed a notice of motion seeking leave to be joined as a party to Kabi Kabi #3 pursuant to s 84(5) of the Act .
However, the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant did not press this notice of motion pending the decision by the Court in relation to the notice of motion to dismiss Kabi Kabi #3 (TS 3 May 2007 p 7 ll 13-18) and subject to being able to be heard on costs in relation to the 29 June 2006 notice of motion.
I ordered that the hearing of that notice of motion be adjourned to a date to be fixed.
4.
On 24 April 2007 QSNTS filed an amended notice of motion seeking orders that QSNTS be joined as a party to the Kabi Kabi #2 proceeding and seeking an order that the native title determination application in Kabi Kabi #2 ("the Kabi Kabi #2 Application") be dismissed.
At the hearing, I ordered that QSNTS be joined as a party, but that the hearing of the notice of motion as to the dismissal of the Kabi Kabi #2 Application be adjourned to a date to be fixed.
The reason for this order was that Mr Preston, Counsel for the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant, stated that his clients had undertaken to discontinue the proceedings in Kabi Kabi #2 in the event that the Kabi Kabi # 3 proceedings were dismissed by the Court.
(TS 3 May 2007 p 6 ll 37-41).
Accordingly the determination of that notice of motion may not prove necessary, depending on the outcome of the QSNTS notice of motion for dismissal of the Kabi Kabi #3 Application.

 
 ISSUE 1: SHOULD THE NATIVE TITLE DETERMINATION APPLICATION KABI KABI # 3 BE DISMISSED?

 
5 By this notice of motion QSNTS sought orders that the Kabi Kabi #3 Application be dismissed pursuant to s 84C(1) of the Act and/or O 20 r 2 Federal Court Rules .
6 Section 84C of the Act is as follows:
 
 Strike-out application 
 (1) If an application (the main application ) does not comply with section 61 (which deals with the basic requirements for applications), 61A (which provides that certain applications must not be made) or 62 (which requires applications to be accompanied by affidavits and to contain certain details), a party to the proceedings may at any time apply to the Federal Court to strike out the application.
Note: The main application may still be amended even after a strike-out application is filed.


7 Order 20 r 2 Federal Court Rules provides as follows:
 
 Where in any proceeding it appears to the Court that in relation to the proceeding generally or in relation to any claim for relief in the proceeding: 
 
 
 no reasonable cause of action is disclosed;
 the proceeding is frivolous or vexatious; or
 the proceeding is an abuse of the process of the Court; 
 
 
 the Court may order that the proceeding be stayed or dismissed generally or in relation to any claim for relief in the proceeding.
The Court may receive evidence on the hearing of an application for an order under subrule (1).
Accordingly the Courts approach such matters with caution, and on the basis that no court proceeding should be summarily dismissed except in a very clear case: Bodney v Bropho [2004] FCAFC 226 ; (2004) 140 FCR 77 at 89.

 

9 In considering this notice of motion I propose to first consider the submissions in relation to s 84C , and then if necessary consider the case with respect to summary dismissal under O 20 r 2.
Background 
 
10 The Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant consists of 12 persons, namely Ms Edna Van Hemmen, Mr Alexander Davidson, Mr Barry Donas, Ms Daphne Dux, Ms Ann Martin, Mr Arden Landers, Mr Stewart Hopkins, Ms Joan Moore, Ms Lynette Johannessen, Ms Mischa Fisher, Mr Alexander Bond and Ms Donella Hill.
The native title claim group was said to consist of the descendants of 12 named apical ancestors.
The area covered by the Kabi Kabi #3 Application are to the north of Brisbane, and shown in a map that forms part of the application.
11 Schedule R to the Native Title Determination Application Claimant Application (Form 1) filed by the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant asserts that:
 
 "The persons comprising the Applicant are members of the native title claim group and were authorised to make the application in accordance with their traditional decision-making process for making decision of this kind .
" (emphasis added)
 

12 There is substantial overlap between the Kabi Kabi #3 Application and the Kabi Kabi #2 Application.
The Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant consists of three persons, however 11 of the named ancestors whose descendants form the native title claim group are also named as apical ancestors in the Kabi Kabi #3 Application.
There is also considerable overlap in the areas covered by the Kabi Kabi #2 Application and the Kabi Kabi #3 Application.
13 The Kabi Kabi #3 Application was not accepted for registration pursuant to s 190A of the Act by a delegate of the Registrar of the National Native Title Tribunal ("the Tribunal") on the basis that the delegate was not satisfied, pursuant to s 190C(4)(b) , that the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant was authorised to make the application, and deal with the matters arising in relation to it, by all the other persons in the native title claim group.
Submissions of the parties 
 
14 The applicant to the notice of motion to dismiss the Kabi Kabi #3 Application is QSNTS.
The notice of motion was supported by Gurang Land Council, the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant and the State of Queensland.
I note that QSNTS and Gurang Land Council were both represented at the hearing by Mr Rangiah of counsel.
15 The notice of motion was opposed by the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant.
Note 1: The person or persons will be the applicant: see subsection (2) of this section.
Note 2: Section 251B states what it means for a person or persons to be authorised b y all the persons in the native title claim group.
However in the affidavits accompanying the application there was in fact little evidence or detail as to the authorisation process, for example: 
 
 
 
 
 o there is no identification of the Elders who attended the meetings and whether such Elders were present at each meeting, for example, the Elders present at the 16 December 2005 meeting are not named or otherwise identified
 o there is no indication of how the persons referred to as Elders were identified as being Elders
 o there is no indication of what family each of the Elders represented and what representation or consultation was accorded to families who did not have Elders attending
 o there is no indication of who the "other persons" who gave the authorisation at the meeting on 16 December 2005 were, who authorised them to represent and speak for the descendants
 o there is no evidence of the basis upon which the Elders were identified and why Elders who were not present were not required to be consulted
 o at para 5(g) of each of the affidavits filed in support of the Kabi Kabi #3 Application on 7 April 2006 by the 12 persons constituting the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant, the deponents depose that the Elders confirmed that they had consulted with and had the authority to make this decision from "the members of their respective families".
It is questionable why only those families were required to authorise the application
 o there is no evidence as to how the consultation with families took place
 o there is no indication as to how the Elders made the decisions.
The basis on which the Applicant is authorised as mentioned in paragraphs 4 is as follows:
 ...
 ...
 (c) The Elders drive the traditional decision-making process of the native title claim group for decisions of this kind.
The persons who comprise the Applicant are 10 Elders of the native title claim group and 2 persons authorised by the Elder of their families to represent their respective families...
The Elders for our native title claim group have consulted with one another over the last two years about the need for a fully inclusive native title determination application to be made for all members of the native title claim group as described in Schedule A to assert the native title rights of the native title claim group as defined and to protect their cultural heritage interests.
As required by our traditional laws and customs, the Elders have consulted with the members of their respective families and one another about the need for and content of this Application... " (emphasis added)
 
 Notwithstanding these claims, the evidence is clear that, in fact, such consultation has not occurred here.
In particular, QSNTS referred to affidavits sworn 20 April 2007 by Ms Bessie Bond, Mr Tony Dalton, Mr Charlie Williams, Ms Karmen Hopkins, Mr Lance Hill, Mr Trevor Tabby, Ms Merlene Willie, Ms Lorraine Murray, Mr Laurence Wovat, Mr Albert Longwoodock, Mr Cliff Appo and Mr Nathaniel Minniecon, and to the affidavit sworn 24 April 2007 by Ms Cheri Yavu-Kama Harathumian.
Both cannot be so authorised, and either one or both of the applications must not be authorised in accordance with s 61(1) of the Act .
Where a native title determination application is based upon an agreed process, the applicant must identify how the process was agreed upon, and how it was put into practice.
Accordingly, the decision-making process is, on the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant's own material, seriously defective to the point of being incurable.

 
 Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant 
 
19 Mr Poynton, for the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant, opposed the dismissal application.

 
 Affidavit evidence 
 
20 The attention of the Court was drawn by QSNTS to a number of affidavits by way of illustration of the lack of authorisation of the claim in Kabi Kabi #3.
In my opinion the processes of decision-making referred to in the affidavits display some elements of the traditional decision-making process but do not appear to have had the level of collective interaction and discussion to be expected in the "traditional" context, nor may all relevant parties have been adequately consulted.
.........
 Having regard to the affidavits referred to in paragraph (9) and the people named therein who are said to have been consulted, I am not satisfied that all appropriate living Kabi Kabi descendants of the ancestors named on the Form 1 for Kabi Kabi # 2, Kabi Kabi #3 and the Glasshouse Mt - Gubbi Gubbi have been adequately consulted.
Ms Yavu-Kama-Harathunian states at [4]:
 I have never authorised or been part of any process where it was decided that Lynette Johansson would represent me or my family in the Kabi Kabi #3 native title claim or that she would be one of the applicant group on that claim.
I have never authorised or been part of any process whereby it was decided to amend the Kabi Kabi #3 native title claim.
I only found out about the Kabi Kabi #3 native title claim after it was filed...
 
 at [9]:
 I have never been invited by any of the applicant group of the Kabi Kabi #3 native title claim to any meeting of the Kabi Kabi people or even a family group that the Kabi Kabi people filed for the purpose of filing, authorising or amending the Kabi Kabi #3 native title claim.
and at [16]:
 ...No applicant on the Kabi Kabi # 3 claim has consulted me on any occasion about anything to do with the filing or authorisation of the Kabi Kabi# 3 claim or any amendment of that claim.
Elders and those persons, senior persons and their family and myself would have to participate in any process by which a decision was made to authorise a native title claim by the Kabi Kabi people.
...
The Kabi Kabi number 2 authorisation meeting was attended by over 100 people.
And it is clearly a significant group of Kabi Kabi people who do not appear to have been involved in the authorisation and consultation process for the number 3 claim.

 

21 In addition to the affidavits filed in relation to these proceedings, two additional affidavits were read without objection.
These affidavits were filed in Gubbi Gubbi #2, however there was consensus at the hearing that these affidavits were relevant as there is substantial correspondence between the Gubbi Gubbi and the Kabi Kabi native title claims.
Mr Davidson deposes to a process decided upon by the Elders whereby authorisation should be via a meeting, advertised in the paper, and attended by everyone, where a vote can be taken to reach a majority decision.
However, Mr Preston submits that it is clear from the affidavit evidence that as many people who attended did not attend and therefore it is implausible that the claim could be authorised (TS 3 May 2007 p 26 ll 38-43).
Ms Macdonald also said, inter alia : 
 
 
 
 
 o wide consultation is essential to ensuring adherence to culturally-acceptable decision-making processes, although not necessarily in the context of a "meeting".
If issues have been adequately canvassed and people given the opportunity to have their say, any meeting called for the purpose of making a formal decision will be deemed to have the right to make a decision on behalf of all, regardless of dissent (para 8)
 o the real issue is whether relevant people are adequately informed and whether those people have had an adequate opportunity to have their say, whether personally or through a person they have delegated to do so (para 12)
 o she understood that a "majority decision" arrived at during a meeting held in accordance with Australian meeting rules and conventions conforms to the traditional values associated with Kabi Kabi decision making when prior consultation is evident and included the opportunity for input by relevant parties, opportunity was given to relevant people to speak to issues either before or during the meeting, adequate notice of the meeting was given through acceptable channels, and adequate opportunities were given to express both support for and dissent from possible courses of action.

 
 
 Findings 
 
22 I note the caution with which courts approach strike-out applications under s 84C of the Act .
However in my view it is appropriate to make an order pursuant to s 84C to strike out the Kabi Kabi #3 Application, on the basis that the claim does not comply with s 61 of the Act .
23 First, it is in my view clear that the Kabi Kabi #3 Application was not authorised by all the persons who, according to their traditional laws and customs, hold the common or group rights and interests comprising the particular native title claimed.
The lack of identification of "Elders" in the Kabi Kabi #3 Application and the affidavit evidence of persons who appear to be well-respected members of the Kabi Kabi community that they neither authorised the application nor were consulted in relation to the application indicate that there is a serious issue of non-compliance with s 61 in relation to the membership of the group comprising the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant.
Further support for this lack of comprehensive consultation can be seen from the anthropological report of Mr Niblett, where he says in relation to the affidavits in support of the Kabi Kabi #3 Application:
 
 "For example, there is no indication that the principal senior genealogical descendants of Susan Andy, named as an apical ancestor on the Form 1 for Kabi Kabi #2, were consulted.
There is no indication that Ms Eve Fesl, a senior and locally prominent Kabi Kabi descendant of Maggie palmer, named as an apical ancestor on all three Forms 1, was consulted.
There is no indication that the descendants of Kal-ma-kuta, named as an apical ancestor on the Forms 1 for both Kabi Kabi #2 and Kabi Kabi #3, were consulted.
There is no indication that the descendants of the apical ancestors named as Annie Laurie and Lizzie on the Form 2 for Kabi Kabi #2 were consulted.
There is no evidence that the descendants of Laurence Stanley, an apical ancestor named on the Form 1 for Kabi Kabi #2, were consulted.
There is no indication that the descendants of Jimmy Isaacs and Duncan Crowe, named as apical ancestors on the Kabi Kabi #2 Form 1, were consulted.
" (para 20)
 

24 I note that the fact that the group comprising the applicant does not include all possible members of the group would not in itself mean that the authority of the applicant was absent if it was in fact a representative body, however as pointed out by Wilcox J in Moran v Minister for Land  Water Conservation for the State of New South Wales [1999] FCA 1637 at [34] :
 
 a person who wishes to rely on a decision by a representative or other collective body needs to prove that such a body exists under customary law recognised by the members of the group, the nature and extent of the body's authority to make decisions binding the members of the group and that the body has authorised the making of the application.


25 I am not satisfied that such a representative body exists in this case as contemplated by his Honour in Moran [1999] FCA 1637.
26 Second, although it is asserted in the Kabi Kabi #3 Application that the authorisation of the application in this case was pursuant to a process of decision-making in accordance with traditional laws and customs, it does not appear to be in dispute that a traditional decision-making process involves, inter alia , appropriate consultation, and consensus of relevant persons in the group (Niblett affidavit paras 11-19, MacDonald affidavit paras 7- 8).
Even if the decision-making process in Kabi Kabi #3 had elements of traditional law and customs, I note comments of Mr Niblett that the processes of decision-making referred to in affidavits of persons comprising the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant did not appear to have had the level of collective interaction and discussion to be expected in the "traditional" context, nor may all relevant parties have been adequately consulted.
In this respect I note from Ms MacDonald's affidavit that she predicated her comments concerning majority decision-making on adequate consultation of relevant persons, which is in serious dispute in this case as is clear from evidence of, for example, Mr Niblett, Ms Bond, Mr Dalton and Ms Yavu-Kama-Harathunian.
27 Third, as I have already noted, Ms MacDonald also deposed that a majority decision arrived at during a meeting held in accordance with Australian meeting rules and conventions conforms to the traditional values associated with Kabi Kabi decision meeting in appropriate conditions (cf similar comments of Mr Alexander Davidson in his affidavit of 11 October 2004 (para 11)).
However in the absence of more precise evidence, I am not prepared to accept at this stage that majority vote is a method of decision-making in accordance with traditional Aboriginal law and custom in relation to the Kabi Kabi people.
Mr Niblett in his report makes no reference to majority voting as conforming to traditional decision-making processes.
Further, to paraphrase comments of Tamberlin J in similar circumstances in Booth v State of Queensland [2003] FCA 418 , there is no other evidence, oral or written, before me as to the constitution of the group or the basis on which it is claimed that a majority vote would be sufficient, or indeed as to who and how many persons are entitled to vote and precisely what is meant by the expression "majority vote" ( Booth [2003] FCA 418 at [11] ).
28 Fourth, if the authorisation process concerning the Kabi Kabi #3 claim was not in conformity with traditional law and customs, it is not clear to me on the evidence that the native title claim group agreed to and adopted any particular decision-making process in relation to authorising the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant to make the Kabi Kabi #3 Application.
I note and accept the submissions of Mr Rangiah for QSNTS in this regard concerning the lack of evidence or detail as to the authorisation process in that case.
29 Finally, I note that the submissions of Mr Poynton for the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant in this matter are not that the application is authorised and in accordance with s 61 , but are confined to a request for more time to allow it to, in the words of Mr Poynton, take advantage of "an administrative window of opportunity" offered by the Tribunal in relation to testing the application.
In my view this submission does not address the key issues before the Court in relation to the current notice of motion.

 

30 Mr Poynton has also submitted that it would be unfair to strike out the Kabi Kabi #3 Application and not the Kabi Kabi #2 Application.
However in my view this submission is of little weight, as I note from the undertaking of Mr Preston on behalf of his client that the effect of striking-out the Kabi Kabi #3 Application is that the Kabi Kabi #2 Application will be discontinued.
31 It is unnecessary in these circumstances that I deal with O 20 r 2 Federal Court Rules .
The Kabi Kabi #3 Application does not comply with s 61 of the Act and accordingly should be struck out pursuant to s 84C.
ISSUE 2: SHOULD THE COSTS OF PREPARATION OF THE AFFIDAVITS FILED 20 APRIL 2007 INCURRED BY THE KABI KABI #2 APPLICANT BE AWARDED AGAINST THE KABI KABI #3 APPLICANT?

 

33 The respondents to the 29 June 2006 notice of motion were ordered to file and serve any material upon which they intended to rely two weeks before the hearing date.
34 At the directions hearing of 9 March 2007 Mr Preston for the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant asked that orders be made that his clients also be served with relevant documents so that the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant could be heard on the 29 June 2006 notice of motion.
This was on the basis that, although the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant was not formally a party to Kabi Kabi #3, it might wish to file something in relation to the 29 June 2006 notice of motion.
This request was not contested and I made an order in those terms.
Mr Preston also anticipated that his client would be seeking leave to be heard in relation to that notice of motion.
Mr Preston did not make application on that day for his client to be formally joined as a party to Kabi Kabi #3.
35 On 3 May 2007 when the 29 June 2006 notice of motion came before me for hearing, the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant sought leave to discontinue the 29 June 2006 notice of motion.
I granted leave.
36 However, given the nature of these proceedings and the fact that the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant had prepared and, on 20 April 2007, filed a number of affidavits in relation to the 29 June 2006 notice of motion, I granted the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant leave to make submissions as to costs in respect of the preparation of those affidavits.
Costs under the Federal Court Act and the Native Title Act 
 
37 The Federal Court has a broad jurisdiction to award costs under s 43 Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth).
In relation to native title matters under the Act however, the rule with respect to costs is affected by s 85A of the Act , which provides as follows:
 
 (1) Unless the Federal Court orders otherwise, each party to a proceeding must bear his or her own costs.
Unreasonable conduct 
 (2) Without limiting the Court's power to make orders under subsection (1), if the Federal Court is satisfied that a party to a proceeding has, by any unreasonable act or omission, caused another party to incur costs in connection with the institution or conduct of the proceeding, the Court may order the first-mentioned party to pay some or all of those costs.
However, the starting point is that each party will bear their own costs unless the Court determines that it is appropriate in the circumstances to make an order for costs.

 
 Costs in favour of non-parties 
 
39 The courts have recognised that there is no absence of jurisdiction to order costs against non-parties in the strict sense and that the jurisdiction could be exercised against persons who were considered to be the "real parties" to the litigation, such as where a party to the litigation is insolvent, and a non-party has played an active part in the conduct of litigation and has an interest in the subject of the litigation: Mason CJ and Deane J (Gaudron J agreeing) in Knight v FP Special Assets Ltd [1992] HCA 28 ; (1992) 174 CLR 178 at 188 and 193.
This does not mean however that the categories of third parties who may be made liable for the costs of litigation are limited to those articulated by their Honours in Knight : Gore v Justice Corporation [2002] FCA 354 ; (2002) 119 FCR 429 at 437.
40 The order sought by the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant in this case may be distinguished however from such cases as Knight [1992] HCA 28 ; 174 CLR 178 and Gore [2002] FCA 354 ; 119 FCR 429 in that, in this case, costs are sought by a non-party against a party to the litigation.
While claims by non-parties seeking costs in their favour against parties to litigation are rare, they are not unknown: for example Re Pan Pharmaceuticals; Selim v McGrath [2004] NSWSC 129 and O'Keefe v Hayes Knight GTO Pty Ltd [2005] FCA 1559.
In O'Keefe [2005] FCA 1559 Nicholson J said in the context of such claims in the Federal Court:
 
 "17 The jurisdiction of the Court to award costs is found in s 43 of the Federal Court of Australia 1976 (Cth) ('the Act ').
It follows from the terms of that section that the jurisdiction is conditioned by there being 'costs' and those costs being in 'proceedings before the Court'.
Section 4 of the Act defines 'proceeding' to mean 'a proceeding in a court, whether between parties or not, and includes an incidental proceeding in the course of, or in connexion with, a proceeding...'.
In Knight v FP Special Assets Limited [1992] HCA 28 ; (1992) 174 CLR 178 it was held by Mason CJ, Deane, Dawson and Gaudron JJ, McHugh J dissenting, that the discretion to award costs under O 91 r 1 of the Rules of the Supreme Court of Queensland was not confined to the parties in the proceedings.
That rule provided for the costs of and incidental to all proceedings in the court to be in the discretion of the court or judge.
Gaudron J at 205 stated that it was contrary to long-established principle and wholly inappropriate that a grant of power to a court should be construed as subject to a limitation not appearing in the words of the grant; that is, the words used should be given their full meaning unless there is something to indicate to the contrary.
Therefore, her Honour stated the necessity for the power to be exercised judicially tends in favour of the most liberal construction.
18 In O'Keeffe Nominees Pty Ltd v BP Australia Ltd (1995) 55 FCR 591 at 597 Spender J stated that, in the absence of any express restriction on the orders for costs that may be made concerning intervention or associated with it, the unfettered discretion conferred on the Federal Court by s 43 of the Act applied in the context of awarding costs in favour of a non-party intervener.
19 In King v GIO Australia Holdings Limited [2001] FCA 1773 ; (2001) 116 FCR 509 at 515, after referring to what was stated by Spender J in O'Keeffe , Moore J said he was prepared to assume that s 43 of the Act is cast in sufficiently wide terms as to enable the Court to make an order for costs in the proceeding for the benefit of a non-party.
20 This line of authority, although not greatly developed, would support a conclusion that there is power in the Court pursuant to s 43 to make an order for costs in favour of a non-party.
"
 

41 Significantly, from this discussion his Honour drew the following principles (at [24]):
 
 
 1.
Section 43 of the Federal Court of Australia Act is cast in sufficiently wide terms to enable the Court to make an order for costs in a proceeding for the benefit of a non-party.
2.
For such an order to be made there must be "costs" and they must be incurred in "proceedings before the Court".
3.
Even if those requirements are met, the section requires an exercise of discretion in the particular circumstances in which the issue arises and the requirements of reason and justice.
4.
The making of an order for payment of costs in favour of a non-party will be exceptional and therefore must be treated "with considerable caution".
5.
The nature of the relationship between the non-party and the litigation will be relevant.

 

42 Ultimately in O'Keefe [2005] FCA 1559 his Honour did not need to decide the issue.
In Pan Pharmaceuticals [2004] NSWSC 129 Barrett J took the view that "some very special factor outside the ordinary and expected course of events and engendering a justifiable expectation of compensation in the mind of the non-party would have to be found before any relevant aspect of the comprehensive jurisdiction with respect to costs might be regarded as properly and regularly invoked in favour of a non-party as against a party.
In other words, such an award, if ever appropriate, will be extraordinary and exceptional" (at [20]).
His Honour in that case declined to make an order in favour of the non-parties seeking costs.

 

44 At the hearing Mr Preston initially indicated that his client would be seeking costs against a stranger to the proceedings whom Mr Preston said had funded the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant, however this claim was not pressed.
The directions made on 9 March 2007, where the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant was ordered to serve the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant with the relevant documents, did not require or otherwise oblige the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant to file affidavits, outlines of argument or any other material, nor to do anything else at all.

 
 Findings 
 
46 I note the submission of Mr Preston that the 29 June 2006 notice of motion had been on foot for almost a year at the time of the hearing of 3 May 2007, and that the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant had known since at least late April 2006 that authorisation was an issue in the proceedings.
In this respect advancement of the Kabi Kabi #3 Application appears to have been afflicted by some ennui.
47 However, I also note that, while not determinative of the claim of the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant, no orders have been sought by State of Queensland, Gurang Land Council or QSNTS, which were parties to the proceedings, for costs against the Kabi Kabi #3 Applicant in relation to its discontinuance of the 29 June 2006 notice of motion.
Indeed, the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant is not a party to the proceedings.

 

49 I should note that, even if the Kabi Kabi #2 Applicant had been joined as a party as at 3 May 2007, in my view it is unlikely that it would have been entitled to recovery of its costs in connection with preparation of the relevant affidavits given that these were costs incurred prior to joinder (cf Bluescope Steel Ltd (ACN 000 011 058) v Kelly [2007] FCA 517 at [192] and Bray v F Hoffman-La Roche Ltd [2003] FCA 1505 at [40] ).
THE COURT ORDERS THAT: 
 

 
 1.
The native title determination application Edna Van Hemmen and Ors on behalf of the Kabi Kabi People #3 v State of Queensland and Ors QUD136 of 2006 filed 7 April 2006 be dismissed pursuant to s 84C Native Title Act 1993 (Cth).
2.
There be no order as to costs in respect of the collation and preparation of those affidavits filed in this matter on 20 April 2007 by the applicant in the proceedings known as Lance Hill and Ors on behalf of the Kabi Kabi People #2 v State of Queensland and Ors QUD65 of 2006.



 I certify that the preceding forty-nine (49) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Collier.
Associate:

Dated: 9 August 2007

 Counsel for the Applicant: P Poynton and D Topp 
 
 Solicitor for the Applicant: Bernice Anning Solicitors 
 
 Solicitor for the First Respondent: Crown Law 
 
 Counsel for the Second and Third Respondents: D Rangiah 
 
 Solicitor for the Second Respondent: Gurang Land Council 
 
 Solicitor for the Third Respondent: Queensland South Native Title Services 
 
 Counsel for Kabi Kabi #2: A Preston 
 
 Date of Hearing: 3 May 2007 
 
 Date of Judgment: 9 August 2007 

 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2007/1185.html 
 
 
