
 
1 This is an application, under s 33V of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) ("the Act "), for the Court to approve a settlement of part of a representative proceeding.
The details of the proceeding in which the application is made are summarised in the judgment of Gordon J in Haslam v Money for Living (Aust) Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) [2007] FCA 897 at [2] - [4] .
The settlement has been reached between certain of the applicants, acting on behalf of all group members, and the first and second respondents.
It will be convenient to refer to it as "the MFL settlement".
The terms of the settlement were contained in a deed dated 13 November 2007.
The deed was a confidential exhibit in the proceeding.
2 By order dated 30 November 2007 (as varied by a further order which I made this morning) I ordered that:
 
 "1... 
 
 2... 
 
 
 
 3 On or before 3 December 2007 the Applicant's solicitors shall post by ordinary mail to all group members in the representative proceeding: 
 
 
 
 
 
 a a notice of proposed settlement in a form approved by the Court in respect of settlement of the representative proceeding in terms of the Deed of Settlement between the Applicant's and the first and second Respondents dated 13 November 2007 ("the Deed of Settlement"); and 
 b an opt out notice pursuant to s 33J of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) ("the Act ") in a form approved by the Court; 
 
 
 
 
 3A any group member who wishes to exercise their right to opt out of this representative proceeding shall on or before 4.00 pm on 18 December 2007 file with the Court a completed opt-out notice.

 
 
 
 
 
 4 Any group member, who pursuant to s 33Y of the Act , wishes to object to approval of the settlement of the representative proceeding in terms of the Deed of Settlement shall, on or before 4.00 pm on 18 December, file a notice of objection setting out the reasons for their objection."...

 
 

3 I fixed the hearing of the application for approval of the MFL settlement for hearing this morning.
4 The applicant's solicitors complied with order number three which I made on 30 November 2007.
On 3 December 2007 the applicant's solicitors sent to each group member a notice of proposed settlement in the form approved by the Court on 30 November 2007 and an opt-out notice in a form approved by the Court.
The group members were each advised of his or her right to object to the approval of the MFL settlement by notice filed in the Court.
5 No opt-out notices and no notices of objection to the settlement have been filed by any group member.
6 Counsel for the applicants submitted that the MFL settlement was fair, reasonable and adequate, in the interests of the group members as a whole and should, therefore, be approved.
This submission was supported by counsel appearing for the first and second respondents.
7 The principles which guide the exercise of the Court's power under s 33V and the considerations which are, or may be, relevant in the exercise of the power have been identified in a series of cases.
Those authorities have, conveniently, been collected by Gordon J in Haslam at [17]-[20].
I have had regard to those principles and considerations which arise in the present application in dealing with it.
8 The application is supported by an affidavit of Mr Leonard Adrian Warren, a principal of Russell Kennedy, the solicitors for the applicant.
