
 
 TAMBERLIN J: 
 
 1 This is an application for review under ss 5 and 6 of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) ( "ADJR Act") and s 39B(A) of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) for a review of decisions and conduct under the Health Insurance Act 1973 (Cth) ("the Act ").
2 The challenged decisions are set out in the third further amended application for review as follows:
 
 '(i) The decision, conduct or action of the Third Respondent on or about 29 June 2000 to make an investigative referral under s 86 of the Health Insurance Act 1973 (Cth) to the Fourth Respondent in respect of conduct of the Applicant (hereinafter referred to as " the Investigative Referral" ) .
(ii) The decision, conduct or action of the Fourth Respondent on or about 21 March 2001 to set up a Committee comprising the First Respondents and to make an adjudicative referral to them under s 93 of the Act in respect of the conduct of the Applicant (hereinafter referred to as " the Adjudicative Referral" ) .
(iii) The decision, conduct or action of the First Respondents in preparing and giving to the Second Respondent a Final Report dated 28 October regarding the conduct of the Applicant, which was communicated to the Applicant by letter dated 4 November 2004 and received on 5 November 2004 (hereinafter called "the Committee's Report" ) .
'
 

3 Only the second and third decisions as outlined in the third further amended application are at issue in this proceeding.
The second challenged decision or course of conduct concerns Dr Holmes, the Director of Professional Services Review ("the Director").
The next decision challenged is that of the Professional Services Review Committee ("the Committee") in preparing and forwarding to the Determining Authority the final report regarding the conduct of Dr Phan.
DECISION OF THE DIRECTOR OF PROFESSIONAL SERVICES REVIEW 
 
4 In relation to the decision of the Director, it is first said that he failed to provide procedural fairness and thereby committed jurisdictional error because he did not inform Dr Phan that he had taken into account evidence from two medical advisors.
The first is the advice of Dr Christine Davidson dated 4 July 2000 and the second is that of Dr John Dawson dated 12 October 2000.
As a consequence, it is contended that Dr Phan was unable to make submissions contrary to the adverse comments set out in those reports by Dr Davidson and Dr Dawson.
It is submitted that the Applicant was not aware of these statements, and that he ought to have been informed of them so that he could make relevant submissions to contest them or seek to adduce additional material to the Director.
5 The Director's decision to make the referral is challenged on the second basis that the lists of medical services and patient files which were referred to the Committee were not a proper sample as they had been previously examined by the Director and found to have been deficient in relevant respects.
It is contended that this conduct must have inevitably skewed the exploratory sample results and affected the deliberations of the Committee in a manner adverse to the Applicant.
DECISION OF THE PROFESSIONAL SERVICES REVIEW COMMITTEE 
 
6 The decision of the Committee is challenged on the basis that the Panel erred in purporting to have regard to samples of services under s 106K of the Act .
The Applicant submits that the Committee itself did not ensure that the sample was in fact an appropriate random sample as required under the Act .
Therefore, it is contended, the sample results were invalid and the Committee did not have before it a random sample.
Consequently, the Committee failed to follow the procedure required by s 106K(4) of the Act .
7 The Committee is further said to have erred in taking into account the patient records sent to it by the Director in the adjudicative referral because those records adversely affected the sampling process and gave rise to an apprehension that the Committee was biased in considering the sample.
The Applicant also contends that as a matter of procedural fairness, the Committee fell into error by not notifying Dr Phan that it had obtained and taken into account advice relating to the sampling process from a consultant, Professor Des Nicholls, a Professor of Statistics at the Australian National University.
It is submitted that the Applicant was deprived of procedural fairness because he was not able to make submissions or adduce evidence in respect of the advice from Professor Nicholls as to the sampling methodology.
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES REVIEW PROVISIONS 
 
8 The scheme of the legislative provisions is comprehensively set out in the decision of Finn J in Pradhan v Holmes [2001] FCA 1560 ; (2001) 125 FCR 280 at [5] - [61] .
These paragraphs provide a sufficient description of the scheme for present purposes, and it is not necessary to repeat the details of the process here.
In his discussion of the scheme, his Honour noted at [6] that it involves four tiers or steps:
 
 'The first three relate to determining whether (inter alia) a medical practitioner has engaged in "inappropriate practice" in connection with the rendering or initiating of services for which a medicare benefit was available.
The fourth tier or step involves the imposition of a sanction on a practitioner who has been found to have engaged in "inappropriate practice.
"' 
 

9 'Inappropriate practice' is defined in s 82.
In the case of a general practitioner, the test is whether the conduct of the general practitioner in connection with the rendering of services would be unacceptable to the general body of general practitioners: s 82(1)(a).
10 The first step involves the Commission's decision to make an investigative referral to the Director in relation to the conduct of an individual as to whether that person engaged in inappropriate practice in connection with the rendering or initiating of services: s 86(1).
This stage contemplates that there has previously been a complaint or inquiry by the Commission into the conduct of the practitioner.
The investigation must be sufficient to enable the Commission to form a view that the practitioner may have engaged in inappropriate practice.
11 The second step concerns the investigative referral to the Director, who is a medical practitioner appointed by the Minister with the consent of the Australian Medical Association: s 83.
Section 86 provides that an investigative referral must contain particulars of all services rendered or initiated during the two years immediately preceding the referral.
When an investigative referral is made by the Commission to the Director, the Commission must send a copy of the referral to the practitioner concerned inviting written submissions to the Director within 14 days stating why the Director should dismiss the referral without establishing a Committee: s 88.
The Director has power to require the provision of information or the production of documents from the person under review or any other person the Director believes may have relevant documents: s 89B.
In addition, in order to obtain assistance in making his or her decision on the investigative referral, the Director may consult with Panel members or any consultant or professional bodies that the Director considers appropriate: s 90(1).
The Director may dismiss the investigative referral if he or she is satisfied there are insufficient grounds for a finding of inappropriate practice: s 91.
Alternatively, the Director may dismiss the referral by entering into an agreement with the individual under review that includes an acknowledgement by the individual of past inappropriate practice and specified action to be undertaken in relation to this: s 92.
12 The third stage of the process involves a decision by the Director to establish a Committee and the making of an adjudicative referral to that Committee under s 93.
The three Committee members appointed by the Director consist of a Deputy Director and two practitioners of the same speciality or the area of practice as the practitioner being investigated.
The Committee sits in private as provided for in s 98.
Where a Committee is established, the Director must prepare a written report to the Committee in respect of services to which the referral relates.
This report must outline the reasons why the Director considers that there is inappropriate conduct: s 93(6).
The Committee must hold a hearing if, after considering the matters that are the subject of the adjudicative referral, it appears to the Committee that the person may have engaged in inappropriate practice in connection with rendering or initiating the referred services: s 101(2).
The practitioner concerned must be given notice and particulars of the matter to which the hearing relates 14 days before the date of the proposed hearing: s 102.
This notice must require the person under review to appear at the hearing and give evidence to the Committee: 104(1).
13 Section 103 spells out the rights of persons under review in relation to hearings before the Committee.
An individual under review is entitled to attend the hearing, to be accompanied by a lawyer or another advisor, and to call witnesses to give evidence.
The individual can also produce written statements as to her or her character, question individuals giving evidence at the hearing, and address the Committee on questions of law arising during the hearing.
Finally, following the conclusion of the taking of evidence, the individual concerned has the right to make a final address to the Committee in relation to questions of law, the conduct of the hearing and the merits of the matter to which the hearing relates.
14 Section 105A empowers the Committee to require that the person under review or any other individual produce further relevant documents if the Committee believes such documents to be in possession of the person given notice.
The procedure for conducting the hearing is within the discretion of the presiding Committee member: 106(1).
Further, the Committee is not bound by the rules of evidence but may inform itself in any matter in any way it sees appropriate: s 106(2).
15 Section 106K concerns the Committee's power to have regard to only a sample of services included in a particular class of referred services under an investigation.
The section is in the following terms:
 
 '106K Committee may have regard to samples of services 
 
 (1) The Committee may, in respect of conduct in connection with rendering or initiating the services included in a particular class of the referred services, have regard only to a sample of the services included in the class.

 
 (2) If the Committee finds that conduct in connection with rendering or initiating all, or a proportion, of the services included in the sample constituted engaging in inappropriate practice, then, the conduct of the person under review, in connection with rendering or initiating all, or that proportion, as the case may be, of the services included in the class from which the sample is chosen, is taken, for the purposes of this Part, to have constituted engaging in inappropriate practice.

 
 (3) The Minister may make written determinations specifying the content and form of sampling methodologies that may be used by Committees for the purposes of subsection (1).

 
 (4) The Committee may use a sampling methodology that is not specified in such a determination if, and only if, the Committee has been advised by a statistician accredited by the Statistical Society of Australia Inc that the sampling methodology is statistically valid.

 
 (5) A determination by the Minister under subsection (3) is a disallowable instrument for the purposes of section 46A of the Acts Interpretation Act 1901 .
' 
 
 

16 In assessing Dr Phan's case, the Committee acted on the basis of s 106K(4) and used a sampling methodology that was not specified in a Ministerial determination after seeking advice from Professor Nicholls, who is a duly accredited statistician for the purposes of this section.
17 The Committee is required to provide a draft report setting out its preliminary findings pursuant to s 106D.
This draft report may, with the consent of the practitioner, include recommendations for the disqualification of the practitioner and the nature and duration of that disqualification.
18 A copy of the draft report must be given to the practitioner concerned accompanied by a notice inviting written submissions to the Committee within 21 days suggesting changes put forward by the practitioner.
After taking into account any such submissions, the Committee must prepare a final report setting out its findings, including its recommendations.
The copy of the final report must be given to the Director and the practitioner under review.
The Committee must not give a copy of the final report to the Determining Authority until 28 days after the day on which a copy is given to the practitioner.
This establishes a timeframe in which an application can be made by the practitioner for judicial review or relief: 106L.
19 The final step in the decision-making process relates to the determination of the Determining Authority.
In the present case, the Court is not concerned with the decision made at that level.
The decisions and conduct challenged relate only to the second and third steps as described above.
However, it is important to note that ss 106T --- 106U prescribes the nature of the contents of the draft and final determinations, and covers considerations such as the reimbursement of Medicare benefits.
Section 106T makes provision for the draft determination to be sent the practitioner and allows the individual to make written submissions within 14 days suggesting any changes to the draft determination.
Within one month from the end of the 14-day submission period, the Determining Authority must take into account the submissions and make a final determination in accordance with s 106U: s 106TA.
20 In Pradhan v Holmes, Finn J usefully encapsulates at [49]-[61] by reference to the above provisions the detailed staged process provided to afford procedural fairness under the statute at each of the four levels of consideration.
It is against these comprehensive statutory provisions that the application and submissions as to procedural fairness in the present case ought to be considered.
FACTUAL BACKGROUND 
 
21 Dr Phan was the subject of Investigative Referral No.
190 made by the Commission on 29 June 2000.
The Investigative Referral related to all services rendered or initiated in the period 1 January 1999 to 31 December 1999 (the relevant referral period in this case).
During this period, Dr Phan rendered a total of 18, 165 services, including 17, 970 level B surgery consultations.
22 Adjudicative Referral No.
190 was made by the Director to the Committee on 29 March 2001, and the hearing took place before the Committee on 16-17 May, 2-3 August and 4 October 2001.
23 On 4 March 2004, emails were sent by the Committee Secretary, Ms Vanessa Goodspeed, to Professor Nicholls, seeking guidance in relation to the sampling methodology adopted by the Committee.
This advice was provided by Professor Nicholls on 5 March 2004.
24 On 26 June 2004, the Committee made its draft report, with Dr Phan furnishing submissions to the Committee in relation to that report on 20 July 2004.
The Committee considered these and made its final report on 28 October 2004.
