
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 Section 17B of the Insurance Act 1973 (Cth) (the Act) provides that no part of the insurance business of a general insurer may be transferred to another general insurer or amalgamated with the business of another general insurer, except under a scheme confirmed by this Court.
Both applicants are general insurers and are authorised under Pt III Div 2 of the Act to carry on insurance business in Australia.
The second applicant, Calliden Limited (Calliden), is a wholly owned subsidiary of the first applicant, Calliden Group Limited (CGL).
CGL wishes to transfer its insurance business to Calliden.
CGL would then become a non-operating holding company (NOHC), and would apply for an "NOHC authorisation" under s 18 of the Act.
2 CGL and Calliden applied to the Court for its confirmation under s 17F of the Act of a scheme under which the whole of CGL's insurance business would be transferred to Calliden.
3 Section 17C(2) of the Act provides that an application for confirmation of such a scheme may not be made unless certain conditions set out in that subsection are complied with.
One of those conditions is that referred to in para (c), namely, that "an approved summary of the scheme has been given to every affected policyholder".
Section 17C(5) , however, provides that this Court may dispense with the need for compliance with that requirement in relation to a particular scheme if it is satisfied that, because of the nature of the scheme or the circumstances attending its preparation, compliance is not necessary.
4 The applicants included in their application a claim for interlocutory relief in the form of an order pursuant to s 17C(5) that the need for them to comply with s 17C(2)(c) be dispensed with in relation to certain affected policyholders.
5 On 11 October 2007 I made such a dispensing order subject to certain conditions.
The order I then made appears at the front of these reasons for judgment.
These reasons include my reasons for the making of that interlocutory order.
6 On 15 November 2007, I made orders confirming the scheme under s 17F of the Act subject to one modification: the scheme was originally to take effect at 11.59 pm on 31 December 2007 but the modification is that the time has been advanced to 11.59 pm on 15 November 2007 --- the date of the making of the confirming orders.
Those orders also appear at the front of these reasons for judgment, which include my reasons for confirming the scheme.
BACKGROUND 
 
7 From August 1993 until February 2000, CGL (then known as Reinsurance Australia Corporation Limited (RAC or Re AC)) conducted an insurance business primarily in the field of reinsurance.
In about February 2000, after suffering considerable operating losses in the immediately preceding years, CGL was placed into run-off.
Since that time, it has been actively commuting its inward reinsurance contracts.
8 Further detail appears in an affidavit of Mark James Moyes sworn 20 September 2007.
Mr Moyes is the Managing Director of 3 red Pty Limited (3 red), which operates an insurance consultancy business with a specialisation in reinsurance and was retained by CGL to assist it in connection with the scheme.
Mr Moyes states that in the late 1980s and early 1990s, the worldwide reinsurance market was very competitive with downward pressure on rates.
The market was affected by several significant catastrophic events which Mr Moyes identifies.
In the result, capital available to the reinsurance industry was constrained and reinsurance rates increased.
This created favourable market conditions for new entrants.
Against that background CGL was incorporated in 1993 as a listed company on the Australian Stock Exchange (ASX).
9 CGL acted primarily as a reinsurer with a client base mostly made up of insurers, other reinsurers and Lloyds syndicates.
Most of its business was written offshore, particularly in the United States of America and Europe.
On average, only about five percent of its annual earned premiums originated from Australian based clients.
10 During 1999, CGL undertook some limited business in the Australian direct insurance market through an insurance underwriting agency, Insure That Pty Ltd (Insure That).
CGL and Insure That entered into an agency agreement on 1 July 1999 which ran until 31 March 2000.
During that nine month period CGL issued policies to approximately 3,500 policyholders through the Insure That agency.
11 Peter Robin Hayward, a director of Insure That, has supplied a spreadsheet containing a list of all Insure That policyholders whose policies were underwritten by CGL during that period, with the exception of crop insurance policies (as to which, see [50]---[54] below).
12 According to Mr Moyes, in 1995, 1996 and 1998 CGL opened various overseas branch offices.
In 1996 it established a subsidiary in Monaco called Monegasque de Reassurances SAM (Monde Re).
13 As at 31 December 1998, CGL's shareholders' equity was approximately $515.7 million, but one year later on 31 December 1999 it was down to $52.9 million and CGL was placed into run-off.
CGL then ceased underwriting and closed its overseas offices.
Its staff numbers were reduced from approximately 130 to 30, and the number continued to fall as the run-off progressed.
14 Upon entry into its run-off phase, CGL had 1,942 policyholders (excluding the Insure That policyholders) and 21,620 contracts of insurance on its books.
15 During its run-off phase, CGL undertook a commutation process.
Between 31 December 1999 and the date of Mr Moyes's affidavit, 20 September 2007, CGL commuted most of its reinsurance policies so that it now has only 937 policyholders (excluding the Insure That policyholders) in respect of approximately 5,296 contracts.
16 Further, as at 31 December 1999, CGL's total liabilities were $1.4 billion, but as the commutation process has advanced, the amount of its total liabilities has fallen.
By 31 December 2000, they were down to $834.4 million; by 31 December 2001, $510 million; by 31 December 2002, $199.5 million; by 31 December 2003, $53.2 million; and by 30 June 2007, less than $4 million.
17 Adrian Diggelmann, the Chief Financial Officer of CGL and of its wholly owned subsidiaries including Calliden (together, the Calliden Group), has also provided affidavit evidence of the corporate structure and businesses of CGL and Calliden.
18 CGL is the direct holding company of six subsidiary companies.
They include Calliden, and two other companies to which reference will be made, Mansions of Australia Limited (Mansions), and Calliden Insurance Limited (CIL) which was known as Australian Unity General Insurance Limited (Australian Unity) prior to 1 August 2007.
CGL is also the indirect holding company, through Calliden, of Calliden Trademarks Pty Ltd.
In addition, CGL is the owner of 50 percent of the issued share capital of a further five companies.
19 CGL has three aspects to its business:
 
 
 (a) first, it is an authorised general insurer and conducts the general insurance business (currently in run-off) previously mentioned;
 (b) secondly, it is the parent company of the companies in the Calliden Group; and
 (c) finally, it acts as a service entity for the companies in the Calliden Group, employing all staff and paying overheads.
It recovers these costs from the other companies within the Calliden Group.

 

20 CGL's current reinsurance activities involve the management of the run-off portfolio, and include:
 
 (a) managing claims made in respect of its run-off portfolio;
 (b) managing and effecting commutations of policies; and 
 
 
 (c) managing investments of its capital in accordance with the Prudential Standards of the Australian Prudential Regulation Authority (APRA).

 

21 CGL is required to set aside a minimum amount of its capital in accordance with APRA's Prudential Standard GPS 110 in order to enable it to respond to claims.
This is APRA's Minimum Capital Requirement (MCR).
The MCR is defined in GPS 110 para 5 as the "required level of capital for regulatory purposes".
Once an insurer's MCR has been determined in accordance with GPS 110, its Capital Adequacy Measure (CAM) can be calculated.
An insurer's CAM is determined by dividing its total base capital (also determined in accordance with GPS 110) by its MCR.
APRA requires that the CAM be at least 1.2 times the MCR.
22 A joint actuarial report of Kevin Gomes and Geoff Atkins, respectively the approved actuaries of CGL and Calliden, addresses the effect of the scheme on CGL's MCR and CAM (see [85]---[91] below).
23 Mr Diggelmann states, in summary, that CGL is at present subject to two CAMs:
 
 
 (a) The first CAM affects CGL's ability to return capital to its shareholders.
CGL is not at liberty to return capital to its shareholders unless, after deducting the cost of its investment in Calliden ($50 million) from its capital base, the capital base is greater than the sum of: 
 
 
 
 
 (i) two times the MCR required by APRA's Prudential Standards; and
 (ii) the difference in claims reserves at the 99.5 per cent probability level of sufficiency and the 75 per cent probability of sufficiency.

 
 
 
 
 An effect of the requirement that CGL deduct $50 million, is that CGL is required to keep in reserve a greater amount of capital than it would have to do if it were not Calliden's parent.
(b) The second CAM concerns CGL's ongoing operations.
Following the acquisition by CGL of the Australian Unity general insurance business, that is, the acquisition of 100 percent of the issued share capital of Australian Unity General Insurance Limited, which is now known as Calliden Insurance Limited, and 100 percent of the issued share capital of Mansions of Australia Limited (see below), the second CAM has been the MCR required by GPS 110 plus a further amount of 1.2 times the adjusted MCR of Calliden, Calliden's own MCR being required to be 1.5 times the APRA minimum standard.

 

24 Calliden was incorporated as a wholly owned subsidiary of CGL in February 2005.
It conducts a general insurance business as an APRA-authorised general insurer pursuant to Part III Div 2 of the Act.
25 For the year ended December 2006, Calliden's written premiums grossed approximately $52 million.
26 APRA has determined that Calliden must have an MCR 1.5 times the minimum required by GPS 110.
Mr Diggelmann states that in his experience a 1.5 times requirement is commonly applied to start up insurers to reflect the increased risk associated with a newly established underwriter.
27 On 31 July 2007, CGL completed an acquisition of the issued share capital of CIL and Mansions.
This effected the acquisition of the Australian Unity general insurance business and a 50 percent interest in Farmers' Mutual Insurance Limited (due to Mansions' 50 percent shareholding in that entity).
The purchase price for the acquisition was $62.5 million, funded by way of cash and scrip.
28 The acquisition of the Australian Unity general insurance business is relevant to the proposed scheme for two reasons.
First, the acquisition has resulted in CGL's CAM being altered so that the current policyholders of CGL would enjoy a higher CAM following the implementation of the scheme (that is, if their policies become policies of Calliden) than if they were to remain with CGL.
29 Secondly, as part of the process of acquiring the Australian Unity general insurance business, CGL applied on 13 July 2007 to APRA as the Commonwealth Treasurer's delegate for approval pursuant to:
 
 
 (a) the Financial Sector (Shareholdings) Act 1998 (Cth) (FSSA Act) on the basis that CGL was proposing to acquire a stake of more than 15 percent in a "financial sector company" as defined in the FSSA Act; and
 (b) the Insurance Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1991 (Cth) (IAT Act), on the basis that the acquisition would amount to a "trigger proposal" pursuant to the IAT Act.

 
 
 When applying to APRA for these approvals, CGL indicated to APRA that it intended to apply to this Court for its confirmation of the present scheme.


30 On 25 July 2007, APRA gave CGL approvals under both the FSSA Act and the IAT Act.
Both were conditional upon:
 
 
 (a) the making to APRA of a complete application to transfer the reinsurance run-off portfolio of CGL to Calliden by 28 September 2007 (the complete application was made to APRA on 16 August 2007);
 (b) the making to APRA by 31 October 2007 of a complete application under s 18 of the Act for authorisation of CGL as an NOHC and of a request that CGL's authorisation under s 12 of the Act be revoked; and
 (c) the submission to APRA of a Capital Management Plan satisfactory to APRA, designed to ensure that CGL's capital ratio would remain at least 1.2 times MCR at all times and included adequate contingency plans and trigger points for action (the Capital Management Plan was submitted to APRA in July 2007).

 
 THE SCHEME 
 
31 The purpose of the present scheme is to streamline the business of the Calliden Group by reducing the number of its general insurers, and allowing CGL as the Calliden Group's parent company to operate as a NOHC.
If the scheme is approved, it will benefit both CGL and CGL's policyholders because:
 
 
 (a) Calliden, the company to which CGL's policyholders are to be transferred, will have a higher CAM than that of CGL at present;
 (b) there will be a saving in administrative costs to CGL and Calliden; and
 (c) the Calliden Group's business will be more streamlined by the concentration of its insurance business in Calliden.

 
 
 The only other general insurer within the Calliden Group will then be CIL.
The respective Boards of Directors within the Calliden Group may decide to streamline further by placing the general insurance business wholly into either CIL or Calliden.


32 The scheme transfers from CGL to Calliden:
 
 
 (a) the reinsurance liabilities in respect of CGL's run-off portfolio, and the insurance policies issued by Insure That and underwritten by CGL;
 (b) cash or investments equal to the market value of the liabilities being transferred; and 
 
 
 (c) the benefit of outward reinsurance contracts issued to CGL.


33 Pursuant to the Scheme Transfer Deed, Calliden agreed to assume and take over all of the liabilities, rights and obligations of CGL in respect of the insurance contracts the subject of the scheme, and CGL has agreed to pay cash or to transfer investments to Calliden which have an equivalent market value to the assumed liabilities under those insurance contracts.
The value of the liabilities was determined in accordance with the actuarial report to which I refer below.
INTERLOCUTORY APPLICATION IN RELATION TO THE GIVING OF THE APPROVED SUMMARY TO EVERY AFFECTED POLICYHOLDER 
 
34 David John Porteous is a director of 3 red (see [8] above).
Mr Porteous has worked in the Australian insurance and reinsurance industry since September 1998.
At that time he commenced employment with CGL and he remained employed by CGL until April 2005.
From then until his commencement with 3 red on 1 April 2006, he was employed successively by two other companies.
Mr Porteous deposed to steps that he took on behalf of 3 red in its role as a consultant to CGL.
One task that he undertook was that of attempting to identify CGL's reinsurance policyholders.
That information is housed by CGL on a combined computer software and operating system package called the "RAC System" (the RAC database).
35 Mr Porteous explained that the addresses entered on the RAC database for policyholders were often incomplete or were not entered at all.
He stated that this was due to the fact that the reinsurance was placed through a reinsurance broker who often did not provide the address of the policy holder.
36 In late 2004 and early 2005, and again more recently, Mr Porteous took steps to identify the addresses of the "uncommuted reinsurance policyholders of CGL".
Unfortunately, he came across instances where several entities were insured by the one policy, but the RAC database had listed only one of the insureds.
The RAC database allowed for the listing of only one entity, per entry.
37 Mr Porteous also stated that in his experience no information was ever deleted from the RAC database, even if a policy ceased to operate or was commuted.
The RAC database contains details of all individual contracts of reinsurance under which CGL was the reinsurer, including those that had ceased to operate and those that had been commuted.
38 Mr Porteous explained that in practice, CGL's employees did not use the RAC database in their day-to-day tasks, such as accessing policyholder information and producing financial and managerial reports.
Rather, they used a "Microsoft Access database" onto which the data from the RAC database was downloaded regularly.
The Microsoft Access database is more easily accessible and manipulable than the RAC database is.
Mr Porteous stated, on the basis of his experience, that each month, CGL'S IT Manager, Ray Caldwell, would download the contents of the RAC database onto the Microsoft Access database.
He said that the Microsoft Access database contains a complete set of CGL's records concerning its reinsurance policyholders.
The searches that Mr Porteous conducted were of the Microsoft Access database.
39 Mr Porteous put into evidence a spreadsheet of all reinsurance policyholders of CGL (Policyholders Spreadsheet).
The Policyholders Spreadsheet shows all insurance companies, reinsurance companies and Lloyds syndicates who had entered into contracts of reinsurance with CGL and who could therefore make claims on CGL.
40 No claims had been notified to CGL from the date of the currency of the Microsoft Access database (27 April 2007) and the date of Mr Porteous's affidavit (20 September 2007), and in that period there was only one commutation, namely, that relating to AXA Global Risks, United Kingdom (AXA UK).
Although AXA UK was included in the Policyholders Spreadsheet, on 18 September 2007, CGL and AXA UK agreed to the terms of the commutation of AXA UK's reinsurance.
In these circumstances, AXA UK should no longer be treated as a policyholder.
41 The Policyholders Spreadsheet identified 964 current policyholders of CGL (including AXA UK).
Their names appeared in a column headed "Cedant Name per RAC".
In a column headed "2005 Address Details" Mr Porteous included the policyholders' addresses that he verified in his investigation in late 2004 and early 2005.
Where there was no address, Mr Porteous set about identifying the address of the individual policyholder.
In some cases, he was able to do so by reference to worldwide insurance industry directories.
He also resorted to the internet and searched various websites.
He inserted addresses discovered in these ways into the Policyholders Spreadsheet in a column headed "2007 Address Details".
