
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission ('the Commission') allege that the respondents have contravened s 45 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ('the Act').
The factual matrix is one of some complexity.
The amended statement of claim the subject of a strike out application by Mr George, the thirteenth respondent, extends to 180 pages.
After the hearing of the application, leave was granted to amend the amended statement of claim.
The Commission now proposes a further amended statement of claim that extends to over 200 pages ('the pleading').
While apparently accepting that some of the proposed amendments overcome specific matters of concern, Mr George maintains his application to strike out the pleading.
While Mr George brings the application, it will be relevant to other respondents.
2 I will deal with those parts of the pleading that relate to Mr George and to which attention was drawn by counsel to the extent necessary to deal with the alleged defects.
Broadly, the pleading alleges contraventions of the Act by a group said to consist of over 100 corporate members ('the APP Group').
Four of those alleged members are named and joined as respondents in the proceeding, namely APP Australia and the tenth to twelfth respondents.
Allegations against Mr George are as principal and accessory.
What I set out does not represent the detail of the pleading but is sufficient, as a broad summary, to raise the context of the complaints by Mr George.
Those complaints include a complaint as to the form of the pleading, which used a "group device" to describe the activities of a number of groups defined in the pleading.
Those groups are said to have engaged in conduct in contravention of the Act.
Further, Mr George raises questions as to the content of the pleading in so far as it draws conclusions and contains insufficient material facts.
OUTLINE OF THE PLEADING 
 The groups 
 
3 Various groups and their operations are defined in the pleading.
The APP Group is defined in paragraph 1.5 of the pleading to mean the tenth to twelfth respondents, APP Australia and the companies which participated in the operations defined in paragraph 1.14.
Paragraph 1.14 defines "business operations of the APP Group" as the operations pleaded at paragraphs 29 to 32.
That section of the pleading is headed "Business operations of the APP Group".
In summary, the business is said to be of vertically integrated pulp and paper producers and producers of manufactured pulp and a range of paper products at mills in and outside of Indonesia.
Paragraphs 29.6 and 29.7 of the pleading state that the APP Group:
 
 
 29.6 carried on vertically integrated business operations in accordance with the directions of, and under the control of, a centralised management structure which made decisions for the members of the Group including APP Australia and the tenth to twelfth respondents, and in the context of the operations of the APP Group as a whole; 
 
 
 
 
 
 29.7 supplied its paper products to third party purchasers at prices set in accordance with directions of, and under the control of, a centralised management structure which made decisions for the members of the Group including APP Australia and the tenth to twelfth respondents, and in the context of the operations of the APP Group as a whole.

 
 
 

4 The pleading asserts that the business operations of the APP Group were conducted ' under the direction of the APP Group ' and by other companies on behalf of the APP Group.
Then, at paragraph 31B the pleading alleges:
 
 
 31B.
In the circumstances, the internal operation of the companies in the APP Group gave rise to a relationship of agency whereby the corporate entity and its servants and agents who conducted the business of the APP Group in Australia, being APP Australia, did so on behalf of and with the authority of the tenth to twelfth respondents.

 
 
 

5 The pleading continues to allege that the APP Group, including APP Australia and each of the tenth to twelfth respondents, carried on business in Australia and were involved, in various pleaded ways, in business operations in Australia in relation to the supply of folio and cut-size paper to customers in Australia and in relation to trade and commerce between Australia, Indonesia and Singapore.
Paragraph 33 then alleges:
 
 
 33.
At all material times in the conduct of the business operations of the APP Group, each of the tenth to twelfth respondents and APP Australia: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 33.1 was accustomed to act and acted in concert with other members of the Group for the benefit of the Group as a whole; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 33.2 knew of and assented to the conduct alleged herein in relation to the tenth to fifteenth respondents and APP Australia; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 33.3 acted in concert in making and giving effect to the arrangements or understandings alleged herein.

 
 
 
 

6 The pleading includes reference to other groups.
These include the "April Group" and the "AAA Club".
The April Group is defined in paragraph 1.10 to mean the first to fifth respondents and the companies which participated in the operations pleaded.
As to the AAA Club, paragraph 40 alleges:
 
 
 40.
On a date unknown to the applicant but prior to mid 1999, the members of the APRIL Group including the second to fifth respondents, the APP Group including APP Australia and the tenth to twelfth respondents, and the Advance Agro Group ( the three Groups ) agreed following discussions between them to form a Club consisting of representatives of each of them which would be named the "AAA Club" or similar, after the three Groups that had founded it ( the AAA Club ), which Club: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 40.1 would have as members each of the members of the three Groups; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 40.2 would meet or communicate regularly either at physical meetings, by conference calls and other communications including communications to members who had not been present at a meeting or during a conference call by members who had been present, to establish and implement a mechanism for discussing prices between the three Groups, to serve as a forum for the exchange between them of current price information, current costs of pulp and other factors affecting both input costs and output prices, and to discuss and reach consensus about the average prices that each would charge in each of the geographic markets in which they supplied their paper products, including the Australian Paper market.

 
 
 
 
 The conduct 
 
7 It is alleged in paragraph 41A of the pleading that the AAA Club met ('the AAA Meetings') and implemented arrangements in relation to the prices to be charged for paper products supplied in markets including the Australian Paper Market (as defined).
Some but not all of the attenders of the AAA Meetings are identified in the pleading.
8 The allegations are that Mr George, ' on behalf of the members of the APP Group ' engaged in dialogue with the second respondent as representative of the April Group and with representatives of two other groups as to the prices at which they supplied folio and cut-size paper in the Australian Paper Market.
The AAA Club members were said to have formed an arrangement or understanding between themselves, including within the April Group the second to fifth respondents and members of other groups, to set prices for the supply of folio and cut-size paper products to customers in each of the geographic markets in which members of that Group supplied those products ('the AAA Club Agreement').
9 A series of allegations are made as to the operation of the AAA Club and the activities of its members without all of the underlying material facts.
