
 
1 The Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC) has applied to the Court for orders to wind up Centro Financial Synergy Group Pty Ltd, on the ground that it is just and equitable for the defendant to be wound up as the defendant has ceased business and further or alternatively, the defendant's management are operating the defendant in breach of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) ("the Act ") or likely to so operate the defendant namely by the failure to comply with the notices under s 912C of the Act in breach of s 1311(1) of the Act and failing to lodge with the plaintiff audited financial statements required by s 989B in the time required by s 989D of the Act and to comply with the conditions of its Australian Financial Services License required by s 912A(1)(b) of the Act which actions are in breach of s 1311(1) of the Act .
2 The affidavit of Nikola Petrovski sworn 17 January 2007 confirms that ASIC is investigating matters being, or connected with, the affairs of the company under Div 1 Pt 3 of the Australian Securities and Investment Commission Act 2001 (Cth) ("ASIC Act").
Consequently s 464(1) of the Act permits ASIC to apply to the Court for the winding up of the defendant.
Further, the Act applies as if a winding up application had been made by the company: s 464(2) of the Act.
3 The application was as at April this year actively opposed.
The alleged failure to comply with the s 912C notices was denied.
However, when the motion was last before the Court the defendant's now counsel, Mr Detata, informed the Court that O'Connor Partners, Commercial Lawyers, wished to withdraw as the solicitors of record for the defendant as at 4 December 2007.
Ms de Boer was present in Court at that time when the substantive hearing was listed for today's date.
Additionally, ASIC wrote to the defendant by letter dated 11 December 2007 confirming the date and time of the hearing and enclosing copies of the minute of proposed orders and ASIC's written outline of submissions in support of the application.
I gave O'Connor Partners leave to discontinue acting for the defendant from 4 December 2007.
JUST AND EQUITABLE GROUNDS 
 
4 Section 461(1)(k) of the Act permits the Court to order that a company be wound up if the Court is of the opinion that it is "just and equitable" that the company be wound up.
5 Just and equitable grounds reflect a residual equitable jurisdiction and have been suggested as containing at least the following five grounds:
 
 
 (a) where the company was created and operated from inception for fraudulent reasons, 
 

 (b) the company was created for objects that are not attainable,
 (c) the company is unable to carry on business,
 
 
 (d) the management are operating fraudulently, misleadingly or in breach of the law,
 (e) the directors or members owe each other equitable obligations in the nature of a quasi partnership.

 

6 The plaintiff relies upon (c) and (d) (limited to operations in breach of the law) set out above.
7 ASIC should identify the public interest on which it bases its application to wind up for just and equitable reasons: Australian Securities Commission v AS Nominees Ltd (1995) 133 ALR 1 and more recently in Australian Securities and Investments Commission v Green Pacific Energy Ltd (2006) 59 ACSR 142 per Greenwood J at [138]-[144].
The plaintiff points to the continued breaches of the Act as the public interest affected by the operations of the defendant through its management.
The plaintiff also submits that the public interests requires that corporations have effective management so that creditors of the corporation are dealt with in accordance with the statutory duties of both the corporation and its directors.
Winding up is the appropriate remedy to end a period of managerial limbo: Clarke v Bridges [2004] FCA 394 per Finkelstein J at [7] to [13].
