
 
 BUCHANAN J: 
 
1 Mrs Maree Jordan commenced employment with the Australian Postal Corporation ('Australia Post') in 1993.
She remained in that employment, as a postal delivery officer, until 3 January 2001.
During the course of her employment she made two claims for compensation with respect to injuries to her right arm or shoulder.
On 22 August 1994 she strained a muscle in her right arm after reaching up while sorting mail.
On 19 July 1996 she suffered a partial tear to a tendon in her right shoulder.
The claims were accepted by Australia Post.
2 On 4 May 2004, more than three years after leaving her employment, Mrs Jordan had surgery on her right shoulder.
Shortly before the surgery Dr David Maxwell, on 12 February 2004, provided the following observations:
 
 'Mrs.
Maree Jordan still has some symptoms and signs suggestive of right calcific tendonitis involving the supraspinatus tendon causing some impingement of the right shoulder.

 
 I consider that is probable that the nature and conditions of her work, specifically repetitive use of her right arm, has led to attrition of the right supraspinatus tendon, leading to calcification within the tendon.
This has caused an impingement syndrome.
' 
 

3 Dr Maxwell therefore, in early 2004, attributed Ms Jordon's difficulties to work related injury or aggravation.
As will be seen, two years later, after surgery, he had a different opinion about the source of her ongoing difficulties.
4 Dr Jerome Goldberg, who performed the surgery made the following statement of his operative findings in a report dated 4 May 2004:
 
 ' OPERATIVE FINDINGS: The patient had a stable shoulder with full movement.
There was a 1cm area of calcification about the supraspinatus adjacent to the greater tuberosity.
The rotator cuff around the calcific deposit was inflamed and there was a large amount of fatty infiltration consistent with a chronic condition.
' 
 

5 Dr Goldberg removed the calcification.
In a report dated 5 August 2004 Dr Goldberg said:
 
 'She is three months following shoulder surgery and her shoulder is progressing very well, though she still has some discomfort with heavy lifting and overhead work.
Her movements today are extremely good and are near full, which is far better than pre-operatively .

 
 Mrs Jordan has ongoing pain and parasthesia in her forearm and hand and this is unrelated to any problem with her shoulder.
I believe she requires some EMG studies and perhaps referral to a neurologist.
As ethics demand, I leave this in your hands.
' 
 (emphasis added)
 

6 Later that year Dr Goldberg said, on 2 December 2004:
 
 'She is six months following her arthroscopic excision of calcium.
She is still complaining of pain about her shoulder, despite having excellent movement .

 
 X-rays confirm that the calcium has essentially been completely removed.
There is a small fleck of calcium about the soft tissues, but this is normal following removal.

 
 I believe the patient's residual problem relates to tendonitis.
' 
 (emphasis added) 


 
7 On 2 May 2005 Dr Goldberg provided a further report.
It said, in part:
 
 ' Although her movements have returned to normal, which is far better than her pre-operative level, she is still troubled by pain with activity and when over-using her arm .
You will recall that x-rays confirm she has had a good subacromial decompression and the calcium has been completely removed from the cuff.

 
 Unfortunately I believe this is the best Marie [sic] is going to get.
Although she has done reasonably well from surgery from the point of view of improvement in range of motion, she still has ongoing pain which is likely to be permanent .
She is able to cope with this at present and I have advised her to use her arm within the limits of her discomfort.
' 
 (emphasis added)
 

8 Mrs Jordan made a claim for compensation on 2 February 2006.
The claim for compensation was required to be addressed in accordance with s 24 of the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 (Cth) ('the Act').
Section 24 provides relevantly as follows:
 
 
 '(1) Where an injury to an employee results in a permanent impairment , Comcare is liable to pay compensation to the employee in respect of the injury.

 
 ... 
 
 
 (5) Comcare shall determine the degree of permanent impairment of the employee resulting from an injury under the provisions of the approved Guide.

 
 (6) The degree of permanent impairment shall be expressed as a percentage.

 
 (7) Subject to section 25 , if: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) the employee has a permanent impairment other than a hearing loss; and 
 (b) Comcare determines that the degree of permanent impairment is less than 10%; 
 
 
 
 
 an amount of compensation is not payable to the employee under this section.
' 
 (emphasis added) 
 

9 'Injury' is defined by s 5A of the Act relevantly as follows:
 
 ' injury means: 
 (a) a disease suffered by an employee; or 
 
 
 (b) an injury (other than a disease) suffered by an employee , that is a physical or mental injury arising out of, or in the course of, the employee's employment ; or 
 (c) an aggravation of a physical or mental injury (other than a disease) suffered by an employee (whether or not that injury arose out of, or in the course of, the employee's employment), that is an aggravation that arose out of, or in the course of that employment ; 
 
 
 but does not include a disease, injury or aggravation suffered as a result of reasonable administrative action taken in a reasonable manner in respect of the employee's employment.
' 
 (emphasis added)
 

10 Section 28 of the Act provides for the preparation of a 'Guide to the Assessment of the Degree of Permanent Impairment' ('the Guide') which is the Guide referred to in s 24(5).
Section 28(1) and (4) provide:
 
 
 '(1) Comcare may, from time to time, prepare a written document, to be called the "Guide to the Assessment of the Degree of Permanent Impairment", setting out: 
 

 (a) criteria by reference to which the degree of the permanent impairment of an employee resulting from an injury shall be determined ; 
 
 (b) criteria by reference to which the degree of non-economic loss suffered by an employee as a result of an injury or impairment shall be determined; and 
 
 (c) methods by which the degree of permanent impairment and the degree of non-economic loss, as determined under those criteria, shall be expressed as a percentage.

 

 
 ... 
 

 
 
 (4) Where Comcare, a licensee or the Administrative Appeals Tribunal is required to assess or re-assess, or review the assessment or re-assessment of, the degree of permanent impairment of an employee resulting from an injury, or the degree of non-economic loss suffered by an employee, the provisions of the approved Guide are binding on Comcare, the licensee or the Administrative Appeals Tribunal, as the case may be, in the carrying out of that assessment, re-assessment or review, and the assessment, re-assessment or review shall be made under the relevant provisions of the approved Guide.
' 
 

(emphasis added)
 

 
11 Accordingly, the Guide was binding in the present case.
There is now a second edition of the Guide in operation but it was the first edition which was relevant to an assessment of Mrs Jordan's claim.
In accordance with s 28 , the criteria set out in the Guide related only to impairment resulting from work related injury or aggravation.
12 In the Guide, under the heading 'Principles of Assessment' the following provisions appeared:
 
 ' Gradations of Impairment 
 
 Each table contains impairment values at gradations of 5% or multiples of five percent.
Where it is not clear which of two impairment values is more appropriate, Comcare has the discretion to determine which value properly reflects the degree of impairment.

 
 There is no discretion to choose an impairment value not specified in the Guide.
For example, where 10% and 20% are specified values there is no discretion to determine impairment as 15%.
' 
 
 
 
 ... 
 
 Aggravation 
 
 
 
 An assessment should not be made unless the effects of an aggravation are considered permanent.
If the employee's impairment is entirely attributable to a pre-existing or underlying condition, or to the natural progression of such a condition the assessment for permanent impairment should be nil.

 
 Where it is possible to isolate the compensable effects of an injury upon a pre-existing or underlying condition the assessment of the degree of permanent impairment should reflect only the impairment due to those compensable effects.
' 
 
 
 
 

13 The specification of gradations of impairment 'values' is important.
These values were assigned by various tables which the Guide contained.
Each value covered a range.
The ultimate choice of the appropriate value was entrusted to the determining authorities (note also s 24(5)).
14 The principles concerning aggravation are also very important in this case.
They directed that, where possible, only compensable injury should be assigned a value.
That is consistent with s 24 which directs a determination of the degree of impairment resulting from an 'injury' (as defined in s 5A).
Neither s 24 nor the Guide contemplate unnecessary assessment of, or the assignment of a percentage value of impairment to, non-compensable injury or underlying conditions.
It follows from this statement of principles, and from authority which will be referred to in due course, that if it was not possible to isolate the compensable effects of a work related injury from those of an underlying condition the assessment was to be made by reference to the totality of effects.
15 'Whole person impairment' was defined by the Guide in the following way:
 
 ' Whole Person Impairment means the medical effects of an injury or a disease and is drawn from the American Medical Association Guides where it is there referred to as "whole man" impairment.
Evaluation of whole person impairment is a medical appraisal of the nature and extent of the effect of an injury or disease on a person's functional capacity and on the activities of daily living.
The Guides are structured by assembling detailed descriptions of impairments into groups according to body system and expressing the extent of each impairment as a percentage value of of [sic] the functional capacity of a normal healthy person.
Thus a percentage value can be assigned to an employee's impairment by reference to the relevant description in this Guide.
' 
 
(emphasis added)
 

 
16 'Injury' was defined in the Guide in relevantly the same terms as in the Act.
It follows that, for the purpose of the present case, whole person impairment referred only to the medical effects of an injury or aggravation arising out of or in the course of employment.
17 The table for the assessment of Mrs Jordan's claim was Table 9.1.
It provided (relevantly) as follows:
 'TABLE 9.1 
 
 Upper Extremity 
 (Percentage Whole Person Impairment) 
 
 Introduction --- These tables are intended to be used to assess impairment arising from specific joint lesions or amputations ...
These tables can be used to assess the impairment of overall limb function from any cause ... 
 
 Assessment is in accordance with the range of joint movement.
X-rays should not be taken solely for assessment purposes.
