
 
1 It is a common lament that one can choose one's friends but not one's family.
The circumstances of the current proceeding echo that lament.
It is regrettable that the family dispute the subject of the application and cross-claim currently before the Court ever had to be litigated.
2 The primary issue for determination by the Court is the entitlement or otherwise of the plaintiff, Mrs Rosalind Winspear (Rosalind) to shares in the third and fourth defendants, Rocklands Pty Ltd and Dalness Pty Ltd. Rosalind seeks orders requiring those companies to correct their register of members to record her as a member and beneficial owner of one A Class share and 25 B Class shares in Rocklands Pty Ltd; and the beneficial owner of 22,625 ordinary shares and the joint beneficial owner with the first defendant of one ordinary share in Dalness Pty Ltd. Rosalind also seeks orders that the companies be wound up and be required to sell properties owned by them.
3 By their cross-claim the defendants seek declarations giving effect to what they allege were agreements entered into by Rosalind on 18 January 2001 and 8 December 2001, which they say had the effect of her relinquishing all rights to shares in the companies.
The defendants also seek a declaration that the plaintiff be estopped from denying the 2001 agreements on the basis that it would be unjust and unconscionable for her to do so.
The crucial issue arising on the cross-claim is whether Rosalind entered into a binding agreement, in 2001, to give up her entitlement to shares or engaged in any other relevant disentitling conduct.
The family and its companies 
 
4 In the 1820s, the Mackinnon family acquired a property known as "Dalness".
The property is situated about five kilometres east of Evandale, near Launceston airport in Northern Tasmania.
In its current, form the property consists of four main blocks comprising some 1,623 hectares.
They are called "Rocklands", "Dalness", "Woodmount" and "Vinegar Hill".
I refer to the properties collectively below as "Dalness".
5 Mr Allan Edgar Donald Mackinnon (AEDM) farmed Dalness until his death on 8 June 1962.
Thereafter his son, Mr Allan Donald Lindsay Mackinnon (Donald), became primarily responsible for the farming business conducted on Dalness.
Donald died on 7 February 2004.
He is survived by his wife, Mrs Deidre Mackinnon (Deidre), who is the second defendant.
The plaintiff, Rosalind, is their daughter.
The first defendant, Mr Neil Giblin Mackinnon (Neil), is their son.
They have another son called Mr Donald Michael Mackinnon (Michael).
6 Dalness Pty Ltd came into being in November 1961.
On its incorporation two ordinary shares were issued; one to Donald and one to AEDM.
A week later 45,250 shares were allocated in the company; 15,250 to AEDM and 30,000 jointly to Donald and a solicitor, Mr Alfred John Green.
