
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 1 This proceeding is another in which unsuccessful applicants for a protection visa have requested the first respondent ('the Minister' --- I will not distinguish between the persons who held the position of Minister from time to time) to exercise the power given by s 417(1) of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act') in their favour, only to be told that their request has not even been forwarded to the Minister because the circumstances of the case do not fall within certain guidelines that the Minister has issued.
2 The respondents have filed a notice of objection to the competency of the application, contending that the Court's jurisdiction to hear and determine it is excluded by s 476(2) of the Act (set out at [16] below).

 BACKGROUND FACTS 
 
 3 The first named applicant ('Ms Raikua') is the mother of the second, third and fourth named applicants, who are infant children.
They claim to be citizens of Fiji.
The mother, daughter Nancy, and older son Kenneth, arrived in Australia on 4 October 1997 and the younger son Adam, was born here later.
Two further sons, Nicholas Prasad and Michael Prasad Jnr, were born here subsequently.
Since no application for a protection visa was lodged on their behalf, and therefore there has been no adverse decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ('the Tribunal') in their cases, the Minister's power under s 417 is not attracted in respect of them.
4 On 5 April 2002, Ms Raikua and the three children applied for protection (class XA) visas.
On 28 June 2002, a delegate of the Minister ('the Delegate') refused to grant their applications.
On 11 July 2002, they applied to the Tribunal for review of the Delegate's decision.
By a decision made on 19 November 2002 and handed down on 17 December 2002, the Tribunal affirmed the Delegate's decision.
5 It seems appropriate to note briefly the nature of the applicants' claims before the Tribunal.
Ms Raikua is an ethnic Fijian, whereas her husband, Michael Prasad, is an Indo-Fijian.
Ms Raikua claimed that her and her husband's families were 'prejudiced' against the marriage.
She said she feared returning to Fiji because she would be unsupported there, and the children would not fit into Fijian society.
She also claimed a history of domestic violence, and told the Tribunal that her husband, from whom she was separated, might return to Fiji and resume his violent ways towards her.
She maintained that the Fijian police would not protect her and the children from him.
She also claimed that, because her children had an Indian name ('Prasad'), they would have no future in Fiji, because indigenous Fijians are favoured in 'jobs, government loans, housing, etc'.
She said that she would find it hard to make a living for her family in Fiji.
6 I need not discuss the Tribunal's reasons for affirming the Delegate's decision, beyond noting that the Member accepted that Ms Raikua had been the victim of domestic violence since 1988 as she had claimed, but pointed out that this was not 'Convention related'.
He expressed the view, however, that the application raised 'humanitarian concerns'.
7 On 13 January 2003, Ms Raikua wrote to the Minister asking him to allow her and the three children to remain in Australia.
She referred to the domestic violence issue, and enclosed supporting documents, including a Police charge sheet in relation to an alleged assault by her husband on 18 September 2002.
8 In a Departmental minute dated 7 August 2003, an officer of the Department of Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs ('the Department') advised the Minister that the case did not fall within the scope of 'the Guidelines' (see below).
Attached to the minute was a 'schedule' dated 25 July 2003 summarising Ms Raikua's request and other circumstances of her case, and giving the Departmental recommendation, that the Minister not consider the exercise of his power under s 417 , because the circumstances were 'neither exceptional nor unique'.
9 On 14 August 2003, the Minister recorded, over his signature, that he had read the schedule to the minute, and did not propose to consider the exercise of his power under s 417.
He also recorded that he did not wish further requests for the exercise of the power in the case brought to his attention
 'unless such further requests provide additional information that, in the opinion of the assessing officer , when considered in combination with the information known previously, brings the case within my Guidelines for the identification of cases where I may consider it to be in the public interest to intervene to substitute a more favourable decision'.
(my emphasis) 
 
 10 On 21 August 2003, the Department advised Ms Raikua of the Minister's decision not to consider exercising his power in the case of herself and her children.
11 On 10 March 2005, Mr R Nair, barrister, who was acting pro bono for Ms Raikua and her children, applied to the Minister on their behalf (and on behalf of the two Australian-born sons of Ms Raikua, but the inclusion of them was inappropriate for the reasons mentioned at [3]) asking that the Minister exercise the power under s 417.
Mr Nair asserted that the circumstances had changed very significantly since the Department's letter of 21 August 2003.
