
 
1 This is an application for a consent determination of native title in respect of an area in the Pilbara region of Western Australia designated "Determination Area A", being part of the land and waters covered by the Eastern Guruma native title claimant application the subject of these proceedings.
2 The parties to the Eastern Guruma application, which was commenced on 21 October 1997 and covers an area of approximately 8,700 square kilometres, have agreed upon the terms of an order determining that native title exists over Determination Area A.
They ask the Court to make an order by consent on the terms which they have agreed and to do so without holding a further hearing.
3 The parties in this proceeding represent a variety of interests.
The applicant brings the proceedings on behalf of the Eastern Guruma people.
The State of Western Australia acts on behalf of the community generally.
Local government interests are represented by the Shire of Ashburton.
Pastoral interests encompass Coolawanyah Station, Mt Florance Station and Rocklea Station.
Mining interests and those of the telecommunications industry are represented.
There are also other indigenous interests, represented by the Pilbara Native Title Service.
4 The applicant has nominated the Wintawari Guruma Aboriginal Corporation ('the Corporation') as the prescribed body corporate to hold the native title of the claimant group on trust following a determination in these proceedings pursuant to s 56(2) of the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth) ('the Act').
That nomination is in writing and the Corporation has given its consent to the nomination.
I am satisfied that the requirements of the Act and of the Native Title (Prescribed Bodies Corporate) Regulations 1999 (Cth) have been met.
5 Settlement of native title claims by agreement is to be welcomed and encouraged.
It means that the parties can decide for themselves how best to institute an arrangement that satisfies their respective rights and interests in a way that, as appropriate, recognises the rights and interests of the other parties.
I congratulate the parties on demonstrating the wisdom and practical good sense in coming to this agreement.
6 Section 87 of the Act specifically provides for the making of orders giving effect to an agreement reached between the parties where the agreement relates to a part of the proceedings, without holding a hearing or, if a hearing has started, without completing the hearing ' if it appears to [the Court] to be appropriate to do so '.
