
 
1 Dr Ho and Dr Do practice in partnership at Merrylands in New South Wales.
On 13 December 2001 the Health Insurance Commission made separate investigative referrals expressing concern that each of the doctors, who were general practitioners, had engaged in inappropriate practice in connection with rendering certain referred services during 2000, within the meaning of s 106KA of the Health Insurance Act 1973 (Cth).
The referrals under s 86 of the Act expressed concern that Dr Ho had engaged in inappropriate practice on 24 occasions between 1 January 2000 and 6 November 2000 and that Dr Do had done so on 56 occasions in the period between 1 January 2000 and 23 June 2000.
2 Separate professional services review committees were established with different members to consider each referral.
Each committee had a hearing, prepared a separate draft report, received further submissions and then prepared a separate final report in respect of each doctor.
The conclusion of each final report was a finding under s 106L of the Act that the conduct of the doctor in relation to the rendering of professional attendances on the days identified constituted a prescribed pattern of services within the referral period and that he had thus engaged in inappropriate practice for the purposes of s 106KA.
3 In 1999 each of the doctors had been in partnership with a third doctor, Dr Bao-Quy Nguyen-Phuoc, who was Dr Ho's brother-in-law at the time.
Earlier, when they had established that partnership, the three of them had been involved in another medical practice.
Dr Nguyen-Phuoc claimed he had been entitled to take that practice's database which was then used in the new practice of the three.
The previous practice's principal contested the ownership of the database.
That dispute involved the practice of the three doctors in litigation that was finally settled in June 1999 with a payment of a substantial sum to the previous practice's principal.
4 In late 1998 and early 1999 relations between Dr Nguyen-Phuoc on the one hand and Drs Ho and Do on the other began to deteriorate severely.
The partnership finally dissolved at the end of December 1999 when Dr Nguyen-Phuoc left taking 909 patient files out of a total of 11,258.
Drs Ho and Do then began a new partnership retaining the balance of the patient files.
They initially practised from the partnership's old rooms, but in late March 2000 moved to new premises in Merrylands.
5 Dr Ho challenges the final report of Professional Services Review Committee No 295.
They found that Dr Ho had engaged in inappropriate practice by rendering 80 or more professional attendances on 24 days during the referral period (1 January 2000 to 6 November 2000) which constituted a prescribed pattern of services under s 106KA(1) of the Act.
6 Dr Do challenges the final report of Professional Services Review Committee No 293.
They found that Dr Do had engaged in inappropriate practice by rendering 80 or more professional attendances on 56 days during the referral period (1 January 2000 to 23 June 2000) which constituted a prescribed pattern of services under s 106KA(1).
7 The committees also found that they did not consider that exceptional circumstances existed that affected the rendering of services by Dr Ho or Dr Do on any of the 24 or 56 days in question for the purposes of s 106KA(2) of the Act.
8 In essence, each of Dr Ho and Dr Do asserts that the findings in each final report resulted from each committee committing jurisdictional errors, constructively failing to exercise its jurisdiction, denying procedural fairness, making errors of law or improperly exercising a power.
This was alleged to arise from the following:
 
 
 (a) the committee failing to consider or apply reg 11(a) of the Health Insurance (Professional Services Review) Regulations 1999 (Cth) first, at all or, secondly, in respect of any or all of the 24 or 56 days in the referral period and, thirdly, if they did apply reg 11(a), the committee misconstrued it;
 (b) the committee taking into account practice management considerations for the purposes of reg 11(a) or incorrectly using practice management as a test for rejecting the doctor's claim that exceptional circumstances existed for the purpose of s 106KA(2) on one or more of the relevant days;
 (c) the committee failing to apply the statutory test, namely whether the doctor's circumstances were truly exceptional having regard to the unusual operation of his medical practice and bearing in mind the circumstances ordinarily faced by general practitioners;
 (d) each final report was an improper exercise of the power conferred on the committee because they applied a policy of practice management firmly instead of having regard to the merits of the case;
 (e) each final report involved a denial of natural justice because the committee was affected by apprehended bias in light of the overwhelming and impermissible emphasis and effect it gave to the policy of practice management.

 

9 On 13 July 2006, I made an order pursuant to O 29 r 2 that these questions be decided separately from an argument that the provisions of the Act are not valid laws because the Parliament had no power to enact them.
This constitutional question has been raised in separate and related litigation.
10 Dr Ho and Dr Do, respectively, conducted their proceedings before each committee on the admitted basis that each had had more than 80 patient consultations on each of the 24 and 56 respective separate days referred.
Regulation 10 of the Health Insurance (Professional Services Review) Regulations 1999 (Cth) provided that professional attendances constituted a prescribed pattern of services in the circumstance that 80 or more such services were rendered on each of 20 or more days in a 12 month period.
The question in these proceedings is essentially whether or not each committee had before it, and if so, properly considered the nature of each doctors' claim that exceptional circumstances existed on all or some of the referred days.
No point was taken that the period in each of the referrals was of less than 12 months, for they were fairly based on respective periods which could have been used.
The regulations commenced only on 1 November 1999 (reg 2).
11 Critical for present purposes are the provisions of s 106KA and reg 11 at the time.
Relevantly s 106KA was in the following terms:
 
 '106KA Patterns of services 
 
 
 
 (1) Subject to subsections (2) and (2A), if, during a particular period (the relevant period ), the circumstances in which some or all of the referred services were rendered or initiated constituted a prescribed pattern of services, the conduct of the person under review in connection with rendering or initiating services during that period in those circumstances is taken, for the purposes of this Part, to have constituted engaging in inappropriate practice.

 
 (2) If the person under review satisfies the Committee that, on a particular day or particular days during the relevant period, exceptional circumstances existed that affected the rendering or initiating of services by the person, the person's conduct in connection with rendering or initiating services on that day or those days is not taken by subsection (1) to have constituted engaging in inappropriate practice.

 
 (2A) However, subsection (2) does not affect the operation of subsection (1) in respect of the remaining day or days during the relevant period on which the person rendered or initiated referred services even if the circumstances in which the referred services were rendered or initiated on that day or those days would not, if considered alone, have constituted a prescribed pattern of services.

 
 (3) The regulations may prescribe, in relation to: 
 
 (a) a particular profession; or 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) an identified group or groups of practitioners in a particular profession; 
 
 
 
 
 
 circumstances in which services of a particular kind or description that are rendered or initiated constitute, or do not constitute, a prescribed pattern of services for the purposes of subsection (1).

 
 (4) The circumstances that may be prescribed under subsection (3) as circumstances in which services that are rendered or initiated constitute a prescribed pattern of services include, but are not limited to, the rendering or initiation of more than a specified number of services, or more than a specified number of services of a particular kind, on each of more than a specified number of days during a period of a specified duration.

 
 (5) The circumstances that constitute exceptional circumstances for the purposes of subsection (2) include, but are not limited to, circumstances that are declared by the regulations to be exceptional circumstances.

 
 (6) This section only applies to services rendered or initiated after the commencement of this section.

 
 (7) This section does not preclude the Committee from making a finding under this Subdivision (other than section 106KB) in relation to conduct during a particular period in connection with rendering or initiating services without considering whether or not the circumstances in which the services were rendered or initiated constituted a prescribed pattern of services.
' 
 
 

12 Reg 11 was in these terms:
 
 ' 11 Exceptional circumstances 
 
 
 
 For subsection 106KA(5) of the Act, the following circumstances are declared as constituting exceptional circumstances: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) an unusual occurrence causing an unusual level of need for professional attendances; 
 
 (b) an absence of other medical services, for patients of the person under review during the relevant period, having regard to: 
 
 (i) the location of the practice of the person under review; and 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) characteristics of the patients of the person under review.
' 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES 
 
13 In Oreb v Willcock [2005] FCAFC 196 ; (2005) 146 FCR 237 the Full Court held that there were two ways of establishing exceptional circumstances for the purposes of s 106KA(2).
First, the doctor concerned could show that on the particular day or days during the relevant period 'exceptional circumstances', within the ordinary English meaning of the words, existed which affected the rendering or initiating of services by the doctor so as to take him or her outside the deeming pursuant to s 106KA(1) of engagement in inappropriate practice.
Secondly, the doctor could rely upon 'exceptional circumstances' as prescribed in regulations made pursuant to s 106KA(5), being those set out in reg 11 ( Oreb 146 FCR at 240 [6] per Black CJ and Wilcox J; see also per Lander J at 265 [169], 268 [191]).
14 Although Oreb [2005] FCAFC 196 ; 146 FCR 237 concerned the construction of s 106KA and reg 11(b) the Court also made observations as to how reg 11(a) might be engaged.
The Court held that once the practitioner had established that exceptional circumstances existed in either sense the practitioner had also to show a causal connection between those established circumstances and the provision of the relevant services if he or she were to get the benefit of s 106KA(2) ( Oreb 146 FCR at 240-241 [7]-[10], 266 [178]-[181]).
15 And, in a decision handed down on the same day, Cohn v Hatcher [2005] FCAFC 199 ; (2005) 146 FCR 275 the same Full Court looked again at the operation of 'exceptional circumstances' within s 106KA and reg 11.
Lander J said that reg 11(a) provided for certain circumstances which are like, but not the same as, circumstances which might be 'exceptional circumstances' in s 106KA(2) ( Cohn 146 FCR at 288 [67]).
He held that, first, the medical practitioner had to establish that an unusual occurrence had occurred which caused an unusual level of need for professional attendances.
Next, the practitioner must establish that that occurrence affected the rendering or initiating of services by him or her ( Cohn 146 FCR at 288 [70]).
In this way each of reg 11(a) and s 106KA(2) were held to interact.
And, once the medical practitioner establishes both that exceptional circumstances existed and they affected the rendering or initiating of services by him or her, the day or days on which that is established are not taken by s 106KA(1) to have constituted engaging in inappropriate practice.
The Full Court did not deal with the operation of s 106KA(2A).
16 At the outset it is important to understand how s 106KA operates.
First, s 106KA(1) is expressly made subject to subsections (2) and (2A).
Each of the latter subsections identifies an exception to s 106KA(1) although the exceptions work in different ways.
How they work bears on what s 106KA(1) itself does in deeming a certain state of affairs to amount to a practitioner engaging in inappropriate practice.
17 Because s 106KA(1) creates a statutory fiction, by the deeming it prescribes, ss 106KA(2) and (2A) recognise that the person under review is entitled, to a point, to negate that fiction.
Critically, s 106KA(1) refers to '... the circumstances in which some or all of the referred services were rendered ... constituted a prescribed pattern of services'.
Thus while not all of the referred services may remain a part of a pattern after the committee examines them, it is essential that what remains is a pattern.
A pattern, by regulation 10 , must have the characteristic that 80 or more professional attendances within the meaning of reg 7 ' ... are rendered on each of 20 or more days in a 12 month period'.
Thus, conduct cannot satisfy reg 10 so as to constitute a prescribed pattern of services unless it occurs 'on each of 20 or more days'.
18 Next, s 106KA(2) affords the practitioner a means of negating that he or she engaged in inappropriate practice on or more or each of the days in the relevant period which has been referred to the committee for examination.
The effect of s 106KA(2A) will need to be considered if for one or more, but not all, of the days referred, the practitioner satisfies the committee under s 106KA(2) that the services were rendered when exceptional circumstances existed.
Now, s 106KA(2A) provides, first, that s 106KA(2) '... does not affect the operation of subsection (1) in respect of the remaining day or days during the relevant period during which the person rendered ... referred services'.
At first blush, 'the operation of' s 106KA(1) to which s 106KA(2A) refers must be in respect of the remaining day or days --- that is, s 106KA(1) remains engaged despite one or more of the days in the pattern originally alleged being shown not to be part of any prescribed pattern.
But, critically, s 106KA(2A) goes on to provide that the remaining day or days do not, even if considered alone, cease to constitute a prescribed pattern.
19 The doctors argued that because reg 10 prescribed only one circumstance, namely a pattern extending over 20 or more days, if the practitioner showed that exceptional circumstances existed on enough of the days on which referred services were rendered to leave only 19 or less days, s 106KA(1) could have no operation.
They said the consequence was that s 106KA(2A) did not expose the practitioner to a finding that he or she engaged in inappropriate practice.
20 It is, of course, significant that the Act does not prescribe any period or pattern.
Rather ss 106KA(3) and (4) authorise the making of regulations for those purposes.
The fact that regulations may operate in a way which produces a particular result is irrelevant in construing the meaning of the statute.
The last clause of s 106KA(2A) is, however, arcane and obscure.
It provides that even if the operation of s 106KA(2) has removed one or more days from the pattern, that removal does not affect the operation of s 106KA(1).
So, the circumstances in which the referred services were rendered on the day or days left in the original period (after any day has been removed by the operation of s 106KA(2)) can still be found to be inappropriate practice even though what remains '... would not, if considered alone, have constituted a prescribed pattern.
' The committee contended that this meant that even though the 20 days which reg 10 set as the minimum period for a prescribed pattern cannot be established after days are removed by force of s 106KA(2), the remaining 19 or less days, even if only 1, can amount to a pattern of 20 days.
21 The words of s 106KA(2A) suggest that 1 day can constitute a pattern even though the definition of the pattern applied in s 106KA(1) would not otherwise have been satisfied.
That is an odd result, but no sensible alternative construction of s 106KA(2A) appears to be open which gives effect to the words of the last clause: cp ASIC v DB Management Pty Ltd [2000] HCA 7 ; (2000) 199 CLR 321 at 338 [34] - [35] .
22 If one construes s 106KA(2) using the prescription in reg 11(a), the section then provides that if the medical practitioner satisfies the committee that on a particular day or particular days during the relevant period an unusual occurrence causing an unusual level of need for professional attendances existed that affected the rendering or initiating of services by the medical practitioner, his or her conduct in connection with rendering or initiating those services on that day or those days is not taken by s 106KA(1) to have constituted engaging in inappropriate practice.
23 I am of opinion that the expression 'exceptional circumstances' requires consideration of all the circumstances.
In Griffiths v The Queen [1989] HCA 39 ; (1989) 167 CLR 372 at 379 Brennan and Dawson JJ considered a statutory provision which entitled either a parole board or a court to specify a shorter non-parole period than that required under another section only if it determined that the circumstances justified that course.
They said of the appellant's circumstances:
 
 'Although no one of these factors was exceptional, in combination they may reasonably be regarded as amounting to exceptional circumstances.
' 
 

24 Brennan and Dawson JJ held that the failure in that case to evaluate the relevant circumstances in combination was a failure to consider matters which were relevant to the exercise of the discretion under the section (167 CLR at 379).
Deane J, (with whom Gaudron and McHugh JJ expressed their concurrence on this point, albeit that they were dissenting) explained that the power under consideration allowed departure from the norm only in the exceptional or special case where the circumstances justified it (167 CLR at 383, 397).
25 And, in Baker v The Queen [2004] HCA 45 ; (2004) 223 CLR 513 at 573 [173] Callinan J referred with approval to what Lord Bingham of Cornhill CJ had said in R v Kelly (Edward) [2000] QB 198 at 208, namely:
 
 'We must construe "exceptional" as an ordinary, familiar English adjective, and not as a term of art.
It describes a circumstance which is such as to form an exception, which is out of the ordinary course, or unusual, or special, or uncommon.
To be exceptional a circumstance need not be unique, or unprecedented, or very rare; but it cannot be one that is regularly, or routinely, or normally encountered.
' 
 

26 Exceptional circumstances within the meaning of s 106KA(2) can include a single exceptional matter, a combination of exceptional factors or a combination of ordinary factors which, although individually of no particular significance, when taken together are seen as exceptional.
Thus, the sun and moon appear in the sky everyday and there is nothing exceptional about seeing them both simultaneously during day time.
But an eclipse, whether lunar or solar, is exceptional, even though it can be predicted, because it is outside the usual course of events.
27 It is not correct to construe 'exceptional circumstances' as being only some unexpected occurrence, although frequently it will be.
Nor is it correct to construe the plural 'circumstances' as if it were only a singular occurrence, even though it can be a one off situation.
The ordinary and natural meaning of 'exceptional circumstances' in s 106KA(2) includes a combination of factors which, when viewed together, may reasonably be seen as producing a situation which is out of the ordinary course, unusual, special or uncommon.
And, the section is directed to the circumstances of the actual practitioner, not a hypothetical being, when he or she initiates or renders the services.
THE COMMITTEES' INTERPRETATION OF 'EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES' 
 
28 Each committee used a set of standard paragraphs under the heading 'Prescribed Pattern of Services --- Legal Considerations'.
In these paragraphs they had regard to the fact that s 106KA had been introduced into the Act by the Health Insurance Amendment (Professional Services Review) Act 1999 (Cth) to implement the recommendations of the Review Committee of the Professional Services Review Scheme which had reported to the government the same year.
That report had stated that the medical profession generally accepted that high volume provision of services by a practitioner prohibited adequate clinical input.
29 The Review Report recommended, following wide consultations with relevant medical organisations, that the threshold for deeming practice to be inappropriate in the case of a general practitioner should be 80 or more services on 20 or more days in a year.
Each committee noted that the Review Report also had recommended that a practitioner should be able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of a committee that exceptional circumstances occurred which allowed him or her to practice appropriately while rendering such a high number of services (see: recommendation 3 in the Review Report and its attendant reasoning).
Each committee went on to refer to the Review Report's use of examples of exceptional circumstances such as an exceptional event or a very extreme geographic occurrence.
The Review Report also indicated that regard should be had to the availability of alternative medical services or unusual occurrences causing unusual levels of need for medical services and said that it was expected 'that argument [sic] that a practitioner's ability or organisation provides an exceptional circumstance is unlikely to be sustained'.
30 Each committee considered that those examples and comments confirmed their view that 'exceptional circumstances were seen as being generally intermittent or episodic situations beyond the practitioner's control but necessitating the provision of medical services as well as practicable'.
They also referred to the explanatory memorandum issued by the Minister when he introduced the Bill which became the Act.
Each committee then said this (using the paragraph numbering in Committee 295's Report):
 
 
 '52.
This Committee considers that this confirms that " exceptional circumstances " were seen as most likely to be of an intermittent or episodic nature, rather than a predictable on-going situation.
The Committee does not see that some extreme on-going circumstance is totally ruled out (if " particular days " can be " many days ") --- although the general body of general practitioners would ordinarily expect a practitioner to manage their practice to promptly bring patient attendance rates down to acceptable levels such that proper clinical care can be provided to all patients.

 
 53.
In summary, it appears to the Committee that subsection 106KA(1) and the Regulations implement a view of the legislature that it is most unlikely that 80 or more professional attendances can be rendered satisfactorily within one day.
The " 20 or more days " proviso acknowledges that the exigencies of normal practice may occasionally require a doctor to provide more attendances in a day than would otherwise be considered satisfactory.
But by subsection 106KA(2) of the Act, exceptional circumstances will be required to justify 20 or more such days.
Thus, the exception may be read as excusing lower standard services on particular days because of exceptional circumstances --- and it will be difficult to justify this on an on-going basis.
' 
 
 

31 These two paragraphs appear to be part of a standard form explanation used by other committees.
The same words appear in Dr Oreb's committee's report: see: Oreb 146 FCR at 262 [156].
Immediately after quoting these words, Lander J said that the committee there fell into error in its construction of s 106KA(2) and reg 11, by failing to have regard to the terms of reg 11 itself.
Likewise, I am of opinion that the committees here fell into error, by putting a gloss on the meaning of s 106KA(2).
They asserted that the expression 'exceptional circumstances' was to be seen 'as most likely to be of an intermittent or episodic nature, rather than a predictable on-going situation'.
32 As McHugh, Gummow, Kirby and Hayne JJ pointed out in Project Blue Sky Inc v Australian Broadcasting Authority [1998] HCA 28 ; (1998) 194 CLR 355 at 384 [78] , the duty of a court is to give the words of a statutory provision the meaning that the legislature is taken to have intended it to have.
They said:
 
 'Ordinarily, that meaning (the legal meaning) will correspond with the grammatical meaning of the provision.
But not always.
The context of the words, the consequences of a literal or grammatical construction, the purpose of the statute or the canons of construction (for example, the presumption that, in the absence of unmistakable and unambiguous language, the legislature has not intended to interfere with basic rights, freedoms or immunities: Coco v The Queen [1994] HCA 15 ; (1994) 179 CLR 427 at 437) may require the words of a legislative provision to be read in a way that does not correspond with the literal or grammatical meaning.
' (See also DB Management 199 CLR at 338 [34].
)
 

33 Indeed, the provisions of reg 11 prescribed some of the matters which the Review Report regarded as exceptional circumstances.
But reg 11 could not supplant the natural and ordinary meaning of 'exceptional circumstances' as used in s 106KA(2).
Rather the purpose of the regulation-making power granted by the Parliament in s 106KA(5) was to set out a free-standing set of circumstances which may or may not be within the ordinary and natural meaning of 'exceptional circumstances' in s 106KA(2).
34 However, in their approach the committees have made the tail of the regulation wag the dog of the statute.
This eschewed the ordinary principles of statutory construction and the application of the salutary and broad discretion which the Parliament, by its words, conferred on the committees in s 106KA(2).
While reg 11 gave effect to intentions expressed in the Review Report and in the Parliament, it did not restrict the circumstances which a committee must take into account in forming a view for the purposes of the application of s 106KA(2).
Those intentions are matters to which the Court may have regard as part of the historical context in which s 106KA was enacted so that a purposive meaning can be given to the legislation: Network Ten Pty Ltd v TCN Channel Nine Pty Ltd [2004] HCA 14 ; (2004) 218 CLR 273 at 280-281 [10] - [11] per McHugh ACJ, Gummow and Hayne JJ; Sydney Airport Corporation Ltd v Australian Competition Tribunal [2006] FCAFC 146 ; (2006) 155 FCR 124 at 125 [2] per French, Finn and Allsop JJ.
The literal construction of s 106KA(2) and reg 11 will not defeat the intention of the Parliament (or the Executive in making the regulation).
35 As Mason CJ, Wilson and Dawson JJ said in Re Bolton; ex Parte Beane [1987] HCA 12 ; (1987) 162 CLR 514 at 518:
 
 'The function of the court is to give effect to the will of Parliament as expressed in the law.
' 
 

In effect, the view which each committee took as to the management of the respective doctors' practice and its concentration on the episodic construction they had placed on 'exceptional circumstances' resulted in them failing to consider the combination of circumstances relied on by each doctor either in the context of s 106KA(2) or reg 11(a).
36 The committees focused on the examples given in the Review Report, which were codified in reg 11, as identifying what s 106KA(2) meant.
That is how they discerned a test that the words 'exceptional circumstances' do not convey.
Their test of an 'intermittent or episodic' situation, rather than a predictable on-going one, is narrower than the natural and ordinary meaning of 'exceptional circumstances' in s 106KA(2).
The real question was whether the circumstances relied on were individually or in combination such as formed an exception to the ordinary course of practice.
The circumstances necessarily included the actual situation of the practitioner.
Of course, a practitioner who habitually saw more than 80 patients a day may not be able to show 'exceptional circumstances', if he or she were located in a city.
But, what of the one doctor in a country town?
Is such a doctor's position affected if he or she has been looking for, but cannot find, any other practitioner to join his or her practice?
Or consider a specialist in a country centre.
The statute did not condemn dedicated professionals; rather it sought to protect the public from unsatisfactory methods of practice and inappropriate derivation of income from the medical benefits system while providing that some exceptions must be given recognition.
37 This is not to say that had the committees approached the task confided to them under s 106KA and reg 11(a) in accordance with law they could not have come to the same conclusion.
The provisions of s 106KA are intended to be protective of the public.
The section seeks to create presumptions as to the circumstances in which particular numbers of professional services may be initiated or rendered by practitioners over a given period.
This is intended to ensure that the standard of care provided by practitioners to patients is maintained at an appropriately high standard.
38 What s 106KA(2) does is to give effect to fictions, first, the fiction of the deeming worked by force of s 106KA(1) and, secondly, the fiction that where exceptional circumstances are established that deeming is negated.
That does not affect the other provisions of the Act dealing with inappropriate conduct notwithstanding the failure of the deeming provisions to catch the conduct.
Thus, the exception in s 106KA(2) does not require examination of the individual services or attendances rendered by the doctor any more than the deeming in s 106KA(1) does.
Each subsection looks at a particular factual situation and its operation is engaged or not depending on those facts.
DR HO'S CLAIM OF EXCEPTIONAL CIRCUMSTANCES 
 
39 Dr Ho said that because of the nature of the partnership before Dr Nguyen-Phuoc left, and the circumstances in which he did leave, when he and Dr Do had to deal with over 10,000 patients of the practice, it was sometimes necessary to see more than 80 a day.
This was because, although they were making efforts to do so, they had been unable to locate a suitable replacement for Dr Nguyen-Phuoc who could work in the practice on a full time basis.
This was made more difficult than usual because at this time medical practices were being corporatised which affected the market and availability of practitioners who might be suitable recruits to work in the practice.
Moreover, the first day on which the new practice operated was 4 January 2000.
A large number of patients needed to be seen following the Christmas break and the re-organisation of the practice.
When the practice closed for two days so they could move to new rooms in late March 2000, Dr Ho saw more than 80 patients.
A number of the other days on which over 80 patients were seen were Mondays during winter.
Dr Ho said that his practice was a family practice, rather than a medical centre type practice, in which individuals were important and wished to see the doctor of their nomination or choice, rather than being referred to whoever was available at the practice.
40 In addition, in the relevant period there were two days on which Dr Do went home sick and another on which he was not present at the practice.
41 In essence, the committee rejected all of these explanations finding that for each of them, proper practice management would have enabled Dr Ho to see less than 80 patients on any of the days.
THE WAY DR HO PUT HIS POSITION BEFORE THE COMMITTEE 
 
42 At the conclusion of Dr Ho's hearing the chairman expressed the preliminary view of the committee which he said was to be spelled out in detail in their draft report to similar effect, namely that the practice appeared to be a high volume one and that there were no particular distinguishing features shown in the adjudicative referral material for any of the 24 days.
