
 
1 In January 2006, the respondent ('the University') was party to a certified agreement under the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) ('the Act'), known as 'The University of Western Australia Academic Staff Agreement 2004' ('the 2004 certified agreement').
The terms of the 2004 certified agreement applied to the academic staff of the University.
2 By a letter dated 6 January 2006, the Vice Chancellor advised the applicant, a tenured professor at the University, that allegations of serious misconduct comprising breaches of the University's policy on sexual harassment had been made against him and that he was suspended without pay pending the investigation of the allegations.
The letter invoked Sch D of the 2004 certified agreement, which dealt with the process to be adopted where allegations of misconduct including serious misconduct, were made against a member of the academic staff.
It provides, inter alia, for the establishment of a Misconduct Investigation Committee.
3 In early February 2006, the University advised the applicant that it had established a Misconduct Investigation Committee ('the Committee') to investigate the allegations.
In March 2006 the Committee held a number of hearings.
The applicant complained that the University had failed to set out in sufficient detail the particulars of the allegations made against him and that, accordingly, the University acted in breach of Sch D of the 2004 certified agreement in establishing the Committee.
The applicant also alleged there were breaches of the 2004 certified agreement arising from the way the hearings of the Committee were conducted.
Notwithstanding these complaints by the applicant, the University did not provide the particulars of the allegations in the detail requested by the applicant, and the Committee continued with its hearings.
4 On 17 March 2006, the applicant commenced these proceedings whereby the applicant seeks declarations relating to the proper interpretation of Sch D of the 2004 certified agreement and, in support of his claim that a penalty be imposed upon the University pursuant to s 178 of the Act, declarations that the University breached certain provisions of Sch D of that certified agreement.
The applicant also seeks a permanent injunction restraining the Committee from taking any further steps in relation to the allegations made against him by the University.
On 21 March 2006, the applicant obtained an interim injunction precluding the Committee from continuing its hearings.
5 The University filed a defence and counterclaim.
In its defence the University admitted that it breached the 2004 certified agreement in relation to its obligation to give proper particulars of the allegations made against the applicant, but did not admit all the allegations of breaches of the 2004 certified agreement made against it by the applicant.
It also pleaded that it did not comply with other provisions of Sch D of the 2004 certified agreement in the course of the establishment of the Committee.
The University went on to plead that it would consent to orders in the following or substantially similar terms:
 
 '(a) in the events that have occurred, the Misconduct Investigation Committee purportedly established by the respondent in or about early February 2006 to consider, investigate and make determinations in respect of allegations of misconduct against the respondent [sic] ("the Committee") was invalidly constituted and its deliberations and determinations are void and of no effect; and 
 
 (b) the respondent be permanently restrained from: 
 
 (i) proceeding further with any hearings or deliberations of the Committee; and 
 
 (ii) giving effect to any deliberation or determination of the Committee in respect of allegations of misconduct against the applicant.
' 
 

6 
 
In its counterclaim, the University pleaded that the 2004 certified agreement had on 30 May 2006 been superseded by another certified agreement, 'The University of Western Australia Academic Staff Agreement 2006' ('the 2006 certified agreement'), binding the applicant and the University.
Schedule D to the 2006 certified agreement provided for a disciplinary procedure which was different to that contained in Sch D of the 2004 certified agreement.
7 The University's position was that, whilst it intended, in effect to abandon the proceedings before the Committee, that was established in February 2006, it, nevertheless, intended to deal with the allegations of misconduct against the applicant under the 2006 certified agreement.
Clause 6.6 of Sch D of the 2006 certified agreement contained transitional provisions identifying the circumstances when each of the 2004 and 2006 certified agreements was to apply to disciplinary proceedings.
The University counterclaimed for a declaration that on the proper construction of the 2006 certified agreement, all allegations of misconduct against the applicant must be dealt with in accordance with the provisions of Sch D of the 2006 certified agreement.
8 The admissions made by the University narrowed the range of issues left in dispute.
At the trial there were four main issues to be determined.
These are:
 
 (a) whether a declaration should be made that the breaches of the 2004 certified agreement by the University resulted in the establishment and determinations of the Committee being void and of no effect;
 (b) whether declarations should be made that the University breached the 2004 certified agreement by reason of aspects of its conduct relating to the hearings of the Committee;
 (c) whether a penalty should be imposed on the University, and if so, how much;
 (d) which certified agreement applied to the disciplinary proceedings which the University intended to take in respect of the allegations of misconduct made against the applicant.


 The 2004 certified agreement 
 
9 Clause 2.1 of Sch D provides that any allegation of misconduct should, where 'practical and reasonable', be resolved by the academic supervisor through guidance counselling, or conciliation.
Clause 2.2 of Sch D provides:
 
 'Where it is not appropriate for an allegation of misconduct to be resolved in accordance with subclause 2.1 or where an allegation has not been resolved in accordance with subclause 2.1, then a report of the allegation shall be made to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor.
The report shall provide information about the nature and details of the misconduct allegation(s), and what steps were taken to resolve the issue, if any.
' 
 

10 Clause 3 of Sch D provides that, subject to cl 2.1, any allegations of misconduct will be reported to the Deputy Vice Chancellor who shall consider whether the allegations warrant further investigation; and if so, which Academic Member of Executive is to deal with the matter.
The Deputy Vice Chancellor is then to advise the employee in writing who is dealing with the matter.
11 Clause 4 of Sch D provides that if immediate investigation is not warranted the Academic Member of Executive may refer the matter of the alleged misconduct back to the employee's supervisor, or other appropriate person, to attempt to resolve the matter through guidance, counselling, conciliation or other appropriate means.
12 Clause 5.1 of Sch D provides that:
 
 'If a report of an allegation of serious misconduct is such that it would be unreasonable for the University to continue the employment of the employee, the Vice Chancellor may suspend the employee about whom an allegation(s) has been made on full pay or without pay...' 
 

13 Clause 6 of Sch D provides as follows:
 
 '6.1 If the Academic Member of Executive believes the report referred to in subclause 2.2 warrants further investigation, he/she shall: 
 
 6.1.1. notify the employee in writing and in sufficient detail to enable the employee to understand the precise nature of the allegation(s), and to properly consider and respond to them.
A copy of this schedule shall accompany this letter, and 
 
 6.1.2 require the employee to submit a written response within 10 working days.
' 
 
 

14 Clause 9.2 of Sch D provides that:
 
 'If the employee denies the allegation(s) and the Academic Member of Executive is of the view that the conduct at issue could constitute misconduct/serious misconduct then he/she may choose to refer the matter to a Misconduct Investigation Committee.
' 
 

15 Clause 10 of Sch D provides that the Committee is to comprise:
 
 '10.1.1 a nominee of the Academic Member of Executive; 
 
 10.1.2 the President of the UWA Branch of the NTEU or nominee; and 
 
 
 
 10.1.3 a Chairperson appointed from a list of chairpersons agreed between the University and the President of the UWA Branch of the NTEU.
' 
 
 

16 Clause 11 of Sch D provides:
 
 '11.1 In accordance with the provisions of Clause 12, - Investigating Officer the Misconduct Investigation Committee may appoint an investigating officer to conduct further inquiries as the Misconduct Investigation Committee considers reasonable and appropriate.

 
 
 
 11.2 The Committee shall report its findings to the Academic Member of Executive and the employee within 28 days from the date on which the matter was referred to it by the Academic Member of Executive.

 
 
 
 11.3 If the Committee does not complete its deliberations within the timeframe referred to above, it must make application to the Academic Member of Executive for an extension of time.

 
 
 
 11.4 The terms of reference of the Committee shall be to report to the Academic Member of Executive on: 
 
 
 
 
 
 11.4.1 the facts relating to the allegations and whether there is sufficient evidence to support the allegation(s) of misconduct and/or serious misconduct; 
 
 11.4.2 whether the procedures of clause 2 have been followed; and 
 
 11.4.3 whether there are any mitigating circumstances.

 
 ...' 
 
 

17 Clause 13 of Sch D is headed:
 
 'Procedure and Responsibilities of the Misconduct Investigation Committee'.

 

18 Among the relevant provisions in that clause are the following:
 
 
 '13.1 A Committee established in accordance with clause 10 --- Composition of the Misconduct Investigation Committee shall: 
 
 
 
 13.1.1 at its first meeting, where a suspension without pay has been imposed determine whether suspension without pay should continue and make a recommendation to the Vice-Chancellor; 
 
 
 
 
 
 13.1.2 provide an opportunity for the employee to be interviewed by it and ensure that he/she has adequate opportunity to answer any allegation(s).
The Committee may take into account such further materials as it believes appropriate to substantiate or otherwise the facts in dispute; 
 
 
 
 
 
 13.1.3 interview any person or seek further material that it requires to establish the merits or facts of the particular case; 
 
 
 
 
 
 13.1.4 allow the employee and the Academic Member of Executive each to be assisted or represented by an agent of his or her choice who is a staff member of the University (but not if such a person is a currently practising solicitor or barrister) or staff member or representative of the union, or by an officer of an industrial association of which the University is a member; 
 
 13.1.5 conduct all interviews in the presence of the employee, the employee's advocate where the employee is represented, and the University's advocate; 
 
 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 13.1.7 conduct proceedings in camera unless otherwise agreed by the employee and the University; 
 
 
 
 
 
 13.1.8 ensure that the employee or his/her representative and the University's advocate have the right to ask questions of interviewees, and to make submissions.
The employee shall have the right to present and challenge evidence; and 
 
 13.1.9 
 keep a full record of the proceedings (but not its own deliberations), which shall be available on request to either party.
' 
 
 

19 Clause 14 is the final clause in Sch D. It is headed 'Final Determination' and provides:
 
 
 '14.1 If, having considered the Committee's report, the Academic Member of Executive is of the view that there has been no misconduct he/she shall without delay advise the employee in writing, and may, by agreement with the employee, publish the advice in an appropriate manner.

 
 14.2 The Academic Member of Executive shall consider any matter raised by the employee with him/her and the Report of the Misconduct Investigation Committee or the investigating officer before making a final determination as to whether misconduct/serious misconduct has occurred.

 
 14.3 If the Academic Member of Executive determines that misconduct/serious misconduct has occurred he/she may decide to take disciplinary action in accordance with the definition of Disciplinary Action at Clause 1 --- Definitions.
The Academic Member of Executive has the power to counsel or censure the employee or withhold an increment for a period not exceeding twelve months.
Where he/she is of the view that the misconduct is such that it warrants other disciplinary action as listed in the definition [which would include dismissal], the matter must be referred to the Vice-Chancellor.

 
 
 
 
 
 14.4 The Vice-Chancellor or Academic Member of Executive, as appropriate shall advise the employee and the supervisor in writing of any determination made in accordance with sub-clause 14.3 above.

 
 
 
 
 
 14.5 Termination of the employment may only result from a determination that the conduct of the employee amounts to serious misconduct.

 
 
 
 
 
 14.6 If the disciplinary action as per sub-clause 14.3 above take the form of termination the staff member shall be afforded an opportunity to explain why termination is not appropriate in the circumstances.
' 
 
 
 

 Factual background 
 
20 There was no dispute between the parties as to the facts.
Each of the parties read affidavits.
There was no cross-examination on the affidavits.
I set out below an account of the essential facts.
21 The applicant is a professor in the Department of Economics at the University and he has an international reputation.
22 On 19 August 2005, the University established a preliminary inquiry into the working environment within the Department of Economics.
Ms Beverley Hill, the Manager of Equity and Diversity, employed by the University, conducted the inquiry.
In the course of conducting the inquiry, Ms Hill interviewed members of staff in the department.
On 7 November 2005, Ms Hill published the report of her findings.
23 On 2 December 2006, the applicant received an email from the Deputy Vice Chancellor, Professor Margaret Seares, calling upon the applicant to meet with Professor Probert on 8 December 2005, to discuss matters which, it was said, the University had determined required further action consequent upon the publication of Ms Hill's report.
24 At their meeting on 8 December 2005, Professor Probert handed the applicant a letter setting out allegations of sexual harassment made against the applicant, and advising him that the University intended to commence proceedings against him for sexual harassment in accordance with the University's policy on sexual harassment.
The letter went on to say that a Sexual Harassment Review Panel had been established to consider these matters.
The allegations of sexual harassment contained in the letter were the same as, and expressed in the same form as, the allegations set out in the University's letter of 6 January 2006 referred to in [29] below.
25 By a letter dated 13 December 2005, the applicant's solicitors complained to the University about the absence of particularity of the allegations made against the applicant.
26 On 14 December 2005, two of the persons interviewed by Ms Hill, as part of her inquiry, made affidavits.
Each of the deponents was a female member of the Department of Economics.
The two affidavits comprise 17 pages and 6 pages respectively and contain accounts of conversations and events that occurred over the course of a number of years --- in the case of one deponent, commencing in 1991.
These affidavits are not made in this proceeding but are annexed to the affidavit of the applicant dated 17 March 2006.
I will from now on refer to the deponents to those affidavits as 'the deponents'.
27 The applicant's solicitors received a letter from Professor Probert dated 14 December 2005 enclosing the two affidavits, each dated 14 December 2005, referred to above.
28 In December 2005, the Sexual Harassment Review Panel considered the allegations against the applicant and upheld the allegations.
The Review Panel also recommended that the University take further action in respect of its findings.
By a letter dated 23 December 2005, the Vice Chancellor of the University advised the applicant of the Review Panel's findings and recommendation.
29 On 6 January 2006, the Vice Chancellor of the University wrote a letter to the applicant.
The letter stated:
 
 '...The Sexual Harassment Review Panel have upheld all of the allegations of sexual harassment and recommended that the University now take action to progress this matter via the misconduct procedures --- Schedule D of the Academic Staff Agreement (the Agreement).
Consistent with the provisions of Schedule D and the findings of the Sexual Harassment Review Panel the following allegations of serious misconduct are made against you.

 
 It is alleged that you have repeatedly behaved inappropriately in the workplace in breach of the University's policy on Sexual Harassment.
