
 
1 Before the court are two appeals on questions of law under s 44 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (Cth) ('the AAT Act') from a decision of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal ('the Tribunal') published on 22 June 2006 upon an application by the taxpayer for a review, pursuant to s 14ZZ of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth), of the Commissioner's decision, published on 15 December 2004, to disallow the taxpayer's objection against his income tax assessment for the year to 30 June 1998.
THE FACTS 
 
2 The taxpayer is an accountant.
In 1991, he joined the firm of Duesburys Chartered Accountants ('Duesburys').
He made a capital contribution of $174,000, $160,000 of which was financed by an advance from Westpac Banking Corporation.
In 1994, Duesburys merged with Deloitte Touche Thomatsu ('Deloittes'), at which time the taxpayer made a further capital contribution of $150,000, the whole of which was financed by an advance from National Australia Bank.
He remained a member of Deloittes until the events of 1997 with which this proceeding is concerned.
3 The agreement between the partners at Deloittes ('the partnership agreement') was in evidence in the Tribunal.
It provided that Deloittes was an ongoing partnership, not dissolved, as regards continuing partners, by the retirement, removal or resignation of a partner.
It provided for a "Policy Board" to exercise a general supervision of the affairs of the partnership.
It provided for the keeping of partnership books of account, and required the preparation of a balance sheet, and profit and loss account, as at 30 June each year.
It provided that no partner would have any personal financial interest in the partnership apart from the accrued or accruing profits to which he was entitled from time to time, and any other amounts recorded in the partnership accounts as due to him.
4 The capital of the partnership was divided between partners according to cl 11(A) of the partnership agreement, which provided:
 
 The capital of the Partnership shall be divided into shares which shall be represented by Role and Responsibility Units designated as R/R units and the total number of such units and their allocation between the Partners shall be determined from time to time by the Policy Board having regard to the respective roles and responsibilities of the Partners.


For each R/R unit held by a partner, that partner was obliged to deposit with the firm a stipulated sum of money.
The criteria by which R/R units were allocated to partners were dealt with in section D3 of the "Partner Manual" (there called "Role Units").
Those units then formed part of the basis for the distribution to partners of the profits of the firm for each year.
The other part was according to what were called "Performance Units".
They were not part of the capital, but were allocated to partners after each year to reflect their performance in that year.
5 The partnership agreement provided that a partner could retire on giving 12 months' written notice thereof, expiring on 30 June.
Additionally, the Policy Board might, in its discretion, permit a partner to retire on less than 12 months' notice, and/or on a date other than 30 June.
A partner retiring in any of these circumstances might, at the discretion of the Policy Board, be entitled to participate in the Partner Retirement Plan.
A partner could also be involuntarily removed by resolution of the Policy Board (on the recommendation of the Chief Executive Officer) on the ground that such removal was "in the best interests" of the partnership.
Upon ceasing to be a partner otherwise than by death, a partner was entitled to be paid the amount of his capital account, his share of profits from the end of the last completed year down to the date of ceasing to be a partner, and his share of other undrawn profits (if any).
6 Clause 22 of the partnership agreement dealt with the situation which arose when a partner retired, died or was removed.
It provided that the partnership would not be totally dissolved, "but shall be dissolved so far only as regards that Partner".
By that clause it was agreed --- 
 
 ... that the share (if any) of the Outgoing Partner in the business and all assets of the Partnership shall go and belong to the remaining Partners without any payment whatsoever .... 
 

The clause provided that the partnership would continue between the remaining partners, and that those partners should account to the outgoing partner for "all moneys payable to him ... in accordance with the provisions" of the partnership agreement.
By cl 17(C) of the partnership agreement, for the purpose of determining a person's entitlement upon ceasing to be a partner ---
 
 ... the balance sheet of the Firm as at the end of the last completed year and the profit and loss account for the current year shall be the basis of settlement between him or his legal personal representatives (as the case may be) and the remaining Partners.


7 There was a "Partner Manual", by the terms of which each partner agreed to be bound.
It was divided into sections.
Section D1 dealt with the subject of accounts.
It provided for the firm's financial year to end on 30 June each year, and continued (in part):
 
 As soon as practicable after that date each Practice Office shall prepare a statement in a form determined by the Chief Executive Officer showing the fees and other income received and the expenses and outgoings paid by such Practice Office during the year ending on that day together with such other accounts and information as may be required by the Chief Executive Officer and such Practice Office shall forward copies of such statements and accounts and information to the Chief Executive Officer.
Work-in-progress shall be brought into account for the purposes of the Partnership's own accounts and for settling the rights of the Partners as between themselves but it shall not be brought into account for income tax purposes.
Work-in-progress shall be valued on the basis directed by the Policy Board.
The Chief Executive Officer shall cause income tax returns to be prepared and lodged on behalf of the Partnership and he shall cause copies thereof to be forwarded to each Practice Office.
Work-in-progress at the 30 th day of June in each year shall be deemed to be derived as taxable income in the following year.


8 As I have said, Performance Units were allocated to partners following the end of each year.
Clause 8 of section D3 of the Partner Manual provided (in part):
 
 It is intended that all profits of the Partnership for each year shall be distributed to the partners and following completion of the financial accounts of the partnership for each year to 30 June all undistributed profits for that year shall be distributed.
The Partners shall be entitled to the profits of the Partnership for each year to 30 June pro rata according to their respective totals for Role Units and Performance Units allocated to them in respect of that year and, to any extent necessary to reflect such entitlement, adjustments shall be made as between them having regard to distributions made on account of the profits.


It was also provided in cl 8 that a distribution on account of profits would be made to partners each month.
9 The Partner Retirement Plan was dealt with in section D6 of the Partner Manual.
Clause (12) thereof dealt with a situation in which a partner retired or was removed from the partnership.
In such a case --- 
 
 ... the Policy Board may in its discretion determine to offer that Partner a lump sum and/or a share of income (of such amount as the Policy Board may determine) and/or such other consideration as the Policy Board may think fit in consideration of that Partner's past services to the Partnership.


The Policy Board might make any such offer conditional upon certain requirements as to the future employment, or business activity, of the departing partner.

 

10 On 17 July 1997, the Policy Board of Deloittes resolved that it was in the best interests of the partnership that the taxpayer be removed from the partnership.
He was informed by correspondence of that date that he had thereby ceased to be a partner.
The taxpayer did not accept that he had been validly removed from the partnership.
Through his solicitors, he disputed his removal, and eventually undertook negotiations with Deloittes for a resolution of that dispute.
His solicitors prepared (but did not issue) an intended Statement of Claim in which the taxpayer would have sought declarations that the actions of the Policy Board were unlawful and invalid, but in which he would not have sought damages.
11 The dispute between the taxpayer and Deloittes was settled at mediation on 9 December 1997.
The settlement agreement, as set out in the decision of the Tribunal, was as follows:
 McNALLY v DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU
 TERMS OF SETTLEMENT 
 
 1.
This agreement is made between Walter McNally (WM) and Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu (the firm).
2.
This agreement is conditional upon the Policy Board of the firm confirming clause 6 below and resolving by 22 December 1997 to revoke its resolution of 17 July 1997 that WM be removed as a partner of the firm, in consideration of the parties agreeing now that WM has retired from the firm as at 17 July 1997.
3.
The firm agrees to pay WM the amount of $500,000 within two business days of the Policy Board referred to above.
4.
The firm is to obtain a discharge of the obligation by paying to the National Australia Bank such part of the capital of $150,000 that WM contributed to the firm that he has borrowed from the National Australia Bank.
WM directs the firm to pay the amount of $150,000 or such amount as is owing to the National Australia Bank as part of the return of his capital and $160,000 to Westpac Banking Corporation.
5.
The firm releases WM from the restrictive covenants in s. 16 of the Partnership Agreement.
6.
In all other respects the Partnership Agreement is affirmed as between the parties except that the firm releases WM from any future liability under clause 21B of the Partnership Agreement and acknowledges that WM has satisfied his obligations for professional indemnity claims for the two years after his retirement.
7.
WM releases the firm from all claims he has told the firm of through his solicitors and all claims arising from his ceasing to be a member of the firm.
8.
These terms are confidential to the parties.

 
 

12 Pursuant to that agreement, Deloittes paid $310,000 to the two banks mentioned in cl 4 thereof, and the balance of the settlement sum of $500,000, $190,000, to the taxpayer.
13 By letter to the taxpayer dated 24 December 1997, Deloittes informed him of the passing of the resolution referred to in cl 2 of the settlement agreement, and of the application of the settlement sum in the way I have described.
The letter continued:
 
 I believe the only matters outstanding relate to taxation and I understand John Milne has sent you a Statement of your position at 30 June 1997.
Based on my review this Statement is incorrect, in that John has impacted the full extent of the Capital Reconstruction.
John is currently on leave and I suggest you do not attempt to complete your taxation return until you talk to John following his return from leave on the 12 January 1998.

 THE TAX ASSESSMENTS 
 
14 In his income tax return for the 1998 year, the taxpayer stated that his distribution from partnerships was $0.00.
He was originally assessed on the basis of that statement.
However, information from Deloittes caused the Commissioner to revisit that assessment.
By letter dated 1 December 2000, Deloittes answered the Commissioner's queries concerning the entitlements of partners who had retired.
One such retired partner was the taxpayer.
