
 Nature of and basis for the application instituted in this Court on behalf of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry - the statutory regime and circumstances otherwise contextual to the pursuit of the proceedings and the course taken by the respondents by way of resistance to the relief sought 
 
1 The applicant Mr Jeremy Jones is the authorised representative of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry for the purpose of conducting the present proceedings, and has brought this application on his own behalf and on behalf of that Council.
The application was filed on 18 May 2005, and was made pursuant to s 46PO(1) of the Human Rights And Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) ('HREOC Act'), following upon the termination of a complaint made to the President of the Human Rights And Equal Opportunity Commission ('HREOC') in accordance with s 46PH(1)(i) of the HREOC Act, the President being Mr von Doussa QC (formerly Justice von Doussa of this Court).
That complaint was originally made to HREOC on 25 August 2004.
The proceedings were originally commenced by Mr Jones in those respective capacities as applicant against The Bible Believers' Church, conceivably an unincorporated association and originally the sole respondent, by the application filed on 18 May 2005, which initiating process was supported by an affidavit of Mr JD Landis sworn on 17 May 2005.
A formal extension of time for that purpose was sanctioned by order of the Court made on 22 June 2005.
Subsequently by order of the Court made on 21 July 2005 pursuant to Order 6 Rule 2 of the Federal Court Rules , there was added as second respondent to the proceedings Mr Anthony Grigor-Scott, who has described himself as a pastor of The Bible Believers' Church, and who has conducted what may be described as denial of the complaint and resistance to consequential relief in person.
2 The subject matter of complaint by Mr Jones was the publication of material claimed to be racially vilifying of Jewish people, being material which appeared on the World Wide Web, and in particular at websites collectively described as The Bible Believers' Website (the internet address of which is http\\www.biblebelievers.org.au) purportedly owned and operated at all material times by the Bible Believers' Church (hereafter referred to as 'the BBC').
At all material times the BBC was the listed 'registrant' of the website and Mr Grigor-Scott was registered as the 'registrant contact name' and 'tech name' for the website, and as will become apparent in these reasons, he has controlled the purported activities of The Bible Believers' Church to the extent that those activities were capable of being attributed to an apparent unincorporated association, and has otherwise and in any event undertaken such activities himself.
The initiating application was subsequently amended by Mr Jones on 27 September 2005, and declaratory relief and orders were sought by that amended pleading against both respondents, and otherwise to the same effect as appeared in the original pleading.
It may be taken for the purpose of the proceedings there has existed at all conceivably material times a relatively speaking substantial community of persons comprising the Australian Jewry.
3 The statutory provisions identified above, together with the related s 46P(1) of the HREOC Act, read in sequence as follows:
 
 '46P Lodging a complaint 
 
 
 
 (1) A written complaint may be lodged with the Commission, alleging unlawful discrimination.

 
 ... 
 
 46PH Termination of complaint 
 
 (1) The President may terminate a complaint on any of the following grounds: 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) The President is satisfied that there is no reasonable prospect of the matter being settled by conciliation.

 
 ... 
 
 46PO Application to court if complaint is terminated 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1) If: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) a complaint has been terminated by the President under section... 46PH; and 
 
 (b) the President has given a notice to any person under subsection 46PH(2) in relation to the termination; 
 
 
 
 
 
 any person who was an affected person in relation to the complaint may make an application to the Federal Court or the Federal Magistrates Court, alleging unlawful discrimination by one or more of the respondents to the terminated complaint...
.
' 
 
 

4 Pursuant to s 46PO(1)(b) above, the President of HREOC gave notice as to termination of the complaint in the further context outlined below, after which the present proceedings were commenced.
At no stage during the proceedings has either respondent filed or served a form of notice of appearance or a defence pursuant to O 9 and O 11 r 20 of the Federal Court Rules respectively.
Nevertheless, Mr Grigor-Scott has assumed to have an entitlement to be heard to dispute the entirety of the claims the subject of the proceedings by making to the Court very lengthy written submissions, purportedly in the form of affidavit material, as well as oral submissions from the Bar Table, whether on behalf of himself or of the BBC, or both, irrespective of that so-called church not having any apparent legal personality known to the law.
The practical course adopted by the applicant has been to treat the proceedings as being wholly resisted and to pursue relief by way of s 46PO with as much expedition as achievable in the circumstances.
5 The application of Mr Jones brought at the outset of the proceedings on behalf of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry, as well as by himself, seeks relief by reason of what is pleaded to be breaches on the part of either or both respondents of s 18C of Part IIA of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) ('the RD Act').
That section, along with s 18D relating to exemptions from the operation of the RD Act, read respectively as follows:
 
 
 '18C Offensive behaviour because of race, colour or national or ethnic origin 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1) It is unlawful for a person to do an act, otherwise than in private, if: 
 
 
 
 (a) the act is reasonably likely, in all the circumstances, to offend, insult, humiliate or intimidate another person or a group of people; and 
 (b) the act is done because of the race, colour or national or ethnic origin of the other person or of some or all of the people in the group.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 [Then appears a legislative Note which I do not reproduce.
] 
 
 
 
 
 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), an act is taken not to be done in private if it: 
 
 
 
 (a) causes words, sounds, images or writing to be communicated to the public; or 
 (b) is done in a public place; or 
 (c) is done in the sight or hearing of people who are in a public place.

 
 (3) In this section: 
 
 
 
 public place includes any place to which the public have access as of right or by invitation, whether express or implied and whether or not a charge is made for admission to the place.

 
 
 
 
 18D Exemptions 
 
 
 
 Section 18C does not render unlawful anything said or done reasonably and in good faith: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) in the performance, exhibition or distribution of an artistic work; or 
 (b) in the course of any statement, publication, discussion or debate made or held for any genuine academic, artistic or scientific purpose or any other genuine purpose in the public interest; or 
 (c) in making or publishing: 
 
 
 
 (i) a fair and accurate report of any event or matter of public interest; or 
 (ii) a fair comment on any event or matter of public interest if the comment is an expression of a genuine belief held by the person making the comment.
' 

Reference to ' a group of people' in s 18C may be observed, as may also the reference to ' reasonably and in good faith' in s 18D.
As previously observed, the absence of any material elements of the statutory scheme have not been formally pleaded by either respondent by way of defence to the application in accordance with the Federal Court Rules , though as will shortly appear, the respondents or at least the second respondent Mr Grigor-Scott, have or has (as the case may be) purported to make an application to the Court for dismissal of the proceedings upon the footing of s 18D.
I will later make observations upon the status in law of the BBC in the proceedings.
The practical course adopted by the applicant has been to oppose and join issue upon or demur to the causes of action and the relief purportedly sought by any and all of such purported process or processes sought to be put in place by Mr Grigor-Scott.
6 Earlier on 25 August 2004, a complaint had been lodged with HREOC by the present applicant Mr Jeremy Jones, in his capacity as President of the said Executive Council of Australian Jewry.
Contained within that letter of complaint was the following:
 
 'We write to lodge a formal complaint under the anti-racial-hatred provisions (Part IIA) of the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth) in respect of material published on the Australian website http://www.biblebelievers.org.au ("The website").

 
 The Executive Council of Australian Jewry, the peak representative organisation of the Australian Jewish community, complains that: 
 
 
 
 (i) the material on the website is reasonably likely in all the circumstances to offend, insult, humiliate and intimidate Jewish Australians; and 
 
 (ii) one of the reasons that the material has been published is the race or national or ethnic origin of Jewish people, including Jewish Australians.

 
 
 
 The specific matters complained of are as follows: 
 
 
 
 1.
At http://www.biblebelievers.org.au/nl242.htm under the heading Lies and the First Anniversary of the 9/11 Conspiracy where the following words appear: 
 
 We have all seen how the holocaust hoax of six-million Jews claimed to have been gassed and cremated by Germany in World War I failed to deceive the mob in 1919.
Whereas monopolistic control of the media, film, and a more boldly pursued holocaust hoax of six-million Jews claimed gassed and cremated by Germany in World War II has produced such powerful psychological and material results the entire world is enslaved to the beneficiaries of the lie and Temples of Equivocation affront the intelligence of humanity in major cities world-wide.

 
 
 
 
 
 2.
At http://www.biblebelievers.org.au/wasthere.htm the following words appear: 
 
 The Holocaust has become the greatest instrument of sympathy which any nation has ever been able to use to gain support for wars, expansion and foreign-aid: This has made Israel the world's sixth strongest military power.
The gravest threat to all this wealth and influence is the growing doubt over the question of whether or not a real holocaust of 6 million Jews actually took place.

 
 3.
At the " wasthere.htm " webpage the following words appear at the conclusion: 
 
 The main theme of Jewish fund-raising is the holocaust and has been for 38 years.
When they don't use the holocaust the money collection sharply drops off.
Thus the more the Press, TV and Hollywood promotes the holocaust the more money the United Jewish Appeal and other Zionist funds can extract from gullible people... Jewish leaders have discovered that by repeating holocaust stories over and over again they can instil a guilt complex within all Gentiles.
This effectively silences most critics of Zionist political goals... Why doesn't the Jew-controlled press, TV and film industry give massive media attention to real victims and to proven holocausts of Gentiles in recent history.

 
 ... 
 
 
 
 In our submission, the above material breaches the provisions of Part IIA of the Racial Discrimination Act because it conveys the following imputations: 
 
 
 
 (a) there is serious doubt that the Holocaust occurred; 
 (b) it is unlikely that there were homicidal gas chambers at Auschwitz; 
 (c) Jewish people who are offended by and challenge Holocaust denial are of limited intelligence; and 
 (d) some Jewish people, for improper purposes, including financial gain, exaggerated the number of Jews killed during World War II and the circumstances in which they were killed.

 
 
 
 ... 
 
 In this respect, we refer you to the case of Toben v Jones [2003] FCAFC 137 in which the Full Court of the Federal Court upheld the decision of Branson J at first instance that it is unlawful under Part IIA of the Act to publish material that conveys inter alia the imputations particularised above.

 
 In our submission the material complained of conveys further imputations that are also in breach of Part IIA of the Act, namely that: 
 
 
 
 (a) Jews as a group are inherently malevolent towards other people; 
 (b) Jews as a group are engaged in a global conspiracy to dominate other people; and 
 (c) the State of Israel, as the State of the Jewish people, is a product of that conspiracy.

 
 
 
 We further submit that none of the material complained of falls within the exemptions contained in s 18D of the Act.

 
 You will be aware that this Council has brought two cases of racial hatred before HREOC in the past, one against Olga Scully and the other against Fredrick Toben.
Both cases were ultimately heard and determined in favour of the Council by the Federal Court of Australia.
In both cases the Court was satisfied that Jews, and Jewish Australians in particular, constitute a race or a national or ethnic group for the purposes of the Act.
In the Toben case, the Court also found that the publication of material on the internet is an act that is done otherwise than in private for the purposes of s 18C of the Act.

 
 We are seeking to have the material complained of removed from the internet and an apology to Australia's Jewish community being given publicly by the website's owner/s.
' 


The reference in the above letter to 'Jewish Australians' and 'Australian Jewish Community ' may be observed.
The connection of the BBC and of Mr Grigor-Scott to the foregoing Bible Believers' website will be further indicated in these reasons.
The grounds or particulars of the complaint were at least implicitly adopted by Mr Jones therein and subsequently pursued in the present proceeding.
7 The foregoing decision on appeal in Toben v Jones [2003] FCAFC 137 ; (2003) 129 FCR 515 was made on 27 June 2003 by a Full Federal Court comprising Carr, Kiefel and Allsop JJ in favour of Mr Jones as complainant also in those proceedings, in line with the decision at first instance of Branson J in Jones v Toben (2002) 71 ALD 629.
Mr Jones, being the applicant for relief there involved, is the same representative person for the Executive Council of Australian Jewry as here constituted.
8 The circumstances leading to the Court's decision-making in Toben [2003] FCAFC 137 ; 129 FCR 515 were similar in substance to those which have led to the bringing of the present proceedings, and reflected a not dissimilar theme to the subject matter of complaint involving denial of the Holocaust which preceded and continued throughout World War II, an attack upon the widespread exposure of those circumstances on the part of Jewish people, and assertions that Jewish people exaggerated the number of Jews killed in the Holocaust for improper purposes.
The language the subject of complaint in Toben was described by Carr J at [45] as 'deliberately provocative and inflammatory' and a 'flamboyantly-worded challenge' , and lacking in good faith, those being descriptions adopted by the applicant in relation to its case against the respondents.
9 I observe moreover that in the concurring appellate judgment of Kiefel J in Toben [2003] FCAFC 137 ; 129 FCR 515 , her Honour concluded, at [77], that:
 
 ' [t] he likelihood that the appellant wrote only to pursue the truth of those subjects is rendered implausible by this unnecessary aside, which appears to have no real purpose in such a debate other than to disparage Jewish people.
In my view, it confirms what a reading of the article as a whole raises as a prospect, namely that it was published with Jewish people in mind, as those responsible for concocting the Holocaust and, indeed, as an attack upon them'.



A similar approach has been adopted by Mr Jones in his presentation of the present case.
Her Honour agreed with Carr J that there was no proof of the appellant's (ie Toben's) good faith.
10 In the further concurring judgment of Allsop J, his Honour made the following observation at [98]:
 
 
 '98.
The above history (taken from the works of scholars, Lerner and Schwelb, working contemporaneously with events) is given to illuminate what it was that the international community was dealing with.
By this time in the twentieth century, the nations of the world had experienced a century stained by, amongst other catastrophes, racial slaughter, pogroms, forced removal and relocations of whole peoples, religious and ethnic genocide, and were undergoing the trauma involved in the break-up and disintegration of colonial empires and national and regional political structures based on racial characteristics.
The unexpected recrudescence, in the winter of 1959-1960, of some of the most recent and horrific manifestations of racist behaviour enlivened the world community to act swiftly and (with an inevitable degree of variation in political perspective) unanimously, to take steps towards the elimination [his Honour's emphasis] of the perceived evil.
The perceived evil was all [again his Honour's emphasis] forms of racial discrimination and racial prejudice, the manifestation of which had been, in recent generations, at times horrifically violent and strident, at times overt, and at times less overt and less brutal, but nevertheless insidiously pervasive.
In any form, it was recognised, by all nations in the international community, to strike at the dignity and equality of all human beings.
' 
 


Thereafter at [100]-[101], his Honour added:
 
 
 '100.
Racial hatred was one form or manifestation of the perceived evil.
Unhappily, it was a form with which the nations in the General Assembly in 1960 to 1965 were all too familiar.
It was the form of the perceived evil most likely to lead to brutality and violence, but it was not the only form of the perceived evil antithetical to the dignity and equality inherent in all human beings upon which the Charter of the United Nations was based.
It was to all [his Honour's emphasis] such forms and manifestations that the Convention was directed.

 
 101 The definition of "racial discrimination" in Art 1 of the Convention confirmed the wide aim of the Convention: 
 
 
 
 Article 1 
 
 1.
In this Convention, the term "racial discrimination" shall mean any distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on race, colour, descent, or national or ethnic origin which has the purpose or effect of nullifying or impairing the recognition, enjoyment or exercise, on an equal footing, of human rights and fundamental freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural or any other field of public life.
' 


His Honour then referred at some length to the public discussion and debate, and to issues as to in-roads into freedom of speech, which led to the enactment of the RD Act in Australia.
11 The material relied on, in particular, by the Executive Council of Australian Jewry was The Bible Believers' Newsletter #242 , (the copy before the Court bearing the date 9 May 2005).
It is 15 pages in length and contains the following segments ( inter alia ):
 
 '(i) an introduction commencing 'We focus on the PRESENT Truth --- what Jesus is doing NOW...' 
 
 
 'Seven Pillars of Jewish Denial' 
 'Landmark Court Ruling Against Holocaust Denier' 
 'September 11 --- US Government Accused' 
 'Thinking Up a Pretext for War' 
 'Lies and the First Anniversary of the 9/11 Conspiracy' 
 
 
 (ii) the following concluding material: 
 
 
 'Pass it on... Send this article to someone you know Brother Anthony Grigor-Scott is a non-denominational minister.
He has ministered full-time since 1981, primarily to other ministers and their congregations in other countries.
He pastors Bible Believers' tiny congregation, and is available to teach in your Church.
' 
 

Below that appeared reference to the details of the BBC website.
12 The website also contained the following material:
 
(i) an article by Dr E R Fields headed ' Was there Really a Holocaust '?
(ii) an abridgment of a book titled ' The International Jew , The World's Foremost Problem ' (the author whereof was stated to be Henry Ford Senior) containing the ' Editor's Forward ' of one page in length, together with a summary of the life of Henry Ford contained in a journal apparently published, and which referred to the circumstances that Mr Ford ' was accused by many Jews' and 'was a resolute opponent of Roosevelt's policy of "controls" in industry and commerce ...'.
13 Following upon that material being placed before HREOC, Mr Grigor-Scott purportedly on behalf of the BBC or in any event in the name of the BBC, wrote further to HREOC the following communications in support of his request that it terminate what he described as 'Mr Jones unwarranted complaint' (now forming Exhibit A1 in the present proceedings):
 
 (i) letter dated 5 November 2004; 
 (ii) letter dated 18 November 2004 (which comprised in all some 11 pages); 
 (iii) email dated 19 November 2004; 
 (iv) letter dated 18 January 2005.


14 On 9 February 2005, the President of HREOC Mr von Doussa QC (already identified at [1] above) responded to that complaint of Mr Jones made on behalf of the Executive Council of Australian Jewry.
Set out below is that response, omitting the formal parts thereof:
 
 '... 
 
 Summary of Complaint 
 
 In a letter dated 25 August 2004, you claim that material published on an Australian website under the name of www.biblebelievers.org.au is in breach of Part IIA of the [Racial Discrimination Act] "Prohibition of offensive behaviour based on racial hatred" because it is "reasonably likely in all the circumstances to offend, insult, humiliate and intimidate Jewish Australians", and "one of the reasons that the material has been published is the face or national or ethnic origin of Jewish people including Jewish Australians".
During the investigation process, the Commission identified that the Bible Believers' Church ("The Church") is the owner of the website in question.
