
 
1 The applicant both in his own right and, effectively, in a prospective representative capacity seeks orders firstly pursuant to s 247A of the Corporations Act 2001 ("the Act ") that he or another person on his behalf be permitted to inspect the books of the respondent and secondly pursuant to s 247B of the Act that the use to which the applicant may put the information obtained during any inspection of the books be limited in certain respects.
STATUTORY FRAMEWORK 
 SECTION 247A 
 
2 Section 247A of the Act provides: 
 
 247A(1) On application by a member of a company or registered managed investment scheme, the Court may make an order: 
 
 
 (a) authorising the applicant to inspect books of the company or scheme; or 
 (b) authorising another person (whether a member or not) to inspect books of the company or scheme on the applicant's behalf.

 
 
 
 The Court may only make the order if it is satisfied that the applicant is acting in good faith and that the inspection is to be made for a proper purpose.

 
 247A(2) A person authorised to inspect books may make copies of the books unless the Court orders otherwise.

 
 247A(3) A person who: 
 
 
 (a) is granted leave under section 237 ; or 
 (b) applies for leave under that section; or 
 (c) is eligible to apply for leave under that section; 
 
 
 may apply to the Court for an order under this section.

 
 247A(4) On application, the Court may make an order authorising: 
 (a) the applicant to inspect books of the company; or 
 
 
 (b) another person to inspect books of the company on the applicant's behalf.

 
 
 
 247A(5) The Court may make the order only if it is satisfied that: 
 (a) the applicant is acting in good faith; and 
 (b) the inspection is to be made for a purpose connected with: 
 (i) applying for leave under section 237 ; or 
 
 (ii) bringing or intervening in proceedings with leave under that section.

 
 
 247A(6) A person authorised to inspect books may make copies of the books unless the Court orders otherwise.



 
3 Accordingly the applicant brings the application firstly in his capacity as a member of the respondent under s 247A(1) and secondly pursuant to the provisions of s 247A(3) as a person who is eligible to apply for leave to bring proceedings in the name of the respondent under s 237 of the Act .
4 Pursuant to s 247A(1) the applicant seeks inspection of the books of the respondent in order to enable him firstly in his own right to consider and receive advice in relation to the possibility of commencing proceedings under ss 232 and 233 of the Act on the basis that the conduct of the respondent's officers is oppressive or unfairly prejudicial to, or unfairly discriminatory against, the applicant as a member of the respondent, and secondly, if so advised, to commence and pursue such proceedings.
5 Pursuant to s 247A(3) orders for inspection are sought to enable the applicant to do likewise in relation to obtaining leave under s 237 to bring representative proceedings in the name of the respondent against Mr Malcolm Gilmour, the respondent's sole director.
6 In order to bring an application under s 247A(3) of the Act it is sufficient if the applicant demonstrates that he is eligible to apply for leave under s 237 of the Act .
Section 237 in turn provides that a person referred to in s 236(1)(a) may apply to the Court for leave to bring or to intervene in proceedings.
Section 236(1)(a)(i) relevantly provides that a person may bring proceedings on behalf of a company, if the person is a member of the company.
7 The applicant, as a member of the respondent, satisfies the provisions of s 236(1)(a)(i) and is accordingly eligible to bring proceedings under s 237(1) of the Act .
He is accordingly, by virtue of s 247A(3)(c) a person who may apply for orders under s 247A.
8 The Court may only make the orders sought under s 247A(1) if it is satisfied that the applicant is acting in good faith and that the inspection is to be made for a proper purpose.
Similarly before orders may be made under s 247A(4) the Court, by virtue of s 247A(5)(a) and (b)(i) requires to be satisfied that the applicant is acting in good faith and that the inspection is to be made for a purpose connected with, relevantly, applying for leave under s 237.
SECTION 247C 
 
9 Section 247C prohibits the person inspecting books on behalf of the applicant from disclosing information obtained during that inspection other than to ASIC or the applicant and by virtue of s 247C(3) an offence under s 247C(1) is an offence of strict liability.
10 The imposition of the statutory prohibition under s 247C does not extend to the applicant himself.
However, the ancillary orders which the Court may make under s 247B can be tailored to ensure that the use to which the information is put by the applicant is clearly delineated.
BACKGROUND 
 
11 The applicant is considering commencing proceedings against the respondent pursuant to s 232 of the Corporations Act 2001 and/or applying for leave to commence and, subsequently, commencing proceedings in the name of the respondent against Mr Gilmour pursuant to ss 236 and 237 of the Corporations Act 2001 .
If the applicant, or a forensic accountant engaged by the applicant, is permitted to inspect the respondent's books, the applicant will use the information to assist him in considering whether to commence one or both of those proceedings and, if one or both of those proceedings is commenced, to assist him in relation to those proceedings.
12 The applicant is the holder of 30 of the 100 issued ordinary shares in the respondent.
The remaining 70 shares are held by Sola-Kleen Pty Ltd ("Sola-Kleen") the sole shareholder and director of which is Mr Malcolm Gilmour.
He is also the sole director of the respondent to this application.
Sola-Kleen operates the business of manufacturing and supplying solar hot water systems.
13 The applicant has held his shares in the respondent since July 2000 and between late 1998 and 29 July 2006 he was employed by the respondent and between July 2000 and April 2004 he was a director of the respondent.
Prior to his employment by the respondent the applicant had worked in the chemical industry for approximately 30 years.
During the period of the applicant's employment by the respondent it carried on the business trading as M.G.
Corrosion Consultants.
Prior to that this business had been owned and operated by Sola-Kleen.
14 By about 2004 the applicant's involvement in the business of the respondent was almost exclusively in relation to the process chemical division located in Kalgoorlie and which according to him had become its most profitable division with annual revenue of approximately $1.3-1.5 million by about 2004-2005.
This was not disputed by the respondent.
15 In April 2004 the applicant resigned his directorship because he says that he was unhappy with the conduct of the respondent's business and concerned about the potential for him as a director to incur liability.
Mr Gilmour disputes this and says that he asked the applicant to resign on account of his overbearing and abusive behaviour towards members of the respondent's staff and because he felt that the applicant was not acting in the best interests of the respondent.
The applicant resigned his employment with the respondent on 29 July 2006.
According to Mr Gilmour this was again at his request for substantially the same reasons as related to his resignation as a director.
Accordingly, whichever be the actual reason for his resignation as a director, the relationship between the applicant and Mr Gilmour was to some degree soured by that time.
