
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 Pursuant to s 264(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) ('ITA Act'), the respondent issued a notice of assessment to the applicant in respect of the year of income ending 30 June 2005.
The respondent also issued a notice under s 260-5 of Sch 1 to the Tax Administration Act 1953 (Cth) ('TAA') to each of Jason Real Estate Pty Ltd and Mr Paul Silvestri ('the Garnishee Notices').
Each of the Garnishee Notices sought that any money owed by the party in question to the applicant be paid to the respondent.
2 By notice dated 15 September 2006, the applicant objected to the notice of assessment.
3 By application and statement of claim filed on 20 September 2006 the applicant applied for relief pursuant to s 39B(1) and 39B (1A) of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) and review of the decisions pursuant to the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth).
RELEVANT BACKGROUND 
 
4 The applicant was at all material times since 1992 the sole proprietor of a property situated at 11 Cameron Court, Greenvale in Victoria ('the property').
The applicant acquired the property pursuant to a Family Court Order made in late 1992.
Not long after, the applicant asked her husband to be her accountant and investment adviser in relation to the properties acquired in the family law settlement.
In 1994 the Shail Superannuation Fund in the joint names of the applicant and her husband was set up ('the Fund'), with money being invested in the Fund on behalf of the applicant.
5 The applicant's husband left Australia for Cyprus in about May 2005 and between May 2005 and March 2006 amounts totalling over $5 million were withdrawn from a bank account of the Fund.
6 On about 5 August 2006, the applicant entered into a contract of sale for the property with a purchaser, Mr Paul Silvestri, for the amount of $510,000 with 10% deposit payable immediately, and settlement to occur on 22 September 2006.
7 On about 21 August 2006, the respondent sought information about the contract of sale of the property through the real estate agent engaged for the sale of the property, Jason Real Estate Pty Ltd. On 24 August 2006, the respondent, through his delegate the Deputy Commissioner, made an assessment of the applicant's income and tax payable in respect of the year ended 30 June 2005.
The assessment provided that the applicant's taxable income was $1.73 million for that year, and the tax payable was $842,062, due and payable on 5 June 2006 pursuant to s 204 of the ITA Act.
8 On 25 August 2006, an officer of the respondent left the notice of assessment at the applicant's post office box along with an information letter and reasons for decision.
On the same day the Garnishee Notices were served upon Mr Silvestri and Jason Real Estate Pty Ltd.
 
9 On 29 August 2006, the applicant sent a facsimile to Mr Zafiriou, an officer of the respondent, requesting further information about the Garnishee Notice served on her real estate agent, Jason Real Estate Pty Ltd.
In the facsimile she indicated that she had not received any notice of assessment or other information.
On the same date, Mr Zafiriou responded to the applicant's facsimile, enclosing the assessment and copies of the Garnishee Notices.
In response, the applicant requested details of the basis upon which the respondent calculated the applicant's taxable income.
On 31 August 2006, Mr Zafiriou responded by way of facsimile enclosing an explanation to the assessment.
10 On application for interlocutory relief, on 20 September 2006 the Court made interlocutory orders to the following effect:
 
 1.
That until 25 September 2006 or further order the respondent be restrained from trying to recover money due under the contract of sale between the applicant and the purchaser in respect of the property from the purchaser or the applicant's real estate agent.
2.
That the proceeds of sale under the said contract be paid into Court to be held until the determination of the proceedings or further order, without prejudice to the respondent's rights under the Garnishee Notices.


11 Pursuant to the interlocutory orders, upon settlement of the sale of the said contract the net proceeds of sale were paid into Court.
GROUNDS FOR REVIEW 
 
12 The applicant challenged the validity of the assessment on the grounds that it was made with a lack of bona fides, or for an improper purpose, and there was no genuine attempt to make an assessment of the applicant's tax liability.
The applicant challenged the Garnishee Notices on the basis that the respondent issued them for an improper purpose.
Further, the applicant challenged the validity of the Garnishee Notices on the basis that the assessment was not effectively served on her in accordance with the Income Tax Regulations 1936 (Cth) ('the Regulations') prior to the service of the Garnishee Notices.
Principles of law to be applied 
 
13 Section 175 of the ITA Act provides:
 
 The validity of any assessment shall not be affected by reason that any of the provisions of this Act have not been complied with.


14 Section 175 preserves the validity of an assessment even though there has been some non-compliance with another provision in the ITA Act.
However, in the High Court decision of Deputy Commissioner of Taxation v Richard Walter Pty Ltd [1995] HCA 23 ; (1995) 183 CLR 168 at 182 Mason CJ stated of s 175 (footnotes omitted):
 
 This section does not relieve the Commissioner from performing his duty to make an assessment.
The section does not create a valid assessment where none has been made at all.
The section requires an actual assessment as a condition of its operation.
But otherwise, the effect of s 175 is that compliance with particular provisions of the Act is not essential to the validity of an assessment.


15 In another High Court decision, that of FJ Bloemen Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Taxation [1981] HCA 27 ; (1981) 147 CLR 360 at 371, Mason and Wilson JJ stated that s 175 cannot "create a valid assessment where no assessment has been made at all.
The section requires an actual assessment as a condition of its operation".
16 Section 175 is often used in conjunction with s 177.
Section 177(1) of the ITA Act provides:
 
 The production of a notice of assessment, or of a document under the hand of the Commissioner, a Second Commissioner, or a Deputy Commissioner, purporting to be a copy of a notice of assessment, shall be conclusive evidence of the due making of the assessment and, except in proceedings under Part IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 on a review or appeal relating to the assessment, that the amount and all the particulars of the assessment are correct.


17 Subject to the application of the principle in R v Hickman; Ex parte Fox [1945] HCA 53 ; (1945) 70 CLR 598 ('the Hickman principle'), ss 175 and 177(1) operate to preclude a taxpayer from challenging an assessment except in objection, review and appeal proceedings brought pursuant to Part IVC of the TAA: Richard Walter 183 CLR at 186 per Mason CJ, at 197-199 per Brennan J, at 211 per Deane and Gaudron JJ, at 222-223 per Toohey J; and at 233 per Dawson J.
18 The Hickman principle states that a privative clause (s 175 in this case) is given effect only if the purported exercise of the power is bona fide, relates to the subject matter of the legislation and is reasonably capable of reference to the power given to the body exercising it.
19 In Richard Walter 183 CLR at 199, Brennan J stated that the Hickman principle should be applied in the construction of s 175 (footnotes omitted):
 
 The jurisdiction of the Federal Court on appeal from, or of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal on review of, a decision on an objection extends to every issue which affects the amounts ultimately included in the taxable income or tax liability of a taxpayer.
If any of these issues be resolved in favour of the taxpayer, an amendment of the assessment so as to reduce the taxable income or the tax liability of the taxpayer must follow.
The width of that jurisdiction and the evidence purpose of the Act to channel all issues as to the true tax liability of the taxpayer into the objection, review and appeal procedures found the clearest implication that exceptions to the broadest literal application of s 175 must be narrowly confined and a corresponding operation must be attributed to s 177(1).

 
 As the scheme of the Act is to protect the validity of notices of assessment while allowing a taxpayer a full opportunity to have the general provisions of the Act affecting tax liability applied, I would construe the term "due making of the assessment" in s 177(1) as extending to every purported exercise of the power to ascertain the taxable income and tax liability of a taxpayer which satisfies the criteria expressed by the Hickman principle.


20 His Honour went on to explain the application of the Hickman principle to a notice of assessment, at 199-200 (footnotes omitted):
 
 The power to make an assessment is exercised by ascertaining the taxpayer's taxable income and defining the resulting tax liability of the taxpayer.
If it appears, either on the face of a notice of assessment or from elsewhere that the Commissioner has not attempted in good faith to determine the taxable income or has not made an assessment definitive of the tax liability of the taxpayer, the assessment does not attract the protection of s 175.
Nor, in my opinion, does s 177(1) make the production of such a purported notice of assessment conclusive evidence of the due making of the assessment.


21 It is also important to remember that the fact that an assessment may be incorrect or based upon insufficient facts does not demonstrate a lack of bona fides.
In the decision of Briglia v Commissioner of Taxation [2000] ATC 4,247 the court held that two assessments which included the same amount in the assessable income of two different taxpayers for the same year were valid.
At [9], Kenny J held that an incorrect assessment was not sufficient to evidence a lack of bona fides:
 
 Plainly enough, an incorrect assessment does not demonstrate an absence of bona fides on the Deputy Commissioner's part.
The decision in Richard Walter also makes it clear that the existence of two assessments, which include the same amount in respect of the same year of income but issued to different taxpayers, does not demonstrate a want of bona fides on the Commissioner's part, providing that at the time the Commissioner made the assessments he was bona fide able to form the view that each assessment could be correct: see Richard Walter at 188, 200, 202 and Darrell Lea at 186.
It follows from this that uncertainty on the Deputy Commissioner's part as to the facts relevant to the exercise of his power of assessment does not evidence any absence of bona fides in the Hickman sense.
As Brennan J said in Richard Walter at 200-201: 
 
 
 
 It must be remembered that the Commissioner's function is administrative, not judicial.
The power to assess is, as s 167 shows, not limited to cases where the Commissioner has enough information on which to make a positive finding of fact.
The Commissioner is not required to determine on the balance of probabilities that one person rather than another is the person subject to the tax liability in respect of the particular income.

 

22 The principles of law are well established and not in dispute as between the parties.
Except in very limited circumstances, the taxpayer's rights to dispute liability to taxation are provided for by the objection, review and appeal procedures in Pt IVC of the TAA and are to be pursued by those procedures rather than by proceedings such as this one.
However, if it appears, either on the face of a notice of assessment or from elsewhere, that the Commissioner has acted for an improper purpose, has not attempted in good faith to determine the taxable income or has not made an assessment definitive of the tax liability of the taxpayer, the assessment will not attract the protection of s 175.
