
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 This purports to be an appeal against a judgment of a Federal Magistrate delivered on 14 June 2006 dismissing an application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal (the Tribunal) dated 19 October 2005 and handed down on 8 November 2005.
The Tribunal had affirmed a decision of a delegate of the first respondent to refuse to grant a protection (class XA) visa to the applicant pursuant to the provisions of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) (the Act).
Although no application for leave to appeal has been filed, I consider that leave is required.
This is because the judgment of the Federal Magistrate dismissing the application pursuant to r 44.12(1)(a) of the Federal Magistrates Court Rules 2001 is interlocutory in character: Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth), s 24(1A) ; SZHZB v Minister for Immigration  Anor [2006] FMCA 169.
I therefore refer to the appellant as the applicant in these reasons.

 THE APPLICANT'S CLAIMS FOR PROTECTION 
 
 The applicant is a citizen of India who arrived in Australia on 27 September 2004 and applied for a protection visa on 8 November 2004.
In his application for protection the applicant claimed to have a well founded fear of persecution due to his political opinion from his association with the Tamil Nadu Liberation army (TNLA) and the Liberation Tamil Tigers Elam (LTTE).
The applicant claims that he supported LTTE because he was born to a subordinate caste and LTTE were fighting against social injustice.
The applicant says he distributed medicines and was the secretary of the Tamil youth organisation unit with responsibilities for organising protests and distributing material about the LTTE.
In 1998 when the Indian government prevented basic necessities reaching Sri Lankan refugee camps the applicant claims he organised and participated in a hunger strike.
In August 1999 the applicant claimed he organised a political rally but was arrested as a precautionary measure and was mistreated, gaoled for 3 months, hit with a cane tipped with a bronze cap on the end, given no proper food but food which contained stone and no water.
The applicant claims to have been imprisoned, beaten, ill-treated and tortured.
He asserts that in 2002 a false case concerning illegal ammunition was brought against him and he was imprisoned for seven months.
Then in 2003, police searched his house without a warrant and seized LTTE literature and he was again imprisoned for 6 months.

 THE TRIBUNAL'S FINDINGS 
 
 On 14 September 2005 the Tribunal wrote to the applicant at the address of his migration agent advising him that the Tribunal had considered all the material before it but it was unable to make a more favourable decision on that information alone and inviting him to attend a hearing.
The letter was addressed to the migration agent as a consequence of an authorisation signed by him to that effect dated 22 August 2005.
On that authorisation, which bore reference to the Australian Government and the Tribunal in its masthead, it was stated adjacent to the place of the applicant's signature 'copies of all documents will also be sent to you at your mailing address.
' No response was received from either the applicant or his migration agent.
The letter itself bore the endorsement 'please note that [the applicant] has not been sent a copy of this letter.
It is important that you tell the review applicant about the contents of this letter'.
In an affidavit filed as the result of a direction made on the hearing of this appeal the applicant deposed that he had not received a copy of the letter.
He had consequently not been able to attend the hearing.
The Tribunal found that the applicant provided information that appeared to contain anomalies, inconsistencies and a narrative that was detailed in parts and incomplete elsewhere.
