
 
1 Mr and Mrs Bergamin delight in designing and constructing fine buildings.
Acting through various companies (of which the applicant is one) and utilising the services of architects and engineers of their choosing, they have, over the past 30 years, been responsible for the erection of a number of office buildings and residential blocks.
This case is concerned with one of those buildings which is located at 5 Bowen Crescent Melbourne.
Specifically it concerns the foyer of the building.
2 After building works (other than fit out) had been completed the applicant sought tenants for its new development.
The respondent ("Tabcorp") expressed a willingness to take a lease over the whole of the premises.
Following negotiations a lease was entered into under which Tabcorp was to occupy the whole building.
It did not consider that the foyer was suitable either aesthetically or in size for its purposes.
It engaged its own architect and internal designer who produced plans for an alternative foyer.
It then proceeded to strip back all of the surfaces (floor, walls, pillars and ceiling) and substituted its own finishes and extended the area of the foyer.
3 In this proceeding the applicant seeks to establish that Tabcorp's refurbishment of the foyer was undertaken without its permission, contrary to the provisions of the lease, to the general law and to provisions of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ("the TP Act ").
It seeks various remedial orders.
4 It will be necessary to return to the actual circumstances in much greater detail.
However, before doing so, some reference should be made to the procedural history of the matter in this Court.
The proceeding was commenced by application on 30 September 2005.
The accompanying statement of claim pleaded various causes of action: breach of the terms of the lease, waste, contravention of ss 52 and 53 (g) of the TP Act , unconscionable conduct contrary to ss 51AA and 51AC of the TP Act and unconscionable conduct contrary to the general law.
The trial commenced on 16 October 2006.
In the course of opening his case senior counsel for the applicant indicated that he wished to allege that there had been a contravention of what he described as a "general make good" provision which had appeared in the Heads of Agreement but had not, in those terms, appeared in the lease.
In order to make out this cause of action he had first to succeed, as he acknowledged, in obtaining an order for rectification of the lease.
The statement of claim did not plead the facts necessary to support such an order.
He sought, and was granted, leave to amend the pleadings.
However, as additional factual issues arose it was also necessary to adjourn the trial so that the respondent could obtain instructions, respond to the amended statement of claim and put on any necessary additional or amended witness statements.
These matters were attended to and the trial resumed on 19 March 2007.
THE FACTS 
 
5 The facts, with some important exceptions, are largely uncontroversial and can be gleaned from documents which were in evidence.
Bowen Investments Pty Ltd ("Bowen Investments") (a company controlled by the Bergamin family) purchased various properties in Bowen Crescent, Melbourne in 1988.
In due course the various buildings on the sites were demolished and plans were prepared for the erection of a major office building.
Construction of the new building commenced but work ceased before it had progressed very far because of an economic downturn.
Work resumed in about 1995 and was nearing completion in 1996.
Bowen Investments engaged Jones Lang Wootton as its agent to secure tenants for the completed building.
On 16 September 1996 Jones Lang Wootton wrote to Tabcorp setting out terms and conditions on which Bowen Investments would be prepared to grant a lease over part or all of the building to Tabcorp.
Tabcorp responded by letter dated 25 October 1996 in which it advised of its interest in leasing the whole of the premises.
It sought Bowen Investments' "confirmation and/or consideration of the following terms and conditions to enable finalisation of this negotiation and preparation and execution of appropriate lease documentation without delay.
" Tabcorp proposed various terms some of which involved variations to terms proposed by Bowen Investments.
One of these terms was that:
 
 "It is acknowledged that TABCORP will, at the expiration of its occupancy, be required to handover the premises in good and tenantable repair at the time and make good the premises subject at all times to the normal provisions for fair wear and tear that may, in the event of dispute, be arbitrated by an appropriate appointee of the President of the Royal Australian Institute of Architects or its successor if and when necessary.
" 

6 The letter also stated that, although the board of Tabcorp had authorised the making of the offer, the terms of any lease proposed following acceptance of the offer would be subject to board approval.
It was also said that the offer was subject to Tabcorp's satisfaction with the terms and conditions of the lease.
7 Mrs Bergamin, acting on behalf of Bowen Investments, responded on 30 October 1996.
Her letter recorded what were said to be lease terms and conditions which had been agreed with Tabcorp.
Those terms included a "make good" provision in the same terms as that offered by Tabcorp in its letter of 25 October 1996 and acknowledgment that any agreement was subject to formal approval by the Tabcorp board of the terms and conditions of any proposed lease.
There was also an acknowledgment that tenancy works were to be subject to Bowen Investments' approval but that that approval should not unreasonably be withheld or delayed.
8 Under cover of a letter dated 1 November 1996 solicitors acting for Bowen Investments forwarded a copy of a draft lease to solicitors acting for Tabcorp.
That draft did not contain a general "make good" obligation in the terms contained in the Heads of Agreement.
Rather it contained a series of more specific provisions to deal with damage which might occur during Tabcorp's occupancy.
Clause 2.11 required Tabcorp, on the determination of the lease, to surrender the premises "in good and substantial repair order and condition in all respects.
" Clause 2.12.4 imposed an on going obligation on Tabcorp, to "make good any breakage defect or damage to the building or any part thereof ...
.
" Clause 2.12.7 dealt with restoration of the premises at the end of the tenancy to make good any damage or disfigurement, caused by signage or advertisements which had been removed by the tenant.
Clause 2.13 (to which more detailed attention will be devoted later in these reasons) required that Bowen Investments' written approval should be obtained by Tabcorp before it undertook any alteration or addition to the premises.
Clause 2.14.6 required Tabcorp to make good any damage done by reason of the installation or removal of partitions.
Clause 3.2 provided for Tabcorp, during the currency of the lease, to remove fixtures and other equipment installed by it subject to the requirement that the removal was to do no damage or that any unavoidable damage caused would be made good.
9 Tabcorp submitted the draft lease to its solicitors, Corrs Chambers Westgarth, for consideration and advice.
By letter dated 6 November 1996 the solicitors provided certain advice to Tabcorp.
That advice referred to the Heads of Agreement and to certain of the "make good" provisions which had been included in the draft lease.
It did not draw attention to the absence of a general "make good" clause of the kind which appeared in the Heads of Agreement.
The solicitors advised Tabcorp that it was "important for Tabcorp to consider both the provisions which have been prepared (and are included in the Heads of Agreement) and all issues required to be addressed by Tabcorp which have not been covered in the documentation to date.
"
 
10 On 8 November 1996 representatives of Tabcorp conferred with its solicitors.
Following that conference and under cover of a letter dated 12 November 1996 Corrs provided Tabcorp with a copy of the draft lease in which it had incorporated various amendments which were said to have reflected the instructions given by Tabcorp in the course of correspondence and the conference.
Relevantly, amendments were suggested to the language of clauses 2.11, 2.12.4, 2.12.7, 2.13 and 3.2.
No general "make good" clause was inserted and no reference was made, in the covering letter, to the absence of such a clause.
11 On 14 November 1996 Corrs sent a copy of the draft lease containing its proposed amendments to Bowen Investments' solicitors, McGrath Colman Stewart.
The covering letter noted that the draft lease was "forwarded subject to ratification by our client.
" It was suggested that a conference between the parties might be useful in resolving any outstanding issues.
12 On 20 November 1996 McGrath Colman Stewart wrote to Corrs advising that Bowen Investments had "perused all amendments requested by your clients to their lease" and setting out those instructions clause by clause.
Bowen Investments agreed to all of the proposed changes to clause 2.11 save as to a disagreement as to whether the word "substantial" or "tenantable" should be included.
The proposed amendments to clauses 2.12.4 and 2.12.7 were agreed.
Bowen Investments agreed to the proposed changes to clause 2.13 but suggested the addition of certain words at the end of the clause.
A minor amendment was proposed to clause 2.14.6.
The proposed change to clause 3.2 was agreed.
No mention was made of the absence of a general "make good" clause.
The solicitors endorsed the suggestion that a round table conference between the parties would be beneficial in resolving outstanding issues.
13 A conference was held on 25 November 1996.
It was attended by representatives of the parties including Mr Gullquist from Tabcorp.
Following the conference a number of issues remained outstanding.
They were listed in a two page document prepared by Mr Gullquist.
The only clause which related to "make good" matters which was referred to in the list was clause 2.11.
The note recorded that Bowen Investments' solicitor had indicated that the word "tenantable" may be acceptable to the lessor.
14 Under cover of a letter dated 29 November 1996 McGrath Colman Stewart sent to Corrs a further amended draft lease.
It did not contain a general "make good" clause.
15 The revised draft was considered by Corrs.
On 2 December 1996 the partner responsible for the carriage of negotiations prepared a list of further amendments required to the draft lease.
These amendments included changes to clauses 2.12.4, 2.12.7 and clause 2.13.
Telephone discussions between solicitors followed and, by 4 December 1996, the list of additional amendments required had contracted considerably.
It did not include any further amendments to clauses creating "make good" obligations.
16 On 6 December 1996 further changes were suggested by Corrs in a facsimile message to McGrath Coleman Stewart.
It was suggested that the word "substantial" appear before "alteration" in clause 2.13 but otherwise there was no reference to the "make good" clauses.
17 Shortly afterwards internal discussions occurred within Tabcorp with a view to seeking board approval for a lease.
On 10 December 1996 Mr Gullquist asked Mr Damien Brown, an employee of National Portfolio Strategies Pty Ltd (which had been acting on Tabcorp's behalf) to comment on a document which he had prepared which was entitled "Summary of substantial amendments to heads of agreements arising out of lease negotiations for 5 Bowen Crescent, South Melbourne.
" A settled version of that document was sent by Mr Gullquist and Mr Brown to Mr David Simpson an officer of Tabcorp's board, on the following day.
No reference was made to any "make good" obligations in that document.
On the same day Mr Gullquist advised Mr Simpson that the "lease is finally in a form which accurately reflects the negotiations which have taken place between Allan Hall [from Corrs], Damien Brown and myself for TABCORP and the Lessor and its advisers.
"
 
18 On 11 December 1996 McGrath Colman Stewart forwarded a further amended version of the lease to Mr Gullquist.
19 On 21 December 1996 Corrs forwarded to McGrath Colman Stewart copies of the lease which had been executed by Tabcorp.
20 The executed lease contained the following paragraphs which are concerned with "make good" matters:
 
 "2.11 YEILDING UP 
 At the expiration or sooner determination of this Lease peaceably to surrender and yield to the Landlord the whole of the Demised Premises and every part thereof and the fixtures and fittings of the Landlord in good and tenantable repair order and condition in all respects (but subject to the exceptions described in clause 2.10) and clean and free from rubbish in accordance with the Tenant's obligations under the Lease.
Any dispute under this clause as to the condition of the Demised Premises shall be determined by the President for the time being of the Royal Australian Institute of Architects RAIA (or its successor body) or his or her nominee whose decision shall be binding on the parties.

 2.12 TENANTS OBLIGATIONS TO MAINTAIN PREMISES 
 At all times during the term without affecting the generality of the preceding two sub-clauses of this clause at its expense: 
 
 ............................... 
 
 
 
 2.12.4 MAKE GOOD BREAKAGES 
 from time to time to make good any breakage or damage to the building or any part therefore or to any adjacent or adjoining building or any facility or appurtenance thereof occasioned by want of care misuse or abuse on the part of the Tenant or any person claiming through or under the Tenant or otherwise occasioned by any breach or default of the Tenant hereunder or by any other cause for which the Tenant ought reasonably to be responsible provided that nothing herein contained shall impose any obligation upon the Tenant to do any work of a structural nature or to replace any fixtures, fittings, plant, furnishings and equipment except such as may be occasioned by the act neglect misuse or default of or by the Tenant or relating to the Tenant's use or occupancy of the Demised Premises.

 
 
 
 
 
 ............................... 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.12.7 ON VACATING DEMISED PREMISES 
 
 
 
 
 upon vacating the Demised Premises or immediately prior thereto to return all keys to the Demised Premises and at the request of the Landlord to remove any signs names advertisements or notices erected painted displayed affixed or exhibited upon to or within the Demised Premises and to make good any damage or disfigurement caused by reason of such erected painting displaying affixing exhibiting or removal thereof and on default the Landlord make execute such work and recover the cost thereof from the Tenant PROVIDED ALWAYS that either party may at its option in lieu of the Tenant's obligations to redecorate the Demised Premises and/or remove all partitions and make good pursuant to this clause, require the Tenant (or agrees) to pay to the Landlord the estimated cost of such redecoration and/or removal of partitions and making good the premises and in default of payment the Landlord may recover the estimated costs thereof from the Tenant.
Any dispute shall be determined by the President for the time being of the Royal Australian Institute of Architects RAIA (or its successor body) or his or her nominee whose decision will be binding on the parties.

 
 
 
 
 
 ............................... 
 
 
 
 2.14 PARTITIONS 
 To install in the Demised Premises internal partitions of a proper quality having regard to the condition of the Building by a builder or other contractor and under the supervision of an architect as may be nominated by the Tenant acting reasonably from time to time and not make any substantial additions or alterations to the said partitions except with the approval of the Landlord (which approval cannot be unreasonably withheld or delayed) and by a builder or other contractor and under the supervision of an architect nominated as aforesaid and the Tenant hereby agrees and acknowledges that: ......... 
 
 
 
 2.14.6 
 All damage done to the Demised Premises or the Building or services by reason of the installation or removal of any partition shall be made good by the Tenant and if the Tenant fails to do so the Landlord may make good all such damage at the expense of the Tenant.

 
 
 
 .................. 
 3.2 REMOVAL OF FIXTURES BY TENANT 
 That subject to clause 2.14 hereof the Tenant may at or prior to the expiration of this Lease take remove and carry away from the Demised Premises all fixtures fittings plant equipment or other articles including partitions upon the Demised Premises in the nature of trade or Tenant's fixtures brought upon the Demised Premises by the Tenant PROVIDED that the tenant shall in such removal forthwith make good any damage with which the Tenant may occasion thereto and shall remove all rubbish and shall leave the Demised Premises in a clean state and condition.
" 

21 Clause 2.13 dealt with alterations and additions to the premises.
It provided:
 
 "Not without the written approval of the Landlord first obtained (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed) to make or permit to be made any substantial alteration or addition to the Demised Premises or to any Landlord's fixtures or fittings therein and when applying for such approval to submit to the Landlord for perusal full and clear plans specifications and other details as the Landlord may reasonably require and to pay such reasonable fees and expenses as the Landlord may occur in obtaining reports and advice on such plans specifications and details from architects engineers builders and other professional persons and in having any words inspected and in the event of such approval being given at his own expense to cause the alterations or additions so approved to be carried out in a proper and workmanlike manner by a builder or other contractor approved by the Landlord and under the supervision of the Landlord's architect.
The Tenant must ensure that such alterations and additions do not void any warranties on any of the building works or installations the details of which warranties have been notified to the Tenant by the Landlord in writing.
In the event that any of the warranties are so voided the Tenant acknowledges that it is fully liable in this regard.
" 

22 The lease provided for an initial 10 year term commencing on 1 February 1997.
In clause 5.11 provision was made for Tabcorp to exercise options to extend its tenancy by two five year terms.
No rent was payable for any period prior to 1 August 1997.
23 By the early part of 1997 the foyer area of the building had been completed.
It had a striking appearance.
The floor was made of Canberra York Gray granite.
Carpet was inlayed in parts of the floor.
Some of the walls were adorned by American cherry wood panels.
Pillars were covered with marble.
It was accepted that these were high quality materials and that the overall effect of the foyer was regarded by the Bergamins' as having a timeless quality.
The upper office floors had been carpeted but had not been fitted out pending a determination of the tenant's requirements.
24 In February and March 1997 the parties discussed various issues relating to the partitioning and carpeting of the office floors.
On 13 March 1997 McGrath Colman Stewart wrote to Mr Gullquist recording what were said to be the terms of an agreement under which Bowen Investments permitted Tabcorp to remove carpet installed on some of the office floors and replace that carpet with carpet of Tabcorp's choosing.
The letter contained a paragraph which read:
 
 "In all other respects, the obligation of Tabcorp to make good the Demised Premises at the expiration or sooner determination of the Lease remains.
" 

The parties signified their agreement to the terms by signing the letter.
Mr Gullquist signed on behalf of Tabcorp.
25 At about this time Tabcorp engaged the services of a firm of interior designers.
Their task was to prepare plans for the fit out of the office floors and the redesign of the foyer.
Lend Lease Interiors was engaged as the Project Managers for the internal fit out project.
26 By letter dated 8 April 1997 Mr Noel Phelan, the senior project manager for Lend Lease Interiors, wrote to Mr Bergamin.
The letter read:
 
 "As you are aware, Lend Lease Interiors have been appointed as Tabcorp's Project Managers, responsible for the design and construction of the above project.
We have been advised by Tabcorp that their lease on 5 Bowen Crescent requires the Owner's consent for the proposed fit out.

 
 It is our intention to proceed with construction of the proposed fit out on 14 th April, 1997.
We therefore submit for your consideration and approval copies of the following architectural drawings, which detail the proposed works as noted on the attached transmittal.

 
 At this stage, plans of the proposed ground floor works have not been issued as planning of this area has not been resolved.
A plan will be submitted for your approval as soon as Tabcorp finalises their requirements.

 
 In order to allow works to proceed as planned, we request your approval to the works indicated on the enclosed drawings by signing and returning to us a copy of this letter.

 
 We thank you in anticipation of your attention to this matter by Thursday, 10 th April, 1997.
" 
 

At the bottom of the letter there was a notation which allowed Bowen Investments to record its consent for the proposed works.
Mrs Bergamin gave consent on behalf Bowen Investments by signing this section of the letter on 11 April 1997.
The reference to "ground floor works" related to the foyer and adjacent office space.
27 On 9 April 1997 Mrs Bergamin wrote to Mr Phelan as follows:
 
 "In reply to your letter of 8 April 1997 which we received very late on that day we advise that we will not be able to provide our consent to the proposed fit out works until we have had the drawings looked at by our consultants.

 
 We advised Damien Brown in a letter on April 1 1997 of all of our consultancy whose approval we need to obtain and understood that you would be advised of them and they would all be provided with drawings.
These consultants are Simpson Kotzman Pty Ltd, Consulting Engineers, Bonacci Winward, Structural Engineers, and Bruce Henderson, Architect.
Only one set of drawings was provided.

 
 You have advised today that you will courier drawings to Simpson Kotzman Pty Ltd today, and that Bonacci Winward are involved in the work and know the drawings.
Please provide us with another set of drawings which we can give to Bruce Henderson.

 
 In addition you have asked that we give our approval to the works to be done according to the drawings provided by 10 April 1997.
In the circumstances, the time you have given for us and our consultants to properly check the drawings are far too short.
As advised to you earlier today we will make reasonable efforts to have our consultants approve these drawings as soon as possible, however, we cannot promise that approval will be given by the date you seek.
You would appreciate that without the approval of our consultants we will not be able to provide ours.

 
 As soon as we have obtained the approval of all of the above people, we shall contact you.
" 

Written approval was given by Mrs Bergamin on 11 April 1997.
28 Work on the fit out of the office floors commenced shortly afterwards and continued for some months.
29 As Mr Phelan's letter indicated Tabcorp had, under consideration, in April 1997 proposals for the fit out of the ground floor.
Although the nature of those plans was not conveyed to the Bergamins at that time, the evidence suggests that, earlier in the year, the then CEO of Tabcorp, Mr Ross Wilson, had determined that the foyer area required a total redesign in order to project what he perceived to be Tabcorp's image as a progressive, technologically advanced business.
30 One of the features of the foyer, as it was originally constructed, was a rondor door.
Early in July 1997 Mrs Bergamin became aware of a proposal by Tabcorp to remove the rondor door and replace it with a sliding door.
She instructed McGrath Colman Stewart to take the issue up with Tabcorp.
On 10 July 1997 McGrath Colman Stewart wrote to Tabcorp advising of Bowen Investments' concern at the proposal and noting that it had "not been provided with any plans or specifications in relation to this as required under the Lease.
" The letter also advised that, in any event, Bowen Investments did not consent to such an alteration.
31 Early on the morning of 11 July 1997 Mr Phelan telephoned Mrs Bergamin.
It was a relatively short conversation.
There is some dispute in the evidence as to precisely what passed between them during the conversation.
This is a matter to which it will be necessary to return later in these reasons.
Following the conversation Mr Phelan wrote to Mrs Bergamin.
