
 Outline of proceedings and of issues arising --- mutually agreed facts and circumstances 
 
1 The respondent Coal  Allied Operations Pty Ltd ('CAO') has conducted at all material times the Hunter Valley Operations ('HVO'), involving a multiple-seam, multiple-pit open cut Coal mine situated approximately 24 km north-west of Singleton in the Hunter Valley region of New South Wales.
In the year 2000, the HVO was formed by the merger of three mines comprising the Hunter Valley No.
1 Mine, the Hunter Valley No.
2 Mine and the Howick Mine.
In about March 2001, a fourth mine comprising the Lemington Open Cut Coal Mine was acquired by CAO and integrated into the HVO.
At all materials times, Coal was extracted from the following three main mining areas or so-called pits within the HVO:
 
 (i) the West Pit (formerly known as the Howick Mine) involving open cut mining operations, which were primarily conducted with the use of dragline mining operations, shovels and trucks;
 (ii) the North Pit comprising an area made up of two pits, being the original North Pit and the Carrington Pit, which areas required or involved multi-seam open cut mining operations primarily by the use of trucks and shovels;
 (iii) the South Pit, also known as the Chestnut or Riverview Pit (formerly known as the Lemington Open Cut Coal Mine), which also comprised open cut mining operations involving primarily the use of trucks, shovels and dragline mining operations.


2 Throughout the course of the HVO, CAO has operated a range of heavy mining equipment and employed at least 260 permanent employees working mainly in crews.
As operator of the HVO, CAO and certain persons engaged by CAO have been under obligations with respect to safety of the mining operations, being obligations imposed by the provisions of the Occupational Health and Safety Act 2000 (NSW) ('the OHS Act') and the Coal Mines Regulation Act 1982 (NSW) ('the CMR Act').
The latter of those statutes has since been repealed and replaced by the Coal Mine Health and Safety Act 2002 (NSW) ('CMHS Act').
CAO employed at the HVO at least one Mine Manager who had full charge and control of persons engaged at least physically in relation thereto, whether or not as employees of CAO according to law, and of all operations otherwise undertaken under the general description of the HVO.
CAO employed a number of persons as Deputies to the Mine Manager and a number of Open Cut Examiners ('OCEs').
Hence at all material times, the Mine Manager, the Deputies and the OCEs have supervised the mining operations undertaken by CAO at the HVO.
3 On 20 October 2000 the Hunter Valley Operations Certified Agreement 2000 ('the 2000 Agreement') was certified by the Australian Industrial Relations Commission ('the Commission') under s 170LT of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) ('the WR Act'), as in force prior to amendment by the Workplace Relations Amendment (Work Choices) Act 2005 (Cth).
From that time until 12 December 2003, CAO was bound by the 2000 Agreement in respect of its employees engaged in production and engineering functions at the HVO.
On 12 December 2003 the Hunter Valley Operations Certified Agreement 2003 ('the 2003 Agreement') was similarly certified, and from that date to at least 31 December 2004, CAO was bound by the 2003 Agreement in respect of its employees so engaged.
Both Agreements were tendered into evidence as Exhibit 1 to the Agreed Statement of Facts.
Exhibit 1 was incorporated into a substantial compilation of so-called Judge's Copy Documents consisting of more than two thousand pages, along with certain additional documents.
Hence Exhibit 1 came to embody two different pagination systems for each of the large number of pages therein contained.
Because of the difficulty of locating so many documents of potential relevance to the respective cases of the applicants and CAO, I have adopted the expedient course of identifying those documents not only by name or other description, but additionally by their individual pagination numbers as incorporated within Exhibit 1.
The parties to both Certified Agreements were CAO, the Construction, Forestry, Mining  Energy Union and The Automotive Food, Metals, Engineering, Printing and Kindred Industries Union, and in the case of the 2000 Agreement, 'in relation to employees engaged in production and engineering functions in the Hunter Valley Operation' (cl 4), including 'additional employees to meet increased workloads or cover for holiday or other absences through the employment of part-time, temporary or casual employees' (cl 13), and in the case of the 2003 Agreement, '... full-time, part-time, temporary or casual employees...' (cl 10).
4 On 9 February 1994, Mining  Earthmoving Services Pty Ltd ('MES') was incorporated.
As the successor to business operations previously undertaken under the same or similar control in the Hunter Valley region, MES has engaged in business as a mining consultant, and in the supply of casual labour to the mining industry in which CAO has been for some time a substantial participant, at least principally by way of open cut mining operations.
The activities of MES were mainly in the area geographically of the HVO.
A copy of documents describing in detail MES's activities appear in detail at pages 31 to 63 of Exhibit 1.
On 21 June 2001, the Mining  Earthmoving Service Pty Limited Certified Agreement 2001 ('the MES Agreement') was certified by the Commission under s 170LT of the WR Act, with effect from 25 May 2001 until 24 May 2004, the parties thereto being MES and '[p]resent and future employees of [MES]'.
On or about 21 August 2002 MES tendered successfully 'for the supply of maintenance and production of labour hire' to CAO in relation to its Coal mining operations at Ravensworth in the Hunter Valley upon the basis of a detailed schedule of rates.
5 The central issue arising in the proceedings may be broadly described as whether the applicants were the subject of an employment relationship according to the general law, as between themselves as employees and CAO as employer, irrespective of the documentary arrangements put in place by MES as between itself as employer and its employees inclusive purportedly of the applicants.
If the former situation constituted an employment relationship according to law in respect of each of the applicants, they would be seemingly entitled to look to CAO for remuneration and any other pecuniary employment benefits which may have accrued to each of them had they been recognised by CAO as its employees.
The respective engagements (to use for the present a neutral term) of the applicants in mining activity in the HVO ceased, in the case of Mr Wilton, in May 2005, and in the case of Mr Cumberland at a time occurring during April 2005, and at about the same respective times, each of them commenced employment with the corporately unrelated Felix Resources Limited, being apparently another Coalminer.
The relief sought by the applicants 
 
6 The nature and extent of the relief sought appears comprehensively in the amended application filed on 1 December 2006, though the proceedings were originally commenced on 12 April 2005 by the applicants by an original application and statement of claim.
It is appropriate that I set out below the full text of the relief sought by the amended application by way of declarations and orders thereby sought:
 
 'Application is made under Sections 178, 179A, 356 and 412 of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (the WR Act) and Sections 21, 22 and 23 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (the FC Act).

 
 
 
 A.
Details of Claim 
 
 
 
 On the grounds stated in the accompanying Statement of Claim, the First and Second Applicants seek:
 
 
 
 1.
A declaration that the Respondent breached a term of the Hunter Valley Operations Certified Agreement 2000 (the 2000 Agreement) in that for the period 1 July 2002 to 30 June 2003 the Respondent failed to pay to the First Applicant the annual salary set out in clause 19 of the 2000 Agreement.
2.
An order pursuant to section 178(6) of the WR Act that the Respondent pay to the First Applicant an amount of $4,697 being the amount the First Applicant was underpaid his entitlement under clause 19 of the 2000 Agreement for the period 1 July 2002 to 30 June 2003.
3.
An order under section 179A of the WR Act that the Respondent pay interest at such rate as the Court thinks fit on the whole of the amount referred to in Order 2 from 30 June 2003 until judgment is entered.
4.
An order imposing a penalty on the Respondent pursuant to section 178(1) of the WR Act for breach of clause 19 of the 2000 Agreement.
5.
An order pursuant to section 356 of the WR Act that the penalty imposed under Order 4 be paid to the First Applicant.
6.
A declaration that the Respondent breached a term of the 2000 Agreement in that for the period 1 July 2002 to 30 June 2003 the Respondent failed to pay to the Second Applicant the annual salary set out in clause 19 of the 2000 Agreement.
7.
An order pursuant to section 178(6) of the WR Act that the Respondent pay to the Second Applicant an amount of $8,410 being the amount the Second Applicant was underpaid his entitlement under clause 19 of the 2000 Agreement for the period 1 July 2002 to 30 June 2003.
8.
An order under section 179A of the WR Act that the Respondent pay interest at such rate as the Court thinks fit on the whole of the amount referred to in Order 7 from 30 June 2003 until judgment is entered.
9.
An order imposing a penalty on the Respondent pursuant to section 178(1) of the WR Act for breach of clause 19 of the 2000 Agreement.
10.
An order pursuant to section 356 of the WR Act that the penalty imposed under Order 9 be paid to the Second Applicant.
11.
A declaration that the Respondent breached a term of the Hunter Valley Operations Certified Agreement 2003 (the 2003 Agreement) in that for the period 1 July 2004 to 31 December 2004 the Respondent failed to pay to the First Applicant the annual salary set out in clause 17 of the 2003 Agreement.
12.
An order pursuant to section 178(6) of the WR Act that the Respondent pay to the First Applicant an amount of $12,845.31 being the amount the First Applicant was underpaid his entitlement under clause 17 of the 2003 Agreement for the period 1 July 2004 to 31 December 2004.
13.
An order under section 179A of the WR Act that the Respondent pay interest at such rate as the Court thinks fit on the whole of the amount referred to in Order 12 from 31 December 2004 until judgment is entered.
14.
An order imposing a penalty on the Respondent pursuant to section 178(1) of the WR Act for breach of clause 17 of the 2003 Agreement.
15.
An order pursuant to section 356 of the WR Act that the penalty imposed under Order 14 be paid to the First Applicant.
16.
A declaration that the Respondent breached a term of the 2003 Agreement in that for the period 1 July 2004 to 31 December 2004 the Respondent failed to pay to the Second Applicant the annual salary set out in clause 17 of the 2003 Agreement.
17.
An order pursuant to section 178(6) of the WR Act that the Respondent pay to the Second Applicant an amount of $20,531.20 being the amount the Second Applicant was underpaid his entitlement under clause 17 of the 2003 Agreement for the period 1 July 2004 to 31 December 2004.
18.
An order under section 179A of the WR Act that the Respondent pay interest at such rate as the Court thinks fit on the whole of the amount referred to in Order 17 from 31 December 2004 until judgment is entered.
19.
An order imposing a penalty on the Respondent pursuant to section 178(1) of the WR Act for breach of clause 17 of the 2003 Agreement.
20.
An order pursuant to section 356 of the WR Act that the penalty imposed under Order 19 be paid to the Second Applicant.
21.
Such other or further orders as the Court considers appropriate.
'
 
 

What pecuniary adjustment would be put in place in the event of the applicants' success against CAO in the proceedings, as between the applicants and MES, is unclear, but is of no concern in the context of resolution of the present proceedings.
7 Section 178 of the WR Act relates to the imposition and recovery of penalties, subsections (1) and (6) thereof reading as follows:
 
 
 '(1) Where an organisation or person bound by an award, an order of the Commission (whether under this Act, the Registration and Accountability of Organisations Schedule or otherwise) or a certified agreement breaches a term of the award, order or agreement, a penalty may be imposed by the Court or by a court of competent jurisdiction.

 
 ... 
 
 (6) Where, in a proceeding against an employer under this section, it appears to the court concerned that an employee of the employer has not been paid an amount that the employer was required to pay under an award, order or agreement, the court may order the employer to pay to the employee the amount of the underpayment.
' 
 
 

Section 179A of the WR Act authorises payment of interest on 'the sum for which an order is made or judgment given' , and s 356 of the WR Act further authorises the payment of a monetary penalty or a part thereof 'to a particular organisation or person' .
Section 412 of the WR Act confers jurisdiction relevantly on this Court.
8 Between at least 1 June 2001 and 31 December 2004, CAO engaged MES to supply certain classifications of workers for engagement at the HVO.
MES provided inter alia the applicants Mr Wilton and Mr Cumberland for work at the HVO during those times.
Initially the arrangements for that supply had not been formalised in a written document.
Upon receipt of CAO's formal request for the provision of workers, MES would furnish a number of names and CAO would make its selection.
Thereafter the selected workers would attend at the site of the HVO for work on shifts physically as part of CAO's workforce and in accordance with rosters prepared by CAO.
Those selected workers were paid by MES for the hours they worked, and MES invoiced CAO on a weekly basis in respect of the work performed by workers supplied by MES.
Those invoices were based upon MES time sheet forms which each such worker filled out and signed and submitted to MES.
Each was allocated accordingly a MES employee number.
9 At least between those respective times:
 
 (i) the CAO submitted formal purchase orders to MES in respect of the work CAO required to be performed by workers to be supplied by MES;
 (ii) MES submitted invoices to CAO on a weekly basis in respect of the work thus performed by workers supplied by MES;
 (iii) CAO paid MES the amounts specified in the invoices.


A sample of those purchase orders which CAO submitted to MES form part of Exhibit 1 at pages 78 to 140 thereof, and sample invoices submitted by MES to CAO form part of Exhibit 1 at pages 141-533 thereof.
No moneys were thus paid by CAO to either applicant for their respective services, MES performing the function of a labour hire provider.
10 In early August 2002 or thereabouts, CAO invited MES, and other employment personnel providing entities, to tender for a contract to supply labour to CAO for mining work being undertaken by CAO at the HVO, being Tender No.
CNA-04-072; a copy of the letter dated 2 August 2002 constituting that invitation to tender forms part of Exhibit 1 at pages 534-582.
On or about 21 August 2002, MES submitted pricing to CAO in relation to its tender, and a copy of that submission comprises pages 1 to 28 of Confidential Exhibit 2.
Subsequently in about late August or September 2003, MES entered into a written agreement with CAO (or more precisely with Rio Tinto Coal (NSW) Pty Ltd as agent for CAO) for the supply of so-called 'supplementary labour hire', being Contract No.
SA-01-073 ('the Supply Agreement'), a copy whereof comprises pages 29 to 67 also of Confidential Exhibit 2.
The applicants contended, though apparently not until after principal written submissions of the respective parties had been furnished, that they were not 'supplied' to CAO under or pursuant to the Supply Agreement, for the reason that they had already commenced work at the HVO, and to use their description 'were attending in accordance with [CAO's] request that they turn up in accordance with a roster'.
Upon that purported footing, the applicants submitted that the Supply Agreement 'has no relevance to the relationship between the applicants and [CAO]', that submission going to the nub of the issues arising in the proceedings, since the applicants' case was of course that in substance and reality and therefore according to law, the applicants were at all material times employees of CAO and should have been remunerated accordingly.
Circumstances in chronological sequence attending the engagement by Mining  Earthmoving Services Pty Ltd ('MES') of Mr Wilton to the extent mutually acknowledged or not put in issue between the parties 
 
11 As to particularity of the circumstances attending Mr Wilton's engagement by MES (using the term 'engagement' neutrally), the following matters were the subject of agreement between Mr Wilton and CAO for the purpose of the proceedings (the complexity of the circumstances of the case requires that all of such undisputed matters be recorded in these reasons for ease of reference, irrespective of the varying extent of materiality thereof).
The pagination of all documentation referred to below within Exhibit 1 is recorded below:
 
 (i) on or about 1 June 2001, Mr Wilton completed an MES form called 'Registration of Interest --- Casual/Temporary Employment', and submitted that form and his resume of mining experience to MES (comprising pages 583-586 of Exhibit 1);
 (ii) on 6 June 2001, MES inquired of Mr Wilton whether he would be willing to work at the HVO on a night shift commencing at 11.00 pm; Mr Wilton indicated his willingness so to do; Mr Wilton commenced work at the HVO on that night shift commencing at 11.00 pm; Mr Wilton reported for that purpose to Mr Greg Hamilton, a shift supervisor for the B crew at the Chestnut Pit of the HVO and being the OCE working on that shift, and Mr Hamilton assigned Mr Wilton to work as a truck driver on that shift;
 (iii) on or about 18 June 2001, MES completed 'Section B' of a 'Tax file number declaration' form in respect of Mr Wilton for submission to the Australian Taxation Office (Exhibit 1 at page 587); on 17 September 2001, MES completed a form regarding Mr Wilton's employment for submission to Centrelink (Exhibit 1 at page 588); on 20 December 2001, Mr Wilton completed an MES form authorising and directing his statutory superannuation contributions to be made to COALSUPER (Exhibit 1 at page 589);
 (iv) From 6 June 2001 to about 18 January 2002: 
 
 
 (a) Mr Wilton worked at the HVO for an eight hour shift on a five days per week roster as part of the B crew at the Chestnut Pit, although on at least two of those days Mr Wilton did not work because CAO informed Mr Wilton that it did not require him to work on that day due to inclement weather or machinery breakdown; 
 (b) when Mr Wilton worked at the HVO, he signed a contractor register book supplied by CAO located at the entry to the HVO, both at the start and the end of each shift;
 (c) during the hours of the shifts that Mr Wilton worked at the HVO, he was subject to supervision and direction from the same person(s) as other workers on the B crew;
 (d) in January 2002, CAO changed its operations at the Chestnut Pit from eight hour shifts to 12 hour shifts; that month, CAO informed Mr Wilton of the changes to the shifts, and CAO assigned Mr Wilton to work as part of the D crew at the Chestnut Pit; 
 
 
 (v) from 22 January 2002 to at least 31 December 2004: 
 
 
 (a) Mr Wilton worked at the HVO on a 12 hour shift four panel roster as part of the D crew at the Chestnut Pit, although on at least 15 occasions Mr Wilton did not work because CAO informed Mr Wilton that it did not require him to work on those occasions due to inclement weather or machinery breakdown; 
 (b) when Mr Wilton worked at the HVO, Mr Wilton: 
 
 
 
 
 (A) initially signed a contractor register book, supplied by CAO and located at the entry to the HVO, at the start and the end of each shift; 
 (B) from 22 April 2002, he swiped a card through a computer reader located at the entry of the HVO at the start and at the end of each shift, and affixed a computer generated adhesive sticker (showing his picture, his name, his induction training and his role) to his work gear at the start of each shift; 
 (C) during the hours of the shifts, he was subject to supervision and direction from the same person(s) as other workers on the D crew; and
 (D) CAO each year provided members of the D crew at the Chestnut Pit with a roster card outlining the planned shifts to be worked by the D crew at the Chestnut Pit for the ensuing twelve month period; 
 
 

(vi) at all material times from 6 June 2001 to 31 December 2004:
 
 
 (a) when Mr Wilton was unable to attend work at the HVO due to illness, Mr Wilton: 
 
 
 
 
 (A) initially was required to notify both MES and his relevant OCE at the HVO (or, if he was unable to contact his relevant OCE, then the Control Room at the HVO); Mr Wilton also completed a MES 'Application for Leave' form in relation to those occasions and submitted the form to MES; a copy of those forms completed by Mr Wilton is Exhibit 1 at pages 590-591;
 (B) from about 17 February 2003 was required to communicate with both MES and his relevant OCE at the HVO (or, if he was unable to contact the relevant OCE, the Control Room at the HVO); the relevant OCE then completed a 'Record of Observation' form in relation to Mr Wilton's absence, and provided it to CAO's Mining Systems Engineer Mr Steve Sargent; 
 
 
 
 
 (b) when Mr Wilton wished to take recreation leave from the work at the HVO, Mr Wilton:
 (A) initially informed his supervisor at the HVO; 
 
 
 
 
 (B) completed a MES 'Application for Payment of Leave' form and submitted the form to MES; a copy of those forms completed by Mr Wilton are at page 592 of Exhibit 1;
 (C) from about August 2004, the MES form he was required to complete (and did complete) and submit, changed to a 'Notification of Not Being Available for Work' form; a copy of forms completed by Mr Wilton are at pages 593-596 of Exhibit 1; 
 
 
 
 
 (c) Mr Wilton sent to MES, per medium of a facsimile machine located at the HVO, a completed MES timesheet, initially countersigned by an OCE at the end of each week, and later countersigned by an OCE at the end of each shift; Mr Wilton then sent the completed timesheet to the MES office by facsimile in order to receive payment for his work; a copy of the completed timesheets are at pages 597-821 of Exhibit 1.

 

12 At all material times from 6 June 2001 to 31 December 2004, MES:
 
 (i) paid to Mr Wilton wages in respect of the work he performed at the HVO on a weekly basis into his nominated bank account after the deduction of PAYG taxation, superannuation and other authorised deductions;
 (ii) provided to Mr Wilton a payslip each week; a copy of the payslip is Exhibit 1 at pages 822-1017;
 (iii) made superannuation contributions on behalf of Mr Wilton to a superannuation fund nominated by Mr Wilton;
 (iv) sent to Mr Wilton various memoranda, including memoranda concerning the completion and submission of timesheets, the requirement to attend toolbox talks and the requirement to work over certain holiday periods such as Easter and Christmas; a copy of such memoranda is at pages 1018 to 1029 of Exhibit 1;
 (v) conducted monthly occupational health and safety briefings at the HVO which Mr Wilton and other workers attended at the request of MES; and
 (vi) following the end of each financial year for 2001 to 2005 (both inclusive), provided to Mr Wilton a form of 'PAYG Payment Summary --- Individual Non Business' for inclusion in Mr Wilton's income tax return, which recorded gross payments made by MES to Mr Wilton in the nature of wages and the income tax deducted in respect of such payments; a copy of the PAYG Payment Summaries completed by MES in respect of Mr Wilton are at pages 1030 to 1034 of Exhibit 1.


13 Some months after Mr Wilton commenced working at the HVO, MES provided Mr Wilton with a uniform and personal protective equipment to wear during his work at the HVO, following the completion of forms by Mr Wilton requesting the clothing he wished to have issued to him; the clothing and personal protective equipment issued to Mr Wilton bore the MES logo; a copy of the forms completed by Mr Wilton is Exhibit 1 at pages 1035 to 1037.
At or around the same time, MES provided to Mr Wilton a crib bag to use during his work at the HVO.
14 At all material times from 6 June 2001 to 31 December 2004, CAO:
 
 (i) paid MES for the work done by Mr Wilton, based on the number of hours Mr Wilton worked at the HVO;
 (ii) did not deduct tax from the amounts it paid to MES;
 (iii) did not make any wage, superannuation, annual leave, sick leave or other payments to Mr Wilton;
 (iv) did not pay MES for those occasions when Mr Wilton did not attend the HVO;
 (v) did not direct or advise MES as to the quantum of wages or other payments MES made to Mr Wilton;
 (vi) assigned Mr Wilton to work on various pieces of equipment at the HVO, at the start of a shift, by placing his name on a whiteboard next to the type of equipment Mr Wilton was to operate on that shift;
 (vii) supplied the mining equipment which Mr Wilton used during his work at the HVO;
 (viii) arranged for an OCE to be in charge of each shift which Mr Wilton worked;
 (ix) arranged for the nominated OCE to provide a briefing on safety matters, prior to the commencement of each shift, to Mr Wilton and the other workers on the relevant shifts;
 (x) made hearing protection (ear-plugs) available for use by Mr Wilton; and
 (xi) provided instruction on health and safety matters to Mr Wilton (amongst other persons).


15 At some time during the course of 2002, Mr Wilton signed a MES 'Employment Undertaking' form and provided it to MES.
A copy of the form that Mr Wilton submitted to MES formed part of Exhibit 1 at page 1038.
