
 Introduction 
 
1 This is a claim and a cross-claim which follow upon the termination of the first and second respondents' involvement with the applicant.
The applicant is sometimes referred to in the documents as 'BPL'.
A Short Statement of the Issues 
 
2 There are two principal issues in this proceeding.
In the claim the applicant seeks a declaration that the respondents, and in particular the first respondent, are not entitled to hold shares, called 'performance shares', in the applicant.
That raises for consideration the construction of a document called the 'circular resolution' and whether performance shares have issued and, if so, the consequences.
The issue on the cross-claim is whether the first respondent was employed by the applicant pursuant to an Executive Service Agreement and, if so, the first respondent's entitlements upon the termination of his employment in June 1995.
The claims against the second respondent were settled prior to trial and he took no active part in the trial.
3 The two issues require a consideration of the applicant's fortunes over the period between incorporation and at least July/August 2005.
The parties tendered voluminous material of documentary evidence in regard to that matter.
Of course, that is not unusual in a proceeding where the inquiry is into a company's affairs over a number of years.
Documentary evidence is often the best evidence available in such an inquiry.
It is usually not created with an eye to litigation and often tells a story by itself.
That is the case here.
There is no dispute between the parties as to how the documents show the company's fortunes and identify the issues to be considered.
I propose to examine the proceeding by reference to the documents and then have regard to the oral evidence which the parties adduced.
The History 
 
4 The applicant was incorporated on 7 June 2002 at the instigation of the second respondent.
On that day, the first respondent was appointed company secretary.
Shortly after its incorporation, Dr Donald McCully became chairman of directors and the second respondent effectively managing director, although there was never any Board resolution appointing him to that position.
On 28 June 2002 Mr Rae Davison and Mr John Pearce became directors.
5 The first respondent is a Chartered Accountant.
He became involved with the second respondent because his partner was a long-standing friend of the second respondent.
The first respondent's position was part-time with the applicant.
Indeed, on 10 December 2002 he contracted through his service company to provide business consultancy services to Clinipath (for a period of 12 months commencing on 20 January 2003).
He remains a business consultant to Clinipath.
6 The applicant was incorporated to establish an operating plant in Albury/Wodonga to produce biodiesel from tallow and waste oils for markets in New South Wales, Victoria and the Australian Capital Territory.
7 Biodiesel is made by using methanol and potassium hydroxide as a catalyst to chemically alter fats and oils.
The process is known as 'transesterification'.
It produces an alternative fuel which is cheaper to produce than petroleum diesel and provides better engine lubrication.
Ordinarily, it is blended with petroleum diesel to create a biodiesel blend.
8 The applicant adopted the ideas of the second respondent.
It was the intention of the applicant to build an 'off the shelf' plant supplied by a European technology supplier, Biodiesel International of Graz Austria ('BDI') under licence from that company.
That company was able to build a plant which would produce in the order of 56 million litres per annum of biodiesel and, as a side product, 4,000 tonnes of glycerol.
By July 2003 the second respondent had identified a suitable site for the construction of the 'off the shelf' plant.
9 Seed capital of in the order of $500,000 was introduced by a number of investors, including members of the Board, to conduct feasibility studies, prepare a marketing plan and to apply for a government grant.
It was necessary, of course, for the applicant to raise sufficient funds to purchase a site, build the plant and conduct the business.
It was estimated that $14.5 million in equity capital or debt finance would be required.
10 Two sources of funds, apparently, became available to the applicant in 2003.
Some time in 2002 the Commonwealth Government announced it would support the establishment of biofuel industries and announced the availability of $50 million in funding under the Greenhouse Gas Abatement Program for participants in that industry.
That announcement was confirmed in the May 2003 Federal Budget.
11 In August 2003 the second respondent made a presentation to ANZ Infrastructure Services Limited ('ANZIS') for the purpose of inducing ANZIS to invest in the applicant either by way of equity or debt or both.
12 At the applicant's Board meeting on 22 August 2003 the first respondent advised the directors that he had met with Mr John Clarke, the managing director of ANZIS, who had told him that ANZIS wanted to finance most of the project by either debt or equity.
The Chair and Mr Davison expressed concern about ANZIS' potential control of the applicant.
The second respondent wrote to the applicant's shareholders inviting them to consider making further investment in the applicant.
13 On 10 September 2003 the managing director of ANZIS, John Clarke and a director, Ross Beames, wrote to the second respondent indicating that ANZIS had undertaken a preliminary review of the applicant's project and was prepared to undertake a more detailed review in the future.
On 17 September 2003 the first respondent instructed the applicant's solicitors, Hardy Bowen, to draft agreements.
On 18 September 2003 the second respondent sent a draft Heads of Agreement, to which ANZIS and the applicant were to be parties, to his fellow directors and to the first respondent.
That agreement was executed by the parties on 13 October 2003.
Before going to the Heads of Agreement it is worth noting that on the same day the first respondent took advice from Mr Grant Burgess of BDO Consultants (WA) Pty Ltd seeking advice on 'vendor shares'.
The relevance of these kinds of shares will emerge shortly.
14 Mr Burgess responded on 14 October 2003:
 
 'Tony 
 
 I have used converting preference shares to good effect in the past.
As discussed previously, I think they would suit your purposes.
You will still need a valuation for tax purposes.
The issue of shares at a discount is caught by Division 13A of the 1936 Tax Act.

 
 Under this Division, the Commissioner requires the market value of unlisted shares to be determined by a "qualified person".
A qualified person is defined as a registered company auditor.

 
 Consequently, you will need a valuation of the company done.

 
 The assessable discount that will need to be brought to account will be the market value of the preference shares less anything paid to acquire them.

 
 I will call you to discuss this further.
' 
 

15 Accompanying the Heads of Agreement was a letter dated 13 October 2003 from Mr Clarke who wrote:
 
 'Dear Dennis 
 
 Re: Confirmation of interest in equity investment 
 
 ANZ Infrastructure Services Ltd ("ANZIS") is a specialist equity investment division of ANZ Investment Bank and specialises in investment in the energy sector, including renewable energy.

 
 As part of its core investment mandate, ANZIS is examining the opportunity to invest in a biodiesel project ("Project") presented by Biodiesel Producers Ltd ("BPL").

 
 ANZIS understands that the Project is planned to be built in the Wodonga area and to be constructed next year.
Subject to finalising due diligence and the finalisation of Project contracts, it is the intention of ANZIS to arrange sufficient funding for the Project including new equity for BPL and debt funding.
Our preliminary review of the Project indicates that the project is viable and we are encouraged by the progress being made by PBL (sic).

 
 One key factor for this project is the availability and pricing of raw materials such as tallow.
Therefore it is essential that BPL obtains appropriate supply contracts for tallow and this letter is to support is (sic) endeavour.

 
 Should you have any questions, please contact me on 02 9226 6925.
' 
 

16 The Heads of Agreement recited:
 
 
 '(a) BPL has been formed to develop, own and operate a biodiesel plant in Albury/Wodonga to produce around 56 million litres per annum of biodiesel from tallow and waste oils for the markets in NSW, Victoria and the ACT (" the Project ").

 
 (b) ANZIS has held discussions with BPL with a view to an investment trust managed by ANZIS (" the ANZIS Fund ") participating in structuring and funding of the Project.

 
 (c) The Parties may also work together through BPL, after the completion of the Project, on other biodiesel plants initially within Australia but later internationally.

 
 (f)(sic) The Parties have agreed to enter into this Heads of Agreement (" HOA ") to set out their initial understandings and intentions pending due diligence of the Project to the satisfaction of ANZIS and finalisation and execution of formal Project documentation.
' 
 
 

17 The scope of the agreement was to address the basis for ANZIS injecting equity and procuring debt funding to allow the applicant to fund its project.
The term of the agreement was until a definitive agreement had been entered into or 30 June 2004, whichever first occurred.
18 The parties agreed in clauses 2(b) and 2(d):
 
 
 '(b) The Parties agree that the ANZIS Fund is the preferred equity provider to the Project and shall have first right of refusal to provide the initial equity capital for the development of the Project subject to BPL having the right to allocate performance based shares (" Free Carry Shares ") to Dennis Gerard Barron and Anthony Paul Stewart (collectively called " Management ") subject to agreed numbers of shares and terms, more fully detailed in clause 5.
The Free Carry Shares will be ordinary shares ranking pari passu with other ordinary BPL shares other than as defined in clause 5 and will be issued at no cost to Management.

 
 ... 
 
 (d) Following execution of this HOA, ANZIS and BPL agree to develop a detailed work-plan ( "Work-Plan" ) for: 
 
 (1) the development of a financial model; and 
 
 (2) achieving financial close.
' 
 
 

19 It can be seen that clause 2(b) contemplated that the applicant would allocate performance based shares to both respondents at no cost to those respondents.
The further detail was included in clause 5 which provided:
 
 ' 5 Financial Arrangements 
 
 Subject to execution of the Definitive Agreements referred to in clause 8 and the finalisation of the financial model: 
 
 
 
 (a) ANZIS has assumed that the Project will have total costs of around $17 million funded by around $6 million of debt and around $11 million of equity arranged by ANZIS.

 
 (b) The expected shareholding of BPL at financial close based on the assumption in (a) above, prior to the issue of Free Carry Shares, is expected to be as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1) there are currently 11.5 million shares on issue split between 7.5 million Founder Shares granted to Dennis Gerard Barron at nil cost and 4 million Seed Shares issued at 10 cents per share; 
 
 (2) an additional 500,000 Seed Shares at nil cost might need to be issued to Grange Securities for financial advisory services provided to date; 
 
 (3) Pledged Shares from the latest capital raising round total 8 million to be issued at 20 cents per share and these include 2 million shares to be issued to acquire land at Albury Wodonga for the Project; and 
 
 (4) an additional 48 million shares, or such other number in accordance with the financial model, to be subscribed for by ANZIS or its nominee at 20 cents per share, to complete the equity funding for the Project.

 
 
 
 
 
 (c) ANZ or the ANZIS Fund will subscribe for the required equity in BPL following agreement with BPL on the financial model of the Project; 
 
 (d) BPL will pay to Management, as a bonus, a transaction fee at financial close of A$0.5 million paid at Management's option either in cash or by the issuance of 2.5 million Free Carry Shares; 
 
 (e) BPL will pay to ANZIS a transaction fee for debt arrangement and equity raising at financial close of A$0.5 million; 
 
 (f) BPL will issue additional Free Carry Shares to Management at nil cost as follows: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1) 3 million shares when the Project achieves commercial operations date; 
 
 (2) 4 million shares when the Project achieves a sustainable net profit after corporate taxation in a financial year (" NPAT ") of $4 million in a financial year; and 
 
 (3) 5 million shares when the Project achieves a sustainable NPAT of $6 million.

 
 
 
 
 
 (g) The Free Carry Shares described in 4(f) above will only be issued so long as Management continues to be employed by BPL.
' 
 
 

20 This document speaks of 7.5 million founder shares and a further 14.5 million free carry shares.
The latter shares would issue to management in the number and on the occasions provided for in clauses 5(d) and 5(f).
There were a total of 14.5 million free carry shares.
Clause 5(g) provided that the free carry shares referred to in clause 5(f) (wrongly described as 4(f)) would only issue so long as the respondents continued to be employed by the applicant.
Presumably, because no reference is made, that restriction did not apply to the free carry shares referred to in clause 5(d).
There may be a reason for that.
The first respondent, although he was the company secretary, was not employed at the time the Heads of Agreement was signed.
The second respondent was employed by the applicant although his terms of employment were not defined.
It was contemplated that the first respondent would be employed when the applicant could afford his services.
In those circumstances, there may have been a deliberate discrimination between clause 5(d) and clause 5(f) to allow the first respondent to become employed after financial close.
The number of shares that were to issue to the respondents in the event of certain criteria being met never changed but was always 14.5 million shares.
The description of the shares and the circumstances in which they might issue did change.
21 There were other conditions which are unimportant.
The transaction fee in clause 5(e) is not better defined in the Heads of Agreement, but nothing turns on that.
22 The Heads of Agreement was signed by the second respondent on behalf of the applicant.
It was tabled at a meeting of the Board on 11 November 2003.
Mr Davison indicated that he was 'unhappy with the fees charged (by ANZIS) and the ongoing charge of $10,000 per month'.
23 The Heads of Agreement and the parties themselves anticipated a more definitive agreement would be entered into at least before 30 June 2004.
To that end, on 11 November 2003, the first respondent prepared a Term Sheet which was to be used to determine a common starting point for negotiation of a shareholders agreement between the parties.
It was contemplated that the shareholders agreement would be executed by all of the existing shareholders and ANZIS.
The shareholders agreement would provide for terms upon which ANZIS would invest in the applicant.
