
 
1 The first two applicants are the joint proprietors of Australian patent number 702106 ('the Patent').
The claimed invention of the Patent relates to the use of the compound known as carvedilol for the manufacture of a medicament for decreasing mortality resulting from congestive heart failure and to a method for decreasing such mortality comprising the administration of carvedilol.
The third applicant is the exclusive licensee of the Patent in Australia.
I shall refer to the applicants jointly as 'the Patentees'.
The Patentees claim that the respondent ('GenRx') is threatening to infringe the Patent and seek interlocutory relief restraining such infringement.
2 GenRx contends that the Patentees' claims of infringement are so weak that there is not even a serious question to be tried as to whether there is an infringement.
GenRx puts its contentions on two bases.
The first is that the Patent is invalid on several grounds.
The second is that their threatened actions would not infringe the Patent, assuming it is valid.
Assuming that the Court concludes that there is a serious question to be tried as to whether GenRx's threatened actions would infringe a valid patent, it will be necessary to determine where the balance of the convenience of granting or not granting relief lies.
CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE 
 
3 Congestive heart failure is a condition in which the heart is unable to pump forward strongly enough such that kidneys, muscles and other parts of the body are denied adequate blood flow.
The condition causes congestion in the lungs, veins and liver and other parts of the body.
The weakness of the heart muscle, which leads to the condition, is often caused by an insufficient supply of oxygen to the muscles in the heart brought about by one or more underlying heart or blood vessel problems.
4 Congestive heart failure may develop gradually over several years or develop quickly as a result of a heart attack or a disease of the heart muscle.
Commonly, patients suffering from congestive heart failure suffer fluid retention.
The inadequate blood flow results in the release of hormones that result in the body holding on to sodium and water.
In the short term, that leads to an increase in blood volume providing the kidneys with sufficient blood for their normal activity.
However, over time, the blood vessels of the body cannot hold all of the extra blood volume and fluid starts to exude out of the blood vessels and into the tissues of the body.
Such fluid retention is normally treated with a diuretic drug, which increases urine formation and output.
REGISTRATION AND LISTING OF PHARMACEUTICAL GOODS 
 
5 A pharmaceutical product may not be marketed, supplied, offered for sale, sold or distributed within Australia unless it is listed or registered on the Register of Therapeutic Goods maintained under the Therapeutic Goods Act 1989 (Cth).
The registration for a pharmaceutical product must include at least one indication for the product within Australia.
6 The Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme is maintained by the Commonwealth under the National Health Act 1953 (Cth) in order to provide all Australian residents with access to subsidised prescription medicines.
The Commonwealth Government will only reimburse retail pharmacies for the difference dispensed price of a product and the patient co-payment if a pharmaceutical product is first listed under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme and is prescribed to the patient in accordance with its listed scheme restriction.
7 An Australian pharmaceutical company that manufactures or distributes pharmaceutical products in Australia, termed a sponsor, may apply for listing of any one or more of its prescription pharmaceutical products under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.
However, a pharmaceutical product must be registered on the Register of Therapeutic Goods before listing can occur under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.
8 The Schedule of Pharmaceutical Benefits ('the Schedule') is published by the Department of Health and Aging.
It lists all of the pharmaceutical products included under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.
The schedule sets out pricing information, product strengths and the indication or restriction for the product.
The primary purpose of the Schedule is to indicate how pharmaceutical products are priced.
9 In order to obtain listing under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme of an innovative pharmaceutical product that contains a new chemical entity as the active compound, the sponsor must lodge a submission to the Pharmaceutical Benefits Advisory Committee ('the Advisory Committee').
The Advisory Committee is an independent statutory body with the function of recommending to the Minister the drugs and medicinal preparations for subsidy under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.
Comprehensive guidelines are published for the filing of such a submission, including the information required to support such a submission.
10 Each submission comprises several sections.
One of those sections includes a clinical evaluation of the new pharmaceutical product, which considers the relative efficacy and safety of the product, compared with the standard of care.
Another section includes an economic evaluation of the new pharmaceutical product, where the cost of treating a patient using the new product is assessed with respect to the benefit gained by treating the patient for that cost.
That economic evaluation enables the cost effectiveness of the new product to be assessed.
It is mandatory for the submission supporting an application for listing of a new drug or new indication for a currently listed drug to include an economic evaluation.
11 Once a submission for listing of a new pharmaceutical product is lodged with the Advisory Committee, a detailed evaluation of both the clinical benefit and the economic value of the product is conducted.
The process for obtaining listing of a new pharmaceutical product takes at least nine months from the date of submission to the time of listing in the Schedule.
Approximately 17 weeks of those 9 months are spent on the evaluation of the submission by the Advisory Committee and the provision of responses by the sponsor.
12 However, a submission for listing of a generic brand of a pharmaceutical product already listed in the Schedule in respect of the same indication or restriction is simpler and takes about 10 weeks from lodgement to listing in the Schedule.
The sponsor of the generic product does not need to present a full submission to the Advisory Committee.
In particular, there is no need for a clinical evaluation and an economic evaluation since that would have been provided in respect of the original product.
13 The information to be lodged by a generic sponsor includes copies of the relevant registration certificates for the generic product issued by the Therapeutic Goods Administration and a copy of the product information sheet approved by the Therapeutic Goods Administration in respect of the generic product.
The generic sponsor must also provide a guarantee that it will supply the product by the proposed listing date.
14 The Pharmaceutical Benefits Pricing Authority ('the Pricing Authority') is an independent non-statutory body.
It makes recommendations to the Minister for Health and Aging on prices for new items that have been recommended by the Advisory Committee for listing on the Schedule under the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.
In addition, the Pricing Authority reviews prices of all items listed on the Schedule at least once each year.
The Pricing Authority's objective is to secure a reliable supply of pharmaceutical benefits items at the most reasonable cost to Australian taxpayers and consumers consistent with maintaining a sustainable, viable and responsible pharmaceutical industry in Australia.
15 Following recommendation of products for listing, sponsors are contacted by the Pricing Authority and asked to provide cost information and invited to supply any other data that the sponsor considers relevant for consideration by the Pricing Authority.
The cost information data and the advice from the Advisory Committee are evaluated by the Pricing Authority.
16 Price negotiations with the sponsor are then undertaken by the Pricing Authority on behalf of the Minister.
Any agreement is subject to Ministerial approval.
If a price is not agreed between the Pricing Authority and the sponsor, then the product is not listed.
When aspects in relation to a new listing have been finalised, the Advisory Committee informs the company approximately one month before listing in the Schedule.
The deadline for finalisation of all details relating to listing is approximately three months before the release of the Schedule, which takes place on 1 April, 1 August and 1 December in each year.
There are over 2,600 different branded products listed in the Pharmaceutical Benefits Schedule.
17 Once a patent expires for a medicine, other pharmaceutical manufacturers can produce equivalent products, called generic medicines, and can have them listed in the pharmaceutical benefits schedule under their own brand name.
Some of those manufacturers offer a reduction to the price of their medicine, thereby setting a new benchmark price.
However, most do not.
Therefore, price reductions are usually fewer and less than should be expected.
The Government therefore often pays higher prices for medicines than it should need to pay.
For that reason, the Commonwealth Government implemented a new policy to reduce the amount it pays for new brands of medicines.
18 In that context, manufacturers seeking to list the first new brand of a medicine already included in the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme are required to offer a minimum 12.5 per cent price reduction in the Government price for the medicine.
The 12.5 per cent price reduction applies for new brands listed in the Schedule on or after 1 August 2005.
The price reduction will apply only to the first new generic brand of any medicine listed on or after 1 August 2005 and applies once only for each medicine.
19 In May 2006, the Pricing Authority published a document entitled ' Policies, Procedures and Methods used in the Pricing of Pharmaceutical Products ' ('the Guidelines').
The Guidelines indicate that drugs that are used to treat the same condition or have similar action are grouped in therapeutic sub groups in the schedule to the Guidelines.
The Guidelines deal with, among other things, the pricing of new brands of existing items.
20 The Guidelines provides that the 12.5 per cent price reduction will only be triggered by an application to list a new generic brand of a medicine.
