
 

 
1 This case has something of a familiar flavour about it.
It is a case in which one of two competitors in the same market invokes the misleading and deceptive conduct provisions in the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) against the other competitor, seeking to establish that the other competitor has engaged in conduct that is misleading or deceptive or is likely to mislead or deceive consumers.
In this case, the two competitors are in the market of mobile telephones and their associated plans.
The applicant is Telstra Corporation Limited ("Telstra") and the respondents are SingTel Optus Pty Ltd, Optus Networks Pty Ltd and Optus Mobile Pty Ltd, all of whom together might be described conveniently as "Optus".
2 Each of these two competitors offers a variety of methods of payment for mobile telephone communications that are described as "plans".
The present case relates to what are called "post-paid plans", which are distinguished from "pre-paid plans", on the basis that the consumer usually receives a periodical bill, generally monthly, charging the consumer for the calls actually made during the preceding period.
The other relevant terminology is that, in part, this case relates to what are called "post-paid capped plans".
These are plans under which a specified amount is allocated to calls of a particular kind or kinds, which are not otherwise chargeable at a per-call or per-unit rate, until the cap amount is exceeded.
3 Optus has recently embarked on an advertising campaign, which involves comparative advertising between one of its plans and one of Telstra's plans.
The advertisements have appeared on television and in print media.
In the course of argument this morning, concentration has been on a particular version that appeared as a full-page advertisement in the weekend newspapers last weekend.
The advertisement features, at the top by way of headline, a black panel in which appear in white letters the words, "FOR THE FIRST TIME IN BLACK  WHITE".
Below that is another panel, divided down the middle, so that the left half has a white background and the right half has a black background.
Straddling the border between the two halves appears the abbreviation for the word "versus" in the form of the letters "vs".
On the left-hand side, the white half, appears the name "OPTUS" and on the right-hand side, the black half, appears in white lettering the word "TELSTRA".
Underneath "OPTUS" appears "$49 CAP Plan"; underneath "TELSTRA", "$40 Phone Plan".
There are then four bullet points underneath each.
