
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 On 3 July 2006, the first respondent, the Classification Review Board ('the Review Board'), classified two publications, Join the Caravan and Defence of the Muslim Lands, 'RC' (Refused Classification).
The effect of the Review Board's classification was to ban the sale of the publications.
The reviews undertaken by the Review Board were initiated by an application by the second respondent ('the Attorney-General' or 'the Attorney') following the initial classification of the two publications as 'Unrestricted' by the Classification Board ('the Board').
The applicant has applied to this Court, under s 5 of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) ('the ADJR Act'), for judicial review of the Review Board's decisions to classify each publication 'RC'.
The applicant seeks declarations that the Review Board's decisions in respect of both publications are invalid and of no effect.
It also seeks orders setting aside the decisions and requiring the Review Board to reconsider the applications for review according to law.
It is common ground that the application raises the question of whether the Review Board's decisions to classify these publications 'RC' were made in accordance with the relevant statutory provisions.
The applicant's entitlement to the relief sought turns upon the proper construction of provisions of the Classification (Publications, Films and Computer Games) Act 1995 (Cth) ('the Act') and the National Classification Code ('the Code') and the Guidelines for the Classification of Publications 2005 ('the Classification Guidelines'), which are each made under the Act.
The grounds upon which the applicant claims relief depend, in essence, upon what it contends is the Review Board's erroneous application of those provisions of the Act and the Code which pertain to the making of classification decisions.
In particular, the applicant takes issue with the Review Board's decision to classify the publications 'RC' on the basis of its finding that both publications 'promote, incite or instruct in matters of crime or violence'.

 THE LEGISLATIVE FRAMEWORK 
 
 The Act 'is intended to form part of a Commonwealth/State/Territory scheme for the classification of publications, films and computer games and for the enforcement of those classifications' (s 3).
The Act establishes a general scheme for the uniform classification, throughout Australia, of all publications, films and computer games that are intended to be offered for sale, and prescribes by whom classification decisions are made.
The States and Territories, in turn, have enacted legislation that provides the means of enforcing those classification decisions.
The Board is responsible for classifying publications, films and computer games upon application (s 10).
Constituted pursuant to s 45 of the Act, the Board comprises the Director, the Deputy Director, Senior Classifiers and other members (s 46).
In appointing members to the Board, s 48(2) of the Act stipulates that 'regard is to be had to the desirability of ensuring that the membership ... is broadly representative of the Australian community'.
Other than that requirement, the Act places no restrictions upon appointment to the Board.
Similarly, the Act adopts a flexible approach to the procedure to be adopted by the Board in making classification decisions; s 56 provides that the procedure of the Board is 'as determined by the Director'.
The Review Board is constituted by s 72 of the Act.
It consists of a Convenor, a Deputy Convenor, and at least three, but not more than eight, other members (s 73).
The Review Board's function is to review classification decisions made by the Board, upon application of one of the persons specified in s 42(1) --- including the Attorney-General as the Minister responsible for administering the Act (s 42(1)(a)).
Section 74 of the Act contains the same requirement for appointment to the Review Board as appears in the equivalent provision regarding appointment to the Board, namely that regard must be had to 'the desirability of ensuring that the membership ... is broadly representative of the Australian community'.
As is the case with the Board, the Act imposes no other restrictions on appointment.
Although the purpose of the Review Board is to 'review' decisions made by the Board, s 44 of the Act requires that the review be conducted in the same way as the Board deals with an application for classification of a publication, film or computer game or for approval of an advertisement.
Although the Convenor is responsible for ensuring that the business of the Review Board is conducted in an orderly and efficient way, and may give directions as to the arrangements of the Review Board's business (s 77), in conducting that business the Review Board does not have any powers or functions which are additional to those which the Board possessed when making the decision that is the subject of its review.
Section 9 of the Act requires the Board --- and hence the Review Board --- to classify publications, films and computer games 'in accordance with the Code and the classification guidelines'.
The 'Code' to which s 9 refers is the Code as originally set out in the Schedule to the Act and amended from time to time in accordance with s 6 of the Act.
The Classification Guidelines are determined by the Attorney-General (with the agreement of each participating Minister under the State and Territory co-operation arrangement) to assist the Board in applying the criteria in the Code (s 12).
In addition to the Code and the Classification Guidelines, s 11 of the Act provides that the matters to be taken into account in making a decision on the classification of publications, films and computer games include: 
 
 
 '(a) the standards of morality, decency and propriety generally accepted by reasonable adults; 
 
 (b) the literary, artistic or educational merit (if any) of the publication ...; and 
 
 (c) the general character of the publication ..., including whether it is of a medical, legal or scientific character; and 
 
 (d) the persons or class of persons to or amongst whom it is published or is intended or likely to be published.
' 
 
 
 
 On 22 December 2005, the Board classified Join the Caravan and Defence of Muslim Lands as 'Unrestricted', upon the application of the Australian Federal Police pursuant to s 22A of the Act.
The remarks of the Board in relation to both publications are set out below.


In relation to Join the Caravan , the Board remarked:
 
 'In the Board's view this publication can be accommodated in the "Unrestricted" classification as it contains descriptions of adult themes that do not have a high impact and are not offensive.
The subject matter of the 70 page tract concerns an examination of the Islamic concept of "Jihad" largely as it related to the conflict in Afghanistan in 1987.
' 
 

In relation to Defence of the Muslim Lands , the Board remarked:
 
 'This publication was written in 1984, four years after the invasion of Afghanistan by the USSR.
It was designed as a call to arms against that invasion which was condemned by much of the Western world, including Australia, UK and USA.
Its main aim, however, is to clarify, through the use [of] classical sources of Islam, the concept and manner in which jihad --- or Islamic holy war --- should be prosecuted.

 
 In the Board's view this publication is a scholarly work with a modern historical context.
' 
 
 
 On 5 June 2006, the Attorney applied to the Review Board for review of the classification decisions made by the Board.
Other than applying for review of the decisions, the Attorney did not take an active role in the review process, making no written or oral submissions.
The Review Board permitted the applicant in these proceedings to make both oral and written submissions in relation to the Review Board's review of the publications.

 THE DECISIONS OF THE REVIEW BOARD 
 The Publication Join the Caravan 
 
 The Review Board's synopsis of this publication was in the following terms: 
 
 'This 65-page publication examines the Islamic concept of "Jihad" largely as it relates to the conflict in Afghanistan in 1987.
However it was reprinted in 1996 and August 2001 with the addition of the publisher's foreword, details on Abdullah Azzam [the author] and (possibly) Part Three: Clarifications about the issue of Jihad today (although this is unclear).

 
 The author refers to the preface of the first and second edition, part one, part two and the conclusion.
In the publication before the Review Board, following the conclusion is part three, a glossary and quotations from Salahuddin Ayyubi (Saladin).
' 
 
 
 The Review Board found that the publication fell within the description, in para (c) of Item 1 of the table for the classification of publications contained in the Code, of a publication that 'promotes, incites or instructs in matters of crime or violence'.
The Review Board noted that the author of the book, Sheikh Abdullah Azzam, was often referred to as the 'Godfather of Jihad', whose motto, quoted in the book, was 'Jihad and rifle alone.
No negotiations, No conferences and No dialogue'.
The Review Board considered that the book was 'written as an emotive and passionate appeal to Muslims undertaking Jihad', quoting from the Koran, various scholars and modern Mujahadeen in support of its argument that Jihad is obligatory on every Muslim: 
 
 'Looking to the structure and nature of the book, the Review Board concluded that it is presented as a direct appeal to the Muslims to engage in fighting, particularly in Afghanistan, but also in other theatres.
