
 
1 This is an application for injunctive and other relief by Stena Rederi Aktiebolag ("Stena"), a Swedish company which is the proprietor of Australian Patent No.
648634, entitled "A Hull Structure for Multi-Hull Ships".
Stena claims priority from an application filed in Sweden on 30 January 1991.
The respondents, which I will refer to collectively as "Austal", comprise a group of ship building companies based in Western Australia.
2 Stena sues Austal for alleged infringement of the patent and seeks an injunction to restrain Austal from continuing to infringe.
Specifically, Stena alleges that the hull forms of three types of vessels manufactured, sold or promoted by Austal --- namely the Austal 94, Austal 196 and Austal 285 hull forms --- infringe its patent.
3 In response to these allegations, Austal filed a cross-application seeking to revoke the patent for invalidity on the grounds of (i) lack of novelty, (ii) lack of inventive step or obviousness; and/or (iii) failure to comply with the requirements of s 40 of the Patents Act 1990 (Cth) ("Act") that the claims be clear and succinct, define the invention and possess a fair basis.
PATENT SPECIFICATION 
 
4 The specification includes 10 claims defining the invention.
There are two claims in issue in these proceedings, claims 1 and 7.
Claims 1 and 7 read as follows:
 
 1.
A hull for multi-hull seagoing vessels capable of speeds greater than 30 knots, wherein: [ 1.1 ] 
 
 
 in the case of the sternward half of the hull, located between the stern and midships of the hull, the vertical distance from the hull base line to the volumetric centre-of-gravity of that part of the respective half of the hull below a water line corresponding to a normally occurring hull draft is greater than 55% of the normally occurring draft; [ 1.2 ] 
 
 
 
 in the case of the foreward half of the hull, located between the forebody of the hull and midships, said vertical distance is less than 55% of the draft; [ 1.3 ] 
 
 
 
 at a position corresponding to 75% of the total length of the underwater body of the hull calculated from the stern of the hull, the distance between the base line and the centre-of-gravity of the frame area (as defined herein) below the water line, and at that position is less than 55% of the draft; and [ 1.4 ] 
 
 
 
 the width of the hull at the water line is substantially greater in the after body of the hull than in the forward body of the hull [ 1.5 ] and continually decreases in a forward direction, and wherein the cross-sectional shape of the hull throughout a substantial portion of the forward half of the hull located between the bow and midships has a bulbous underwater part and a narrow waisted part which extends through the water line.
[ 1.6 ] 
 
 
 ............ 
 
 
 7.
A hull according to any one of claims 1 to 5, wherein the width of the hull at the water line is substantially constant in the case of the sternward quarter part of the vessel and then narrows towards the prow of the vessel.
' (Emphasis added.
) 

5 As a means of reference, claim 1 is separated into six integers, referred to as 1.1-1.6.
The critical integers for present purposes are integers 1.5 and 1.6.
In relation to claim 7, the dispute concerns the relationship of claim 7 to claim 1 and the meaning of the words 'the water line is substantially constant in the case of the sternward quarter part of the vessel'.
6 The invention relates to a hull structure for a multi-hull ship.
The invention is described in the following terms:
 
 'The inventive hull construction can be described as comprising a foreward hull part which has a bulbous underwater cross section , i.e.
the hull width is narrower in the region of the water line than both above and below the water line, and a rearward hull part which merges continuously therewith , the local draft of which decreases in a direction towards the stern while simultaneously the width of the hull at the water line increases in this direction.
This imparts to the stern of the vessel a shape which is favourable for water-jet propulsion.
The invention is not restricted to water-jet propulsion, however.
As a result of the invention, the hull has a relatively large width at the water line at the stern part of the hull, which enables propulsion engines and like prime movers to be readily fitted to the hull with the absence of any problems concerning air intake, exhaust gas discharge, lifting and lowering of engines, etc. Because the hull has a relatively large water line width in relation to the maximum width of the hull beneath the water line, particularly at the stern of the hull, the hull has good stability , particularly at its stern part, therewith favouring the loading and offloading of cargo from the stern of the vessel.

 
 The bulbous shape of the foreward part of the hull cross-section, i.e.
a relatively narrow hull width in the vertical region of the hull that extends up through the water line, as a continuation of the more generally U-shape of the hull stern, limits the wave-dependent vertical movement associated with conventional catamaran hull designs that include a generally uniform hull cross-section along the length of the hull.
As a result of the bulbous shape of the cross-section of the foreward hull part, the wave-exerted lifting force will be lower at the foreward part of the hull, and motion-restricting suction forces will occur at the bottom surface of the hull structure and at the upwardly facing wet surface of the hull as the hull moves vertically in the water.
' (Emphasis added.
)
 

7 The problem to which the invention is directed is that multi-hull ships of the catamaran type are liable to move vertically in a manner which not only generates unwanted vertically-acting acceleration forces on goods transported by catamarans but also is unpleasant to passengers.
As a consequence, multi-hull vessels were developed with a hull which had a narrow cross-section at the water line.
This meant that only a small lifting force is generated by the waves acting on the hull, so that the seakeeping of the vessel is improved.
The parts of the hull beneath the surface of the water were joined to those parts of the hull located above the surface by means of narrow connections.
This approach to the improvement of seakeeping led to problems regarding the use of and type of equipment required to propel the vessel, and a consequent need for greater power.
8 One object of the invention is to provide a hull structure of favourable construction with a low tendency to lift upwards under the influence of waves.
This result would create highly efficient movement through the water, allow greater speed in high seas with a high load resistance and enable the vessel to be powered by water jet propulsion.
It was also an objective to have a high stern stability to enable the vessel to be loaded and unloaded from the stern.
An example of this type of vessel is a fast passenger and cargo carrying catamaran which can have a speed of 30 to 50 knots, with a length of 120 metres by a width of 40 metres, and a submerged volume of up to 3,000 cubic metres.
9 As is apparent in the description of the invention above, the 'bulbous shape' of the forward part of the hull cross-section, which is described as a relatively narrow hull in the vertical region of the hull extending up through the water line as a continuation of a generally U-shaped hull stern, has the effect of limiting or dampening the wave-created vertical movement experienced by conventional catamaran hull designs.
The bulbous shape also has the effect that the wave lifting force will be lower at the forward part of the hull, creating motion restricting forces at the bottom surface of the hull structure, which in turn will contain any excess movement and so improve the vessel's seakeeping.
