
 
1 The Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) seeks an order under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) for the winding-up of an unregistered managed investment scheme known as "FUELbanc" as well as declarations, injunctions and various ancillary orders.
2 The first to fourth defendants respectively are companies FUELbanc Australia Limited (a company limited by guarantee), PayCards Global Pty Ltd, Paycards Investments Pty Ltd and PC Property Group Pty Ltd. 
 
3 By order of Young J in this Court on 20 July 2006 Messrs Adrian Brown and George Georges were appointed receivers of all the property of the scheme and provisional liquidators of the first to fourth defendants.
4 The fifth defendant Stephen McDougall was the moving force behind the FUELbanc scheme.
His sons Messrs Timothy McDougall and Matthew McDougall, the sixth and seventh defendants, were also involved but to a lesser extent.
5 The orders sought by ASIC are not opposed.
The FUELbanc scheme 
 
6 Stephen McDougall earlier devised and operated a scheme known as "FullTank" which was wound up as an unregistered managed investment scheme by order of Young J on 20 April 2006: Australian Securities and Investments Commission v McDougall (2006) 229 ALR 158.
7 Under the FullTank scheme participants would pay a flat "Membership Fee" and a "Plan Fee".
They were issued with a debit card which could be used to purchase fuel and other goods at service stations through the EFTPOS system.
The debit card would be loaded each week with a nominated amount for purchases.
The promise held out was that over a given period participants could receive an effective discount of 50 per cent.
For example, for a Plan Fee of $250 the participant was promised $25 worth of fuel per week for 20 weeks.
8 The FUELbanc scheme also involves debit cards issued for the purchase of fuel.
Its distinguishing feature, however, is the use of a barter system known as "E Banc" in which goods and services are exchanged for barter units known as "trade dollars" as well as ordinary Australian currency.
E Banc is operated by E Banc Trade Pty Ltd. That company is not connected with the defendants and is not involved in the present proceeding.
E Banc maintains a central register where its members' barter units and balances and unit transfers are recorded.
9 Under the FUELbanc scheme, participants stipulate a "weekly fuel requirement" in dollars and pay the total amount, either 26 times or 52 times the weekly amount, half in cash and half in E Banc "trade dollars", in addition to a "joining" or "setup" fee of $99.
It is stated that the participant must become a member of FUELbanc.
10 In return, FUELbanc promises to pay each Sunday the weekly amount into a debit card for use by the participant at service stations.
11 The debit card is provided by an unrelated company called E-Merchants Australia Pty Ltd which holds the necessary Australian Financial Services Licence for dealing in credit cards and has appointed FUELbanc as its Authorised Agent for that limited purpose
 
12 The website on which the FUELbanc scheme is promoted states that FUELbanc lends both the Australian dollars and the "trade dollars" to PayCards Global and that FUELbanc's ability to meet its instalment obligations to participants is dependant on those loans being repaid.
13 In fact, as ASIC's investigations have revealed, what has happened with participants' money is very different.
14 Stephen McDougall's idea was that the cash contribution (or at least some of it) would be invested with Paycards Investments outside Australia to produce the return necessary to fund the crediting of participants' debit cards.
This would require a return of more than 100 per cent.
