
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 Matthew Clarke ("Mr Clarke") was a pilot employed by Regional Express Holdings Ltd ("REX") under the Regional Express Pilots' Certified Agreement 2002 ("the Certified Agreement").
Prior to Mr Clarke commencing employment with REX, he received and signed a written offer of employment which was conditional on him accepting the information contained in an attachment to the offer entitled " Pilot Training Bond Declaration" ("the Training Bond").
By the Training Bond, Mr Clarke agreed to pay $7,500 to REX if he left REX's employment within a specified time.
Mr Clarke did leave within that time and he did not pay the $7,500.
2 This is an appeal from the Industrial Division of the Magistrates' Court of Victoria.
I heard the appeal as a single judge of the Federal Court pursuant to s 25(5) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth).
3 The issue on appeal was whether the Magistrates' Court was correct to conclude that the Training Bond was unenforceable.
4 REX submitted that the Training Bond was enforceable because it was not made with the purpose of avoiding an obligation imposed by the Certified Agreement and it was not one that the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) (as it stood prior to 27 March 2006 ("the Workplace Relations Act ")) expressly or impliedly prohibited.
5 Mr Clarke contended that the Training Bond was unenforceable because of its inconsistency or conflict with a statutory instrument (the Certified Agreement) and that where there was such an inconsistency or conflict, the statutory instrument (the Certified Agreement) prevailed.
The inconsistency or conflict was said to arise because the Training Bond and the Certified Agreement provided differently for the same 'matters'.
In the present case, the 'matters' relied upon were training and termination.
6 For the reasons that follow, I would dismiss the appeal.
These reasons are structured as follows:
 
 (1) Jurisdiction of the Federal Court;
 (2) Facts;
 (3) Reasoning of the Magistrate;
 (4) Grounds of Appeal;
 (5) Legislative Framework;
 (6) Analysis; and
 (7) Costs.

 (1) JURISDICTION OF THE FEDERAL COURT 
 
7 Jurisdiction to hear this appeal is given to the Federal Court by Pt XIV of the Workplace Relations Act .
Section 412(1) of Pt XIV of the Workplace Relations Act provides that:
 
 
 "The Court has jurisdiction with respect to matters arising under this Act in relation to which: 
 ... 
 (d) appeals lie to it under section 422 ; ..." 
 
 

The 'Court' is defined as the Federal Court of Australia: s 4 of the Workplace Relations Act .
8 Section 422(1) of the Workplace Relations Act provides that:
 
 
 "An appeal lies to the Court from a judgment of a court of a State or Territory in a matter arising under this Act.
" 
 
 

9 The phrase " matter arising under this Act " is not to be given a narrow meaning and, in this context, extends to include whether or not the Certified Agreement rendered the Training Bond unenforceable so as to prevent REX recovering the $7,500: see Transport Workers' Union of Australia v Graham Meyrick Lee [1998] FCA 756 citing Dixon CJ in R v Spicer; Ex parte Truth and Sportsman Ltd [1957] HCA 38 ; (1957) 98 CLR 48 at 53.
The view that the phrase " matter arising under this Act " extends to include the issues in this appeal is reinforced by other provisions of the Workplace Relations Act including, but not limited to, s 413A in Division 1 of Part XIV that the Court may give an interpretation of a certified agreement on application by the Minister, an organisation or person bound by the certified agreement or a person whose employment is subject to the certified agreement.
(2) FACTS 
 
10 The hearing before the Industrial Division of the Magistrates' Court of Victoria proceeded on agreed facts.
Set out below is a summary of those facts.
11 The Certified Agreement was an agreement made under Part VIB of the Workplace Relations Act .
It was certified by the Australian Industrial Relations Commission on 10 January 2003 pursuant to s 170LT of the Workplace Relations Act .
REX was a party to the Certified Agreement.
I will return to consider the provisions of the Certified Agreement later in these reasons.
12 By letter dated 19 December 2003, REX made an offer of employment to Mr Clarke (the "Letter of Offer").
The Letter of Offer stated, inter alia :
 
 
 
 " OFFER OF EMPLOYMENT [REX] 
 
 I am pleased to offer you employment with [REX] on the terms set out in this letter.

 
 
 
 
 
 Commencement 
 
 12 January 2004 
 
 Position 
 
 SAAB (SF340) First Officer 
 
 Department 
 
 Flight Operations 
 
 Location 
 
 Sydney 
 
 Reporting to 
 
 Chief Pilot 
 
 Employment Status 
 
 Full time 
 
 Annual Salary 
 
 $27,000 per annum plus Superannuation 
 
 
 
 
 Position and Conditions of Employment 
 
 In accordance with the [Certified Agreement].

 
 You must act in accordance with any directions given to you from time to time, including any policies or procedures notified to you by [REX] as varied from time to time.

 
 Payment of wages will be on a fortnightly basis in arrears to a bank account nominated by you, on or around Thursday of each second week.

 
 Employment is conditional on the acceptance of the information contained in Annexure 1 (attached) 
 
 Annual Leave 
 
 You will accrue Annual Leave per year of service, to be accrued and taken in accordance with [REX] policy.

 
 Sick Leave 
 
 Sick leave accrues, and must be taken, in accordance with [REX] policy.
Sick leave with-pay will be allowed for a maximum of three single days in any one year of service without the production of a medical certificate.
All other sick leave must be supported by satisfactory medical evidence.

 
 ... 
 
 Superannuation 
 
 [REX] will make contributions to a company approved Superannuation Fund on your behalf in accordance with Federal Superannuation Legislation (currently 9% of gross normal time earnings).
... 
 
 Probationary Period 
 
 This employment is offered subject to a 3-month probationary period from commencement.
At any time during the probationary period the giving of two week's notice may terminate this contract.
The company may extend the probationary period for a further 3 months if your performance conduct is considered not to be of a sufficient standard.

 
 Termination of Employment 
 
 [REX] may immediately terminate your employment at any time without prior notice if you commit an act of serious and wilful misconduct.
