
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 Damilock Pty Ltd (In Liquidation) (Damilock) was incorporated in 1985.
From 1987, it traded as a retailer, both domestic and commercial, of indoor and outdoor furniture under the business name "Casual Living".
It operated only in South Australia until 2006.
In about September 2006, it expanded via some new stores in New South Wales, and with a new and a relocated existing store in Victoria to larger premises.
By early 2007, it had nine retail showrooms, three commercial showrooms, and three distribution centres, across the three States.
2 On 26 June 2007 Damilock's directors, David Hale and Peter Walkon, resolved to appoint administrators to Damilock pursuant to s 436A of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (the Act).
Then on 7 September 2007, Damilock's creditors resolved under s 439A of the Act to wind up Damilock.
3 Martin Lewis and Bruce Carter (the liquidators) were appointed administrators of Damilock on 26 June 2007, and subsequently its liquidators on 7 September 2007.
4 This action (and a series of other actions) is brought by the liquidators under Pt 5.7B Div 2 of the Act dealing with voidable transactions.
Section 588FE(2) describes voidable transactions as those entered into, or acts done for the purposes of giving effect to a transaction, during the period of six months ending on the "relation-back day".
That day is 26 June 2007: s 9 of the Act.
Consequently, the relevant period for these actions is the period from 26 December 2006 to 26 June 2007, that is the relation-back period.
5 The defendant (and each of the defendants in the other actions) is alleged to have been an unsecured creditor of Damilock during the relation-back period.
Each is alleged to have entered into an insolvent transaction, and therefore a voidable transaction, during the relation-back period, namely the receipt of money paid by Damilock to reduce its indebtedness to that defendant.
6 Section 588FF of the Act empowers the Court, on the application of a liquidator, if satisfied that a transaction is voidable under s 588FE , to direct the person the beneficiary of the transaction to pay the amount so received back to the company, so that the creditors of the company will then be able to prove in insolvency and to rate equally with other creditors in the allocation of available funds.
One of the criteria for a voidable transaction is that it be an insolvent transaction.
That is the criterion relied upon by the liquidators.
7 The defendant in this action (and certain of the defendants in the other actions) have put in issue that the moneys received by them from Damilock during the relation-back period were, or were all, insolvent transactions.
Section 588FC defines an insolvent transaction in the following terms:
 A transaction of a company is an insolvent transaction of the company if, and only if, it is an unfair preference given by the company, or an uncommercial transaction of the company, and: (a) any of the following happens at a time when the company is insolvent: (i) the transaction is entered into; or 
 
 
 (ii) an act is done, or an omission is made, for the purpose of giving effect to the transaction; or 
 
 
 
 
 (b) the company becomes insolvent because of, or because of matters including: 
 
 (i) entering into the transaction; or 
 
 
 (ii) a person doing an act, or making an omission, for the purpose of giving effect to the transaction.

 
 
 THE ISSUE 
 
8 The one issue in this action, common to the other actions to which I have referred, is whether Damilock was insolvent at and from 26 December 2006 and during the relation-back period to 26 June 2007.
Section 95A of the Act says that a person is solvent if, and only if, the person is able to pay all the person's debts as and when they become due and payable.
The corollary, as that section says, is that a person who is not solvent is insolvent.
9 There are other defences available to persons who have been the beneficiary of an insolvent or voidable transaction: see s 588FG , including that there was in fact no benefit received by the counterparty to the transaction, or that the transaction was undertaken in good faith and at a time when the beneficiary had no reasonable grounds for suspecting that the company was insolvent and would become insolvent.
In addition, secured creditors are protected from those provisions.
That is not necessarily a comprehensive list of the defences raised in the various proceedings.
Those matters will need to be addressed on a case by case basis, so it is not necessary in this decision to address the individual circumstances of the defendant or of each of the defendants in the other matters.
10 This judgment follows from a hearing in all the actions brought by the liquidators in which the defendants put in issue that Damilock was insolvent at 26 December 2006 and was insolvent during the whole of the relation-back period.
The issue in those actions was heard together.
I should note that, in the course of the hearing, one of the other actions in which the hearing was proceeding on that issue settled on terms which were not disclosed but, presumably, upon the basis of an overall resolution of the liquidators claims against it.
In the other two actions in which insolvency was in issue, one defendant attended the hearing in part through counsel but did not otherwise participate in the hearing and adduced no evidence and made no submissions on the issue, and the other indicated that it would not attend the hearing but would be bound by the outcome.
11 In those circumstances, it is convenient to simply deal with this action and treat the present defendant as the defendant.
I will refer to it as "the creditor".
12 In the event, the liquidators called only one witness, Mr Lewis who was one of the liquidators and an expert accountant, and the creditor called only one witness Gregory Keith also an expert accountant, addressing the issue of insolvency.
There was no suggestion that each was not qualified to give evidence as to the insolvency or otherwise of Damilock at material times.
The creditor's position was that Damilock was not insolvent until after 12 February 2007 and at some time during the succeeding month.
THE LAW 
 
13 There was no serious issue between the parties as to the applicable law.
Nor, indeed, was there any cross-examination of the two witnesses to suggest that they had misunderstood the concept of insolvency as it applies under the Act.
The contested issue was as to their respective professional judgments, or as to the validity of the assumptions that were made by them, in addressing the question of the solvency of Damilock during the relation-back period.
14 Accordingly, it is convenient simply to note some principles which were commonly accepted in considering the issue.
15 The question of whether Damilock was insolvent at material times is to be determined objectively upon the whole of the admissible evidence: Emanuel Management Pty Ltd v Foster's Brewing Group Ltd (2003) 178 FLR 1 at [73 ff].
The decision is not necessarily about the directors' knowledge or the creditors' knowledge or their expectations or suspicions of insolvency.
It is a matter to be determined objectively.
It is to be determined on the circumstances as they were known or ought to have been known at material times, rather than with the benefit of hindsight: Lewis v Doran [2005] NSWCA 243 ; (2005) 54 ACSR 410 at [103] .
16 It is generally, but not necessarily, the case that an inquiry into the insolvency or otherwise of a company at material times is assisted by considering various indicia of insolvency.
In Australian Securities and Investment Commission v Plymin (No 1) [2003] VSC 123 ; (2003) 46 ACSR 126 , Mandie J at [386] referred to a number of indicia of insolvency.
It is convenient to list them.
I propose to consider those which are particularly relevant to the present circumstances.
