
 
1 There are before the Court a series of notices of motion, filed by the various respondents (other than the sixth and seventh respondents), seeking orders that all or part of the applicant's Second Amended Statement of Claim ("the SASC") be struck out.
The SASC was accompanied by an Amended Application seeking declarations, damages and other relief for alleged contraventions, by the respondents, of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ("the Act ").
The respondents invoke O 11 r 16 of the Federal Court Rules ("the Rules").
2 The application is brought by the applicant as a representative party on behalf of group members who were persons who had, directly or indirectly, paid for freight services provided by the respondents.
3 The applicant's central allegation is that the respondents were members of a cartel which had agreed to and did fix charges for international airfreight moving into and out of Australia.
It was alleged that, in about January 2000, the respondents and other airfreight carriers had agreed that each of them would fix and maintain charges and conceal their agreement from others including the applicant and relevant group members.
Prices were increased by the imposition of an agreed fuel surcharge, a security surcharge and a war-risk surcharge.
4 The grounds relied on by the various respondents in their written submissions disclosed a good deal of commonality.
There were, however, some grounds that were peculiar to particular respondents.
In oral argument unnecessary repetition was avoided.
By agreement between counsel each of the major points of objection was developed by one party and the arguments advanced were adopted by the other respondents.
STRIKING OUT PLEADINGS UNDER O 11 R 16 
 
5 The respondents seek the striking out of the whole of the SASC or parts of it under O 11 r 16 of the Rules on the grounds that it discloses no reasonable cause of action or has a tendency to cause prejudice, embarrassment or delay.
6 The principles governing the exercise of the Court's power to summarily dismiss a claim on the ground that it discloses no reasonable cause of action, the principles which govern pleadings in this Court and the relevant authorities are conveniently summarised by Weinberg J in McKellar v Container Terminal Management Services Ltd [1999] FCA 1101 ; (1999) 165 ALR 409 at 415-421.
It is not necessary to restate, at length, his Honour's exposition of the relevant rules and the statements of principle which emerge from the cases to which he refers.
