
 
 BUCHANAN J: 
 PHOSPHATE MINING ON CHRISTMAS ISLAND 
 
1 According to evidence given in the present case by Lai Ah Hong, the Managing Director of the applicant, Phosphate Resources Limited ('PRL'), phosphate mining began on Christmas Island over 100 years ago, in the late 1890s.
It was a business operation of the Clunies Ross and Murray families.
In 1948 the British Phosphate Commissioners took over the management of mining on Christmas Island as agent for the Australian and New Zealand governments.
In 1982 the Phosphate Mining Company of Christmas Island, wholly owned by the Australian government, took over the mining operations from the British Phosphate Commissioners.
The mining operations were closed in 1987 and a liquidator was appointed but the local union, the Union of Christmas Island Workers, was instrumental in the re-establishment of mining operations in 1990.
2 PRL was incorporated, under the name of Phosphate Resources NL, on 12 June 1989.
Its initial shareholders were members of the union.
In a joint venture with one of its subsidiaries and Cluff Engineering, PRL acquired the assets of the previous operator.
PRL subsequently bought out Cluff Engineering's interest.
PRL was granted a mining lease in 1998 for 21 years.
Although the current mining lease therefore expires in 2019 PRL's assessment is that 'there are insufficient high grade phosphate resources in this lease to last for the balance of the term of the lease'.
THE APPLICATION FOR NEW MINING LEASES 
 
3 PRL approached the Australian government about an extension to its mining operations early in the current lease term, in 2001.
It proposed mining in nine additional areas on Christmas Island.
Modifications were subsequently made to the proposal, particularly to avoid identified environmental effects, with the result that the area directly encompassed by the original additional mining proposal of 403.7 hectares was reduced to 256.3 hectares.
PRL emphasised that an area of this size represented less than 2% of the Christmas Island land mass.
4 PRL estimated that approving its application would extend export operations, from a projected three to five years, to ten years.
It said, in support of the proposal:
 
 'If the mining proposal does not proceed and the current mining operations are required to close within three to five years, there will be catastrophic effects on the economic and social environment of Christmas Island.
There will also be significant impacts on the Australian economy.
' 
 

and:
 
 'The unemployment and subsequent population loss that will flow from the cessation of mining will make the maintenance of the metaphysical and built elements of Christmas Island's cultural heritage untenable.
As a result the unique cultural heritage of the Island will be seriously impacted.
The loss of population is likely to lead to the collapse of the vibrant religious and cultural activity.
Similarly depopulation will result in the loss of the inputs of CIPs employees into the social fabric and social cohesion of the Island.
' 
 

(CIP is Christmas Island Phosphates, the name under which PRL trades.
)
 
5 The proposal required assessment against the requirements of the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (Cth) ('the Act'), which obliged detailed attention to the environmental impact of the mining proposal.
PRL contended in an environmental impact statement prepared for that purpose that 'the impacts of the modified proposal are within the limits of environmental acceptability and will have a number of positive benefits for the whole environment of Christmas Island including both the natural and social and economic environment' .
It said:
 
 'In the proponent's view the proposal in its final form represents a balanced and justifiable outcome.
The proposal is firmly based on the proponent's extensive experience in its current mining and rehabilitation operations, a comprehensive research program and sound scientific principles.
It offers a balance of beneficial socio-economic security for the Island's unique community, benefits for the broader Australian economy and enhanced outcomes for the conservation of the Island's biodiversity.
' 
 

6 A decision refusing approval was made on 27 April 2007 by Mr Turnbull, who was then Minister for the Environment and Water Resources and had portfolio responsibility for the administration of the Act.
(Substitution of the Minister who now has portfolio responsibility for the administration occurred by consent for the purpose of the proceedings --- s 13 of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) ('the ADJR Act').
The decision made on 27 April 2007 had significant consequences for businesses and people on Christmas Island.
7 The way in which the proposal was to be assessed, and the matters which the Minister was required to take into account, were directed by the Act.
An assessment of, and a decision about, the application for extended mining operations on Christmas Island required judgments to be made about a range of factors, some of which needed to be balanced against others.
One of the matters which the Minister was required to take into account concerned the environmental impact statement produced by PRL in accordance with guidelines provided by the Department.
The environmental impact statement advanced a case, on balance, in support of the proposal, particularly having regard to its social and economic benefits; matters which the Minister was directed by the Act to consider.
8 The Minister refused approval in accordance with recommendations made to him in two departmental briefs and an assessment report which was required by the Act to be made by the Department and provided to him.
The economic and social benefits of the proposal were there said to be outweighed by considerations concerning the environment and biodiversity.
THE CHALLENGE TO THE MINISTER'S DECISION 
 
9 After the Minister made his decision PRL asked for a written statement of his reasons.
On 14 June 2007, about six weeks after the decision was made, the Minister signed a Statement of Reasons for his decision.
That written Statement of Reasons set out a long series of explicit factual findings and judgments said to have been made by the Minister in the course of coming to his final decision.
At the outset, and until quite late in the proceedings, PRL accepted that the Statement of Reasons should be accepted as identifying the factual conclusions reached by the Minister and explaining his reasons for decision based on those conclusions.
It mounted its case, and presented its submissions in chief, both in writing and orally, on that important premise.
10 The ADJR Act permits a review in this Court of the decision made by the Minister.
The grounds upon which such a decision may be challenged are set out in s 5 of the ADJR Act.
They involve challenges on legal grounds.
They do not include challenges merely to findings of fact or the assessment of merits.
Those distinctions and limitations are ones which were largely ignored in the challenges which PRL initially sought to make to the Minister's decision.
11 It would be tedious, unproductive and unnecessary to attempt to illustrate, much less discuss in detail, all the ways in which the limitations upon the scope of the proceedings, and hence the matters which the Court may take into account, were not observed by PRL as it originally formulated its arguments.
Many of the challenges which PRL sought to make initially were, in truth, challenges to the findings of fact set out in the Statement of Reasons and to the explanation there given about the merits of PRL's application.
Later in this judgment I will explain in broad outline the challenges which were made to the decision, based on an acceptance of the Statement of Reasons as an accurate description of the basis for the decision.
12 During the course of oral submissions for the respondent, and after the respondent had put its case in chief by both written and oral submissions, PRL changed its position.
It withdrew its acceptance that the written Statement of Reasons should be regarded as accurately stating the Minister's actual reasons for decision.
That change of position was of considerable significance.
It required attention, in the first instance, assuming it was to be permitted, to whether the parties should have an opportunity to supplement their cases.
I shall explain in more detail how the change in position came about, the procedural steps taken in response to it and the additional issues which were thereby generated.
THE EVIDENCE 
 
13 The proceedings were commenced by application and statement of claim.
However, the respondent successfully resisted PRL's proposal that the proceedings should continue on the pleadings.
Instead French J decided on 27 September 2007, in accordance with the respondent's desires, that 'the matter should proceed by way of affidavit and written submissions' ( Phosphate Resources Limited v Turnbull, Minister for Environment and Water Resources [2007] FCA 1507 at [10] ).
14 Before the hearing commenced the respondent filed a large number of documents.
PRL later filed two affidavits sworn by Lai Ah Hong, the Managing Director of PRL.
The respondent filed two affidavits sworn by Gerard Patrick Early, Deputy Secretary of the Department of the Environment and Water Resources.
The first of Mr Early's affidavits also attached a further number of documents.
15 The evidence filed to that point disclosed the material which was before the Department when it assessed PRL's application, the briefs which were given to the Minister before he made his decision on 27 April 2007 and the written Statement of Reasons provided to PRL on 14 June 2007.
That was the evidentiary material on which the case went to a hearing.
16 Later, in circumstances to which it will be necessary to refer in greater detail, further evidence was filed.
It consisted of a further brief given to the Minister shortly before he signed the Statement of Reasons and a third affidavit by Mr Early sworn on 6 August 2008.
That affidavit sought to identify certain elements of departmental practice and to explain some 'errors' in the material provided to the Minister before he made his decision on 27 April 2007.
THE STATUTORY SCHEME 
 
17 A number of amendments were made to the Act shortly before the Minister's decision was made.
Some, due to the operation of transitional provisions, did not apply to the decision.
Further, some aspects of the assessment process were also governed by earlier provisions which applied when those aspects required attention.
Those complexities can largely be put to one side because no change of substance, which might affect the outcome of the case, occurred with respect to matters which require attention.
I will endeavour, where complications of this kind arise, to set out the statutory provisions operative for the purpose of the proceedings.
18 There were a number of provisions in the Act which prohibited the taking of certain 'actions' that would have a 'significant impact' unless approval was first sought and given under Part 9 of the Act.
The term 'action' was defined and limited by ss 523, 524 and 524A.
What was proposed by PRL was an 'action'.
The meaning of 'impact' was given by s 527E.
It included both direct consequences and a range of indirect consequences.
The term 'significant impact' was not defined.
The prohibiting sections which required consideration in the present case were ss 16/17B (significant impact on the ecological character of a declared RAMSAR wetland --- the RAMSAR Convention is the convention on wetlands of international importance, especially as waterfowl habitat, 'done' at RAMSAR Iran on 2 February 1971), ss 18/18A (significant impact on a listed threatened species included in the extinct in the wild category); ss 20/20A (significant impact on a listed migratory species); ss 23/24A (significant impact on the environment in a Commonwealth marine area --- Commonwealth marine area was defined in s 24) and ss 26/27A (significant impact on the environment on Commonwealth land --- Commonwealth land was defined in s 27 - see also s 525).
19 Section 67 of the Act designated an action, which would be prohibited by, inter alia, ss 16/17B, 18/18A, 20/20A, 23/24A or 26/27A, as a 'controlled action'.
The prohibiting provisions were each designated a 'controlling provision'.
Section 68 required that a person who proposed to take such an action refer the proposal to the Minister for decision whether or not the action was a controlled action.
Referral of such a question to the Minister by PRL in 2001 commenced the chain of decisions and assessments that preceded the present proceedings.
20 If the Minister decided that an action was a controlled action, s 82 of the Act applied a series of legislative provisions to the assessment of the 'relevant impacts'.
The term 'relevant impacts' was defined by s 82 and extended to past as well as future and probable impacts.
Section 87 required the Minister to decide on an approach for the assessment of the relevant impacts.
One of those approaches was 'assessment by environmental impact statement under Division 6' (s 87(1)(d)).
That was the approach chosen.
A series of further statutory directions (in Chapter 4, Part 8, Division 6 of the Act) were thereby engaged.
The Minister was required to 'prepare written guidelines for the content of a draft statement about the action and its relevant impacts' (s 102).
After a period for comment and finalisation of the environmental impact statement, the Secretary of the Minister's Department was also required to provide an 'assessment report' (s 105).
21 The first two stated objects of the Act were as follows:
 
 
 '(a) to provide for the protection of the environment, especially those aspects of the environment that are matters of national environmental significance; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) to promote ecologically sustainable development through the conservation and ecologically sustainable use of natural resources.
' 
 
 

22 The 'principles of ecologically sustainable development', which the Act directed must be taken into account in considering whether to approve certain actions (see s 136(2)(a)) were stated in s 3A of the Act in the following way:
 'The following principles are principles of ecologically sustainable development: 
 
 
 (a) decision-making processes should effectively integrate both long-term and short-term economic, environmental, social and equitable considerations; 
 (b) if there are threats of serious or irreversible environmental damage, lack of full scientific certainty should not be used as a reason for postponing measures to prevent environmental degradation; 
 (c) the principle of inter-generational equity --- that the present generation should ensure that the health, diversity and productivity of the environment is maintained or enhanced for the benefit of future generations; 
 (d) the conservation of biological diversity and ecological integrity should be a fundamental consideration in decision-making; 
 (e) improved valuation, pricing and incentive mechanisms should be promoted.
' 
 
 
 
 

23 Reconciliation of potentially conflicting objectives within these 'principles' required a balance to be struck between avoiding damage to the environment and social, economic and equitable considerations.
Provided the Minister took into account matters identified for that purpose by the Act, and did not take into account irrelevant or extraneous matters, it was left to the Minister to strike the necessary balance and come to an ultimate conclusion.
The central thrust of PRL's representations to the Minister was that the risks of environmental damage could be satisfactorily contained and that the social and economic factors to which it drew attention should have prevailed over those risks.
It contended, in effect, that the balance should have tipped in the other direction.
24 Section 130 of the Act required the Minister to decide whether or not to approve the taking of the action for the purpose of each of the controlling provisions.
Section 136 set out the conditions governing the Minister's consideration of whether or not to approve the taking of an action.
It is as well to set it out in full in the form it took as it applied to the Minister's decision which was challenged in the present case.

 
 ' 136.
Mandatory considerations
 (1) In deciding whether or not to approve the taking of an action , and what conditions to attach to an approval , the Minister must consider the following, so far as they are not inconsistent with any other requirement of this Subdivision: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) matters relevant to any matter protected by a provision of Part 3 that the Minister has decided is a controlling provision for the action; 
 
 
 
 
 (b) economic and social matters .

 
 
 
 (2) In considering those matters, the Minister must take into account: 
 
 
 (a) the principles of ecologically sustainable development ; and 
 (b) the assessment report relating to the action; and 
 
 
 
 
 (c) if the action was assessed under Division 5 or 6 of Part 8 (which deal with public environment reports and environmental impact statements) --- the report or statement about the action finalised by the designated proponent ; and 
 (d) if any inquiry was conducted under Division 7 of part 8 in relation to the action --- the report of the commissioners; and 
 (e) any other information the Minister has on the relevant impacts of the action (including information in a report on the impacts of actions taken under a policy, plan or program under which the action is to be taken that was given to the Minister under an agreement under Part 10 (about strategic assessments)); and 
 (f) any relevant comments given to the Minister by another Minister in accordance with an invitation under section 131.

 
 
 
 
 Person's environmental history
 
 
 
 (4) In deciding whether or not to approve the taking of an action by a person, and what conditions to attach to an approval, the Minister may consider whether the person is a suitable person to be granted an approval having regard to: 
 (a) the person's history in relation to environmental matters; and 
 
 
 
 
 (b) if the person is a body corporate --- the history of its executive officers in relation to environmental matters; and 
 (c) if the person is a body corporate that is a subsidiary of another body or company (the parent body) the history in relation to environmental matters of the parent body and its executive officers.

 
 
 
 
 
 Minister not to consider other matters
 (5) In deciding whether or not to approve the taking of an action, and what conditions to attach to an approval, the Minister must not consider any matters that the Minister is not required or permitted by this Subdivision to consider .
' 
 (Emphasis added.
)
 (There was no s 136(3).
) 
 
 
 

25 Relevantly for present purposes, the Minister was expressly required, when considering matters relevant to matters protected by the controlling provisions and economic and social matters, to take into account the principles of ecologically sustainable development, the assessment report provided by the Secretary and the environmental impact statement prepared by PRL in accordance with the guidelines prepared by the Minister.
ASSESSMENT OF PRL'S APPLICATION 
 Identification of the controlling provisions 
 
26 PRL referred its proposal for additional mining to the Department of the Environment and Heritage (then the relevant Department) on 1 November 2001.
It identified ss 18/18A, 20/20A and 26/27A as controlling provisions relevant to its proposal.
It said ss 16/17B and 23/24A were not relevant and were therefore not controlling provisions.
On 14 November 2001 Mr Gerard Early, Deputy Secretary of the Department, decided, as a delegate of the Minister, that the proposed action was a controlled action and that the controlling provisions were each of: ss 16/17B; 18/18A; 20/120A; 23/24A; and 26/27A.
Reasons for that decision were provided on 8 January 2002 at the request of PRL.
In due course the Minister's decision on 27 April 2007 to refuse approval for the action (the additional mining) proposed by PRL was expressed to have effect for each of the provisions identified by Mr Early.
That was also what the Department recommended at the time the decision was made.
27 It is worth noting, at this point, a defect in the decision of the Minister which was admitted during the course of the proceedings.
When the Minister provided written reasons for his decision, the Statement of Reasons explained only why the decision had effect for ss 18/18A, 20/20A and 26/27A, the provisions accepted as relevant by PRL in its referral.
Despite the failure to explain why the decision had been stated to have effect also for ss 16/17B and 23/24A, no amendment of the decision was made.
The lack of justification for the decision having effect for those latter provisions was referred to in written submissions by PRL.
That part of PRL's written submissions drew no response until the hearing when, for the first time, it was conceded that to the extent that the decision was stated to have effect for ss 16/17B and 23/24A it could not be sustained.
28 That concession prompted an application by PRL for discovery, which I rejected ( Phosphate Resources Limited v Minister for the Environment, Heritage and the Arts [2008] FCA 385).
The concession also contributed to PRL's change of position about the reliability of the Minister's written Statement of Reasons.
Evidence advanced by the respondent in answer to the application for discovery revealed an offer to consent to an order setting aside the decision to the extent that it was said to have effect for ss 16/17B and 23/24A.
I will deal later with whether that would be an appropriate and sufficient response to the error which was somewhat belatedly admitted.
The environmental impact statement 
 
29 Under the statutory scheme PRL's proposal required initial assessment in one of five ways set out in ss 85 and 87(1) of the Act which provided:
 '85.
Simplified outline of this Division The following is a simplified outline of this Division: The Minister must choose one of the following ways of assessing the relevant impacts of an action the Minister has decided is a controlled action: (a) an accredited assessment process; (b) an assessment on preliminary documentation; (c) a public environment report; (d) an environmental impact statement; (e) a public inquiry.
... 87 Minister must decide on approach for assessment Minister must choose one assessment approach 
 
 
 (1) The Minister must decide which one of the following approaches must be used for assessment of the relevant impacts of the action: 
 (a) assessment by an accredited assessment process; 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) assessment on preliminary documentation under Division 4; 
 (c) assessment by public environment report under Division 5; 
 (d) assessment by environmental impact statement under Division 6; 
 (e) assessment by inquiry under Division 7.
' 
 
 
 
30 On 21 December 2001 a delegate of the Minister decided, under s 87 of the Act, that the proposed action should be assessed by environmental impact statement.
That decision engaged the provisions of Division 6 of Part 8 of Chapter 4 of the Act.
The Act then required (s 102) in the first instance, that 'written guidelines for the content of a draft statement about the action and its relevant impacts' be prepared.
Draft guidelines dated January 2000 were issued for public comment.
Final guidelines for the draft environmental impact statement, dated August 2002 were later published.
31 In accordance with s 103 of the Act, PRL provided a draft environmental impact statement to the Minister on 5 September 2002.
Publication was approved by a delegate of the Minister on 23 September 2005.
The draft environmental impact statement (and an erratum dealing with some printing errors) was made available for public review.
PRL received 413 submissions about the draft environmental impact statement.
32 Section 104 required PRL to finalise the draft environmental impact statement, taking account of comments received and 'give the finalised statement to the Minister' .
Section 104(2) provided:
 
 
 '(2) The designated proponent may give the finalised statement to the Minister in the form of: 
 (a) a revised version of the draft statement; or 
 (b) the draft statement and a supplement to the draft statement.
' 
 
 
33 On 11 June 2006, PRL provided to the Department a draft of a supplement to the draft environmental impact statement addressing public comment in accordance with s 104 of the Act.
The Department required further information.
In the meantime, the Department had commissioned an independent report from Dr Libby Mattiske.
The Department of Transport and Regional Services also commissioned a report from the Centre for Mined Land Rehabilitation.
Those two reports were provided to the Department late in 2006 and then provided to PRL.
34 On 22 September 2006 an officer of the Department, Ms Dickman, wrote to PRL in the following terms:
 'I would like to take this opportunity to update you on progress of the assessment of the above controlled action.
You will no doubt be aware that two reports on aspects of the proposal have been commissioned by the Department of the Environment  Heritage (DEH), and the Department of Transport and Regional Services (DOTARS) respectively.
I have received a draft copy of the 'Independent Review of the Environmental Impact Statement (EIS)' commissioned by DEH, and I'm currently reviewing it.
I understand that the DOTARS report on the rehabilitation of mine sites is progressing, and a workshop on the matter is due to be scheduled soon.
Given the relevance of both reports in assessing your proposal, I am keen to get your comments on them prior to accepting your response to the matters raised in public submissions to the draft EIS.
This will ensure that your comments can be taken into account in writing the assessment report on the proposal.
At this stage I would expect to send you a copy of the final DEH report within the next two weeks.
' 
35 PRL provided a response to the draft report of Dr Mattiske and the draft report from the Centre for Mined Land Rehabilitation in October 2006.
It was relatively short.
It concluded in the following way: 
 'Conclusion PRL believes that there has been no information presented in either the CLMR or Mattiske report that has not already been discussed at length throughout the draft EIS.
Whilst PRL strongly agrees that Christmas Island is unique and will need to be carefully managed into the future to preserve the ecological characteristics for which it is famous, nothing presented in either the Mattiske or CLMR report link the proposed new leases to significant long-term impacts on the Island's ecological integrity or biodiversity.
PRL asserts that the socio-economic environment of Christmas Island is also unique.
The phosphate resource is limited, and PRL has made the commitment not to apply for any more leases.
A transition from an economy based on phosphate mining to a more diverse economy based on industries like eco-tourism is therefore necessary.
Nevertheless, studies conducted as part of the draft EIS suggest that many on the Island feel tentative that an abrupt end to mining will leave their futures uncertain.
A continuation of mining in the short to mid term will alleviate these concerns, and give Christmas Island the "breathing space" required to build upon the foundling tourism industry and other potential economic activities and move towards a more sustainable economic future for the Island's residents.
The proposal we have set out in the draft EIS provides for a balanced outcome that will provide for a well managed continuation of mining, an orderly transition to a post mining economy and an increase in the size of Christmas Island National Park which will enhance the management of the Island's biodiversity and threatening processes.
' 
36 On 27 October 2006 Ms Dickman wrote again seeking further information.
Her letter said, in part:
 'The Department has reviewed the public submissions on the draft Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) of the above proposal, the Phosphate Resources Limited (PRL) response to those submissions, and your letter of 16 October 2006.
As discussed, we have outlined the Department's information requirements to finalise the supplementary EIS in the following attachment.
' 
37 The attachment to which she referred sought further specific information about the following matters: 'Impacts of mining activity on species and habitat'; 'Environmental record of Christmas Island Phosphate (trading as PRL)'; and 'Decommissioning of facilities'.
Apparently a response was provided, although it is not in evidence.
There were further exchanges of correspondence during November 2006.
On 21 November, 2006 Ms Dickman wrote advising PRL that the information provided 'met the requirements of the finalised environmental impact statement required under s 104' of the Act although, on 29 December 2006, PRL made further representations to Ms Dickman after receipt of an updated report by Dr Mattiske.
38 Although the Secretary's assessment report and the Minister's later written Statement of Reasons for decision referred frequently to the 'draft' environmental impact statement, in view of the fact that it was finalised as required by the Act, I shall refer to it as the environmental impact statement.
The Department's Assessment Report 
 
39 Finalisation of the environmental impact statement engaged an obligation on the Secretary of the Department under s 105 of the Act to provide an 'assessment report' to the Minister about PRL's proposal.
The assessment report required by s 105 was dated January 2007.
It recommended against PRL's proposal.
40 Section 136(2)(b) of the Act explicitly required the Minister to take account of the assessment report.
The assessment report referred at an early stage to the environmental impact statement prepared by PRL as follows:
 'On 21 December 2001, a delegate for the Minister decided that the assessment approach would be by Environmental Impact Statement (EIS).
From 14 December 2002[sic] to 22 March 2002, draft guidelines for the EIS were published for public comment.
The final guidelines were accepted on 15 November 2002.
The proponent published the draft EIS as required under section 93(1)(a), on 18 November 2005, and invited public comments until 30 December 2005.
Advertisements were placed in The Australian newspaper, and in English, Mandarin and Malay in the "Islander".
The proponent notified DEH that 413 public submissions were received, and provided copies and a summary of the comments.
The revised Supplementary Report, taking into account the comments received, was accepted by a delegate for the Minister on 21 November 2006.
' 
and:
 'PRL advertised the draft EIS on the mainland, locally in multiple languages, and conducted 2 public forums on Christmas Island.
A total of 413 submissions were received.
Submissions were made by current and former Island residents, scientists, wildlife experts, tourists, Australian and overseas residents, the Shire, commercial businesses, and the peak business body on Island.
Most submissions opposed the proposal (approximately 75%), concentrating on the removal of primary rainforest for mining.
The Christmas Island Chamber of Commerce, which represents the majority of businesses on the Island, supported PRL's mining operation, however, it also voiced concern that PRL does not threaten Christmas Island's unique natural biodiversity, or clear rainforest.
