
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 These are appeals by the applicant, Business and Research Management Limited (in liquidation) ('BARM'), pursuant to s 14ZZ of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) against objection decisions dated 15 July 2004 made by the respondent ('the Commissioner') in respect of the years of income ended 30 June 1997 ('1997 year') and 30 June 1998 ('1998 year') (together 'the years of income').
2 There are two issues before the Court:
 Issue 1: 
 
Whether in each of the years of income, BARM derived income in respect of 'management fees' payable to BARM by the participants in each Budplan Project equal to the amount payable by the participants under their contracts with BARM at the time those amounts became due and payable under each contract, or only an amount equal to the total of the amounts to which Project  General Finance Pty Limited ('PGF') had recourse under the loans made by PGF to the participants?
Issue 2: 
 
Whether an amount of $6,336,420, described by BARM as an 'audit adjustment', should be included in BARM's assessable income for the 1998 year?
3 BARM submitted that:
 
(1) as to Issue 1, the only income derived by BARM in respect of 'management fees' for the Budplan Projects (other than the Melaleuca Biotics Budplan which is not in dispute in these proceedings) in each of the years of income was that portion of the 'management fees' that BARM received from PGF on the repayment of the limited recourse deposit (including interest) made by BARM with PGF; and that occurred at the time PGF received repayment of the recourse portion of the loans made by it to participants (being no greater than the amounts of $8,035,539 and $8,565,556 respectively);
 
(2) as to Issue 2, the amount of $6,336,420 returned by BARM as an 'audit adjustment' in the 1998 year should not be included in BARM's assessable income for that year because this amount relates to 'management fees' not derived by BARM as income in that year.
FACTUAL BACKGROUND 
 Structure of the Budplans 
 
4 Generally speaking, the background facts are not in dispute, save for the issue of the terms of the deposit made by BARM with PGF referred to in [37] --- [40] below and dealt with more fully in [52] --- [65] below.
5 BARM was incorporated in Australia on 4 September 1995.
From incorporation until October 1996, the directors of BARM were Messrs Donald Charles Priest, Glendon Michael Stotter, Peter Charles Lucas, Dennis Charles Lear and Alan Jones Gallagher.
6 BARM was the manager of nine relevant projects, collectively known as the 'Budplans' (and referred to below as 'Budplans' or 'Budplan Projects'), that established syndicates for the stated purpose of commercialising products (which in most cases were tea tree oil based products) developed through research and development.
7 Prescribed interests in each of the Budplans were offered pursuant to a prospectus which purported to constitute investors as participants or proprietors of the relevant Budplan business.
8 Each Budplan involved the following common features:
 
(1) a trustee --- Australian Rural Group Ltd ('ARG'), was appointed as Trustee to protect the interests of participants in each project;
 
(2) a manager --- BARM, was appointed for each project, and was also appointed the agent of each participant for the purposes of managing what was said to be each participant's separate business in each project;
 
(3) a researcher --- the Australian Tea Tree Oil Research Institute Ltd ('ATTORI'), was engaged to conduct research and development for all projects except for Budplan 'A' Series No 1 and Personal Budplan No 5, where the Australian Agricultural Research Institute Ltd was engaged to conduct the research and development activities;
 
(4) a lender --- PGF, from whom potential investors could apply to borrow funds payable by way of 'management fees' to BARM as manager and by way of 'research fees' to the researcher (and farm fees payable to the landowner under the Budplan 'A' Series No 1);
 
(5) in the case of Budplan 'A' Series No 1, there was also a landowner --- Australian Land and Cattle Company Pty Ltd, which licensed land to participants upon which a specified number of table grape vines per participation were to be planted.
9 The principal outlays required to be made by participants in each Budplan were:
 
(1) 'management fees' to BARM as manager; and 
 
(2) 'research fees' to the researcher.
10 The 'management fees' were payable by each participant to BARM under a contract between BARM and each participant:
 
(1) for the first and second years of the project (or for the first year only in some projects), and these are the fees which are the subject of dispute in these proceedings;
 
(2) thereafter from each participants' 'Net Income' from the project.
11 All participants in the Budplans, except for one, chose to finance their participation by way of a loan from PGF.
12 The loans by PGF were limited recourse.
The loan funds were advanced by PGF to the borrower by PGF delivering to BARM and to the relevant researcher bills of exchange, that were immediately endorsed back to PGF and cancelled, as part of a 'round robin' transaction described in more detail below.
13 Differences between the Budplans were, relevantly for present purposes, as follows:
 
(a) some projects required payment of 'management fees' and 'research fees' for the first and second years, and others for the first year only; 
 
(b) the amounts payable on account of 'management fees' for the first and second years (or the first year only) were different for each project;
 
(c) the projects were established on different dates, and accordingly the dates of payment to BARM of the 'management fees' for each project differed; and
 
(d) the length of the period in respect of which management services were to be performed by BARM in consideration of the payment of 'management fees' differed in some projects.
14 None of these differences is material to the issues raised in these proceedings.
The procedures, documentation and arrangements that were developed for the first of the Budplans, which was Budplan Personal Syndicate ('BPS'), were adopted and replicated, subject to minor variations, for each subsequent Budplan project.
For this reason, both parties agree that BPS may he treated as representative of all the Budplans for the purpose of these proceedings, in particular, as to the means adopted for the payment of 'management fees' to BARM on which the issues in these proceedings turn.
15 In the course of its submission, BARM noted that in Howland-Rose and Ors v Federal Commissioner of Taxation [2002] FCA 246 ; (2002) 118 FCR 61 , Conti J dealt with the tax position of four participants in BPS, in what amounted to a test case for BPS and the subsequent Budplans.
His Honour held that the participants were not entitled to allowable deductions under s 51(1) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) ('ITAA 1936 ' ) in respect of the 'management fees' or 'research fees' paid by them.
A review of his Honour's reasons does not indicate than any issue arose in that case as to the quantum of the outgoings claimed to be incurred; only their characterisation in terms of the section of the statute.
Budplan Personal Syndicate 
 
16 BPS was established by a prospectus dated 5 December 1995 ('Prospectus') and a trust deed dated the same date between BARM, ATTORI, ARG and each participant ('the Trust Deed'), once he or she signed the 'Principal Deed' referred to below.
17 Participants in BPS executed the following documents:
 
(1) an application form that is found at page 56 of the Prospectus ('Application Form');
 
(2) the Principal Deed that is found at pages 57 and 58 of the Prospectus ('Principal Deed'), to which were annexed a copy of the Budplan Syndicate Deed, at pages 46-51 of the Prospectus ('Syndicate Deed') and a Loan Agreement between PGF and the participant, at pages 52 --- 54 of the Prospectus ('Loan Agreement');
 
 (3) in some or all cases, an alternative loan agreement between the participant and PGF ('Alternative Loan Agreement').
18 The Prospectus stated that a participant could borrow from PGF the amounts payable for the first and second years to BARM in respect of 'management fees' and ATTORI in respect of 'research fees', being in total $12,000 for each of those years per syndicate participation.
19 Where a participant applied for a loan from PGF, he or she did so by indicating this on the Application Form and the participant's obligations to BARM and ATTORI under the Syndicate Deed were conditional on PGF accepting the application for loan.
20 As noted in [11] above, all participants in BPS except for one, requested a loan from PGF to fund the payment of fees due to BARM and ATTORI under the Syndicate Deed.
The time of derivation of the 'management fee' paid by the one participant in BPS who did not borrow from PGF is not in issue in these proceedings.
21 Relevantly for present purposes, the agreed means by which the participants were to discharge their obligation to pay to BARM the 'management fees' at issue in these proceedings was through the loan made by PGF.
Syndicate Deed 
 
22 Pursuant to clauses 2.1 and 2.2 of the Syndicate Deed, each participant agreed to be party to a joint venture to conduct the 'Business' for a term of 15 years.
The 'Business' is essentially the development and commercialisation of products and product packages relating to acne treatment, oral hygiene and hospital and antiseptic products using tea tree oil.
23 The payments required to be made by each participant pursuant to the Syndicate Deed were as follows:
 
(a) The amount of $200 per syndicate participation to BARM to be used by BARM to establish the business.
