
 
1 This is an appeal against a judgment of Federal Magistrate Cameron of 28 April 2008 dismissing an application for judicial review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal ('the Tribunal') handed down on 19 June 2007.
The Tribunal had affirmed a decision of a delegate of the Minister for Immigration and Citizenship to refuse to grant a protection visa to the appellant.
BACKGROUND 
 
2 The appellant is a citizen of Thailand who arrived in Australia on 25 December 2006.
On 5 February 2007 the appellant lodged an application for a protection visa with the Department of Immigration and Citizenship.
A delegate of the first respondent refused the application for a protection visa on 24 February 2007.
On 29 March 2007 the appellant applied to the Tribunal for a review of that decision.
3 Before the Tribunal, the appellant claimed that she was a member of the Thai Yai ethnic group in Thailand.
The appellant claimed that people in her village caused problems for her family by reporting to the police that her father was a drug dealer and that she had no Thai identification.
The appellant claimed that she had to report to the police station to prove that she was a legal resident of Thailand, and that her family went to jail a number of times because of the people that hated them.
The appellant claimed that in April 2006, two men broke into her family's home and abducted and raped both her mother and herself.
She claimed that her father had to pay 50,000 baht for their release.
In September 2006 the appellant's father had a fight with the men and was killed.
The appellant's family reported the incidents of robbery, rape and murder to the police.
The police told them not to tell anyone as they might be killed for telling the police.
The appellant believed that the police were corrupt and only looked after rich people or the 'mafia', and feared that she would be killed if she returned to Thailand.
TRIBUNAL DECISION 
 
 4 On 5 April 2007 the Tribunal invited the appellant to attend a hearing to present evidence in support of her claims.
The appellant failed to attend this hearing, but wrote to the Tribunal on 30 May 2007 stating that, due to illness, she had been unable to attend the hearing on 9 May 2007.
She did not submit any medical evidence to substantiate her claim.
The Tribunal did not accept that the appellant's letter, sent some three weeks after the scheduled hearing date and containing no medical evidence, established that the appellant was unable to appear before it on 9 May 2007.
In these circumstances, and pursuant to s 426A of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) ('the Act'), the Tribunal proceeded to make a decision on the review without taking any further action to enable the appellant to appear before it.
5 The Tribunal made the following comments in this regard:
 On 5 April 2007 the Tribunal wrote to the applicant advising that it had considered all the material before it relating to her application but it was unable to make a favourable decision on that information alone.
The Tribunal invited the applicant to give oral evidence and present arguments at a hearing on 9 May 2007.
On 27 April 2007 the Tribunal received a completed Response to Hearing Invitation form from the applicant advising the Tribunal that she wanted to give oral evidence.
However the applicant did not attend the hearing.
On 29 May 2007 the applicant contacted the Tribunal to enquire about the status of her application.
She was advised that the Tribunal was proceeding to make a decision on the review as she did not attend the hearing.
She was also advised that she should provide, in writing and as soon as possible, any further information she wished the Tribunal to consider, including any explanation of why she did not attend the hearing.
On 30 May 2007 the applicant wrote to the Tribunal stating that she had been unable to attend the hearing on 9 May 2007 because she was sick.
The applicant did not submit any medical evidence to substantiate her claim with the letter.
The Tribunal does not accept that the applicant's letter, sent some 3 weeks after the scheduled hearing date and containing no medical evidence, establishes that the applicant was not able to appear before the Tribunal on 9 May 2007.
In these circumstances, and pursuant to s 426A of the Act, the Tribunal has decided to make its decision on the review without taking any further action to enable the applicant to appear before it.
