
 
1 This is an Application for declaratory relief under s 21 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth); for orders that a pecuniary penalty be paid pursuant to s 42Y(2) of the Therapeutic Goods Act 1989 (Cth); and for an order for forfeiture pursuant to s 54(3) of the 1989 Act.
2 Section 42Y(1) provides that such an application may be made, as in the present proceeding, by " the Secretary ... on behalf of the Commonwealth to the Federal Court ".
3 The First Respondent, Pagasa Australia Pty Ltd, is a body corporate incorporated and registered under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) and an importer of goods into Australia.
The Second Respondent, Ms Susan Jones, is a director and shareholder of the First Respondent and is its managing director.
4 It is claimed that both Respondents have contravened the 1989 Act.
THE THERAPEUTIC GOODS ACT 
 
5 The objects of the Therapeutic Goods Act include the establishment and maintenance of a national system of controls relating to the quality, safety, efficacy and timely availability of therapeutic goods: s 4(1)(a).
A useful overview of some of the provisions of the Act has been provided by Emmett J in McGrath v Australian Naturalcare Products Pty Ltd [2008] FCAFC 2 , 165 FCR 230.
6 For present purposes it is sufficient to make reference to but a few provisions.
7 Chapter 2 of the Act provides for the maintenance of a register known as the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods.
Part 3 - 2 of Chapter 3 further provides for the registration and listing of therapeutic goods and provides for exemptions to be granted in respect to certain therapeutic goods which are not registered.
Contained within that Part is s 19D which relevantly provides as follows:
 Civil penalties relating to registration or listing etc. of imported, exported, manufactured and supplied therapeutic goods Civil penalty relating to importing, exporting, manufacturing or supplying goods for use in humans (1) A person contravenes this subsection if: (a) the person does any of the following: (i) imports into Australia therapeutic goods for use in humans; ... and (b) none of the following subparagraphs applies in relation to the goods: (i) the goods are registered goods or listed goods in relation to the person; (ii) the goods are exempt goods; (iii) the goods are exempt under section 18A ; (iv) the goods are the subject of an approval or authority under section 19 ; (v) the goods are the subject of an approval under section 19A.
Maximum civil penalty: (a) for an individual--5,000 penalty units; and (b) for a body corporate--50,000 penalty units.
8 Chapter 5A provides for the enforcement of the Act and specifically provides for the making of an order by this Court that a " civil penalty " be paid: s 42Y.
That section provides as follows:
 Federal Court may order person to pay pecuniary penalty for contravening civil penalty provision Application for order (1) Within 6 years of a person (the wrongdoer) contravening a civil penalty provision, the Secretary may apply on behalf of the Commonwealth to the Federal Court for an order that the wrongdoer pay the Commonwealth a pecuniary penalty.
Court may order wrongdoer to pay pecuniary penalty (2) If the Court is satisfied that the wrongdoer has contravened a civil penalty provision, the Court may order the wrongdoer to pay to the Commonwealth for each contravention the pecuniary penalty that the Court determines is appropriate (but not more than the maximum amount specified for the provision).
Determining amount of pecuniary penalty (3) In determining the pecuniary penalty, the Court must have regard to all relevant matters, including: (a) the nature and extent of the contravention; and (b) the nature and extent of any loss or damage suffered as a result of the contravention; and (c) the circumstances in which the contravention took place; and (d) whether the person has previously been found by the Court in proceedings under this Act to have engaged in any similar conduct.
Civil evidence and procedure rules apply (4) The Court must apply the rules of evidence and procedure for civil matters when hearing and determining an application for an order under this section.
Conduct contravening more than one civil penalty provision (5) If conduct constitutes a contravention of 2 or more civil penalty provisions, proceedings may be instituted under this Act against a person in relation to the contravention of any one or more of those provisions.
However, the person is not liable to more than one pecuniary penalty under this section in respect of the same conduct.
Section 42YB provides that a " penalty unit " has the same meaning as that given by s 4AA of the Crimes Act 1914 (Cth) which, in turn, provides that a " penalty unit " is $110.
9 Two further provisions should be mentioned, namely ss 54 and 54B.
It is s 54 which provides for the making of an order that goods be forfeited as follows:
 Offences and forfeiture (3) If a court: (a) convicts a person of an offence against this Act; or (b) orders a person to pay a pecuniary penalty for the contravention of a civil penalty provision; in relation to any therapeutic goods, the court may order that the goods be forfeited to the Commonwealth and, if an order is made, the goods become the property of the Commonwealth.
(4) Where goods are so forfeited, the Secretary may cause notice of the forfeiture to be published in the Gazette.
(5) Goods forfeited under an order referred to in subsection (3) are to be disposed of in such manner as the Secretary directs.
10 Section 54B provides as follows:
 Application of this Act to an executive officer of a body corporate (1) An executive officer of a body corporate commits an offence if: (a) the body corporate commits an offence against this Act; and (b) the officer knew that the offence would be committed; and (c) the officer was in a position to influence the conduct of the body in relation to the commission of the offence; and (d) the officer failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent the commission of the offence.
(2) The maximum penalty for an offence against subsection (1) is the maximum penalty that a Court could impose in respect of an individual for the offence committed by the body corporate.
(3) An executive officer of a body corporate contravenes this subsection if: (a) the body corporate contravenes a civil penalty provision; and (b) the officer knew that the contravention would occur; and (c) the officer was in a position to influence the conduct of the body in relation to the contravention; and (d) the officer failed to take all reasonable steps to prevent the contravention.
(4) The maximum civil penalty for a contravention of subsection (3) is the maximum civil penalty that a Court could impose in respect of an individual for the civil penalty provision contravened by the body corporate.
(5) In this section: executive officer of a body corporate means a person, by whatever name called and whether or not a director of the body, who is concerned in, or takes part in, the management of the body.
Reliance is placed upon this provision in respect to Ms Jones.
In the alternative to contending that she has contravened s 19D(1)(a)(i), the Secretary further contends that she has contravened s 54B(3).
THE STATEMENT OF AGREED FACTS 
 
11 The present proceeding was commenced by way of an Application and Statement of Claim filed on 21 December 2007.
12 A Statement of Agreed Facts was thereafter prepared by the parties and was filed on 2 May 2008.
13 That Statement sets forth the attendance on or about 21 February 2007 of officers of the Therapeutic Goods Administration upon premises at Matraville in Sydney for the purposes of searching a container transported by the Respondents from Manilla North Harbour in the Philippines to Australia in early February 2007.
