
 INTRODUCTION 
 These proceedings are brought by a number of retirees who entered into arrangements with the first respondent ('MFL') and the second respondent ('MFLPH') (together, 'Money for Living') from around September 2004.
Those arrangements, broadly speaking, involved each retiree selling his or her home to one of the Money for Living entities in return for: In September 2005 administrators were appointed to each of the Money for Living entities.
The current representative proceedings brought various claims against the respondents but, with the exception of the seventh respondent, Perpetual Trustee Company Limited ('Perpetual'), all of those claims have since been settled.
The claims which remain for determination are by the fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth and ninth applicants against Perpetual, although they concern three separate transactions.
Perpetual is a registered mortgagee of each of the properties the subject of the remaining claims.
Perpetual made a series of loans to the Money for Living entities and took first registered mortgages over the properties.
Perpetual's dealings with the Money for Living entities were organised by Resimac Limited and initiated by a mortgage initiator, Mortgage Ezy Pty Ltd. On the basis of the material before the Court, and as the argument proceeded, the only issue was whether the interests of Perpetual as registered mortgagee of the properties are subject to the retirees' interests as tenants in possession of the properties, pursuant to the land registration legislation in Victoria and Tasmania.
The three separate transactions that need to be considered are in respect of the following retirees: In early 2008 Elaine Gainsford passed away and a tutor needed to be appointed for Edward James Gainsford.
By consent of the relevant parties, the following arrangements were made: Broadly speaking, the interests claimed by the retirees in their written submissions were as follows: Gainsford and Smith rely on s 42(2)(e) of the Transfer of Land Act 1958 (Vic) ('TLA') and Easterbrook and Gray rely on s 40(3)(d) of the Land Titles Act 1980 (Tas) ('LTA') to claim that Perpetual's interests as mortgagee of the relevant properties ranks behind each retiree's interest as tenant in possession of the relevant properties.
Section 42(2)(e) of the TLA, relevantly, provides as follows: 
 [T]he land which is included in any folio of the Register or registered instrument shall be subject to: 

 
 ... 
 (e) the interest (but excluding any option to purchase) of a tenant in possession of the land.


 Section 40 of the LTA, relevantly, provides as follows: 
 (1) For the purposes of this section "indefeasible", in relation to the title of a registered proprietor of land, means subject only to such estates and interests as are recorded on the folio of the Register or registered dealing evidencing title to the land.


 
 (2) Subject to subsections (3) and (4), the title of a registered proprietor of land is indefeasible.


 
 (3) The title of a registered proprietor of land is not indefeasible - 

 
 ... 

 
 (d) so far as regards the interest of a tenant under - 

 
 ... 

 
 (iii) a lease capable of taking effect in equity only, except as against a bona fide purchaser for value without notice of the lease who has lodged a transfer for registration; and 

 
 (iv) a residential tenancy agreement to which the Residential Tenancy Act 1997 applies; 
 ... 

 
 (6) In this section, "interest" means --- 

 
 (a) any interest, mortgage, encumbrance, charge, reservation or right in respect of land; 
 (b) any covenant, the burden of which runs with freehold land; or 
 (c) any claim or demand in respect of land --- 

 
 whether at law or in equity.

 There was further argument as to whether, if a retiree's interest falls within the s 42(2)(e) or s 40(3)(d) exception and is therefore deemed to be subject to Perpetual's mortgage, the Court must in any event then compare the interests of the parties as competing equities.
Whilst some cross-examination occurred in the course of the trial, no issues of credit arose in relation to any witness and, in the main, the relevant sequence of events was documented.
The scheme that was introduced and operated by Money for Living was described by Finkelstein J in Australian Securities  Investments Commission, in the matter of Money for Living (Aust) Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) v Money for Living (Aust) Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) (No 2) [2006] FCA 1285 , and I adopt that description which accords with the evidence before me.
DETAILS OF TRANSACTIONS 
 The nature of the interests claimed and the manner of their acquisition arise from the following circumstances in relation to the Gainsford claim and property: 
 12 May 1994 Elaine Gainsford registered as sole proprietor.
10 November 2004 Elaine and Edward Gainsford met with Stephen O'Neill, a representative of Money for Living, and discussed the Money for Living scheme.
16 November 2004 Money for Living sent a letter to Elaine Gainsford advising that:
 
 ... the Valuation of your property has come in at $240,000 ... We are prepared to pay you the amount of $30,000 payable in one up front lump sum with the balance being payable by 300 monthly instalments of $720.
...
In addition to this offer, we are prepared to offer you a lease on the property at the rate of $1 P.A.
from the date of settlement until your demise, or until you vacate the property permanently for a continuous period of six months or more, at a rate of $1 P.A.
...
It is now appropriate that you consult with a solicitor, and as discussed, we have arranged Diakou Faigen to act on your behalf.
They will now prepare the necessary contracts, which should be ready for you to sign on Thursday at 10.30 ... 

 
 18 November 2004 Elaine Gainsford executed Contract of Sale with MFLPH including the following terms:
 purchase price of $246,000 with a deposit of $30,000 payable 21 days from the day of sale or other such date as the parties may mutually agree; the balance of the purchase price was payable in instalments of $720.00 per calendar month commencing on the one month anniversary of the settlement date and payable calendar monthly thereafter; and the parties agreed that it was a condition of the contract that they enter into an irrevocable lease agreement prior to the settlement date.
18 November 2004 Elaine Gainsford executed Deed of Agreement with MFLPH.
It contained the following terms:
 
 Recital B.
The Company agreed to purchase the Property from the Vendor pursuant to the terms and conditions contained in the Contract of Sale of Real Estate dated ... ... ("the Contract of Sale").


 
 Recital C. The Company has agreed to lease the Property to the Vendor at a rental of one dollar ($1.00) per annum until the Vendor's demise ("the Lease").


 
 Clause 1.1 The Vendor hereby agrees to forgo the amount of six thousand dollars ($6,000.00) from the price which the Company would have paid under the Contract of Sale in consideration for the Company entering into the Lease at the request of the Vendor.


 
 Clause 1.2 The Parties hereby acknowledge that they have received a copy of the Lease and have had an opportunity to obtain legal advice in respect of the Lease and by executing this Deed, acknowledges that it understands the terms and conditions contained within the Lease and agrees to abide by those terms and conditions.


 
 Clause 1.9 The Company hereby undertake [sic] and agree [sic] to use their [sic] best endeavours to obtain the consent of any mortgagees to the Lease and the terms and conditions contained within this Deed.


 
 18 November 2004 Elaine Gainsford and her husband Edward Gainsford executed an undated Residential Tenancy Agreement with MFLPH which contained the following terms:
 
 Clause 4.
Period 
 
 
 The period of the agreement commences on / / and ends on / / unless the Agreement terminates in accordance with the Residential Tenancies Act 1997 , the Agreement will continue as a periodic tenancy.

 
 
 OR The Agreement will commence on 9/12/04 and continue until terminated in accordance with the Residential Tenancies Act 1997 .

 
 ... 
 
 
 Schedule B.
Additional terms 
 
 ... 
 
 
 The parties agree that the intention of this lease is to allow the Tenants to remain in the property until their demise or until they both vacate the property for a period of greater than six months, whichever occurs earlier.

 
 
 18 November 2004 Transfer of Land executed by Elaine Gainsford.
9 December 2004 Settlement took place.
Mortgage entered into between Elaine Gainsford and Perpetual and principal amount advanced by Perpetual.
4 January 2005 Lodgement of Transfer of Land and Mortgage with Titles Office.
Transfer of Land and Mortgage registered.
12 October 2005 Caveat dated 12 October 2005 lodged on behalf of MFLPH claiming 'an estate in fee simple ... as registered proprietor not in control of the duplicate certificate of title to prevent any unauthorised or fraudulent dealings with the land.
'
 
 
 13 December 2006 Caveat dated 11 December 2005 lodged on behalf of Elaine Gainsford and her husband Edward Gainsford claiming:
 
 Lease-hold estate for the life of Edward and Elaine Gainsford or until Edward and Elaine Gainsford vacate the land for a period greater than six (6) months ... [p]ursuant to a residential tenancy agreement between Edward and Elaine Gainsford and MFL Property Holdings Pty Ltd dated 9 December 2004.

 
 
 13 December 2006 Caveat dated 11 December 2005 lodged on behalf of Elaine Gainsford claiming '[a]n equitable interest as a licensee ... [a]s an unpaid vendor pursuant to a Contract of Sale between Elaine Mavis Gainsford and MFL Property Holdings Pty Ltd dated 18 November 2004.
'
 The nature of the interests claimed and the manner of their acquisition arise from the following circumstances in relation to the Smith claim and property: 
 24 May 1984 Estell Sylvia Smith and William Kenneth Smith (who later passed away on 31 March 2004) registered as sole proprietors.
Estell Smith after 31 March 2004 becomes sole proprietor.
At or about the end of November 2004 
 
 Estell Smith met with Stephen O'Neill, discussed the Money for Living scheme.
7 December 2004 Money for Living sent letter to Estell Smith advising that:
 
 ... the Valuation of your property has come in at $225,000 ... We are prepared to pay you the amount of $235,600 payable in one up front lump sum of $10,000, with the balance being payable by 240 monthly instalments of $940 ...
In addition to this offer, we are prepared to offer you a lease on the property at the rate of $1 P.A.
from the date of settlement until your demise.
...
It is now appropriate that you consult with a solicitor, and as discussed, we have arranged Diakou Faigen to act on your behalf.
They will now prepare the necessary contracts, which should be ready for you to sign on Thursday at 10.30... 
 
 
 9 December 2004 Estell Smith executed Contract of Sale with MFLPH, including the following terms:
 purchase price of $235,600 with a deposit of $40,000 was payable 21 days from the day of sale or other such date as the parties may mutually agree; the balance of the purchase price was payable in instalments of $668.00 per calendar month commencing on the one month anniversary of the settlement date and payable calendar monthly thereafter; and the parties agreed that it was a condition of the contract that they enter into an irrevocable lease agreement prior to the settlement date.
9 December 2004 Estell Smith executed Deed of Agreement with MFLPH.
It contained the following terms:
 
 Recital B.
The Company agreed to purchase the Property from the Vendor pursuant to the terms and conditions contained in the Contract of Sale of Real Estate dated 9 December 2004.

 
 
 Recital C. The Company has agreed to lease the Property to the Vendor at a rental of one dollar ($1.00) per annum until the Vendor's demise.

 
 
 Clause 1.1 The Vendor has agreed to be paid the Purchase Price under the Contract of Sale by way of instalments over two hundred and forty (240) months in consideration for the Company entering into the Lease.

 
 
 Clause 1.2 The Parties hereby acknowledge that they have received a copy of the Lease and have had an opportunity to obtain legal advice in respect of the Lease and by executing this Deed, acknowledges [sic] that it [sic] understands the terms and conditions contained within the Lease and agrees [sic] to abide by those terms and conditions.

 
 
 Clause 1.9 The Company hereby undertake [sic] and agree [sic] to use their [sic] best endeavours to obtain the consent of any mortgagees to the Lease and the terms and conditions contained within this Deed.

 
 
 9 December 2004 Estell Smith executed an undated Residential Tenancy Agreement with MFLPH which contained the following terms:
 
 Clause 4.
Period 
 
 
 The period of the agreement commences on / / and ends on / / unless the Agreement terminates in accordance with the Residential Tenancies Act 1997 , the Agreement will continue as a periodic tenancy.

 
 OR The Agreement will commence on 10/12/04 and continue until terminated in accordance with the Residential Tenancies Act 1997 .

 
 ... 
 
 
 Schedule B.
Additional terms 
 
 ... 
 
 
 The parties agree that the intention of this lease is to allow the Tenant to remain in the property until her demise or until the Tenant vacates the Property for a period of greater than six months, whichever occurs earlier.

 
 
 9 December 2004 Transfer of Land executed by Estell Smith.
10 December 2004 Settlement took place.
14 December 2004 Lodgement of Transfer of Land with Titles Office.
Transfer of Land registered.
23 December 2004 Mortgage entered into between Estell Smith and Perpetual and principal amount advanced by Perpetual.
21 January 2005 Lodgement of Mortgage with Titles Office.
Mortgage registered.
27 September 2005 Caveat undated lodged on behalf of Estell Smith claiming an '[e]state for life ... [p]ursuant to a Contract of Sale ... between MFL Property Holdings Ltd and Estell Sylvia Smith'.
13 October 2005 Caveat dated 12 October 2005 lodged on behalf of MFLPH claiming 'an estate in fee simple ... as registered proprietor not in control of the duplicate certificate of title to prevent any unauthorised or fraudulent dealings with the land.
'
 
 15 November 2006 Caveat dated 14 November 2006 lodged on behalf of Estell Smith claiming 'lease-hold estate for the life of Estell Sylvia Smith or until Estell Sylvia Smith vacates the land for a period of greater than six (6) months whichever occurs earlier ... [p]ursuant to a residential tenancy agreement between Estell Sylvia Smith and MFL Property Holdings Pty Ltd dated 10 December 2004'.
15 November 2006 Caveat dated 14 November 2006 lodged on behalf of Estell Smith claiming an '[e]xecutory or contingent interest in fee simple ... [a]s the grantee, and by virtue, of an option to purchase the land pursuant to an undated Deed of Agreement between Estell Sylvia Smith and MFL Property Holdings Pty Ltd.'
 The nature of the interests claimed and the manner of their acquisition arise from the following circumstances in relation to the Easterbrook and Gray claim and property: 
 26 March 2001 Athol Edward Easterbrook and Yvonne Gray registered as registered proprietors.
Towards the end of 2004 
 
 Yvonne Gray and Athol Easterbrook spoke to Stephen O'Neill about the Money for Living scheme.
2 December 2004 Money for Living sent letter to Athol Easterbrook and Yvonne Gray advising that:
 
 ... the Valuation of your property has come in at $220,000 ... We are prepared to pay you the amount of $216,080, payable in one up front lump sum of $20,000, with the balance being payable by 240 monthly instalments of $817 ...
In addition to this offer, we are prepared to offer you a lease on the property at a rate of $1 P.A.
from the date of settlement until your demise ...
It is now appropriate that you consult with a solicitor, and as discussed, we have arranged Diakou Faigen to act on your behalf.
They will now prepare the necessary contracts, which should be ready for you to sign on Friday at 10.30.

 
 
 10 December 2004 Athol Easterbrook and Yvonne Gray executed an Agreement for Sale of Real Estate with MFLPH, including the following terms:
 purchase price of $220,000 with a deposit of $20,000 was payable by MFLPH; and the balance of the purchase price was payable by instalments of $991.00 per calendar month commencing on the one month anniversary of the settlement date and payable calendar monthly thereafter.
10 December 2004 Athol Easterbrook and Yvonne Gray executed Deed of Agreement with MFLPH.
It contained the following terms:
 
 Recital B.
The Company agreed to purchase the Property from the Vendor pursuant to the terms and conditions contained in the Contract of Sale of Real Estate dated 10 December 2004.

 
 
 Recital C. The Company has agreed to lease the Property to the Vendor at a rental of one dollar ($1.00) per annum until the Vendor's demise.

 
 
 Clause 1.1 The Vendor hereby agrees to forgo the amount of three thousand nine hundred and twent [sic] dollars ($3,920.00) from the price which the Company would have paid under the Contract of Sale in consideration for the Company entering into the Lease at the request of the Vendor.

 
 
 Clause 1.2 The Parties hereby acknowledge that they have received a copy of the Lease and have had an opportunity to obtain legal advice in respect of the Lease and by executing this Deed, acknowledges that it understands the terms and conditions contained within the Lease and agrees to abide by those terms and conditions.

 
 
 Clause 1.9 The Company hereby undertake [sic] and agree [sic] to use their [sic] best endeavours to obtain the consent of any mortgagees to the Lease and the terms and conditions contained within this Deed.

 
 
 13 December 2004 Settlement took place.
On or about 21 January 2005 
 
 A further $1,900, being the balance of the deposit, was received by Athol Easterbrook and Yvonne Gray.
22 March 2005 Mortgage entered into between Athol Easterbrook and Yvonne Gray and Perpetual and principal amount advanced by Perpetual.
26 May 2005 Transfer of Land and Mortgage lodged with Titles Office.
27 May 2005 Transfer of Land and Mortgage registered.
27 October 2005 Caveat dated 25 October 2005 lodged on behalf of Athol Easterbrook and Yvonne Gray as the holder of an equitable estate in fee simple.
In essence the important facts in relation to each transaction were as follows: Each retiree was registered proprietor of the property at all times until the new registered proprietor (MFLPH) became registered as proprietor.
At all times each retiree remained and continued to remain in physical possession of the property.
In the case of the Victorian properties, each retiree agreed that the parties would enter an irrevocable lease agreement prior to the settlement entitling the retirees to possession of the property from the settlement.
In the case of Easterbrook and Gray, the retirees agreed that the parties would enter into a lease agreement prior to the settlement entitling the retirees to possession of the property from the settlement.
Settlement took place on the same day that each retiree executed a Deed of Agreement, and apart from Easterbrook and Gray, a Residential Tenancy Agreement which included the terms as set out above.
In relation to Gainsford, the sequence of events is this: 
(i) Mortgage to Perpetual entered into on same day as settlement (9 December 2004);
 
(ii) Perpetual pays money into account of MFL, rather than MFLPH;
 
(iii) thereafter, on 4 January 2005, MFLPH and Perpetual lodge respective dealings for registration; and
 
(iv) subsequently, on 4 January 2005, the Titles Office registers the interests of MFLPH and Perpetual.
In relation to Smith, the sequence of events after settlement is this: 
(i) MFLPH lodges dealing for registration as registered proprietor on 14 December 2004, and transfer is registered on the same day;
 
(ii) Mortgage with Perpetual entered into on 23 December 2004; and
 
(iii) subsequently, on 21 January 2005, Perpetual lodges Mortgage with Titles Office for registration, which registration occurs on the same day.
The mortgage was thus entered into and created after settlement and after registration of the Transfer of Land.
In relation to Easterbrook and Gray, the sequence of events after settlement is this: 
(i) Mortgage to Perpetual entered into on 22 March 2005;
 
(ii) thereafter, MFLPH and Perpetual on 26 May 2005 lodge respective dealings for registration; and
 
(iii) subsequently, the Titles Office registers the interests of MFLPH and Perpetual on 27 May 2005.
The mortgage was thus entered into and created after settlement although before the registration of the Transfer of Land (and Mortgage).
PRELIMINARY MATTERS 
 I mention two preliminary matters.
First, I find as fact that the mortgages were entered into and created on, and intended to be effective from and on, the date which each mortgage document bears: Anderson v Weston (1840) 133 ER 117; Dillon v Gange (1941) 64 CLR 253.
There was no other evidence which would indicate to the contrary, and the principal sums under the mortgage were in fact advanced by Perpetual on these dates.
Secondly, the question of the operation of s 42(2)(e) of the TLA has been considered previously in the context of the Money for Living scheme in Australian Securities  Investments Commission, in the matter of Money for Living (Aust) Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) v Money for Living (Aust) Pty Ltd (Administrators Appointed) (No 2) [2006] FCA 1285 , where Finkelstein J made the following comments (at [24] --- [25]): 
 I base this conclusion on s 42(2)(e) of the Transfer of Land Act 1958 (Vic) and the equivalent provision in the Torrens legislation in other States.
The effect of s 42(2)(e) is that the estate of a registered proprietor of land (including the proprietor of a mortgage) is subject to the rights of a tenant in possession.
In this area the relevant principles are clearly established.
The first is that the possession of a tenant is notice of any right of the tenant affecting the land: McMahon v Swan [1924] VLR 397 , 406.
The second is that, as Dixon J confirmed in Burke v Dawes (1938) 59 CLR 1, 17-18, s 72 of the Transfer of Land Act 1928 (Vic) (which is the forerunner of s 42) was not intended to apply merely to a tenancy as commonly understood.
See also Downie v Lockwood [1965] VR 257 , 259 where Smith J said "As appears from the cases the exception in s. 42 (2) (e) is to be widely construed; and it is to be treated as producing the result that "any person in actual occupation of the land obtains as against any inconsistent registered dealing protection and priority for any equitable interest to which his occupation is incident, provided that at law his occupation is referable to a tenancy of sort, whether at will or for years".
Thus, for the purposes of the section a purchaser under a contract, who is given possession by the vendor and is only a tenant at will, is protected in respect of his equitable ownership: Robertson v Keith (1870) 1 VLR(E) 11.
So, too, is a vendor who remains in possession until the purchase price is paid: he is a tenant "whatever might be the legal denomination of the tenancy": The Commercial Bank of Australia Limited v McCaskill (1897) 23 VLR 10 , 12.
It has also been held that an equitable life estate will prevail over a subsequent registered interest: Black v Poole (1895) 16 ALT 155.


 
 These principles will protect the tenancies granted to the clients (who it must be assumed were always in possession of their homes) over subsequent dealings with the land.
Put another way, the clients' life tenancies are secure, that is their tenancies are "guaranteed" to survive any adverse claims made by subsequent registered proprietors and mortgagees, provided they (the clients) continue to pay $1.00 per annum by way of rent and do not vacate their home.


 Finkelstein J focused upon the TLA.
In my view, his Honour's analysis of the relevant principles of law and their application to the TLA was correct, although in light of submissions made by Perpetual, I will need to return to those principles and their application in this proceeding.
I will also need to consider the terms of the LTA.
The relevant wording of the LTA is materially different from the TLA and, in relation to the circumstances of Easterbrook and Gray, the question arises as to whether they have the interest of a tenant within the meaning of s 40(3)(d)(iii) or (iv) of the LTA.
WERE THE LEASES VOID FOR UNCERTAINTY AND WITHIN THE SCOPE OF THE TLA AND LTA?

 An issue arose as to whether any of the arrangements created a valid tenancy at all, because they were, it was argued by Perpetual, effectively void for uncertainty of duration.
The focus of the parties was upon the tenancies being for life which, Perpetual submitted, created the fatal uncertainty.
I see no reason to depart from the views expressed by Gobbo J in Greco v Swinburne Ltd [1991] 1 VR 304 that a lease for life or lives is not void for uncertainty.
Whilst the essential characteristic of a fixed term lease is that it must be of a specified maximum duration, this rule may not apply to periodic leases or leases for life (see Re Midland Railway Company Agreement v British Railways Board [1971] Ch 725 at 731-2; Bradbrook, MacCallum  Moore, Australian Real Property Law (4 th ed, Lawbook Co, 2007) at [14.100]; and Foa's General Law of Landland and Tenant (8 th ed, Thames Bank Publishing Co, 1957) at [150]-[154] although see Prudential Assurance Co Ltd v London Residuary Body [1991] UKHL 10 ; [1992] 3 WLR 279 and Peter Sparkes, Certainty of Leasehold Terms (1993) 109 LQR 93).
However, whether this be the correct position or not, unlike the position in Lace v Chantler [1944] KB 368 , which was relied upon by Perpetual, in this proceeding the tenancy agreement can be construed as though it were a grant of a freehold life tenancy.
The tenancy agreements in this proceeding are very similar to the agreement in Zimbler v Abrahams [1903] 1 KB 577, where the agreement was construed as a lease for life.
Zimbler was treated as being correctly decided by Lord Greene MR in Lace .
In fact, Lord Greene MR said in discussing Zimbler that if the contract was construed as an agreement to grant a lease for life, one could understand it being so treated and specifically enforceable (at 372).
Further, the authorities show that it is very common to speak of an estate for life created in terms of a lease as a lease (see Australian Maritime Safety Authority v Quirk (1998) NSW ConvR 55-858 per Bryson J).
If the lease is not void for uncertainty, one then needs to determine whether this interest of a life tenancy is one encompassed with the notion of tenancy in s 42(2)(e) and s 40(3)(d).
In my view, such an interest is one so encompassed, and one only needs to refer to the following passage of Dixon J in Burke v Dawes (1938) 59 CLR 1 at 17-18: 
 In Victoria these words have received an interpretation and an application as a result of which any person in actual occupation of the land obtains as against any inconsistent registered dealing protection and priority for any equitable interest to which his occupation is incident, provided that at law his occupation is referable to a tenancy of some sort, whether at will or for years.
Thus, a purchaser under a contract of sale, who at law is in possession as tenant at will of the vendor, has been held protected in respect of his equitable ownership as purchaser ( Robertson v. Keith ; Sandhurst Mutual Permanent Investment Building Society v. Gissing ), a lessee in respect of an option of purchase contained in his lease ( McMahon v. Swan ) and a wife in respect of an equitable life interest claimed under an unsigned separation agreement made with her husband ( Black v. Poole ).
a'Beckett J. decided the last named case in deference to previous decisions and against his own opinion, which he stated to be that "those words were intended to refer to a tenancy as ordinarily understood arising out of an agreement under which the person in possession was allowed to occupy in consideration of some kind of rent or service of which the proprietor was to have the benefit.
" The cases are collected and criticised by the late Dr. Donald Kerr in his work on The Australian Lands Titles (Torrens) System (1927), at pp.
75 et seq.
But the interpretation has stood for nearly seventy years, and it would, I think, be most undesirable now to undertake the re-examination of its correctness.


 
This passage still remains applicable to the interpretation to be given to the TLA and LTA.
I draw particular attention to the reference to Black v Poole as being an indication that the concept of tenant extends beyond that of a strict 'tenancy' to include the freehold interest of a life interest, obviously equitable or legal.
Therefore, I do not regard any lease that may exist as being void and of no effect on the ground of uncertainty of duration as raised by Perpetual.
Further, in my view, a lease for life is within the concept of the tenancies referred to in s 42(2)(e) and s 40(3)(d) even if, from a strict point of view, they may be estates for life.
NATURE OF INTEREST OF EACH RETIREE 
 I turn to the nature of the interest of each retiree.
In my view, each retiree had an equitable interest in the land by reason of the fact that each was entitled to specific performance of the Contract of Sale or Agreement for Sale of Real Estate or the Deed of Agreement to the possession of the property as a tenant immediately upon settlement.
The extent of that interest is to be determined by the form in which specific performance would be granted by a court.
The retirees were entitled as against MFLPH to an order requiring MFLPH to sign and deliver to the retirees upon settlement a lease of the property upon the terms agreed, relevantly for life, subject to the condition that the retiree stay in possession for a certain period and pay the nominal rent (see Downie v Lockwood [1965] VR 257; Craddock Bros v Hunt [1923] 2 Ch 136; Chan v Cresdon Pty Ltd (1989) 168 CLR 242; Tanwar Enterprises Pty Ltd v Cauchi (2003) 217 CLR 315 at 332-333, [53]; Black v Garnock [2007] HCA 31 ; (2007) 230 CLR 438 at 449-450, [32] ).
It is not necessary that specific performance be available at the time of the hearing: Bunny Industries Ltd v FSW Enterprises Pty Ltd [1982] Qd R 712.
It is important to appreciate that the availability and the nature of specific performance is a precondition to the recognition of an equitable interest and the extent of that equitable interest in the property.
Here, as I have said, a court, by reference to the terms of agreement between the retirees and MFLPH, would give each retiree possession of the land upon settlement by making an order that MFLPH sign and deliver a lease of the property to each retiree effective from the moment of settlement.
In considering the nature of the interest of the retirees and of their possession of the property, Perpetual submitted that it was not aware of any case in which possession has been by the registered proprietor, the party with the ultimate interest.
Rather, Perpetual argued, possession has been with a person other than the registered proprietor who specifically establishes an interest, usually as against the registered proprietor.
For example: Perpetual submitted that none of the interests claimed by the retirees created any antecedent interest separate from ownership, capable of creating any tenancy in the retirees which would bind Perpetual.
The fact that the retirees were registered proprietors of the properties at the time of entering into the agreement for lease or at the time of the grant of lease is irrelevant.
The agreement for lease obliged MFLPH, when it had the ability to do so, to give to the retiree possession of the property upon settlement.
In the case of Gainsford and Smith, a lease was in fact granted entitling them to possession on, and from, settlement.
If not for such an agreement for lease or the grant of a lease, each retiree would need to vacate the property at settlement, and give possession to MFLPH.
However, because of the agreement for lease upon settlement, each retiree would at least have been entitled to the order referred to above, giving to each retiree exclusive possession of the property.
From the moment of settlement the retirees remained thereafter in the property as tenants.
Again, it does not matter that they also remained registered as proprietors, because they would otherwise have had no right to possession of the property after settlement, if not for the agreement for lease or the lease by MFLPH.
MFLPH does not need to be the registered proprietor to effect a lease to the retirees --- MFLPH was entitled to possession on settlement, and leased its right to possession to the retirees.
There is nothing unusual in a person with a right to possession only of the land granting a right to exclusive possession of the land, as long as it is for a term less than that which the landlord has in the land.
Of course, this would be subject to any superior title of a third person, but this is not the situation concerning us in this proceeding.
This is not a case where MFLPH, at the time of the actual grant of the lease, had no legal estate or interest in the land at the time of grant.
At settlement MFLPH would have had a right to possession if not for the grant of the lease.
This is not a case of needing to rely upon the principle of estoppel, each party being prevented from denying each other's title.
As I have said, under the sale contracts, there was an obligation on MFLPH to give exclusive possession at settlement, and at settlement this was effected by the lease.
At the time of settlement, MFLPH had the ability to perform the obligation to give exclusive possession as the person otherwise entitled to such possession.
A tenancy by estoppel arises most commonly on a fee simple conveyance, where the purchaser actually leases the property to a tenant before the purchaser acquires any interest in the land.
In such a situation, if the landlord later acquires the necessary interest, usually the legal fee simple estate, the tenant will then automatically acquire a legal tenancy by question of law under the principle of 'feeding the estoppel'.
In this proceeding the purchaser (MFLPH) agreed to enter into a lease at some time in the future (at settlement), and at settlement did actually grant the lease (other than to Easterbrook and Gray), that is, after MFLPH had acquired the possessory interest necessary for it to grant the lease.
In the case of Easterbrook and Gray, where no actual lease was entered into, the agreement to lease was enforceable in the way I have previously described.
At the time of settlement and thereafter, MFLPH was able to lease the property to Easterbrook and Gray, MFLPH being entitled to possession of the property but for the agreement to lease.
I should mention that Perpetual argued that a person could not create a lease over an interest in land which it did not possess, and contended that MFLPH did not have the interest it purported to convey under the tenancy agreements.
At best, it was contended, MFLPH could only create a tenancy by estoppel, which was 'fed' (giving legal effect to the tenancy) when MFLPH obtained the legal interest upon registration.
It was contended that an equitable interest was inadequate to feed the estoppel.
If, contrary to my analysis and the tenancy by estoppel principles are applicable and relevant, then on the basis of the sequence of events I have found occurred, the estoppel would be fed prior to the grant of the mortgage.
This is either because the mortgage was registered after the transfer of land, or because upon registration of the transfer of land, the title feeds the estoppel, so that the earlier grant of the lease operates retrospectively as if MFLPH had legal title (if that was required) at the time of the earlier grant of the lease or entry into the agreement for lease (see Hedley v Roberts (1977) VR 282 at 285 per Harris J (and the references mentioned therein)).
Perpetual also argued that the retirees were not tenants and that an owner cannot lease land to himself or herself relying on Rye v Rye [1962] AC 496.
It was said that prior to registration of MFLPH as proprietor, the retirees were owners of the properties and occupied the properties in this capacity.
It was said they could not have an interest in a lease in these circumstances.
In Rye v Rye , [1962] AC 496, the appellant and his brother carried on a partnership business, the profits of which were divisible between them in unequal shares.
