
 
1 The appellants, who I will collectively refer to as the "McMullan interests", operate a website on the internet which provides articles about developments in the insurance industry.
The domain name for the website is InsuranceNEWS.com.au.
The respondent ("JEM") also operates a website which provides articles on developments in the insurance industry.
The domain name for its website is "InsuranceNewsAustralia.com".
2 In the Court below, JEM obtained an order restraining the McMullan interests from using the domain name "InsuranceNEWS.com.au".
The Federal Magistrate held that the two domain names were "so similar that they are likely to mislead or deceive".
He considered that JEM had made out its case under s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) ("the Act ").
3 The essential issue for resolution on the appeal is whether it was open to his Honour to make an order against the McMullan interests under the Act on the evidence before the Court below.
In that regard, the Court is required to examine whether the Federal Magistrate failed to determine whether JEM's website had an inherently descriptive or distinctive name and, if descriptive, whether the name had acquired a secondary distinctive meaning through extensive use.
FINDINGS OF FACT BELOW 
 
4 Identification of the facts found by the primary judge is critical to the resolution of the appeal, as much of the debate between counsel centred on what the Federal Magistrate did or did not find as a fact or facts before him.
5 Apart from identifying the names of the two relevant websites, his Honour observed that the McMullan interests' service is free and is reliant on advertising income.
JEM, on the other hand, provides insurance news stories to subscribers by email in accordance with a password-protected log on service.
It relies on subscriptions rather than advertising revenue.
6 His Honour described the physical characteristics of the two websites as follows:
 (i) Colours 
 
JEM's website had an orange coloured background with some deep red colouring and a small map of Australia in "solid red".
The McMullan interests' website has a thin orange line across the top of the page but no other colour background.
The word "NEWS" in the domain name is coloured bright orange.
Each article is accompanied by a large coloured banner provided by an advertiser.
(ii) Similarity 
 
His Honour found at [11] that, apart from the similarity of domain names and content, the two websites are not "strikingly similar", but the nature of the material provided and the layout used "leads to some degree of similarity, such that the casual observer may not notice the difference unless regularly accessing the material.
"
 NAMES 
 
7 At [13], the Federal Magistrate noted that "au" is a country code referable to Australia and that "com" signifies "a company or similar".
He then said that the domain names are "remarkably similar" and likely to cause confusion.
THE NATURE OF THE RESPECTIVE BUSINESS 
 
8 At [39], the Federal Magistrate accepted that JEM is a high quality independent service which is reasonably well known in the industry although perhaps chiefly to the "older members" of it.
JEM has a loyal subscriber base, with a relatively small turnover or "churn" rate amongst subscribers.
