
 (REVISED FROM THE TRANSCRIPT) 
 
1 Both the applicant, Intel Corporation and the respondent, Unwired Group Limited filed motions seeking judgment, under s 31A of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth), against the other in respect of various claims each made in the proceedings.
Intel also sought to strike out various parts of Unwired's amended defence under O 11 r 16 of the Federal Court Rules .
Following the course of argument on the two motions yesterday and the day before, today I made an order for judgment on the principal sum of $37 million advanced by Intel to Unwired in respect of convertible notes issued by Unwired to Intel.
This was on the basis that Unwired had no defence to that claim following the tender of material during the course of the hearing.
2 Intel had claimed two primary sums in the proceedings.
The first was the principal sum of $37 million, being the amount advanced by it in the course of an overall arrangement to provide funding to assist Unwired to roll out a wireless internet system using Intel products.
The second was based on part of the convertible notes issue.
It involved Unwired assuming an obligation to pay, in certain events, a further sum of $18.5 million, called the redemption premium amount.
Intel also sought interest on both sums from 15 May 2008 under its contractual entitlements or, alternatively, pursuant to rates of interest payable on pre-judgment debts (originally under the Civil Procedure Act 2005 (NSW) , because it commenced the proceedings in the Supreme Court of New South Wales, or now under s 51A of the Federal Court of Australia Act ).
THE DEED POLL FOR CONVERTIBLE NOTES ISSUED BY UNWIRED 
 
3 The principal issues in the dispute arise under a deed poll made by Unwired on 25 August 2005.
The deed poll provided that it had been executed for the benefit of note holders and that any note holder could enforce it, despite not being a party to it (cl 3.1).
A note holder was deemed to have notice of the terms of the deed poll (cl 3.3).
The schedule to the deed poll has been twice amended but, for present purposes, nothing turns on those amendments and the parties were content to argue the motions on the provisions in its latest version dated 2 February 2007.
For convenience I will refer to the schedule as "the deed poll", as did the parties.
4 In August 2005, Unwired issued 82,222,222 convertible notes at a face value of 45cents each in respect of Intel's $37 million investment.
Relevantly, the critical events leading up to the present litigation concern cll 6 and 9 of the deed poll.
Clause 6 provided that early redemption of the amount advanced on the convertible notes was possible in certain events including, importantly, a change in control of Unwired.
A "Change in Control Event" was defined as meaning, among other things, where a bidder obtained a relevant interest in more than 50% of the ordinary shares on issue under a takeover bid made to acquire all or some of the ordinary shares in Unwired, and that offer was or became unconditional.
Clauses 6.2 and 6.3 provided:
 "6.2 Change in Control, Trade Sale or Liquidation Event The Issuer must: 
 
 (a) give Tranche 1 Noteholders notice in writing if there is a Change in Control, a Trade Sale or a Liquidation Event; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) in that notice notify Tranche 1 Noteholders of the date on which the Convertible Notes will be redeemed (which date must be at least 20 Business Days after the date of the notice).

 
 
 6.3 Redemption on Change in Control, Trade Sale or Liquidation Event 
 
 On the date specified by the Issuer for redemption of the Tranche 1 Convertible Notes under clause 6.2, the Issuer must redeem each Tranche 1 Convertible Note on issue on that date in respect of which the Issuer has not received a Conversion Notice and, to the extent permitted by law, pay to each Tranche 1 Noteholder the Redemption Amount plus the Redemption Premium Amount in respect of each Tranche 1 Convertible Note held by that Tranche 1 Noteholder in cash, by cheque or in any other form the Tranche 1 Noteholder agrees.
" (emphasis added) 
 
 
5 Thus, once a change of control occurred and was notified by Unwired to a noteholder, Unwired became liable to pay both the sum advanced and the redemption premium account on the date nominated by Unwired.
6 Clause 9 dealt with the consequences of events of default.
A non-remediable event of default was defined in cl 1.1 of the deed poll as including the occasion when the ordinary shares of Unwired ceased to be quoted on the Australian Stock Exchange or Unwired ceased to be listed on that exchange (see cl 9.1(i)).
And cl 9.4 provided, relevantly, as follows: 
 "9.4 Consequences of an Event of Default 
 
 On the occurrence of a Non-Remediable Event of Default or a Remediable Event of Default, which is not remedied under clause 9.3(a) or in the process of being remedied to the satisfaction of the Representative under clause 9.3(b), each Tranche 1 Noteholder may : 
 
 
 
 
 (a) declare all Principal, interest and other amounts owing under the Tranche 1 Convertible Notes or other Transaction Documents due and payable in full; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) seek payment of all amounts owed under the Tranche 1 Convertible Notes or other Transaction Documents; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) advise the Security Trustee of the existence of the Event of Default; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) pursue any other remedies available to such Tranche 1 Noteholders under applicable law.
" (emphasis added) 
 
 


 
7 So, if a non-remediable event of default occurred, such as Unwired ceasing to be quoted on the stock exchange, Intel could declare all principal, interest and "other amounts owing under" the convertible notes (including the redemption premium amount) to be due and payable in full.
8 The deed poll also provided that the convertible notes were transferable by a note holder when it executed a written transfer form.
Unwired's board could only refuse to register such a transfer where it was not made in accordance with technical requirements of a mechanical nature or where the transfer would result in the contravention or failure to observe any applicable law.
THE RELATED AGREEMENTS AFFECTING INTEL AND UNWIRED 
 
9 In the period between 23 and 25 August 2005 Unwired executed a number of documents, including a security trust deed of which Permanent Trustee Company Limited was the trustee, a fixed and floating charge and a deed of guarantee and indemnity.
Those three documents were designed to secure performance of Unwired's obligations under the deed poll in respect of the repayment of convertible notes.
