
 
1 There is a motion by the appellant before the Court seeking, amongst other things, expedition of the appeal.
That is effected in paragraph 1 of the notice of motion.
Paragraph 2 of the notice of motion is not pressed.
The motion is not opposed by the respondent by reference to any asserted prejudice.
Mr de Kerloy, appearing for the respondent, has simply put before the Court matters, which in his submission, the Court ought be informed in the process of making its reasoned judgment as to whether or not the motion ought be granted.
2 The motion is supported by affidavits of Dr Rajumati Bhula affirmed on 2 and 15 December 2008.
The respondent has filed an affidavit of Dr Ross Rainbird sworn 12 December 2008.
It is the fact, as is evident from the judgment at first instance, that the name and address of the manufacturer in relation to products, the subject of entry in the relevant record of the register, were in each case fictitious.
3 The appellant acknowledges rightly that it needs to demonstrate special circumstances in order to take it out of the ordinary course of how appeals in this Court are disposed of.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

4 In particular, the appellant submits that the provision of the false information as to the manufacturer and site in relation to active constituents undermines the reliability of the technical information assessed by the appellant in its approval process and that information may be affected because different sources use manufacturing techniques under different conditions.
5 It is then said that the continued approval of the active constituents and registration of the chemical products is based on technical information that is subject to doubt and the potential adverse consequences are of poisoning of humans, of animals, and environmental contamination.
6 Accordingly, at first blush, the matter seems to be one of grave concern to the appellant and, of course, the public interest, in the performance of the obligations of the appellant in protecting under the powers vested in it under the legislation of humans, animals and the environment.

 
 
7 The issue, it is said by the appellant, is one of risk.
When pressed on the matter, counsel for the appellant acknowledged that in the range of available risks, the present concern of the appellant may be characterised as speculative.
Nonetheless, it is submitted by the appellant that the presence of even that risk and the desirability of mitigating it, is a proper basis for the expedition of the appeal.
I do not agree.
The absence of any material risk is, apart from any other considerations, including the concession made by counsel to which I have referred, also manifest by the failure by the appellant to take any action available to it under the legislation to protect humans, animals or the environment, such as the very interventionist powers available under s 102(1)(a)(ii) and (iii) of the Agricultural and Veterinary Chemicals Code Act 1994 (Cth) to recall products for that very reason.
8 I do not consider that relevant special circumstances exist for the expedition of this appeal.
There are many litigants before the Court awaiting disposition of their appeals.
The interests of justice demand that the Court dispose of appeals in a fair and equitable manner.
For these reasons, I refuse the motion.
I certify that the preceding eight (8) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Gilmour.
Associate:

Dated: 7 January 2009

 Counsel for the Applicant: Mr P R D Grey 
 
 Solicitor for the Applicant: Clayton Utz 
 
 Counsel for the Respondents: Mr K de Kerloy 
 
 Solicitor for the Respondents: Freehills 
 
 

 Date of Hearing: 16 December 2008 
 
 Date of Judgment: 16 December 2008 

 

 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/1981.html 
 
 
