
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 The cross-claimants, Eli Lilly  Company and Eli Lilly Australia Pty Ltd seek interlocutory injunctions restraining the cross-respondent, Interpharma Pty Ltd, from engaging in certain conduct, to which I shall refer in more detail below, said to be in infringement of patents registered under the Patents Act 1990 (Cth) ("Patents Act") held by the first cross-claimant, and licensed to the second cross-claimant.
The cross-claimants also seek an interlocutory mandatory injunction requiring Interpharma to withdraw an application for its product to be included in the Commonwealth Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme.
2 The first cross-claimant is the proprietor of Australian Patent No.
565856, for an invention entitled "difluoro nucleoside antivirals".
This is a patent for a pharmaceutical compound (or compounds) and has been referred to by the parties as the "compound patent".
The first cross-claimant is also the proprietor of Australian Patent No.
659009, entitled "stereoselective glycosylation process".
This is a patent for a manufacturing process, and has been referred to by the parties as the "process patent".
The compound patent was granted on 1 October 1987 and, on 14 January 2000, was extended for five years ending on 7 March 2009.
The judgment of Sundberg J in Interpharma Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Patents [2008] FCA 1283 was given upon an earlier interlocutory application in this proceeding, and dealt with the compound patent.
The process patent was granted on 4 May 1995, and its term expires on 18 June 2013.
3 The proceeding concerns pharmaceutical products of which the active ingredient is gemcitabine, a nucleoside which is represented as follows: 
 
 
A pharmaceutically acceptable salt, gemcitabine hydrochloride, is commonly used.
One of the second cross-claimant's main products is a medication called "Gemzar".
Gemcitabine hydrochloride is the active ingredient in that medication.
It is said to be used to treat five of the major types of cancer, namely, non-small-cell lung cancer, pancreatic cancer, bladder cancer, ovarian cancer and metastatic breast cancer.
Gemzar is registered on the Australian Register of Therapeutic Goods ("the ARTG"), and has been sold in the Australian market since 1995.
It is listed on the Pharmaceutical Benefits Scheme ("the PBS") under the National Health Act 1953 (Cth).
Hitherto, and as things stand, Gemzar is the only pharmaceutical product so listed in which the active ingredient is gemcitabine hydrochloride.
That is because the patents in suit have, it seems, been regarded by other suppliers as standing in the way of their entering the market.
If the cross-respondent has its way, all that is about to change.
4 The cross-respondent was incorporated in Australia in March 2002.
Its business is the provision of services to multinational pharmaceutical and health care companies entering the Australian and New Zealand markets, including, relevantly to the present application, regulatory compliance, marketing and sales.
It has the objective of securing supply agreements with international pharmaceutical companies who wish to market, distribute and sell their products in the Australian and New Zealand markets.
The cross-respondent intends, unless restrained by injunction, to commence marketing a pharmaceutical product called "EBEGEMCIT" in which the active ingredient is gemcitabine hydrochloride.
EBEGEMCIT is registered on the ARTG, but it has not, it seems, previously been sold in Australia.
The cross-respondent has applied for EBEGEMCIT to be listed under the PBS.
If that listing is achieved, as the cross-respondent expects to occur on 1 December 2008, EBEGEMCIT would be in a position to compete directly with Gemzar.
5 The cross-claimants allege that EBEGEMCIT infringes the compound patent, and that the process used in the production of EBEGEMCIT infringes the process patent.
As I have indicated, they seek interlocutory injunctions to restrain the cross-respondent from marketing EBEGEMCIT in Australia.
The mandatory interlocutory injunction sought by the cross-claimants would, if granted, require the cross-respondent to withdraw its application for the inclusion of EBEGEMCIT in the PBS.
However, the court has been informed that, because of the administrative steps associated with the preparation of the list of pharmaceuticals due to be released on 1 December 2008, unless an application for withdrawal is made by about 16 October 2008 at the latest, it will be unlikely to have any practical effect.
That circumstance constitutes part of the explanation for the urgency with which the present interlocutory application has been heard and decided.
BACKGROUND TO THE PRESENT APPLICATION 
 
6 In May 2003, the cross-respondent executed an exclusive supply and distribution agreement with an Austrian company, EBEWE Pharma GES.m.b.H.
Nfg.KG ("EBEWE").
That agreement gave the cross-respondent the exclusive right to distribute EBEWE oncology and other pharmaceutical products in Australia and New Zealand.
The cross-respondent conducted an official "launch" of the EBEWE oncology products in Australia in April 2005.
However, it was not until 2007 that preparations were made for the introduction into this range of a product in which the active ingredient was gemcitabine hydrochloride.
That product was "Gemcitabine EBEWE".
Those preparations commenced in June 2007, but the managing director of the cross-respondent, Mr David Gray, said in his affidavit sworn on 23 June 2008 that the production of "launch materials" could not commence until Gemcitabine EBEWE obtained registration on the ARTG.
7 In his affidavit of 23 June 2008, Mr Gray swore as follows:
 
I can recall discussing the patent position in relation to gemcitabine HCl compound with Dr. Schnait who is responsible for pharmaceutical development at EBEWE Pharma during product development and launch meetings in late 2005 and during 2006/2007.
I was told by Dr Schnait and believe that Eli Lilly and Company had a patent in Austria for the compound gemcitabine HCl which covered the treatment of cancer and was due to expire in March 2009.
Dr Schnait also told me that he could not find any equivalent patents in Australia when he undertook his searches of the patent databases.
On the basis of what I had been told by Dr Schnait of EBEWE Pharma I believed that there was no current patent in Australia which covered the compound gemcitabine HCI and I was not aware of the Anti-Viral Patent and the Decision until 2 August 2007.
The "anti-viral patent" referred to by Mr Gray is the compound patent, and the "decision" is the decision to extend the term of that patent to 7 March 2009.
8 What happened on 2 August 2007 was that the cross-respondent was informed by its solicitors of the existence of the compound patent and the extension of term.
Over the next few months, the cross-respondent caused investigations to be made about the compound patent, and considered, amongst other things, whether the extension of term could be challenged.
In October 2007, it applied to have Gemcitabine EBEWE registered on the ARTG.
9 In December 2007, the cross-respondent informed the cross-claimants of its intention to import and market Gemcitabine EBEWE.
It contended that the extension of term of the compound patent had been wrong.
The cross-claimants responded with a letter of demand alleging that the cross-respondent's intentions would, if carried out, give rise to an infringement of the compound patent, and seeking undertakings.
The cross-claimants also notified the cross-respondent of the existence, and the relevance, of the process patent.
Over the next 10 weeks or so, the parties attempted to resolve their differences, but without success.
10 On 6 March 2008, the cross-claimants sent a further letter of demand to the cross-respondent, enquiring whether TGA approval for Gemcitabine EBEWE had been obtained and, if not, asking the cross-respondent to notify them within 24 hours of it being obtained.
The cross-claimants also sought undertakings in relation to conduct which they alleged infringed the compound patent.
The cross-respondent replied that it did not consider that the importation and sale of Gemcitabine EBEWE would amount to an infringement of that patent.
At about the same time, it commenced to prepare for this proceeding, in which it proposed to seek the revocation of that patent, and to challenge the decision to extend the term thereof.
On 18 March 2008, the cross-respondent learned from EBEWE that the first applicant had obtained an interim injunction in Austria restraining EBEWE from making and exporting Gemcitabine EBEWE.
The present proceeding was commenced by the cross-respondent the following day, 19 March 2008.
The cross-respondent also made alternative arrangements for the supply of Gemcitabine EBEWE.
In April 2008, it applied to have Gemcitabine EBEWE registered on the ARTG, but this time the supplier would be a Romanian company, and the manufacturer of the active material (gemcitabine hydrochloride) would be an Indian company.
11 On 12 May 2008, the cross-claimants filed the present cross-claim.
At that time, they alleged only an infringement of the compound patent.
However, on 11 June 2008, they filed an Amended Cross-Claim which alleged also an infringement of the process patent.
They foreshadowed an interlocutory application to restrain the cross-respondent from marketing Gemcitabine EBEWE, and it seems that, in July 2008, the parties proposed that that application should be heard in early December 2008.
12 On 30 July 2008, the cross-claimants wrote to the cross-respondent, seeking confirmation that the latter had not lodged an application for ARTG registration of any product containing gemcitabine or gemcitabine hydrochloride as its active ingredient, other than those already disclosed, and requiring production of any other such applications.
On 7 August 2008, the cross-respondent responded to the effect that all ARTG applications that were in its possession on 28 July 2008, and which related to drugs containing gemcitabine or gemcitabine hydrochloride as their active ingredient, had been produced to the cross-claimants pursuant to a Notice to Produce, answered by the cross-respondent on 28 July 2008.
However, it seems that, towards the end of August 2008, Sandoz Pty Ltd ("Sandoz") (a party to a related proceeding) transferred two ARTG registrations (then standing in its name) for products in which the active ingredient was gemcitabine (as hydrochloride) to the cross-respondent.
By letter dated 26 August 2008, Sandoz so informed the cross-claimants, at the same time informing them that the products in question would be renamed "EBEGEMCIT".
13 There followed a period of about a fortnight during which the cross-claimants sought to obtain from the cross-respondent an indication of its intentions as to the listing of EBEGEMCIT on the PBS.
The cross-claimants first made such an inquiry on 27 August 2008.
They enquired again on 2 September 2008, this time asking whether the cross-respondent would be in a position to market EBEGEMCIT prior to 7 March 2009.
On 3 September 2008, the cross-respondent's solicitors replied, stating that they would respond to the cross-claimants' inquiries upon receiving instructions from Mr Gray, who was then overseas.
On 5 September 2008, the cross-claimants learnt from the Department of Health and Ageing that, on 1 September 2008, an application had been made to list a gemcitabine hydrochloride product on the PBS with effect from 1 December 2008.
By letter to the cross-claimants dated 9 September 2008, the cross-respondent took the position that the pleadings on the cross-claim did not allege that EBEGEMCIT involved a patent infringement, but, by another such letter dated 11 September 2008, stated that it could not respond to the cross-claimants' request for information until Mr Gray returned from overseas.
Finally, at a hearing before Sundberg J on 13 September 2008, counsel for the cross-respondent confirmed that it had applied for the PBS listing of EBEGEMCIT, to be effective, if granted, on 1 December 2008.
14 In the circumstances, the cross-claimants sought an urgent hearing of their application for interlocutory relief, and that hearing occurred on 30 September and 1 October 2008.
THE APPROACH TO BE TAKEN ON AN APPLICATION FOR AN INTERLOCUTORY INJUNCTION 
 
15 The parties are in agreement that the questions which arise in an application for an interlocutory injunction such as the present are ---
 
(a) whether there is a serious question to be tried, or the cross-claimants have made out a prima facie case in the sense that, if the evidence remains the same, there is a probability that at trial they will be entitled to relief;
 
(b) whether the cross-claimants will suffer irreparable harm, for which damages will not be adequate compensation, unless an injunction is granted; and
 
(c) whether the balance of convenience favours the granting of an injunction.
See Castlemaine Tooheys Ltd v South Australia [1986] HCA 58 ; (1986) 161 CLR 148 , 153; Aktiebologet Hassle v Biochemie Australia Pty Ltd (2003) 57 IPR 1 , 9 [29]; Hexal Australia Pty Ltd v Roche Therapeutics Inc (2005) 66 IPR 325 , 328 [17]; Pharmacia Italia SpA v Interpharma Pty Ltd (2005) 67 IPR 397 , 399 [9]-[10]; Merck  Co Inc v GenRx Pty Ltd (2006) 70 IPR 286 , 291 [16].
16 With respect to the first question, in Australian Broadcasting Corporation v O'Neill [2006] HCA 46 ; (2006) 227 CLR 57 , 82-83, [65] and [70] Gummow and Hayne JJ (with the assent of Gleeson CJ and Crennan J --- at 68 [19]) pointed out that the requisite degree of seriousness of the question to be tried, or the strength of the probability of success at trial (which their Honours seemingly regarded as effectively two ways of saying the same thing) depended on "the nature of the rights [the plaintiff] asserts and the practical consequences likely to flow from the order he seeks" (227 CLR at 82 [65], quoting from Beecham Group Ltd v Bristol Laboratories Pty Ltd [1968] HCA 1 ; (1968) 118 CLR 618 , 622).
Further, the issue whether there is a serious question (or a probability of success) should not be considered in isolation from the issue of the balance of convenience: Tidy Tea Ltd v Unilever Australia Ltd (1995) 32 IPR 405 , 416; Aktiebologet Hassle 57 IPR at 10 [31].
At base, the decision whether to grant an interlocutory restraint is a discretionary one, and it is traditionally at the point of considering the balance of convenience that the court takes into account every circumstance that has the rational capacity to assist in answering the question whether it would be in the interests of justice to do so.
The apparent strength of the parties' substantive cases, to the extent that it is possible to assess such things provisionally, will usually be one of those circumstances: often an important one.
17 Another layer of complication is added to the deliberative exercise in cases in which the respondent (ie the non-moving party) goes further than a denial of the applicant's case for relief, and pleads a positive point of defence.
In such a situation, it will not be enough to ask whether the applicant has shown a serious question, or a probability of success, on his or her own case.
While the answer to that question may be in the affirmative, it will then be necessary to consider whether that answer should be qualified by the apparent strength of the defence.
In a patent case, the fact of registration constitutes prima facie evidence of validity: AB Hassle v Pharmacia (Australia) Pty Ltd (1995) 33 IPR 63 , 69-70, GenRx Pty Ltd v Sanofi-Aventis (2007) 73 IPR 502 , 503-504.
It has been said that it is for the respondent to show that want of validity is a triable question: AB Hassle 33 IPR at 69.
This seems clear enough, but, in my opinion, the analysis needs to be taken a step further.
Is it sufficient that the respondent does show a triable question on validity?
In my view, if that is as far as the respondent goes, then, assuming always that the applicant has shown a triable issue on infringement, absent questions of validity, the conclusion would remain that the latter had a triable question.
That is to say, as a matter of analysis, unless the case for invalidity is sufficiently strong (at the provisional level) to qualify the conclusion that, overall, the applicant has a serious question, or a probability of success, the court should move to consider the adequacy of damages, the balance of convenience and other discretionary matters.
It is the applicant's title to interlocutory relief which is under consideration, and the bottom-line question, as it were, is whether the applicant has a serious question, or a probability of success, not whether the respondent does in relation to some point of defence raised or foreshadowed.
THE CROSS-CLAIMANTS' CASE FOR INFRINGEMENT OF THE COMPOUND PATENT 
 
18 The invention protected by the compound patent is entitled "difluoro antivirals and intermediate therefor".
The complete specification states that the invention "provides a new difluoro carbohydrate and new antiviral nucleosides prepared by coupling the new carbohydrate with appropriate bases".
For present purposes it is sufficient to note that the specification discloses a carbohydrate as follows --- 
 
 
 

Where R is one of a number of possible bases including the following --- 
 
 
 

The specification discloses that R 1 in this base may be a number of different atoms or groups, including hydrogen.
19 Claim 1 in the patent corresponds with the description given above in the complete specification.
Later claims are narrower than Claim 1.
The particular combination of carbohydrate and base to which I have referred in the previous paragraph also falls within Claim 4, which is narrower than Claim 1 by confining R in the carbohydrate to the base set out above.
Claim 6 is narrower again.
It corresponds with Claim 4, save that R 1 in the base must be hydrogen.
20 Structurally, gemcitabine is the same as the compound referred to in Claim 6 of the compound patent, and also falls within Claims 1-4.
In his affidavit sworn on 16 June 2008, Professor Easton of the Research School of Chemistry, Institute of Advanced Studies, Australian National University, concluded that gemcitabine fell within Claims 1-4 and 6 of the patent.
At the structural level, the cross-respondent did not take issue with that conclusion.
If that were all that is involved in the question, it would seem to be established prima facie at least that the production and sale of gemcitabine would infringe the compound patent.
21 However, as the complete specification makes clear --- 
 
The structural drawings above do not indicate the stereochemistry of the compounds of the present invention.
Compounds of all configurations are believed to be useful, and the stereochemistry of the compound is not to be construed as a limitation.
The specification goes on to state that the configuration of naturally occurring ribose is preferred, and that the preferred configuration of the "juncture" between the ribose (ie the carbohydrate) and the base be such that the base lies above the plane of the ribose, and the hydrogen below.
As it happens, that is gemcitabine.
As indicated, however, the specification goes no further than to indicate that such a configuration is preferred.
It is not required.
22 The submission of counsel for the cross-respondent on infringement was that the patent disclosed only the racemate, and not the [beta] anomer.
They submitted that "a purified stereoisomer does not infringe a claim to a compound that has no reference to stereochemistry".
They relied upon the evidence of Professor Jackson, of Monash University, who said in his affidavit sworn on 26 September 2008 that "none of the claims is directed toward any one stereoisomer and, thus, none to Gemcitabine.
"
 
23 The first aspect of the dispute with respect to infringement of the compound patent, therefore, comes down to this.
The cross-claimants assert that, by being indifferent to stereochemistry, the patent covers all anomeric forms of the structural compounds specified in it.
Since it covers all forms, it covers the [beta] anomer which corresponds with gemcitabine.
The cross-respondent, by contrast, asserts that the very indifference of the patent with respect to stereochemistry shows that the patent is confined, as a matter of construction, to the racemate.
Any organic chemist following only the learning disclosed by the patent would produce the racemate.
Although he or she would, presumably, well understand that the racemate consisted of a number of anomers, he or she would not be instructed by the patent to produce any one of them, and would think, correctly in the submission of the cross-respondent, that the stereochemical composition of the resulting mixture was immaterial.
It follows, according to the cross-respondent, that a compound which consists only, or very substantially, of a particular anomer will not infringe the patent.
24 It seems, perhaps surprisingly, that there is no decided case which deals directly with this point.
That is to say, the question whether a compound consisting of a particular anomer infringes a patent which specifies the racemate does not appear to have been directly decided by a court.
However, counsel for the cross-respondent claimed to have considerable support from observations made in a number of cases concerning pharmaceutical patents in recent years.
25 Counsel for the cross-respondent referred to Ranbaxy Australia Pty Ltd v Warner-Lambert Company LLC [2008] FCAFC 82.
One of the questions which arose in that case was described by the Full Court as follows (at [54]-[55]):
 
There is no challenge to the validity of the Broader Patent.
The question of infringement of the Broader Patent depends upon the proper construction of the complete specification for the Broader Patent.
Ranbaxy contends that all Claims of the Broader Patent should be construed so as to be restricted to the racemate form of the compounds disclosed.
Ranbaxy contends, therefore, that its product, which contains only the R enantiomer of atorvastatin calcium, will not infringe the Broader Patent.
Warner-Lambert, on the other hand, contends that the Broader Patent extends to all forms of the compounds of the claimed invention.
