
 Background 
 
1 The hearing of this matter commenced on the first court-sitting day after the first anniversary of the filing of the applicants' original Application on 13 September 2007, although it may be noted that the second respondent was only added as a party to the proceedings on 29 August 2008.
2 In paragraph 1 of the Application filed 13 September 2007 a declaration was sought as follows:
 
 
 '1.
A declaration that the documents and other materials seized by Australian Federal Police agents at the premises of the Applicants pursuant to two search warrants each issued under section 3E of the Crimes Act 1914 (Cth) by J Karam and dated 30 July 2007 contain: 
 
 
 
 (a) communications the subject of legal professional privilege; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) documents and other materials outside the scope of the warrant.
' 
 
 


 
3 Most of the ensuing twelve months was devoted to the identification of communications which were the subject of legal professional privilege claims, the basis on which privilege was claimed and the first respondent's responses to those claims.
As it transpires all of the claims of privilege were resolved between the parties without the necessity for the Court's intervention.
4 Once those issues were resolved, the only substantive matter which remained related to documents and other materials which had been seized and which were said to fall outside the scope of the warrants.
5 On the first return date the first respondent gave an undertaking to the Court that he would not undertake any forensic examination of the images taken from the hard disks that had been seized on 31 July 2007.
That undertaking was progressively extended up to and including 15 September 2008 or further order.
It has now been extended up to and including judgment on the Further Amended Application filed 29 August 2008, which is presently before the Court, or further order.
6 The character of the matter has changed quite significantly in recent times.
On 27 May 2008 an Amended Application was filed and on 29 August 2008 a Further Amended Application was filed.
In the Further Amended Application J Karam was named as the second respondent, he being the Justice in and for the State of New South Wales located at The Downing Centre Local Court who issued the two search warrants on 30 July 2007 which were executed on 31 July 2007.
7 The search warrants were issued under s 3E of the Crimes Act 1914 (Cth) ('the Crimes Act ').
That section made provision for the issue of warrants in relation to premises and warrants in relation to persons.
This case concerns two warrants in relation to premises.
Relevantly, s 3E provided as follows:
 '3E (1) ... ... (5) If an issuing officer issues a warrant, the officer is to state in the warrant: (a) the offence to which the warrant relates; and (b) a description of the premises to which the warrant relates ...; and (c) the kinds of evidential material that are to be searched for under the warrant; and (d) the name of the constable who, unless he or she inserts the name of another constable in the warrant, is to be responsible for executing the warrant; and (e) the time at which the warrant expires (see subsection (5A)); and (f) whether the warrant may be executed at any time or only during particular hours.
(5A) The time stated in the warrant under paragraph 3E(5)(e) as the time at which the warrant expires must be a time that is not later than the end of the seventh day after the day on which the warrant is issued.
(6) The issuing officer is also to state, in a warrant in relation to premises: (a) that the warrant authorises the seizure of a thing (other than evidential material of the kind referred to in paragraph (5)(c)) found at the premises in the course of the search that the executing officer or a constable assisting believes on reasonable grounds to be: (i) evidential material in relation to an offence to which the warrant relates; or (ii) a thing relevant to another offence that is an indictable offence; or (iii) evidential material (within the meaning of the Proceeds of Crime Act 2002 ) or tainted property (within the meaning of that Act); if the executing officer or a constable assisting believes on reasonable grounds that seizure of the thing is necessary to prevent its concealment, loss or destruction or its use in committing an offence; and (b) whether the warrant authorises an ordinary search or a frisk search of a person who is at or near the premises when the warrant is executed if the executing officer or a constable assisting suspects on reasonable grounds that the person has any evidential material or seizable items in his or her possession.
...' 

 The search warrants 
 
8 The search warrants which were issued by the second respondent on 30 July 2007 were expressed in substantially the same terms.
The primary difference related to the identification of the premises at which the searches were to be undertaken.
In one case the search warrant related to the home of the second and third applicants at 2 Silex Road, Mosman, NSW ('Mosman').
In the other case the relevant premises were those of the first applicant at 119/26-32 Pirrama Road, Pyrmont NSW ('Pyrmont').
