
 
 1 On 1 October 2008, the Court dismissed an application by the Applicants under the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) (AD(JR) Act) for an order of review in respect of a decision by the First Respondent, a Delegate of the Native Title Registrar (the Delegate), made on 14 April 2008 to register an Indigenous Land Use Agreement (ILUA) known as the Traveston Crossing Dam Indigenous Land Use Agreement on the register of Indigenous Land Use Agreements (the Register) pursuant to s 24CJ of the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth) (Native Title Act): Fesl v Delegate of the Native Title Registrar [2008] FCA 1469.
The Delegate did not take an active part in the proceedings.
Instead, and properly in the circumstances, she adopted the stance of abiding the order of the court and not wishing to be heard on any issue save as to costs.
Upon the dismissal of the judicial review proceedings, the Delegate, through her solicitors, informed the Court that she sought no order as to costs against the Applicants.
2 The Second Respondent, Queensland Water Infrastructure Pty Ltd (QWI), did seek an order that the Applicants pay its costs of and incidental to the judicial review application.
The Applicants had correctly identified QWI as a necessary respondent party in the proceedings.
QWI took an active role as contradictor.
3 In deference to the helpful and comprehensive submissions in respect of costs made on behalf of QWI by Ms Bowskill of Counsel and by Mr Balzamo of Counsel on behalf of the Applicants, I did not make orders in respect of costs on 1 October 2008, but rather reserved my decision until today.
It was common ground as between QWI and the Applicants that, strictly, the judicial review application was a proceeding under the AD(JR) Act not under the Native Title Act .
There was though considerable debate as to the relevance, if any, in relation to the awarding of costs, of s 85A of the Native Title Act .
That section provides as follows:
 Section 85A Costs 
 
 (1) Unless the Federal Court orders otherwise, each party to a proceeding must bear his or her own costs.
Unreasonable conduct 
 (2) Without limiting the Court's power to make orders under subsection (1), if the Federal Court is satisfied that a party to a proceeding has, by any unreasonable act or omission, caused another party to incur costs in connection with the institution or conduct of the proceeding, the Court may order the first-mentioned party to pay some or all of those costs.

 

4 The Applicants' submissions did not, in terms, suggest that s 85A of the Native Title Act was the source of such power as the Court had to award costs, but rather suggested that the sentiments evident in s 85A ought to be taken into account in the exercise of a discretion in respect of costs.
5 The starting point then should be the identification of the source of the Court's power to award costs in a proceeding under the AD(JR) Act and general principles which attend the awarding of costs in the exercise of that power in civil proceedings.
6 It was common ground that the source of the Court's power to make an order in respect of costs was s 43 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) (Federal Court of Australia Act).
Materially, that section provides:
 Section 43 Costs 
 
 (1) Subject to subsection (1A), the Court or a Judge has jurisdiction to award costs in all proceedings before the Court (including proceedings dismissed for want of jurisdiction) other than proceedings in respect of which any other Act provides that costs shall not be awarded.
1(A) ...
 (2) Except as provided by any other Act, the award of costs is in the discretion of the Court or Judge.

 

7 So far as a proceeding under the AD(JR) Act is concerned, prior authority does not support a conclusion that s 85A of the Native Title Act provides an express exception in relation to the general discretion in respect of costs for which s 43(2) of the Federal Court of Australia Act provides.
8 As to that discretion "it is a general rule that a wholly successful Defendant should receive his costs unless good reason is shown to the contrary": Milne v Attorney-General For the State of Tasmania [1956] HCA 48 ; (1956) 95 CLR 460 , at 477.
The discretion to award costs is nonetheless broad and unfettered, but it must be exercised judicially, not whimsically or capriciously, and that usually means that the proper exercise of the discretion will be that costs should follow the event.
9 A comprehensive discussion of the principle in respect of the awarding of costs in this Court pursuant to the power conferred by s 43 of the Federal Court of Australia Act is to be found in the joint judgment of Black CJ and French J (as the Chief Justice then was), in Ruddock v Vadarlis (No2) (2001) 115 FCR 229 at 234, para 9 at et seq.
