
 
1 The applicant in these proceedings seeks orders pursuant to s 23 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) ('the Federal Court Act') requiring the respondents to prepare and furnish statements of reasons under s 13 of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) in relation to decisions of the respondents.
The respondents in each proceeding sought an order that the application be dismissed pursuant to s 31A of the Federal Court Act, on the basis that the application had no reasonable prospects of success.
2 The applicant challenges the constitutionality of s 31A of the Federal Court Act.
3 The proceedings were adjourned and s 78B notices were served on the Attorney-General for the Commonwealth and the Attorneys-General of the States.
The constitutional question said to arise was whether s 31A of the Federal Court Act and O 20 r 5 of the Federal Court Rules are invalid as being:
 
 
 a an impermissible intrusion by the Parliament into the judicial power of the Commonwealth which Chapter III of the Constitution vests exclusively in the High Court of Australia and in such other federal courts as the Parliament creates and in such other courts as it invests with federal jurisdiction; and/or 
 
 b a contravention of the obligations of the Commonwealth contained in Article 14.1 in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights made under s 51(XXIX) of the Constitution to make laws with respect to external affairs.

 
 

4 Other matters raised in the s 78B notice included a framing of the constitutional question as whether Parliament, in enacting s 31A, has ' transgressed the limits of its legislative power conferred upon it by the Constitution '.
5 Accordingly, the central issue for determination, as raised by Mr Priestley, is whether, as he submits, s 31A of the Federal Court Act is invalid on the grounds that it constitutes an impermissible intrusion by the Legislature into the judicial process ('the constitutional issue').
6 Section 31A of the Federal Court Act provides as follows:
 
 
 31A Summary judgment 
 
 (1) The Court may give judgment for one party against another in relation to the whole or any part of a proceeding if: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) the first party is prosecuting the proceeding or that part of the proceeding; and 
 (b) the Court is satisfied that the other party has no reasonable prospect of successfully defending the proceeding or that part of the proceeding.

 
 
 
 
 
 (2) The Court may give judgment for one party against another in relation to the whole or any part of a proceeding if: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) the first party is defending the proceeding or that part of the proceeding; and 
 (b) the Court is satisfied that the other party has no reasonable prospect of successfully prosecuting the proceeding or that part of the proceeding.

 
 
 
 
 
 (3) For the purposes of this section, a defence or a proceeding or part of a proceeding need not be: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) hopeless; or 
 (b) bound to fail; 
 
 
 
 
 
 for it to have no reasonable prospect of success.

 
 (4) This section does not limit any powers that the Court has apart from this section.

 
 

7 The purpose of the section is described in the Explanatory Memorandum to the Migration Litigation Reform Bill 2005 (Cth) in the following terms:
 Subsection 31A(3) provides that for the purposes of giving summary judgment, a proceeding or part of a proceeding, or a defence to a proceeding or part of a proceeding, need not be hopeless or bound to fail for it to have no reasonable prospect of success.
This moves away from the approach taken by the courts in construing the conditions for summary judgment by reference to the 'no reasonable cause of action' test, in Dey v Victorian Railways Commissioners [1949] HCA 1 ; (1949) 78 CLR 62 and General Steel Industries Inc v Commissioner for Railways (NSW) [1964] HCA 69 ; (1964) 112 CLR 125.
These cases demonstrate the great caution which the courts have exercised in regard to summary disposal, limiting this to cases which are manifestly groundless or clearly untenable.
Section 31A will allow the Court greater flexibility in giving summary judgment and will therefore be a useful addition to the Court's powers in dealing with unmeritorious proceedings.
Subsection 31A(4) provides that s 31A does not limit any other powers that the court possesses.
8 Prior to the Migration Litigation Reform Act 2005 (Cth), the Court's summary judgment powers were articulated in O 20 r 2 of the Federal Court Rules .
In order ' to clarify the rules for summary disposal and stay of proceedings in light of s 31A of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 ', the Court updated O 20 so that the rules governing summary dismissal (now contained in O 20 r 5) complemented s 31A.
9 Prior to the Federal Court Amendment Rules 2007 (No.
1) , O 20 r 2 of the Federal Court Rules provided: 
 
 
 2 Frivolity 
 
 (1) Where in any proceeding it appears to the Court that in relation to the proceeding generally or in relation to any claim for relief in the proceeding: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) no reasonable cause of action is disclosed; 
 (b) the proceeding is frivolous or vexatious; or 
 (c) the proceeding is an abuse of the process of the Court; 
 
 
 
 
 
 the Court may order that the proceeding be stayed or dismissed generally or in relation to any claim for relief in the proceeding.

 
 (2) The Court may receive evidence on the hearing of an application for an order under subrule (1).

 
 

For clarity, in this judgment all references to O 20 r 2 refer to the rule extracted above, which ceased to have effect on 24 July 2007 following the registration of the Federal Court Amendment Rules 2007 (No.
1) .

 
 
 

10 Order 20 r 5 of the Federal Court Rules currently provides:
 
 
 5 Stay or dismissal (proceedings commenced on or after 1 December 2005) 
 
 (1) This rule applies to a proceeding commenced on or after 1 December 2005 if the Court is satisfied that, for the proceeding generally or for a claim for relief in the proceeding: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) the proceeding or claim is frivolous or vexatious; or 
 (b) the proceeding or claim is an abuse of the process of the Court.

 
 
 
 
 
 (2) The Court may order that the proceeding be stayed or dismissed generally or in relation to the claim for relief.

 
 (3) The Court may receive evidence on the hearing of an application for an order under subrule (2).

 
 Note: For a proceeding commenced on or after 1 December 2005 in which the prosecuting party has no reasonable prospect of success, see subsection 31A (2) of the Act.

 
 

11 The applicant's submissions raise a number of matters in respect of the constitutional issue.
I will deal with them in the same general categories.
JUDICIAL POWER OF THE COMMONWEALTH AND SUMMARY DISMISSAL 
 
12 As the respondents point out, the power to legislate in respect of the Court derives not only from Chapter III of the Constitution but also from s 51(xxxix).
