
 
1 Before me is an application for an order for review and application under s 39B Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) ("Judiciary Act").
In substance the applicant challenges the validity of a decision ("the Purported Decision") of the respondent Minister for the Environment Heritage and the Arts ("the Minister") purportedly made on 5 September 2008 pursuant to s 74B Environmental Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (Cth) ("EPBC Act") in respect of the applicant's referral No EPBC 2008/4366 dated 30 July 2008 ("the Referral").
2 The applicant claims that the Purported Decision is of no effect, and has also applied to the Court to review what the applicant claims is a failure of the Minister to make a decision pursuant to s 75 EPBC Act as to:
 
 
 (a) whether the proposed action the subject of the Referral was a controlled action for the purposes of the EPBC Act; and
 (b) which provisions of Pt 3, (if any) of the EPBC Act were controlling provisions for the proposed action the subject of the Referral.

 

3 The grounds of the application before me are as follows:
 
1.
On 29 July 2008 the applicant provided the Referral to the Minister pursuant to s 68 EPBC Act for the Minister's decision as to whether or not the proposed action the subject of the Referral was a controlled action under the EPBC Act.
2.
Pursuant to s 75(1) EPBC Act the Minister has and had a duty to decide:
 
 
 a. whether the proposed action the subject of the Referral was a controlled action; and
 b. which provisions of Pt 3 (if any) of the EPBC Act are controlling provisions for the proposed action the subject of the Referral.

 

3.
Pursuant to s 75(5) EPBC Act, the Minister had a duty to make the decisions referred to in para 2 within 20 business days of receiving the Referral.
4.
Pursuant to ss 74B and 75(1AA) EPBC Act, the Minister would not have or have had the duty referred to in para 2 if, within 20 business days after the respondent received the Referral:
 
 
 a. considered, on the basis of the information in the Referral, that it is clear that the proposed action the subject of the Referral would have unacceptable impacts on a matter protected by a provision of Pt 3 EPBC Act; and
 b. decided that Div 1A of Pt 7 EPBC Act should apply to the Referral.

 

5.
On 5 September 2008, the Minister made the Purported Decision.
6.
The Minister notified the applicant of the Purported Decision by an undated letter from the Minister to the applicant which enclosed a statement of reasons for the purported decision.
7.
By the Purported Decision, the Minister purported to decide pursuant to s 74B EPBC Act that the proposed action the subject of the Referral will have clearly unacceptable impacts on the environment due to that part of the proposed action involving Commonwealth land (protected under ss 26 and 27A EPBC Act) and wetlands of international importance (protected under ss 16 and 17B EPBC Act).
8.
The Purported Decision was not made by the Minister within 20 business days of receiving the Referral.
9.
In the premises:
 
 
 a. the Minister did not have jurisdiction to make the Purported Decision;
 b. the Purported Decision was not authorised by the EPBC Act;
 c. the Purported Decision involved an error of law; and
 d. the Purported Decision was contrary to law.

 

10.
In the premises, the Purported Decision:
 
 
 a. is invalid and is of no force or effect; and
 b. does not affect the duty of the respondent referred to in para 2.

 

11.
As a consequence of the Purported Decision, the Minister has failed to make the decisions referred to in para 2.
12.
In the premises, the Minister's failure to make the decisions referred to in para 2:
 
 
 a. involves an error of law; and
 b. is contrary to law.

 

13.
The Applicant is aggrieved by the Purported Decision and by the failure of the respondent to make the decisions referred to in para 2.
4 Accordingly, the applicant claims:
 
1.
A declaration pursuant to s 16(1)(c) Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) ("ADJR Act") and/or s 21 Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) ("Federal Court Act") that the Purported Decision is invalid and of no force and effect.
2.
An order pursuant to s 16(1)(a) ADJR Act quashing or setting aside the Purported Decision in its entirety.
3.
An order pursuant to s 23 Federal Court Act for the issue of a writ of certiorari quashing the Purported Decision.
4.
A declaration pursuant to s 16(3)(b) ADJR Act and/or s 21 Federal Court Act that the respondent must decide pursuant to s 75 EPBC Act:
 
 
 a. whether the proposed action the subject of the Referral is a controlled action; and
 b. which provisions of Pt 3 (if any) of the EPBC Act are controlling provisions for the proposed action the subject of the Referral.

 

5.
An order pursuant to s 16(3)(a) ADJR Act directing the Minister to decide pursuant to s 75 EPBC Act:
 
 
 a. whether the proposed action the subject of the Referral is a controlled action; and
 b. which provisions of Pt 3 (if any) of the EPBC Act are controlling provisions for the proposed action the subject of the Referral.

 

6.
An order pursuant to s 39B Judiciary Act for the issue of a writ of mandamus directing that the Minister decide pursuant to s 75 EPBC Act:
 
 
 a. whether the proposed action the subject of the Referral is a controlled action; and
 b. which provisions of Pt 3 (if any) of the EPBC Act are controlling provisions for the proposed action the subject of the Referral.

 

7.
An order that the Minister pay the applicant's costs of and incidental to the proceeding, to be assessed if not agreed.
8.
Such further or other orders as the Court considers appropriate.
FACTUAL BACKGROUND 
 
5 The background facts at issue in this case are not in dispute.
The applicant is a coal exploration company incorporated in British Columbia, Canada.
It holds exploration permits for coal in the Galilee Basin in central Queensland approximately 38 kilometres north-west of Alpha, and since commencing exploration in 2007 has identified an inferred thermal coal resource of some 4.3 billion tonnes of coal.
6 The current major project of the applicant is the Galilee Basin Project ("the Project").
In summary, the Project (as described in the Referral) was described in the affidavit of Mr Peter Lynch, the President and Chief Executive Officer of the applicant, sworn 26 September 2008, as follows:
 Waratah Coal Inc intends to establish a new coal mine, railway and port to export high volatile, low sulphur, steaming coal to international markets.
The coal will be sourced from Waratah Coal's mining tenements near Alpha in the Galilee Basin, Central Queensland.
The project also includes the possible establishment of a water supply pipeline between the coal mine and Lake Dalrymple, and the provision of a high voltage distributor electricity transmission line between the closest high voltage distributor and the port.
7 Details of the Project are that:
 
 
 (a) the proposed coal mine will have a production potential of 25 million tonnes of export quality thermal coal per annum;
 (b) the proposed coal port, at Shoalwater Bay, will have a nominal capacity of 50 million tonnes of coal per annum;
 (c) the 500 kilometre rail line connecting the mine to the port will provide direct access for other coal producers in the Galilee and Bowen Basins to the port, and the applicant has been in negotiations with other coal producers in the Galilee and Bowen Basins regarding access rights to the proposed rail line;
 (d) the Project is expected to provide employment for up to 2,200 people during construction and 760 permanent employees for the operation of the Project; and
 (e) the current estimate of the cost of the Project is AUD5.3 billion.

 

8 The Project required both State and Federal government approval.
9 On 14 April 2008 the applicant submitted an Initial Advice Statement ("IAS") dated 14 April 2008 to the Coordinator-General of the Queensland Department of Infrastructure and Planning Information.
On 18 July 2008 the Coordinator-General declared the project to be a "significant project" under s 26 State Development and Public Works Organisation Act 1971 (Qld).
An Environmental Impact Statement was required pursuant to s 26(1)(a) of that Act.
10 The Referral was submitted by the applicant to the Minister on 29 July 2008.
Receipt of the Referral was confirmed by the Minister's Department by letter dated 31 July 2008.
On 5 September 2008 --- more than 20 business days after the Minister received the Referral --- Mr Lynch received a telephone call from the Department advising him that the Minister was in the process of making an announcement regarding the Minister's decision (pursuant to s 74B EPBC Act) pertaining to the Referral, namely that the Minister had declared the Project "Clearly Unacceptable" and had dismissed the application for referral.
A copy of the decision was forwarded to Mr Lynch on 7 September 2008.
11 It is not in dispute that the Purported Decision prevents the Project proceeding.
STATUTORY FRAMEWORK 
 
12 The legislative scheme created by the EPBC Act is complex.
Section 3(1) EPBC Act provides that the objects of the Act are as follows:
 (a) to provide for the protection of the environment, especially those aspects of the environment that are matters of national environmental significance; and (b) to promote ecologically sustainable development through the conservation and ecologically sustainable use of natural resources; and (c) to promote the conservation of biodiversity; and (ca) to provide for the protection and conservation of heritage; and (d) to promote a co operative approach to the protection and management of the environment involving governments, the community, land holders and indigenous peoples; and (e) to assist in the co operative implementation of Australia's international environmental responsibilities; and (f) to recognise the role of indigenous people in the conservation and ecologically sustainable use of Australia's biodiversity; and (g) to promote the use of indigenous peoples' knowledge of biodiversity with the involvement of, and in co operation with, the owners of the knowledge.
13 Chapter 2 provides for one means by which the EPBC Act achieves these objects.
Section 11 EPBC Act, which is in Ch 2, states:
 This Chapter provides a basis for the Minister to decide whether an action that has, will have or is likely to have a significant impact on certain aspects of the environment should proceed.
It does so by prohibiting a person from taking an action without the Minister having given approval or decided that approval is not needed.
(Part 9 deals with the giving of approval.
) 
14 These actions are referred to in s 67 as "controlled actions".
The protected environmental matters are set out in Ch 2 Pt 3 of the EPBC Act and include Commonwealth land (ss 26 to 27A) and declared wetlands (ss 16 to 17B).
15 In order to obtain the necessary approval, a person who proposes to take an action which they think may be a controlled action must refer the proposal to the Minister for a decision as to whether the action is a controlled action: s 68 EPBC Act.
This is the "referral".
16 Upon receiving the referral the Minister prima facie has three options:
 
1.
If the Minister forms the opinion that, on the basis of the information in the referral, it is clear that the action would have unacceptable impacts on the environment, the Minister may decide that Ch 4 Pt 7 Div 1A should apply to the referral (s 74B(1)).
