
 
1 The Applicant is a citizen of the People's Republic of China.
2 The Applicant arrived in Australia on 2 August 2006 on a temporary business visa.
For that purpose he utilised a Chinese passport which had been issued to him in January 2005.
On 28 August 2006, with the assistance of a migration agent, he applied to the First Respondent ("the Minister") under the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) for what is known as a protection visa.
3 The protection visa application was refused by a delegate of the Minister.
That decision was later affirmed by the Refugee Review Tribunal ("the Tribunal").
On 31 January 2008, for reasons which were then published, an application for the judicial review of the Tribunal's decision was dismissed by the Federal Magistrates Court.
4 On 22 February 2008, the Applicant filed an application for an extension of time within which to appeal against the decision of the Federal Magistrates Court.
Such an application was necessary because the time period within which, as of right, an appeal may be instituted from such a decision is within twenty-one (21) days from the date when the judgment appealed from was pronounced: O 52 r 15(1)(a), Federal Court Rules .
The applicant fell outside that period by one day.
5 Strictly therefore, the question which falls for determination is whether or not an extension of time ought to be granted?
6 Were I minded to grant an extension, the Minister, with respect very properly in the circumstances, was content that the appeal be determined instanter with the submissions made on the extension application in respect of the merits of the appeal being treated as submissions made on the appeal.
7 Whether or not to grant an extension of time within which to appeal is a matter for the exercise of a discretionary power conferred by O 52 r 15(2).
The terms in which that rule confers the discretionary power are such that the only consideration which is expressed to be relevant to its exercise is that "special reasons" must exist.
Obviously enough, those "special reasons" must be found in the circumstances of the particular case.
Something in the circumstances of one case that provides a "special reason" distinguishing that case from the general position may not when considered against the different context of the circumstances of another.
The occasion for the exercise of the power is thus flexible.
In Jess v Scott (1986) 12 FCR 187 , at 196 the Full Court, after a review of authority, repeated a cautionary note which had earlier been sounded against the entanglement of a discretionary power to relax the requirement of a general rule, " in a web of rules spun out of the Court's discretionary decisions ".
8 This cautionary note sounded, factors to which it is nonetheless usual to have regard are the length of the delay in compliance with the specified time for the lodgement of a notice of appeal, the explanation, if any, for the delay, what prejudice, if any, might be occasioned by the grant of an extension (although mere absence of prejudice is not determinative) and the merits of the proposed appeal.
9 The Applicant was represented (using the relevant letterhead as a guide) by a dual qualified solicitor and migration agent in the proceedings before the Tribunal and by that same person, acting in her capacity as a solicitor, as well as counsel in the proceedings before the Federal Magistrates Court.
He appeared on his own behalf in the application to this Court, assisted by a Court appointed interpreter.
10 The Applicant exhibited a draft notice of appeal to his affidavit which supported the application for an extension of time.
He did not in that affidavit offer any explanation for his failure to lodge the notice of appeal within the time prescribed by the rules.
He did though, again with the assistance of an interpreter, give oral evidence in support of his application.
He was cross-examined by counsel on behalf of the Minister.
11 In the course of his oral evidence the Applicant stated that he did not understand English at all.
I have no doubt, from my observation of him then and otherwise in the course of proceedings, that this is true.
He related that, not long after the decision of the Federal Magistrate, his lawyers had requested further funds, that he had no money and that he had tried to raise funds from a friend for the purpose of meeting this request without success.
It was put to him that he knew that that he had 21 days to come to this Court.
His response, frankly given and which I thought was an honest one, was that this was not what his then lawyers had told him but rather that he had been told by them "don't go past the 21st".
The latter I took to be a reference to the 21st of February.
12 The Applicant's lawyers' advice was accurate as to when the prescribed appeal period expired and was furnished in suitably imperative terms but, at least to his recollection, it lacked an explanatory quality as to why it was important that he ought not to "go past the 21st".
Precisely how long after the Federal Magistrates Court's decision he was given this advice was not made clear in the course of his evidence.
13 It is also relevant to note that the applicant's protection visa application disclosed that he had received but 6 years of primary school education in China, that his listed occupation was "unskilled worker" and that he had followed either that calling or, earlier, that of farmer in the course of his working life in that country.
He is thus not only illiterate in English but also has limited formal education and no occupational background which might give him at least some insight into why it might be, in a judicial system, that the imperative quality which attended his then lawyer's reference to 21 February related to a statutory time limit.
There can be no doubt that the applicant wanted to challenge the decision of the Federal Magistrates Court as soon as he became aware of it.
Further, it seems inherently likely that, within the 21 day period, he was aware he had a right so to do.
I mean no disrespect to him in expressing the opinion that there is a need though, given his illiteracy in English, limited education and occupational experience to guard against imputing to him too sophisticated an understanding of the conditions which attended his right of appeal.
14 In WAAD v Minister for Immigration  Multicultural Affairs [2002] FCAFC 399 , at [7] the Full Court gave a reminder that the purpose for which the discretion to extend time is conferred is to do justice between the parties observing of an example where the delay was short and no injustice would be occasioned to a respondent that justice would usually be done if the extension of time were granted.
15 There could be no shorter delay than that presented in this case.
No prejudice to the Minister was asserted.
In such circumstances the question of the applicant's prospects of success in the proposed appeal has a determinative quality in relation to the exercise of the discretion to extend time.
16 Only one ground of appeal is specified in that draft notice of appeal.
That is that the learned Federal Magistrate erred in failing to find the following alleged jurisdictional error:
 "I have been a Falun Gong practitioner since 1999.
I persecuted by the Chinese authorities.
I presented the documents: "Labour Reform Relief Assessment Form" and "[Named] People's Hospital Diagnosis" issued by the official authorities were not accepted by the Tribunal.
I think the Tribunal has bias against me.
The Tribunal didn't take my claims into account.
The Tribunal fell into jurisdictional error.
" [sic, omitting name of particular hospital] 
17 The way in which the Applicant has formulated his ground of challenge reflects his lack of legal training.
That does not mean that it fails to state a ground of challenge known to law.
The Minister apprehended that the essence of the desired appeal was that the Federal Magistrates Court had erred in failing to set aside the Tribunal's decision on the basis that a reasonable apprehension of bias on the part of the Tribunal had been shown.
This seems to me to be a fair way to approach the matter, especially having regard to the ground of review particularised in the amended application lodged in the Federal Magistrates Court.
18 In the amended application to the Federal Magistrates Court the apprehended bias ground was pleaded in this way:
 
 
 "1.
The Tribunal fell into jurisdictional error in that the Tribunal denied the applicant procedural fairness by reason of there being a reasonable apprehension of bias.

 
 PARTICULARS (a) The fact-finding by the Tribunal was performed in a manner which in major respect was capricious, arbitrary, unreasoned, consisted of assertion, lacked rational or reasoned foundations, and/or was in relation to the preponderance of findings selective of material or conclusions going one way only, such that a fair-minded and informed person might reasonably apprehend that the decision maker might not have brought an impartial mind to bear on the decision.
(b) The findings of fact to which the fair-minded and informed person might reasonably have regard in forming the apprehension include: 1.
The finding that the applicant has learned a few basic facts about the movement (that being Falun Gong).
2.
The finding that the applicant had no apparent knowledge or understanding of the philosophy of Falun Gong.
3.
The finding that the applicant had no apparent knowledge or understanding of how it was that practising Falun Gong achieved the benefits and outcomes claimed by practitioners.
4.
The applicant had no apparent understanding of the key concept of "truthfulness, benevolence and forbearance".
5.
The finding that the applicant had ample opportunity at the hearing to demonstrate his knowledge and/or understanding of Falun Gong.
6.
The applicant's discussion of Falun Gong was trite and shallow.
7.
The finding that the applicant's account shows that he had given seemingly low priority to Falun Gong in Australia.
8.
The finding that the Applicant had changed his evidence in relation to why he had stopped exercising in a park.
9.
The finding that the applicant's claim to have participated rather than just observed a singing performance in support of withdrawing from the Communist Party had evolved in response to the Tribunal's questions.
10.
The finding that there was a change in evidence in relation to the applicant's contact with Falun Gong practitioners in Australia.
11.
The finding that the information contained in the purportedly corroborative documents of the applicants claim as to having been sent to labour reform for detention for one year and suffered injury whilst detained are not genuine and that the Tribunal gives no weight to the documents.
12.
The finding that the applicant's failure to advise the Department of the purportedly corroborative documents and the conclusion that the applicant did not hold the documents in October 2006 and that he concocted this claim as to having held the documents at that time.
13.
The findings in relation to the document from the [the particular named] People's Hospital to the effect that as the document does not show how the injury came about it went against the claim that he was injured in the way he described.
14.
The findings in relation to the applicant's differing statements as to his recollection of one of the names of the policeman who had struck him in May 2002.
15.
The findings that the explanation by the applicant as to what happened to the persons who were detained and assaulted with him in May 2002 changed during the hearing thus suggesting that the applicant was fabricating claims and details as he gave evidence at the hearing.
16.
The findings in relation to the two day difference appearing in the Labour Reform Relief Assessment Form and the finding that the applicant had dissembled in relation to the date of his detention.
17.
The finding that the Tribunal's conclusions were reinforced by the applicant's arrangements to depart China.
18.
The finding that there was a difference in the claims made in relation to how the applicant obtained his passport, such that it supported a finding that the applicant was fabricating claims and details as he gave evidence at the hearing.
19.
The reliance on the passport being stated as having been issued on 21 January 2005, when the applicants claim was that the passport had been illegally obtained and the Tribunal elsewhere in the Decision accepted the prevalence of the irregular or improper issue of documentation.
20.
The rejection of any need to consider whether the applicant or his wife had to get the assistance of a "connection" to get his passport on the basis that the Tribunal did not accept that the applicant was a Falun Gong practitioner known to the authorities.
Yet the Tribunal relied on the applicants travel arrangements to find reinforcement for its conclusions concerning his Falun Gong practice.
21.
The finding that the Tribunal did not accept that the applicant has had any association with the Falun Gong movement in Australia or has practised Falun Gong in Australia despite, and the failure to have regard to the evidence from the applicant's migration agent that she only represents applicants who claimed to have been Falun Gong practitioners on referral from known Falun Gong practitioners in Australia.
" (Emphasis by italics in original) 
19 In the amended application to the Federal Magistrates Court a case of apprehended, not actual, bias was advanced.
Though the Applicant uses the bare word "bias" in his draft notice of appeal, there is nothing in the evidence before the Federal Magistrates Court or in any other evidence relied on in the extension of time application which would provide any reasonable prospect of successfully impeaching the Tribunal's decision on the ground of actual bias.
20 Prior authority counsels that to overturn a decision even on the basis of apprehended bias is no light thing: Re Lusink; Ex Parte Shaw (1980) 55 ALJR 12 , at 14B (Gibbs ACJ); s 140 (2) of the Evidence Act 1995 .
It is also salutary to remember that the (in this case) administrative officer in respect of whose decision such an allegation is made is not heard from when the merits of that allegation fall for hearing and determination.
21 The decision made by the Tribunal was administrative, not judicial, in character.
The governing principle is not in doubt, nor was it below, as the reasons for judgment of the learned Federal Magistrate reveal.
An authoritative statement of principle is to be found in the judgment of the Full Court of the High Court (Gleeson CJ, Gaudron and Gummow JJ) in Re Refugee Review Tribunal; Ex Parte H [2001] HCA 28 ; (2001) 75 ALJR 982 , at 983, [5]:
 It was held in Re Refugee Review Tribunal; Ex Parte Aala that administrative decisions may be reviewed in this Court for failure to observe the rules of natural justice.
Further, it was accepted in Minister for Immigration and Multicultural Affairs v Jia that such a failure would extend to cases in which apprehended bias is established.
However, the rule with respect to apprehended bias, as it has developed in relation to the judicial process, is not based solely on the concept of natural justice.
Its development is also referable to the need to maintain confidence in the judicial process.
Thus, the rule as to apprehended bias, when applied outside the judicial system, must take account of the different nature of the body or tribunal whose decision is in issue and the different character of its proceedings.
Moreover ... regard must be had to the statutory provisions, if any, applicable to the proceedings in question, the nature of the inquiries to be made and the particular subject-matter with which the decision is concerned.
(Internal footnote references omitted).
22 And later in that same case:
 The test for apprehended bias in relation to curial proceedings is whether a fair-minded lay observer might reasonably apprehend that the judge might not bring an impartial mind to the resolution of the question to be decided.
That formulation owes much to the fact that court proceedings are held in public.
There is some incongruity in formulating a test in terms of "a fair-minded lay observer" when, as is the case with the Tribunal, proceedings are held in private.
Perhaps it would be better, in the case of administrative proceedings held in private, to formulate the test for apprehended bias by reference to a hypothetical fair-minded lay person who is properly informed as to the nature of the proceedings, the matters in issue and the conduct which is said to give rise to an apprehension of bias.
Whether or not that be the appropriate formulation, there is, in our view, no reason to depart from the objective test of possibility, as distinct from probability, as to what will be done or what might have been done.
To do otherwise, would be to risk confusion of apprehended bias with actual bias by requiring substantially the same proof: Re Refugee Review Tribunal; Ex Parte H (2001) 75 ALJR at 990, [27] --- [28] (Again, internal footnote references omitted) 
 23 The test then is one of objective possibility.
24 Applying that test to the circumstances of this case, I have reached the conclusion that the learned Federal Magistrate erred in dismissing the challenge to the Tribunal's decision.
The explanation of that conclusion requires an analysis in some detail of the nature of the claim for a protection visa made by the Applicant, of how the Tribunal dealt with that claim and of the reasons for judgment below.
25 At the heart of the Applicant's visa claim was his asserted adherence to the tenets and practices of the Falun Gong movement, his consequential experiences in China since July 1999 when that movement became the focus of what he stated was a campaign by the public security authorities to eradicate it and an asserted, consequential fear of persecution in the event of his return to China.
He related his experiences in his visa application and related supporting materials as well as in oral evidence before the Tribunal.
26 Two of these alleged experiences in particular should be noted.
27 The applicant stated that he received a beating at the hands of the police in May 2002 in which he was wounded in the head by a three legged bar stool thrown at him.
A sequel to this, he stated, was his admission to a named People's Hospital where his wounds were sutured.
28 The other experience alleged by the applicant was his incarceration in "[a named] Reform Through Labour Camp" for a period of one year on and from his arrest in March 2003 while practising Falun Gong at home.
29 It is necessary to highlight these alleged experiences because, by the time the visa application refusal decision came to be reviewed by the Tribunal, the applicant's account of these experiences was supported by the Chinese language original and an accompanying English translation of a hospital report and of a "Labour Reform Relief Assessment Form".
Each of these, prima facie , offered at least some corroboration of his account.
30 The Tribunal had before it generic country information from the Department of Foreign Affairs dated 5 June 2000 and 7 October 2004 the effect of which was that, as a general comment, the experience of the Australian Embassy in China was " any official document " (the 2000 advice) or " many official documents (especially identity documents) " (the 2004 advice) could either be bought or forged.
31 The Tribunal came to give no weight to the corroborating information in the original documents based on the time when they came to be produced, relative to the initial lodgement and determination of the visa application and on inferences which it drew from the documents themselves and from the Applicant's oral evidence concerning the documents and the events related in them at the hearing it conducted.
32 Albeit at the price of a considerable elongation of these reasons for judgment, but so as to give context to the conclusion which I have come to reach, it is necessary to set out the passage from the Tribunal's reasons wherein it records its findings and reasons in respect of the events described by the applicant and the original documents which he had stated related to those events.
It is also necessary to set out certain excerpts from the transcript of the hearing before the Tribunal, which was exhibited to an affidavit of his solicitor which was filed and read in the Federal Magistrates Court proceedings.
So as to preserve the Applicant's anonymity in these proceedings I have deleted not only his name but those of named associates and particular institutions from the reasons, hearing excerpts and documents which I reproduce in these reasons.
33 The following passage appears in the Tribunal's reasons under the general heading " Documents from China ":
 On 5 January 2007, the applicant produced to the Tribunal documents to support his claims (the originals were produced at the hearing): a Chinese document titled 'Labour Reform Relief Assessment Form' by the 'Unit: Education Team' dated 4 March 2004; and a Chinese document titled "[Named City] People's Hospital Diagnosis' dated 13 May 2002, concerning an examination of the applicant on 13 May 2002.
The Tribunal consulted sources which show that there is a high level of document fraud in China: any official document can be either bought or forged in China, and irregular or improper issue of documentation is widespread.
While the Tribunal acknowledges as pointed out by the adviser that this information does not mean that all documents from China are fraudulent, this information viewed in conjunction with concerns outlined below, lead the Tribunal to conclude that the information in the documents is not genuine and gives no weight to the documents.
At the hearing the applicant stated that in September 2006 he had asked his wife to send evidence of his persecution, his wife mailed him the documents and he had received the documents in October 2006.
He stated he did not have the envelope they came in.
When the Tribunal asked why he had not then provided the documents to the Department (the delegate's decision was only made on 6 November 2006) he merely stated because he had a representing lawyer.
However, he did not state that his lawyer failed to provide the documents to the Department.
The applicant apparently wanted to get the documents sent from China to support his application.
His failure to then advise the Department about the documents, does not support his claim that he had received the documents in late October 2006.
The documents were translated on 27 December 2006 and produced to the Tribunal on 5 January 2007.
A statement after the hearing indicated he had to work to save up to pay for a translation and was able to do so in December.
However, this did not explain why he did not advise the Department or Tribunal that he had documents which he had yet to get translated.
The applicant's claimed lack of urgency in translating the documents casts doubt on his claim to have held them since late October 2006.
The Tribunal concludes that the applicant did not hold the documents in October 2006 and that he concocted this claim.
This casts doubts on his credibility.
The Chinese document titled 'Labour Reform Relief Assessment Form' by the 'Unit: Education Team' dated 4 March 2004, contains inconsistent dates.
It indicates the duration of reform was '1 year from 6 March 2003 to 6 March 2004'; and elsewhere indicates that he was given one year Labour Reform on 4 March 2003.
The applicant could not explain the inconsistent dates.
The inconsistent dates raise concerns about the information contained in the document and suggest that the information is not accurate.
The Chinese document titled '[Named City] People's Hospital Diagnosis' dated 13 May 2002, concerning an examination of the applicant on 13 May 2002, only describes treatment of a head injury.
The document does not provide a cause, and so does not show how the injury came about.
The Tribunal does not accept that the Chinese document concerning medical treatment shows that he was injured in the way he described.
Incident in May 2002 At the hearing the application described the incident in 2002 (his application indicated May and the medial document indicated treatment for a facial injury on 13 May 2002) and the aftermath.
He described how a police van pulled up when he and 3 other practitioners were exercising next to a factory wall, the police saw that they were practising Falun Gong, and they were arrested and taken to the police station.
He stated a policeman Sun Hong Jun hit him, which differed from the application where he indicated Li Hon Jun.
The applicant's explanation for the discrepancy given at the hearing that he cannot remember as it was many years ago, or explanation provided after the hearing that he was quite nervous, is at odds with his earlier evidence at the hearing that he knew the policeman's name because he had known the policeman previously.
The applicant explained that because he was injured with a head wound, the police dropped him off at a hospital for treatment, left him there, and contained his wife to collect him.
As indicated above, the Chinese document titled '[Named City] People's Hospital Diagnosis' dated 13 May 2002, concerning an examination of the applicant on 13 May 2002, describes treatment of a head injury.
The document does not provide a cause, and so does not show how the head injury came about.
The Tribunal asked about the other practitioners with whom he had been exercising.
The applicant's evidence concerning the other 3 Falun Gong practitioners changed during the hearing.
At first he stated he did not know what happened to the other 3 Falun Gong practitioners; then that he did see them afterwards and they had bee beaten; and then that he had heard them being beaten and yelling; then that he had no spoken to them as they were scared; and then that he did not speak to them as he was at home injured for over a month.
The applicant's changing evidence, together with other instances when he changed his evidence during the hearing, suggested that the applicant was fabricating claims and details as he gave evidence at the hearing.
The applicant stated that he was told by one of the group that another, [Person A], could not be found, but he did not know whether [Person A] disappeared the night of the detainment and he had not asked.
The applicant's apparent lack of interest in the disappearance raises doubts, as it is reasonable to consider that this event was of some significance to the applicant and that he would have had an interest in how the police had dealt with the people who had been exercising with him.
Accordingly, the Tribunal asked further questions about this connection with his fellow practitioners.
Earlier in the hearing the applicant explained that in China he sometimes practised the exercises outside with other people he knew; he must just a few practitioners who lived close to him, and he learnt the exercises before Falun Gong was banned as they did them together; otherwise he described no other involvement with the Falun Gong movement.
At the hearing the Tribunal indicated he had earlier said he exercised with people who lived close to him, that night he was doing Falun Gong exercises and he knew the authorities were cracking down on Falun Gong, so was it the case that he knew and trusted the people he was exercising with and they lived close to him.
The applicant's answer appeared evasive: he stated he felt that doing the exercises was beneficial to health.
He then stated that the 3 practitioners were not well known to him, and did not live close to him.
However, in light of his evidence that they were not well known to him and did not live nearby, the Tribunal considered he did not satisfactorily explain how the group arrangement came about.
The applicant's change in evidence, together with other instances when he changed his evidence during the hearing, raises concerns that the applicant was fabricating claims and details as he gave evidence at the hearing.
Whilst the applicant's subsequent evidence was that he did not know the other practitioners well having only exercised on 2 nights in this way, he nonetheless remembered the name of [Person A] over 4 years later and the Tribunal considers that in light of his description of the incident (being beaten and hearing the others yelling in another room) it is reasonable to consider that he would have had an interest in how the police had dealt with the people who had been exercising with him, and sought further details about [Person A] from the practitioner who had informed him.
Incident in March 2003 The third incident related by the applicant was in March 2003 when he was detained, taken directly to a labour camp without trial, and spent 12 months in detention.
Thereafter he was required to write weekly reports, which he sometimes did.
At the hearing he stated he was arrested on 4 March 2003 and was detained for 2 days short of one year.
The Tribunal queries why he remembered this and he stated he remembered this as when he was in detention he had counted the days.
However, in response to the Tribunal's suggestion that this meant he was released on 2 March 2004 he had dissembled: he did not remember, he had done nothing wrong, his mind had gone numb.
Later in the hearing he stated he had been released on 6 March 2004 (2 days after the date of the assessment form) which would suggest that he was detained for 2 days more than a year.
The applicant's change in evidence, together with other instances when he changed his evidence during the hearing, raises concerns that the applicant was fabricating claims and details as he gave evidence at the hearing.
The applicant indicated in the application he left the labour camp in April 2004.
He subsequently indicated at the hearing he left in March 2004 and he produced a document which showed detention until March 2004.
In a statement after the hearing he indicated he did not know why he wrote April 2004 in the application.
His explanation did not satisfactorily explain the differing dates.
The discrepancy, concerning a significant occurrence in his life, and in light of his evidence at the hearing that when in detention he was counting the days, together with other aspects of his evidence, casts doubt on his credibility.
The application showed that the applicant's older daughter was born on 4 September 2004.
At the hearing the applicant was adamant that he was the natural father and the baby was healthy.
However, the applicant claimed to be in a Labour reform camp until 6 March 2004.
The applicant stated that a nice warden/guard in the Labour reform camp (after the hearing he named the guard as "Cai") permitted a conjugal visit by his wife.
The Tribunal considers this explanation is improbable and does not accept that the child was conceived whilst he was undergoing labour reform in a labour reform camp.
The Tribunal considers that the birth of his daughter shows that he was no in a labour camp at the time he claims.
The Tribunal concludes that the information in the Chinese document concerning a period of detention is not genuine and gives no weight to the document.
The Tribunal finds that the applicant is not a credible witness.
The Tribunal considers that the applicant changed evidence during the hearing and fabricated claims and evidence as the hearing proceeded.
The Tribunal does not accept that any of the incidents occurred: that he was detained in May 2001 and paid a fine; was arrested in May 2002 and assaulted; was detained in March 2003 and underwent 12 months detention; or any of the details of those claims.
In light of these findings and the earlier findings that his level of knowledge is not consistent with that of a genuine Falun Gong practitioner, and that the Tribunal does not accept that he has had any association with the Falun Gong movement in Australia, or has practised Falun Gong in Australia, the Tribunal rejects the applicant's claimed involvement in Falun Gong in China.
The Tribunal does not accept the he has practised Falun Gong since 1999.
" 
34 As translated from the original Chinese, the two documents read as follows:
 The Hospital Document [NAMED CITY] PEOPLE'S HOSPITAL DIAGNOSIS Patient undergoing Examination: [The Applicant] Sex: Male Age: [The applicant's then age] Outpatient Number: [blank] Inpatient Number: [blank] X-ray Number: [blank] Examination result of 13 May 2002 by this department is as follows: Examination : Two locations of injury above left eye: one about 3cm and one about 2cm, depth about 0.5cm.
Diagnosis: Head Injury Treatment: appropriate outpatient treatment (8 stitches) [Signature of Treating Doctor] [round seal for Outpatient Diagnosis of the Hospital] Dated on 13 May 2002 Invalid without official seal.
The Labour Reform Camp Document "Small Group Assessment: Suggested to be relieved from labour reform in due time.
Sub Team Opinion: Agreed to relieve him from labour reform.
[Signature of person in Charge] 4 March 2004 Team Opinion: Agreed to relieve him from labour reform.
[Signature of person in Charge] 4 March 2004 Labour Reform Section Opinion: Agreed to relieve him from labour reform.
[Signature of person in Charge] 4 March 2004 Decision by Labour Reform Administration Bureau: Agreed to relieve him from labour reform.
[Signature of person in Charge] [round seal of the Bureau] 4 March 2004 Note: [blank]" 
35 In the course of the hearing it conducted, the Tribunal was given the following explanation by the Applicant's migration agent and solicitor, Miss Byers, in relation to the difficulties which attended the delay in the lodgement with the Department of the Applicant's protection visa application after his arrival in Australia.
"MISS BYERS: Just when you were asking the client why did he wait twenty-six days before lodging the application, Mr ... [a successful protection visa applicant] who also has an RRT decision if you want to look up about Mr ... [a successful protection visa applicant] as a Falun Gong practitioner contacted my office before 16th August for Mr ... [the Applicant] to see me.
He attended my office on the 16th.
TRIBUNAL MEMBER: This is Mr ... [a successful protection visa applicant] or?
MISS BYERS: Mr ... [the Applicant].
Mr ... [a successful, Falun Gong practitioner, protection visa applicant] rang because I only take Falun Gong practitioners on referral, I don't take on people who only just walk in off the street, so Mr ... [a successful, Falun Gong practitioner, protection visa applicant] has been to the RRT, he was introduced to me by a reporter from the Epoch Times, so Mr ... [a successful, Falun Gong practitioner, protection visa applicant] rang before 16th August to make an appointment for Mr ... [the Applicant].
Mr ... [the Applicant] attended my office on 16th August.
The rest of the time was taken up getting translations done.
I think you see the translations are dated 16th August, that's when we requested them.
As to what he did in the first ten days, twelve days when he was in Australia I couldn't tell you, but he came to see me on the 16th.
TRIBUNAL MEMBER: Thank you.
MISS BYERS: It does take time.
The forms take forever, especially I'm the only one in the office that actually reads Chinese though I do have Chinese speakers but they don't read and write Chinese, so I actually have to do the romanisation, opinion, and decipher the Chinese to complete the forms, so it takes me a day or two to do that.
" 
36 The following exchange occurred between the Tribunal and the Applicant in the course of the hearing in relation to why the Applicant had desisted from attending Falun Gong exercises in a park in Australia:
 "TRIBUNAL MEMBER: How often do you do the exercise in that park?
APPLICANT: I went a few times then there was someone on the side taking photos.
They said they're spies so I wouldn't dare to go any more.
TRIBUNAL MEMBER: I did laugh, it's not actually amusing.
How did they say to you that they were a spy?
APPLICANT: Some passer-by said that.
And also when I telephoned home my wife said the PSB is still going to my home to investigate.
TRIBUNAL MEMBER: So your evidence was, is it, that your photo was taken by someone in that park and a passer-by said that is a spy?
APPLICANT: No, I was doing exercise there then I saw someone taking photo towards the practitioners.
TRIBUNAL MEMBER: And how did you come to the conclusion that this was a spy?
APPLICANT: Then at work I told someone what happened, they said stop going.
TRIBUNAL MEMBER: Did the person who took the photo say anything to you?
APPLICANT: No.
TRIBUNAL MEMBER: How often have you been to this park?
You've said a few times.
How often is a few times?
APPLICANT: Roughly about six or seven times.
" 
37 It is apparent on the face of the Applicant's protection visa application that, via the medium of her migration agency company, Miss Byers had the personal carriage of the Applicant's protection visa application on and from the time of its preparation and lodgement with the Department.
38 Evidence was also given to the Tribunal in the course of the hearing by the Applicant as to the procuring for him of his passport by family and friends.
Having considered this account and differences between it and that in the protection visa application in relation to the issuing of the passport, the Tribunal concluded that the evidence which he gave at the hearing as to when and how the passport was issued was concocted.
