
 
1 The applicant Mr Ian Bristow seeks leave to appeal or alternatively an extension of time to appeal against orders made by Goldberg J on 27 March 2008.
On that date his Honour made declarations that five schemes were managed investment schemes which were required to be registered under s 601ED(1)(a) of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) but were not so registered.
2 His Honour also made declarations that the first and second defendants and Mr Bristow contravened s 601ED(5) by operating one or more of those schemes and, in the case of Mr Bristow, all of them.
His Honour ordered that pursuant to s 1324(1) of the Act Mr Bristow be permanently restrained from further operating or promoting the schemes, that the schemes be wound up pursuant to s 601EE(1) and that the second defendant be wound up.
His Honour appointed a liquidator and gave various directions about the liquidator's powers, costs and expenses.
His Honour further ordered that, with the exception of a family trust company, Mr Bristow be disqualified from managing a corporation for a period of three years.
There was no order as to costs.
3 His Honour made a subsequent order on 9 April 2008 to the effect that the schemes as defined in the 27 March order include a number of companies, identified only by their Australian Company Number (the ACN companies), that the ACN companies be joined as defendants and that they be wound up.
4 In my opinion, his Honour's order of 27 March, as varied by the order of 9 April, was a final order.
The two orders were not interlocutory in the sense that they were part of some larger proceeding.
They finally established rights and obligations.
Therefore no question of leave to appeal arises; rather it is a question of extension of the time fixed by O 52 r 15(1)(a) of the Federal Court Rules for filing and serving a notice of appeal.
5 Separate applications for extension of time to file and serve a notice of appeal against the two orders were filed on 4 July 2008.
The time fixed by O 52 r 15(1)(a)(i) had expired on 17 April in respect of the orders of 27 March, and 30 April in respect of the orders of 9 April.
Since the application for extension of time was made after the time fixed by the Rules had expired, "special reasons" for granting leave to file and serve a notice of appeal are required: O 52 r 15(2).
6 The orders made by his Honour were not consent orders.
After mediation, the parties agreed on proposed orders and submitted a statement of agreed facts.
However, his Honour was not bound by the parties' agreement and gave independent consideration to the appropriateness of the proposed orders.
7 In Harvey v Phillips (1956) 95 CLR 235 the High Court was concerned with a consent judgment in a personal injuries claim.
The plaintiff sought to set aside the judgment on the ground that counsel appearing for her was not authorised to compromise the action.
The High Court (Dixon CJ, McTiernan, Williams, Webb and Fullagar JJ) held that, on the facts as found by the Supreme Court, the plaintiff had given her authority to her counsel to settle "however reluctant it may have been" (at 244).
Earlier (at 242-243) their Honours had said that in the circumstances of the case it was not one where the court possessed a discretion to set aside the compromise.
