
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 Interests in two television licences are held by entities associated with Macquarie Group Ltd.
The nature and extent of these interests has attracted the attention of the broadcasting industry regulator, the Australian Communications and Media Authority.
The Authority takes the view that provisions of the Broadcasting Services Act 1992 (Cth) (the Act) do not allow these interests to be held as they presently are.
That view is challenged by the applicants in these proceedings brought under s 39B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth).
THE FACTUAL BACKGROUND 
 
2 The relevant facts are not in dispute.
The parties provided an agreed statement of facts which is to the following effect.
The relationships between the applicants 
 
 1.
Macquarie Media Group ( MMG ) is listed on the Australian Stock Exchange ( ASX ) as a stapled security comprising: 
 
 1.1. one share in Macquarie Media Holdings Limited ( MMHL ), an Australian public company; 
 
 1.2. one unit in Macquarie Media Trust ( MMT ), an Australian registered managed investment scheme of which Macquarie Media Management Limited ( MMML ) is the responsible entity; and 
 
 1.3. one share in Macquarie Media International Limited ( MMIL ), a Bermudan exempted mutual fund company.

 
 2.
These securities are quoted and traded on the ASX under ASX code "MMG".

 
 3.
Macquarie Media Group Pty Limited (MMGPL) is and has been from at least 2 July 2007 a wholly owned subsidiary of MMHL .
As a consequence, MMHL is and has been from that time in a position to exercise control of MMGPL.
(In this Statement, the expression "position to exercise control" has the same meaning as in the Broadcasting Services Act 1992 ([the Act]).
) 
 
 4.
In an undertaking given to the respondent by MMGPL and Regional Media No 1 Pty Limited ( RM1 ), inter alia, on 4 July 2007, it was stated that the issued shares in RM1 were owned by MMG and MMGPL.
A letter from Clayton Utz dated 28 August 2007 states that 'RM1 is currently owned 100% by MMGPL' and that the company structure chart provided to the respondent on 24 August 2007 in support of an application under s 67 of the [the Act] did not accurately depict this.
A company structure chart provided to the respondent on 20 February 2008 by a number of persons who were directors of the applicants, inter alia, indicates that the issued shares in RM1 were owned by MMGPL.
A company structure chart provided to the respondent on 3 June 2008 by a number of persons who were directors of the applicants, inter alia, indicates that the issued shares in RM1 were owned by Macquarie Southern Cross Media Pty Limited (formerly Macquarie Regional Radioworks Pty Limited), which is a wholly owned subsidiary of MMGPL.
A company structure chart provided to the respondent on 21 August 2008 by two persons who sought approval for breaches that would arise if they were to be appointed as directors of the applicants, inter alia, is in the same terms.
As a consequence, at all relevant times, MMGPL was in a position to exercise control of RM1.

 
 5.
Regional Media No 2 Pty Limited ( RM2 ) is and has been from at least 2 July 2007 a wholly owned subsidiary of RM1.
As a consequence, RM1 is and has been from that time in a position to exercise control of RM2.

 The interests of Southern Cross Broadcasting 
 Darwin 
 
 6.
From at least May 2007, each of Regional Television Pty Limited ( Southern Cross Darwin ) and Territory Television Pty Ltd (NTD Nine) was and remains a commercial television broadcasting licensee for the Darwin TV1 licence area.
Southern Cross Darwin is and from at least that time has been in a position to exercise control of a commercial television broadcasting licence for the Darwin TV1 licence area.

 
 7.
The Darwin TV1 commercial television broadcasting licence area is a "licence area" within the meaning of the [the Act].

 
 8.
In May 2007, an additional commercial television licence was allocated under s 38B of the [the Act] in the Darwin TV1 licence area to Darwin Digital Television Pty Ltd ( Darwin 38B JV Co ).
Darwin 38B JV Co continues to be the licensee.
As a consequence, Darwin 38B JV Co has since May 2007 been in a position to exercise control of that licence.

 
 9.
Since May 2007, 50% of the shares in Darwin 38B JV Co have been owned by Southern Cross Darwin.
As a consequence, Southern Cross Darwin from that time has been in a position to exercise control of Darwin 38B JV Co and its licence.

 
 10.
Southern Cross Broadcasting (Australia) Limited (ACN 006 186 974) ( SCB ) has since at least May 2007 owned 100% of the shares of Southern Cross Communications Limited which in turn has owned 100% of the shares of Southern Cross Darwin.

 
 11.
As a consequence of the matters stated in paragraphs 6 to 10, SCB has since May 2007 been in a position to exercise control of Southern Cross Darwin, Darwin 38B JV Co and the commercial television broadcasting licences held by each.

 Tasmania 
 
 12.
From at least November 2002, each of Southern Cross Television (TNT 9) Pty Limited ( Southern Cross Tasmania ) and WIN Television TAS Pty Ltd ( WIN Tasmania ) was and remains a commercial television broadcasting licensee for the Tasmania TV1 licence area.
Southern Cross Tasmania is and from at least that time has been in a position to exercise control of a commercial television broadcasting licence for the Tasmania TV1 licence area.

 
 13.
The Tasmania TV1 commercial television broadcasting licence area is a "licence area" within the meaning of the [the Act].

 
 14.
In November 2002, an additional commercial television broadcasting licence was allocated under s 38B of the [the Act] in the Tasmania TV1 licence area to Tasmanian Digital Television Pty Ltd ( Tasmania 38B JV Co ).
Tasmania 38B JV Co continues to be the licensee.
As a consequence, Tasmania 38B JV Co has since November 2002 been in a position to exercise control of that licence.

 
 15.
Since November 2002, 50% of the shares in Tasmania 38B JV Co have been owned by Southern Cross Tasmania.
As a consequence, Southern Cross Tasmania from that time has been in a position to exercise control of Tasmania 38B JV Co and its licence.

 
 16.
Southern Cross Tasmania remains the licensee of a commercial television broadcasting licence for the Tasmania TV1 licence area.
Tasmania 38B JV Co remains the licensee of the additional licence allocated under s 38B for the Tasmania TV1 licence area.

 
 17.
SCB has, since at least November 2002, owned 100% of the shares of Southern Cross Communications Pty Limited which in turn has owned 100% of the shares of Southern Cross Tasmania.

 
 18.
As a consequence of the matters stated in paragraphs 12 to 17, SCB has, since November 2002, been in a position to exercise control of Southern Cross Tasmania, Tasmania 38B JV Co and the commercial television broadcasting licences held by each.

 The acquisition of SCB by the applicants 
 
 19.
On 16 November 2006, MMML (in its capacity as responsible entity of MMT) acquired 10,000,000 ordinary shares in SCB which comprised approximately 13.8% of SCB's issued shares.

 
 20.
MMML appointed Trust Company Limited ( TCL ) to hold all assets of MMT as custodian for MMML in MMML's capacity as responsible entity for MMT.
The registered holder of the 10,000,000 shares in SCB was TCL.
The MMT unit holders were the ultimate beneficial holders of the SCB shares.

 
 21.
As at 16 November 2006, through a chain of companies, MMML was a wholly owned subsidiary of Macquarie Bank Limited ACN 008 583 542 ( MBL ).
At that time, MBL was the ultimate parent company of the Macquarie group of companies.
MBL held a 0.7% company interest in SCB.

 
 22.
On 17 November 2006, MMML and TCL executed a call option agreement with MMHL under which MMHL was granted an option to acquire all of the SCB shares held on behalf of MMT by MMML/TCL from time to time.
By virtue of that Option Agreement, from that date, MMHL held a voting interest in MMML/TCL's 13.8% shareholding in SCB.

 
 23.
On 20 July 2007, a voting rights deed dated 3 July 2007 between Sevanlab Star Investments Pty Ltd ( Sevanlab ) and MMGPL came into effect.
By that deed, Sevanlab granted MMGPL voting rights attaching to 1,300,000 shares in SCB owned by Sevanlab.
This was equivalent to 1.8% of SCB's issued share capital at that time.

 
 24.
The aggregation of the shareholding and voting interests of MMML/TCL/MMHL, MBL and MMGPL in SCB gave the applicants and eight other companies (together, the MMG Licensee Controllers) company interests in SCB exceeding 15% and as a consequence they were in a position to exercise control of SCB and the companies and licences of which SCB was in a position to exercise control.

 
 25.
Under the terms of a Merger Implementation Agreement between MMHL, SCB and RM2 dated 3 July 2007, it was contemplated that a scheme would be implemented whereby MMHL would increase its holdings of company interests in SCB, such that its total company interests could comprise up to 100% of the issued shares in SCB.

 
 26.
On 5 November 2007, SCB was acquired by RM2, a subsidiary of MMHL, following court approval for the scheme of arrangement and the lodgement of the court's orders with the Australian Securities and Investments Commission.

 
 27.
As a consequence, from 5 November 2007, the MMG Licensee Controllers, which had been in a position to exercise control of SCB since 20 July 2007, could trace company interests in SCB through RM2.
Those company interests became the means by which the MMG Licensee Controllers were in a position to exercise control of SCB.

 MGL 
 
 28.
In November 2007, Macquarie Group Limited ACN 122 169 279 ( MGL ) replaced MBL as the ultimate parent company of the Macquarie group of companies.

 
3 The agreed statement of facts went on to detail various approvals, or extensions of approvals, sought under s 67 of the Act (which permits the Authority to authorise temporary breaches of the control provisions of the Act) for breaches of s 53 or s 55 and how they were dealt with by the Authority.
For my part, I do not view these facts as relevant save to note that they indicate that it is desirable that judgment is given in this matter before the end of 2008.
I also note that the facts establish that the Authority had concluded that one individual director has breached s 55(3) of the Act.
RELEVANT STATUTORY PROVISIONS 
 
4 It is convenient at this point to set out the existing legislative provisions.
It will be necessary to refer later to the terms in which some of these provisions were originally enacted.
The relevant provisions of the Act as they presently exist 
 
5 Generally, it is necessary to hold a licence to broadcast television programs commercially.
Australia is divided into licence areas.
Licences are allocated under the Act to broadcast in a licence area.
However, limits are imposed by the Act on the extent to which a person or company can have an interest, directly or indirectly, in a licensee if, for the purposes of the Act, that person or company is in a position to exercise control over more than one licence in a licence area.
Central to this scheme of limiting the exercise of control is s 53 (found in Div 2 of Part 5) and s 55 (found in Div 3 of Part 5).
They provide:
 53 Limitation on control of commercial television broadcasting licences 
 
 (1) A person must not be in a position to exercise control of commercial television broadcasting licences whose combined licence area populations exceed 75% of the population of Australia.

 (2) A person must not be in a position to exercise control of more than one commercial television broadcasting licence in the same licence area.

 
 55 Limitation on numbers of directorships--television 
 
 (1) A person must not be a director of a company that is, or of 2 or more companies that are, between them, in a position to exercise control of commercial television broadcasting licences whose combined licence area populations exceed 75% of the population of Australia.

 
(2) A person must not be: 
 
 
 (a) in a position to exercise control of a commercial television broadcasting licence; and 
 (b) a director of a company that is in a position to exercise control of another commercial television broadcasting licence; 
 
 
 
 
 whose combined licence area populations exceed 75% of the population of Australia.

 
 (3) A person must not be: 
 
 (a) a director of a company that is in a position to exercise control of a commercial television broadcasting licence; and 
 (b) a director of a company that is in a position to exercise control of another commercial television broadcasting licence; 
 
 if each of those licences have the same licence area.
(4) A person must not be: 
 
 (a) a director of a company that is in a position to exercise control of a commercial television broadcasting licence; and 
 (b) in a position to exercise control of another commercial television broadcasting licence; 
 
 if each of those licences have the same licence area.
6 One exception to this general scheme concerns licences in particular licence areas.
As will be explained shortly, this exception was created to implement a policy to increase the number of television services (essentially, for present purposes, television channels) in underserved licence areas.
In relation to licence areas with two existing licensees, s 38B provides for the allocation of a licence to either a joint-venture company owned by the existing licensees or to one of them.
The section provides: 
 38B Additional commercial television licences in 2-station markets (1) If: 
 
 
 (a) a particular licence area is the licence area of only 2 commercial television broadcasting licences (the parent licences ) that are in force; and 
 (b) neither of those licences was allocated under section 38A; and 
 (c) an additional commercial television broadcasting licence can be allocated for the licence area; 
 then, within 90 days after the designated time for the licence area: 
 (d) the existing licensees may give the ACMA a joint written notice stating that: 
 
 
 (i) a company specified in the notice (the joint-venture company) will apply for an additional commercial television broadcasting licence for the licence area; and (ii) the joint-venture company is jointly owned by the existing licensees; and (iii) the joint-venture company is formed in Australia or an external Territory and has a share capital; or 
 
 
 (e) each existing licensee may give the ACMA a written notice stating that the licensee will apply separately for an additional commercial television broadcasting licence for the licence area.

 Application by joint-venture company 
 
 
 
 
 (2) If a notice is given under paragraph (1)(d), the joint-venture company may, within 12 months after the designated time for the licence area, apply in writing to the ACMA for an additional commercial television broadcasting licence for the licence area.

 
Separate applications by existing licensees 
 
 (3) If an existing licensee gives a notice under paragraph (1)(e), the licensee may, within 12 months after the designated time for the licence area, apply in writing to the ACMA for an additional commercial television broadcasting licence for the licence area.

 
Allocation of additional licence to joint-venture company 
 
 (5) As soon as practicable after receiving an application under subsection (2), the ACMA must allocate an additional commercial television broadcasting licence to the joint-venture company for the licence area, so long as the ACMA is satisfied that the joint-venture company is jointly owned by the existing licensees.

 
Allocation of additional licence to existing licensee 
 
 (6) If the ACMA has received applications from both of the existing licensees under subsection (3), the ACMA must allocate an additional commercial television broadcasting licence to one of those licensees for the licence area in accordance with a price-based system determined under subsection (10).

 (7) If: 
 (a) each existing licensee gives a notice under paragraph (1)(e); and 
 (b) by the end of the 12-month period beginning at the designated time for the licence area: 
 
 (i) the ACMA has received an application from only one existing licensee (the first licensee) under subsection (3); and (ii) the ACMA has not received a notice from the other existing licensee stating that it will not be applying under subsection (3); 
 
 the ACMA must, as soon as practicable after the end of that 12-month period, allocate an additional commercial television broadcasting licence to the first licensee for the licence are a.

 
 ... 
 
7 It is unnecessary to detail the provisions of the Act that establish the basis on which it is determined whether a person or company is, or is not, in a position to exercise control of a licence.
The word "control" is defined in s 6 (which, in effect, identifies a variety of legal and other mechanisms by which control can be exercised) and is given additional content by Schedule 1 of the Act.
Amongst other things, Schedule 1 (cl 6 of Pt 3) deems a person having company interests in a company exceeding 15% as being in a position to exercise control of the company.
8 For the purposes of the Act, the licensee, unsurprisingly, is in a position to exercise control of the licence (cl 2(1)(b)(i) or cl 2(1)(ba)(i) of Pt 2 of Schedule 1).
However, a person or company can be in a position to exercise control of a licence by the exercise of control of the licensee.
To provide a straightforward illustration of this second concept, a person or company would be in a position to exercise control if that person or company has an interest exceeding 15% in a company that is the licensee, or has an indirect interest in that company through a chain of companies, each of which has a controlling interest (that is, an interest exceeding 15%) in the company more proximate to the company that is the licensee.
In these proceedings, the parties have adopted the expression "upstream" companies, which I adopt, to describe those companies with an interest in the licensee company either directly or derivatively through another company in a chain of companies.
As noted earlier, the control provisions of the Act extend to interests other than a bare and simple interest in a company and include control through trusts, agreements, arrangements and understandings and practices.
However it is sufficient, for present purposes, to analyse the relevant provisions by reference to an interest in a company forming part of a chain of companies with an interest in the licensee.
9 To avoid a situation where the grantee of a licence under s 38B (or a person or company holding an interest in the licensee) is in breach of the prohibition on being in a position to exercise control over more than one licence in the same licence area (s 53) or being in a position to exercise control through a directorship (s 55), s 73A avoids the consequences of having an interest in the additional licence allocated under s 38B that might otherwise bring about a contravention of the control provisions.
That section provides:
 73A Additional licence allocated under section 38B not to result in breach of control rules (1) If an additional licence is allocated under section 38B, then for the purposes of Divisions 2 and 3 of this Part: 
 
 
 (a) the licence is to be disregarded in relation to a person who is in a position to exercise control of that licence at the time it is allocated; and 
 (b) the licence is to be so disregarded until that person first ceases to be in a position to exercise control of that licence.

 
 
 
 
 (2) If, during the time a licence is disregarded in relation to a person under subsection (1), that person is in a position to exercise control of another person who is in a position to exercise control of the licence, then, for the purposes of Divisions 2 and 3 of this Part, the licence is also to be disregarded during that time in relation to that other person.

 (Emphasis added) 
 

At the heart of the dispute between the parties in this matter is the effect of s 73A(1)(a).
I will return to discuss its effect later in these reasons.
However, it is necessary to review its legislative history, which is an important plank in the applicant's argument.
The 2000 Amending Act 
 
10 In 2000, the Act was amended by the Broadcasting Services Amendment (Digital Television and Datacasting) Act 2000 (Cth) (the 2000 Amending Act).
While the 2000 Amending Act generally dealt with revised arrangements for the introduction of digital television and a new regulatory regime for the provision of datacasting services, it also dealt with the grant of additional licences in underserved regional licence areas or markets in which there were fewer than three commercial television services.
This appears to have been viewed as a means of facilitating the provision of digital television in those licence areas.
