
 
1 The question raised in this case may be succinctly stated, "Is a liquidator of a corporation personally liable for Goods and Services Tax (GST) in respect of the sale of new residential premises owned by the corporation pursuant to a contract for the sale of those premises entered into and completed after the making of the winding up order?
"
 
2 The question arises in the following way.
The relevant facts are not controversial.
3 Upon an application made by a Deputy Commissioner of Taxation, PM Developments Pty Ltd (PMD) was ordered to be wound up pursuant to the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) by an order of this Court made on 5 July 2007.
Pursuant to that order Mr J L Greig of Deloittes was appointed the sole liquidator of PMD.
4 Prior to the making of the winding up order, PMD had been the developer of a new residential project known as "Aspect on Burleigh" located at 112 The Esplanade, Burleigh Heads on the Gold Coast in Queensland.
Equitrust Limited (EL) held a registered first mortgage over that land.
Before 5 July 2007 contracts for the sale of 7 of the 8 lots, each of which comprised residential units, in "Aspect on Burleigh" had been completed.
The proceeds from these sale contracts went in the main to EL in reduction of monies owed to that company.
5 At the time of the winding up order, Lot 8 was the subject of an uncompleted sale contract.
This contract came to be terminated by the liquidator on behalf of PMD.
Then and at all times thereafter prior to the property's ultimate sale PMD was the registered proprietor of Lot 8.
Title to that property has never vested in Mr Greig either in his capacity as liquidator of PMD or otherwise.
6 After the termination of the pre-liquidation Lot 8 sale contract, EL did not initially intervene in relation to the fresh attempt by PMD, initiated by Mr Greig as liquidator, to sell Lot 8 in the course of the liquidation.
As a result, PMD came on 27 August 2007 to enter into a contract for the sale of Lot 8 to one Anthony Gregory de Leede for the sum of $1,750,000.
7 The contract for the sale of Lot 8 to Mr de Leede is in the standard Real Estate Institute of Queensland/Queensland Law Society, Edition 2 form, as modified by special conditions.
The latter include an acknowledgement on the part of the purchaser that PMD is in liquidation, that Mr Greig is its liquidator and that PMD has by its liquidator entered into the contract with the liquidator not being personally liable to satisfy any liability arising under the contract.
Express provision in respect of GST is made by clause 9 in the special conditions:
 
 
 9.
GOODS AND SERVICES TAX 
 
 9.1 In this clause: 
 
 
 
 
 (1) "GST" has the same meaning as in the Act;
 (2) "input tax" means an amount equal to the amount of GST paid or payable on any supply;
 (3) "Act" means A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth);
 (4) "primary payment" means any consideration provided by the Buyer to the Seller for any supply under this Contract;
 (5) "supply" has the same meaning as in the Act; and
 (6) "tax invoice" means an invoice in the form required by the Act.

 
 
 
 
 9.2 Any primary payment under this Contract is inclusive of GST, unless otherwise stated.
9.3 The Seller must issue a tax invoice to the Buyer within 7 days after the Buyer provides the primary payment and pays the GST.
9.4 If the GST paid by the buyer under the Contract differs from the amount of GST paid or payable by the Seller, the difference will be paid by the Buyer as required.
However, if the Seller has paid the GST, the Seller is not required to make any refund to the Buyer until the Seller has received the refund from the Commissioner of Taxation.

 

8 Before settlement of this contract and as a result of an intervention by EL the contract came to be amended by the parties such that the agreed purchase price, inclusive of GST, became $1,755,000.
Settlement of the contract occurred on 31 August 2007.
On settlement, an amount of $174,090.91, which included $159,545.45 (1/11th of $1,755,000) on account of GST, was paid into the trust account of Mills Oakley Lawyers, the solicitors for PMD and the liquidator by or on behalf of the purchaser of Lot 8.
9 Allowing for sundry, minor receipts of monies payable to PMD but unrelated to the sale of Lot 8 and part payment of legal fees and outlays incurred by Mills Oakley Lawyers on the sale of Lot 8, the sum of $168,065.91 has been retained in that firm's trust account.
