
 
 Introduction and Overview 
 
 1 The parties to these proceedings have been in dispute since 2001 over the registration of the trade mark "Health Plus ".
2 At the heart of their dispute is the question of whether the Health Plus trade mark is deceptively similar to the trade mark INNER HEALTH PLUS that was used in Australia before the priority date for registration of the Health Plus mark.
3 The INNER HEALTH PLUS mark is owned by Health World Limited ("Health World") which manufactures and supplies a range of natural medicine products.
4 In 1999 Health World started to develop a probiotic capsule containing acidophilus and other ingredients which encourage the growth of healthy bacteria that are beneficial for the digestive system.
Health World launched the probiotic capsule product to the Australian market in May 2000 under the name Inner Health Plus.
5 About nine years earlier, in March 1991, Health World had commenced to manufacture and supply a probiotic powder called Inner Health Powder.
At about that time, Health World applied for, and subsequently obtained, registration of the trademark INNER HEALTH.
It successfully marketed the Inner Health powder from 1991 but commenced to develop the Inner Health Plus capsules in 1999 when sales of Inner Health powder fell below $1 million per annum.
The development of the Inner Health Plus product and the style and emphasis of its packaging and marketing are important because Shin-Sun Australia Pty Ltd ("Shin-Sun") contends that Inner Health Plus is a line extension of the Inner Health product.
6 Health World applied to register the INNER HEALTH PLUS trade mark on 12 September 2001.
However, four months earlier, on 7 May 2001, Shin-Sun applied for registration of the Health Plus mark.
7 The priority date for registration of the Health Plus trade mark is 7 May 2001.
As at that date, the provisions of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) dealing with opposition to the registration of a mark on the ground of deceptive similarity were in different terms from those currently in force, but the provisions were amended after the date of commencement of these proceedings.
8 The relevant provision is s 60.
As at 7 May 2001, s 60 contained four pre-requisites for opposition.
The first of these was that the application mark must be substantially identical with or deceptively similar to a trade mark which existed before the priority date of the application mark.
9 In December 2001 Health World filed notice of opposition to the Health Plus trade mark relying inter alia on the ground contained in s 60.
The Registrar of Trade Marks dismissed the opposition but Health World appealed to the Federal Court under s 56 of the Act.
The appeal was heard by Cooper J.
His Honour determined the appeal adversely to Health World: see Health World Limited v Shin-Sun Australia Pty Ltd (2005) 64 IPR 495.
10 The present proceedings are, of course, not an appeal from Cooper J.
Nor is Health World estopped from asserting that the Health Plus mark was deceptively similar to the Inner Health Plus trade mark at 7 May 2001, even though Cooper J found on the balance of probabilities that the Health Plus mark was not deceptively similar to the Inner Health Plus mark as at that date: see Health World v Shin-Sun (per Cooper J) at [6], [41]; Health World Limited v Shin-Sun Australia Pty Ltd [2006] FCA 647.
The proceedings 
 
11 The proceedings before me consist of three separate applications.
In the first, Health World seeks expungement of the Health Plus mark under ss 88(2)(a) and (c) of the Act.
This proceeding is sometimes referred to as the rectification proceeding.
12 Section 88(2)(a) provides that an application for cancellation or removal of a mark may be made on any of the grounds on which the registration of the trade mark could have been opposed under the Act.
The grounds on which Health World relies in the rectification proceeding are those contained in ss 42 , 59 and 60 .
13 One of the issues in the rectification proceeding is whether s 60 applies in the form in which it stood as at 7 May 2001 or whether it applies in its terms as subsequently amended.
14 The s 42 ground is that the use of the Health Plus trade mark would have been contrary to law at 7 May 2001 because it would have amounted, inter alia , to misleading or deceptive conduct under s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
15 Under the s 59 ground, Health World claims that, as at 7 May 2001, Shin-Sun did not intend to use or authorise the use of the Health Plus trade mark in relation to the goods specified in the trade mark application.
16 The s 59 ground is raised, inter alia, because of the apparent failure of Shin-Sun and the persons who conduct the business of that company and an associated company, Nature's Hive Pty Ltd, to distinguish between the separate identities of those corporations.
17 I will deal with this issue in some detail below.
It is sufficient to say by way of introduction that the evidence establishes that Shin-Sun's name does not appear on the products on which the Health Plus mark has been used.
Rather, the name which appears on them is that of Nature's Hive.
18 Section 88(2)(c) provides that rectification may be sought on the ground that, by reason of the circumstances applying at the time of the application for rectification, the use of the registered trade mark is likely to deceive or cause confusion.
19 Health World contends that the s 88(2)(c) ground is enlivened because at the date of commencement of the rectification proceeding, the Health Plus trade mark was being used to identify the goods of Nature's Hive, not those of Shin-Sun.
20 Health World also claims in the rectification proceeding that Shin-Sun has passed off its pharmaceutical products, under the Health Plus label, as those of Health World.
The same conduct is relied upon by Health World as giving rise to a claim for damages for misleading and deceptive conduct under the Trade Practices Act .

 
21 In addition, Ms Theresa Shin, the general manager of Shin-Sun, is said to have been knowingly involved in the contraventions of the Trade Practices Act .
22 In the second proceeding, commenced on 25 July 2006, Health World seeks removal of the Health Plus trade mark from the register on the ground of non-use.
Health World relies on the grounds stated in s 92(4)(a) and s 92(4)(b) of the Act.
This proceeding is sometimes referred to as Health World's non-use proceeding.
23 Health World's non-use proceeding relies principally upon the failure of Shin-Sun to use the Health Plus trade mark in Australia during the three year period referred to in 
s 92(4)(b).
24 This ground arises because Shin-Sun apparently decided to interrupt its marketing of Health Plus products for a substantial period during which Shin-Sun was subject to legal proceedings brought against it by Health World.
25 Shin-Sun (or Nature's Hive) did not launch the Health Plus range of products into the Australian market until August 2004, which was after the expiration of the three year period specified in s 92(4)(b).
However, Shin-Sun relies upon an export transaction that occurred in September 2001.
26 In the third proceeding, Shin-Sun brings its own non-use application against Health World relying on the grounds stated in s 92(4)(a) and s 92(4)(b).
This proceeding is sometimes referred to as Shin-Sun's non-use proceeding.
27 Shin-Sun's non-use proceeding is based upon the contention that Health World has only ever used the Inner Health Plus trade mark for probiotic products in capsule form containing acidophilus and other specified ingredients.
28 Thus, Shin-Sun's non-use proceeding is for partial removal of the Inner Health Plus mark, by restricting it to probiotic capsules containing acidophilus and the specified ingredients.
Section 60 of the Act as at 7 May 2001 
 
29 As at 7 May 2001, s 60 of the Act provided:
 
 
 60 The registration of a trade mark in respect of particular goods or services may be opposed on the ground that: 
 (a) it is substantially identical with, or deceptively similar to, a trade mark that, before the priority date for the registration of the first-mentioned trade mark in respect of those goods or services, had acquired a reputation in Australia; and 
 (b) because of the reputation of that other trade mark, the use of the first-mentioned trade mark would be likely to deceive or cause confusion.

 
 
 
 
 

 The relevant provisions of the Act 
 
30 Subject to a dispute about the terms of s 60 , all parties' counsel proceeded on the basis that the Act applies as it stood at the time of the hearing.
However, the general rule of the common law, and the effect of s 8 of the Acts Interpretation Act , is that:
 
 when the law is altered during the pendency of an action the rights of the parties are decided according to the law as it existed when the action was begun, unless the new statute shows a clear intention to vary such rights: see Continental Liqueurs Pty Ltd v G F Heublein  Bro Inc [1960] HCA 37 ; (1960) 103 CLR 422 at 427 per Kitto J.


31 All three of the proceedings described were commenced prior to the commencement of the Trade Marks Amendment Act 2006 (Cth) on 23 October 2006.
The rectification proceeding was commenced on 13 February 2006.
Health World's non-use application was commenced on 25 July 2006.
Shin-Sun's non-use application was commenced on 15 September 2006.
Thus in the absence of a clear legislative intention to the contrary, the provisions of the Act apply as they stood prior to the 2006 amendments.
The relevant provisions are set out below, in their pre-amendment form.
32 Section 7 of the Act deals with the use of a trade mark.
It provides:
 
 7 Use of trade mark 

 
 (1) If the Registrar or a prescribed court, having regard to the circumstances of a particular case, thinks fit, the Registrar or the court may decide that a person has used a trade mark if it is established that the person has used the trade mark with additions or alterations that do not substantially affect the identity of the trade mark.

 
 (2) To avoid any doubt, it is stated that, if a trade mark consists of the following, or any combination of the following, namely, any letter, word, name or numeral, any aural representation of the trade mark is, for the purposes of this Act, a use of the trade mark.

 
 (3) An authorised use of a trade mark by a person (see section 8) is taken, for the purposes of this Act, to be a use of the trade mark by the owner of the trade mark.


 (4) In this Act: 
 
 use of a trade mark in relation to goods means use of the trade mark upon, or in physical or other relation to, the goods (including second-hand goods) 
 ... 
 

33 Section 8 contains definitions of "authorised user" and "authorised use".
It provides as follows:
 
 (1) A person is an authorised user of a trade mark if the person uses the trade mark in relation to goods or services under the control of the owner of the trade mark.

 (2) The use of a trade mark by an authorised user of the trade mark is an authorised user of the trade mark to the extent only that the user uses the trade mark under the control of the owner of the trade mark.

 (3) If the owner of a trade mark exercises quality control over goods or services: 

 (a) dealt with or provided in the course of trade by another person; and 
 
 (b) in relation to which the trade mark is used; 
 
 the other person is taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to use the trade mark in relation to the goods or services under the control of the owner.

 (4) If: 
 (a) a person deals with or provides, in the course of trade, goods or services in relation to which a trade mark is used; and 
 (b) the owner of the trade mark exercises financial control over the other person's relevant trading activities; 
 the other person is taken, for the purposes of subsection (1), to use the trade mark in relation to the goods or services under the control of the owner.

 (5) Subsections (3) and (4) do not limit the meaning of the expression under the control of in subsections (1) and (2).

 

34 Section 9 contains definitions, for the purposes of the Act, as to when a trade mark is taken to be "applied to" goods and when a trade mark is taken to be "applied in relation to" goods.
35 Section 9(1)(c)(ii) provides that a trade mark is taken to be applied in relation to goods if it is used in an invoice or other specified commercial documents, and the goods were delivered following a request or order made by referring to the trade mark as so used.
36 Section 10 contains a definition of "deceptively similar" as follows:
 
 For the purposes of this Act, a trade mark is taken to be deceptively similar to another trade mark if it so nearly resembles that other trade mark that it is likely to deceive or cause confusion.


 37 Section 42 is in the following terms:
 
 An application for the registration of a trade mark must be rejected if: 
 (a) the trade mark contains or consists of scandalous matter; or 
 (b) its use would be contrary to law.


 38 Section 59 provides:
 
 The registration of a trade mark may be opposed on the ground that the applicant does not intend: 
 (a) to use, or authorise the use of, the trade mark in Australia; or 
 
 
 
 (b) to assign the trade mark to a body corporate for use by the body corporate in Australia; 
 in relation to the goods and/or services specified in the application.

 
 
 
 

39 Section 88(1) confers power on the Court, on the application of an aggrieved person, to order that the Register be rectified by cancelling the registration of a trade mark.
40 The operation of s 88(1) is subject to s 88(2).
That subsection states the grounds on which an application for rectification may be made.
It provides, relevantly:
 
 (2) An application may be made on any of the following grounds, and on no other grounds: 
 
 
 (a) any of the grounds on which the registration of the trade mark could have been opposed under Division 2 of Part 5 ; 
 ... 
 (c) because of the circumstances applying at the time when the application for rectification is filed, the use of the trade mark is likely to deceive or cause confusion for a reason other than one for which: 
 
 
 
 
 (i) the application for the registration of the trade mark could have been rejected under section 43 or 44; or 
 (ii) the registration of the trade mark could have been opposed under section 60; 
 
 
 
 

41 Section 89(1) confers a discretion on the Court not to grant rectification where the application is made on the ground that the trade mark is liable to deceive or confuse, if the owner is not at fault.
It provides, relevantly:
 
 (1) The court may decide not to grant an application for rectification made: 

 (a) under section 87; or 
 
 
 (b) on the ground that the trade mark is liable to deceive or confuse (a ground on which its registration could have been opposed, see paragraph 88(2)(a)); or 
 
 
 (c) on the ground referred to in paragraph 88(2)(c); 
 if the registered owner of the trade mark satisfies the court that the ground relied on by the applicant has not arisen through any act or fault of the registered owner.

 

42 Section 92(1) and (3) authorise an aggrieved person to apply to the Court for an order directing the Registrar to remove a trade mark from the register.
43 The grounds on which a non-use application may be made are set out in s 92(4) which provides as follows:
 
 (4) An application under subsection (1) or (3) ( non-use application ) may be made on either or both of the following grounds, and on no other grounds: 
 
 
 (a) that, on the day on which the application for the registration of the trade mark was filed, the applicant for registration had no intention in good faith: 
 
 
 (i) to use the trade mark in Australia; or 
 (ii) to authorise the use of the trade mark in Australia; or 

 (iii) to assign the trade mark to a body corporate for use by the body corporate in Australia; 
 
 
 
 in relation to the goods and/or services to which the non-use application relates and that the registered owner; 
 
 
 
 (iv) has not used the trade mark in Australia; or 

 (v) has not used the trade mark in good faith in Australia; 
 
 
 
 in relation to those goods and/or services at any time before the period of one month ending on the day on which the non-use application is filed; 
 
 
 
 
 (b) that the trade mark has remained registered for a continuous period of 3 years ending one month before the day on which the non-use application is filed, and, at no time during that period, the person who was then the registered owner; 
 
 
 (i) used the trade mark in Australia; or 
 (ii) used the trade mark in good faith in Australia; 

 in relation to the goods and/or services to which the application relates.

 
 

44 Section 101 confers a discretion on the Court to refuse to order removal of a trade mark from the Register even if the grounds of an application for cancellation or removal are made out.
The relevant subsection is subsection (3) which is as follows:
 
 (3) If satisfied that it is reasonable to do so, the Registrar or the court may decide that the trade mark should not be removed from the Register even if the grounds on which the application was made have been established.

 
 
 

 The Inner Health range 
 
45 Inner Health powder and Inner Health Plus capsules are both probiotic products.
When Inner Health Plus capsules were introduced in May 2000, they differed from Inner Health Plus powder in the following respects.
