
 
1 The appellant appeals to this Court from a decision of Jarret FM dated 5 June 2008 ( BRGAG OF 2008 v Minister for Immigration and Citizenship [2008] FMCA 722).
In that case his Honour dismissed an application for review of a decision of the Refugee Review Tribunal (the Tribunal) dated 29 January 2008.
The Tribunal had affirmed a decision of a delegate of the Minister dated 16 October 2008 wherein the delegate refused the grant of a protection (class XA) visa to the appellant pursuant to the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) (the Act).
BACKGROUND 
 
2 The appellant is a citizen of the Republic of Indonesia.
He arrived in Australia on 26 August 2007 and applied for a protection (class XA) visa on 20 September 2007.
The appellant claims that he is at risk of being persecuted by the Indonesian authorities.
3 The appellant claims that prior to 1998 he had a very close relationship with the Soeharto government.
He claims that after 1998 he fell out of favour with the new Indonesian government because of that relationship.
4 The appellant claims that in 2001 the Indonesian government sent police to the appellant's workplace and questioned him.
Despite finding no evidence of wrong doing, the appellant claims that the police believed the appellant had a plot to overthrow the new government and imprisoned him for six months.
DECISION OF THE TRIBUNAL 
 
5 Following the decision of a delegate of the Minister to refuse the grant of a protection (class XA) visa to the appellant, on 16 November 2007 the appellant applied to the Tribunal for review of the delegate's decision.
6 On 24 December 2007, the Tribunal sent a letter by registered post to the appellant advising him that, based on the information before the Tribunal, it was unable to make a favourable decision.
The appellant was invited to attend a hearing on 29 January 2008 to present arguments and give oral evidence.
The appellant was also advised that non-attendance at the hearing could lead to a decision being entered without further notice.
The appellant did not respond to the Tribunal's letter and the appellant was not present at the Tribunal hearing.
8 As the appellant did not attend the Tribunal hearing, the Tribunal decided to make its decision on the review without taking any further action to enable the appellant to appear before it.
11 Accordingly the Tribunal affirmed the decision of the delegate not to grant the appellant a protection (class XA) visa pursuant to s 426A of the Act.
DECISION OF JARRETT FM 
 
12 The appellant filed an application for review of the decision of the Tribunal with the Federal Magistrates Court on 18 March 2008.
The appellant listed the following grounds of application:
 
1.
I really fear returning to Indonesia because I supported our former president Mr Suharto [ sic ].
2.
The Tribunal failed to consider I was ever put into jail when I was in Indonesia.
3.
The Tribunal member did not fully consider that my fear is well-founded.
HEARING BEFORE THIS COURT 
 
14 On 10 June 2008 the appellant filed a Notice of Appeal in this Court raising the following three grounds of appeal:
 
1.
The Tribunal failed to consider the relevant information of my claims.
2.
The Tribunal does not fully consider my current situation.
3.
The Tribunal failed to consider the likely chance of being jailed if I go back to Indonesia.
15 The appellant has sought the following orders:
 
1.
The orders of the Federal Magistrates Court dated 14 February 2007 should be quashed.
2.
There be an order requiring the Second Respondent reconsider the applicant's claims according to law.
16 At the hearing of the appeal before me, the appellant was self-represented and did not file written submissions.
The first respondent was represented in Court by Mr Maycock, having previously filed written submissions on 13 November 2008.
18 Mr Maycock for the first respondent was content to rely on his written submissions.
CONSIDERATION 
 
19 The only basis upon which an appeal lies from a privative clause decision within the meaning of s 474 of the Act is jurisdictional error of the Tribunal: S157/2002 v Commonwealth (2003) 211 CLR 476.
In this case I do not consider that the appellant has established either jurisdictional error in the decision of the Tribunal, or appellable error in the decision of the learned Federal Magistrate.
20 In relation to the first ground of appeal it is clear from the decision record of the Tribunal that the Tribunal did consider the appellant's claims and whether the appellant had a well founded fear of persecution.
As the appellant did not attend the Tribunal hearing or submit any further material the Tribunal was unable to consider further information.
It is not for the Tribunal to make a case for the appellant --- rather it is for the applicant before the Tribunal to make his or her case for consideration by the Tribunal.
21 In relation to the second ground of appeal I consider that there is little to distinguish this ground from the first ground of appeal to the extent that the appellant submits that the Tribunal did not give proper consideration to his case.
I have nothing to add to my conclusion in relation to the first ground of appeal.
22 In relation to the third ground of appeal, his Honour noted that the Tribunal considered the claims of the appellant relating to being beaten by police, imprisoned for one month and the possibility of further prosecution, and that the Tribunal found that these claims were unsubstantiated.
As the appellant did not attend the Tribunal hearing, the Tribunal was unable to consider any additional facts relating to the assertions of the appellant.
To the extent that the appellant seeks to re-agitate the facts before the Tribunal, this is not the role of the Court: NAHI v Minister for Immigration and Multicultural and Indigenous Affairs [2004] FCAFC 10 at [10] .
23 I do not consider the grounds of appeal substantiated.
In my view the appropriate order is that the appeal be dismissed, with costs.
I certify that the preceding twenty-three (23) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Collier.
Associate:
Dated: 18 November 2008

 The Appellant appeared in person.
Solicitor for the First Respondent: Mr S Maycock of Clayton Utz 
 
 Solicitor for the Second Respondent: The Second Respondents did not appear 

 Date of Hearing: 18 November 2008 
 
 Date of Judgment: 18 November 2008 

 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/1733.html 
 
 
