
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 At all material times, the plaintiff owned the vessel "Southern Pearl NZ" ("Southern Pearl").
That vessel was, on 13 May 2008, chartered by Amiri Yachts of Doha, Qatar ("Amiri Yachts").
The cargo was said to be "1 x sports fisher boat abt 33 metres long - weight 105 mts.
Otherwise as described earlier.
" The cargo was, in fact, a fishing vessel which was being built, or had been built, in New Zealand pursuant to an agreement (the "agreement") between Amiri Yachts and Sovereign Yachts (NZ) Ltd, ("Sovereign"), the builder.
It was eventually launched and named "Al Duhail" (the "Ship").
The Ship was to be loaded onto the Southern Pearl at Auckland and discharged at Mah in the Seychelles.
It was expected to be ready to load on about 1 June 2008.
On 7 June 2008 the Master of the Southern Pearl tendered notice of readiness to load.
Lay time expired on 9 June 2008, the Ship not having been loaded.
On 11 June 2008 the plaintiff's agent purported to accept the charterer's repudiation of the charterparty.
The Ship was sailed from New Zealand to Brisbane.
2 On 20 August 2008 the plaintiff commenced proceedings in this Court against the Ship, seeking damages for breach of the charterparty, together with interest and costs.
The Ship was arrested on that date and remains under arrest.
The writ initially alleged that either Amiri Yachts or Amiri Protocol was the charterer and had failed to load or pay freight in accordance with the terms of the charterparty.
The writ was subsequently amended to allege that Amiri Yachts was the charterer as agent for His Highness Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifia Al Thani, or on its own behalf or, alternatively, that Amiri Protocol was the charterer on behalf of the Sheikh, or on its own behalf.
The Sheikh is, in fact, the Amir of Qatar and is head of state of the State of Qatar.
I will refer to His Highness as the "Amir".
Amiri Yachts and/or Amiri Protocol had originally been shown as relevant persons.
At the time of the amendment, the Amir was added as another relevant person.
He has appeared in the proceedings.
Such appearance is under protest.
The Amir now applies for release of the Ship.
The first ground of the application is that the Court's admiralty jurisdiction has not been engaged.
The second is that in this country, the Amir has immunity from suit and execution.
PROCEEDINGS IN REM PURSUANT TO S 17 OF THE ADMIRALTY ACT 
 
3 The plaintiff seeks to proceed in rem against the Ship pursuant to s 17 of the Admiralty Act 1988 (Cth) (the " Admiralty Act ").
Such proceedings may only be commenced if a relevant person: 
 
 
 (a) was, when the cause of action arose, the owner or charterer of, or in possession or control of, the ship or property; and
 (b) is, when the proceeding is commenced, the owner of the ship or property ... .

 

4 Pursuant to s 3 of the Admiralty Act , the term "relevant person"
 ... in relation to a maritime claim, means a person who would be liable on the claim in a proceeding commenced as an action in personam ... .
5 The Amir submits that he has been the owner of the Ship since 21 July 2008.
The plaintiff asserts that its cause of action arose on 11 June 2008 when it purported to accept repudiation of the charterparty.
I am inclined to think that the cause of action arose on the date of the alleged repudiation, namely 9 June 2008.
It probably does not matter whether the cause of action arose on 9 or 11 June 2008.
The writ was issued on 20 August 2008 and amended on 29 August 2008.
The Amir's case is that he was the owner of the vessel at the time at which proceedings were commenced, but not on the date on which the cause of action allegedly arose.
Further, it is submitted that if Amiri Yachts (or possibly Amiri Protocol) owned the vessel on that date, then it did not do so on the date of commencement of proceedings.
In other words, none of the three named relevant persons satisfies the requirements of s 17.
It has not been suggested that the requirements of s 17 would be satisfied if one relevant person satisfied para 17(a) whilst another satisfied para 17(b).
Construction of the Ship 
 
6 On 26 November 2007 "Amiri Yachts ... or nominee" (described in the agreement as the "Owner") entered into the agreement with Sovereign for the design, building, outfit, launch and sale of a vessel as described in Schedule A thereto.
Clause 16 provided:
 Title in the Vessel and all material, machinery and equipment whether in Sovereign's yard or elsewhere appropriated or intended for the Vessel apart from items supplied by the Owner ("the related equipment") during construction shall remain the property of Sovereign until acceptance has occurred and the Owner has paid to Sovereign all moneys due to Sovereign to and including acceptance.
Upon payment of that sum title in the Vessel and the related equipment shall pass to the Owner and Sovereign shall not have any interest therein.
7 Clause 22 provided:
 This Agreement is to be constructed to take effect as a contract made in accordance with the laws of England and the parties hereby submit to the exclusive jurisdiction of the High Court of England.
8 No point has been taken arising out of that clause.
The actual price of the Ship and the amounts of the instalments were prescribed by Schedule "A" to the agreement which provided:
 Price: The contract price of the Vessel, including all machinery, gear and equipment described in the specifications book attached as Schedule "B" hereto is ... New Zealand Dollars ... plus GST (if any), subject to adjustment in the manner set forth in this Agreement, and is payable at the following times, time being of the essence: (1) $... upon execution of this Agreement; (2) $... upon launching of the Vessel; (3) $... upon completion of sea trials and signing of the acceptance agreement.
9 The amounts have been obliterated in the exhibit.
However they were disclosed during submissions.
It is not necessary that they appear in these reasons.
The only possibly relevant aspect is that the amount of the third instalment was less than ten per cent of the total price which was many millions of New Zealand dollars.
10 The reference to an acceptance agreement seems to have been to Schedule "D" which contained an "Acceptance and Delivery Receipt".
That "receipt" was apparently executed by the parties at the time of execution of the agreement.
However the agreed date of possession was left blank.
In the receipt the owner acknowledges that the Ship has been constructed in accordance with the specification and that it is otherwise satisfactory, subject to any particular exceptions.
The owner further agrees to accept possession of the vessel subject to correction of any defects.
11 Clause 5(a) of the agreement provided that the Ship was to be completed and launched at Hobsonville, Auckland on 1 February 2008.
Pursuant to cl 5(b), following the launch, Sovereign and Amiri Yachts were to carry out sea trials to ensure that the Ship complied with the agreement and relevant specifications.
Pursuant to cl 5(c), once Amiri Yachts was satisfied as to such compliance it was to accept the Ship.
The parties were then to execute the acceptance and delivery receipt.
The charter 
 
12 On 6 May 2008 Mr Donaldson, an employee of Amiri Yachts, sent an email to a Mr Mikkelsen (on behalf of the plaintiff) as follows:
 As mentioned my name is Mark Donaldson and I am employed by Amiri Yachts, Amiri Protocol, Government of Qatar.
We had made previous enquiries through Famous Pacific Shipping in New Zealand which has been terminated.
As mentioned on the telephone I would like to deal with you directly and arrange for a quote for shipping the 33 m sport fisher on May 25th to the Seychelles as per our previous plan.
The date of May 25th is firm so could you please provide a quote for your service to the Seychelles.
Once the quote is received we will have to have it approved by the Government of Qatar and will ask for the normal booking note which again will be signed off by the Government of Qatar.
Once all is in order money will be deposited into your company account from Doha, Qatar.
Lastly Mr Mikkelsen I wish to it is not our intention [sic] to create ill-feeling towards your company and Famous Pacific shipping in New Zealand so seeking a suitable resolution for all parties on the 25th of May so that good business may continue.
(Original emphasis.
) 
It seems that as a result of this email, the charterparty was executed on 13 May 2008.
Delivery 
 
13 At about the same time arrangements were being put in place for delivery of the Ship.
In an affidavit by Didier Jean-Pierre Royet filed on 4 September 2008 Mr Royet claimed to be its full-time master, employed by the Amir.
On 17 May 2008 he was "instructed to travel to Auckland New Zealand in order to oversee the final stages of the construction of the 'Al Duhail' which I was informed was due to be completed by the ship builders, Sovereign Yachts ... prior to 1 June 2008.
" I infer that Mr Royet's subsequent actions were undertaken on behalf of his employer, the Amir.
14 Mr Royet arrived in New Zealand on 19 May 2008 and thereafter had regular contact with Sovereign.
The Ship was launched at Hobsonville on 25 May 2008 and taken under tow to Auckland where "further repairs and works ... were carried out".
On about 27 May 2008 Mr Royet was advised that the Ship would be ready for handover to his command on or about 1 June 2008.
This did not occur.
Between 1 June 2008 and 9 June 2008 sea trials took place in Mr Royet's presence, but construction was not complete.
Nonetheless, on 11 June 2008, a certificate of registration of the Ship was issued by the Qatar Registry.
It was registered in the Amir's name.
15 Mr Royet at least implied that remedial work continued throughout June and early July.
On 15 July 2008 he again attended sea trials.
Work was completed on 21 July and the Ship handed over to him on 22 July.
On 4 August he sailed it to the port of Opua in New Zealand, then to Noumea in New Caledonia, and then to Brisbane, arriving on 14 August 2008.
It was arrested on 20 August 2008.
Mr Royet understood that the vessel was to be used for the Amir's personal use.
He said that it had not been used for any commercial purpose.
16 I infer from Mr Royet's presence in New Zealand as an employee of the Amir that, at least from mid-May 2008, the intention of those associated with the acquisition of the vessel was that it become the property of the Amir rather than of Amiri Yachts or Amiri Protocol.
At or about that time Mr Donaldson arranged the charterparty, describing himself as an employee of "Amiri Yachts, Amiri Protocol, Government of Qatar".
I infer that Mr Donaldson, in arranging the charterparty, was also acting on behalf of the Amir, although he may have been acting as the instrument of Amiri Yachts which was, itself, acting on behalf of the Amir.
The new agreement 
 
17 On 21 July 2008 Sovereign and Amiri Yachts terminated the agreement, Sovereign entering into a new agreement (the "new agreement") with the Amir.
No explanation has been given for this course of action.
It may have had something to do with the incidence of the New Zealand Goods and Services Tax.
It may also be that for associated reasons, it became desirable that the vessel leave New Zealand under its own power rather than as cargo.
However these are mere speculations.
I draw no inferences adverse to the Amir from the change in the contractual arrangements and associated matters.
18 The new agreement was in substantially the same form as the agreement.
Clause 5, concerning launching, sea trials and acceptance, was in a slightly different form.
By the date of the new agreement, the Ship had been completed and launched.
According to Mr Royet, sea trials had also been completed.
Nonetheless cl 5 still provided for launching, sea trials and acceptance.
Clause 16, concerning the passing of property, remained in the same form.
However a new acceptance and delivery receipt was attached to the new agreement.
It was in similar form to the receipt in the agreement, save that provision was made for export of the Ship under its own power to a destination outside of New Zealand.
A number of other amendments were made.
In particular there was a hand-written rider to the receipt, as executed, which stated that, "The parties agree that notwithstanding the terms of the Agreement and this Acceptance and Delivery Certificate, ownership and title to the Vessel passes to the Owner at 24:00 hours on 21 July 2008.
" Clearly, the Amir has owned the vessel since that date.
The question is who owned it prior thereto.
Whatever may have been the effect of the certificate as between the parties, or for any other purpose arising under New Zealand law, it cannot have affected the actual ownership position as at 9 or 11 June 2008.
Solicitors' correspondence 
 
19 On 27 August 2008, Messrs Blake Dawson wrote to the solicitors for the plaintiff claiming to be instructed "on behalf of interests in the vessel 'Al Duhail', the defendant".
The letter alleged that Amiri Yachts was the charterer and that it had not delivered the Ship for loading on Southern Pearl because "in breach of charter 'Southern Pearl NZ' was found to be unsafe for the loading and cargo of [the Ship]".
It referred to the arrest of the Ship as arising out of the failure by Amiri Yachts and/or Amiri Protocol to load or pay freight in accordance with the charterparty and observed that they were relevant persons for the purposes of the Admiralty Act .
It then asserted that the arrest should be set aside for the following reasons: 
 
 
 (a) Firstly, the plaintiff cannot satisfy the jurisdictional requirements of the Admiralty Act because it cannot prove Amiri Yachts and/or Amiri Protocol are the beneficial owner.
The attached Certificate of Qatar Registry provides the owner of "Al Duhail" is H.H.
Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifia Al Thani (HH).
Presumably your client was aware of this when they undertook their searches, prior to the arrest.
(b) Secondly, even if the Court documents should be amended to make HH the "relevant person" his property is "inviolable" under Australian law and cannot be (or should not have been) arrested.

 

20 The letter then referred to s 17 of the Admiralty Act and asserted that in the event of a challenge to jurisdiction a plaintiff must demonstrate that a relevant person owned the relevant vessel when the proceedings were commenced.
It also referred to the Amir's claim to head of state immunity and associated claims, including a threat of action for unjustified arrest.
Ownership of the Ship, as at the date on which the cause of action arose, was not mentioned.
21 On 29 August 2008 Messrs Blake Dawson again wrote to the solicitors for the plaintiff, indicating that it would have to establish that the "relevant person" was the owner at the time the writ was issued.
The letter then asserted that "neither Amiri Yachts nor Amiri Protocol are the owners of or have any proprietary interest in 'Al Duhail' ".
It referred to the certificate of registration dated 11 June 2008 and observed that "We are instructed [the Amir] was still the owner at the time the writ was issued.
You ought to have undertaken a search of the Qatar Registry to establish that fact prior to issuing the writ.
" There was then a reference to s 18 of the Admiralty Act which is not directly relevant for present purposes.
However it was asserted that:
 
 
 (a) We are instructed Amiri Yachts and Amiri Protocol were at no time demise charterers of "Al Duhail".
(b) Amiri Yachts chartered your client's vessel "Southern Pearl NZ".
(c) Amiri Protocol is a sub-department of the Government of Qatar.
We do not know why you believe Amiri Protocol has any connection to "Al Duhail".

 

22 The letter then asserted that the Ship was the Amir's private sporting vessel and that it had not been engaged in commercial activities.
The factual assertions set out above are of some interest.
Firstly, the letter referred to Amiri Yachts and Amiri Protocol but did not suggest that either entity had ever owned the vessel.
Nonetheless it admitted that Amiri Yachts had chartered the "Southern Pearl".
As to the connection between Amiri Protocol and the Ship, one would have thought that Mr Donaldson's identification of himself, in connection with the charter, as being employed by "Amiri Yachts, Amiri Protocol, Government of Qatar" would be a reasonable basis for assuming a connection between Amiri Protocol and the Ship.
Again, ownership of the Ship, as at the date on which the cause of action arose, was not mentioned.
23 The solicitors for the plaintiff wrote to Messrs Blake Dawson asking them to indicate the basis for the allegation in the present application that the Amir was not the owner or charterer of, or in possession or control of, the vessel, when the cause of action arose.
They responded on 2 September 2008 as follows:
 We refer to your letter of today's date.
We are obtaining instructions overnight from our instructors at Clyde  Co whether an affidavit will be filed in support of the application and will let you know as soon as we have those instructions.
You have asked on what basis the applicant His Highness Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifia Al Thani asserts he was not the owner or charterer of, or in control of, the vessel when the alleged cause of action arose.
With respect, the onus is on your client to establish these jurisdictional facts.
Will your client be relying on any affidavit material to establish the named relevant persons met the criteria in ss 17 and 18 of the Admiralty Act 1988 ?
If so, when will we receive that material?
Other evidence 
 
24 In an affidavit filed on 8 September 2008 on behalf of the defendants, the deponent, Scott Gibson MacNeill, sought to undermine the authority of the Qatar certificate of registration suggesting, by reference to a conversation with the Registrar of Ships in the Australian Shipping Registration Office, that some foreign registries are not registries of title.
Mr MacNeill is a solicitor employed by Blake Dawson.
It is curious that Mr MacNeill should have sought to undermine the probative value of the certificate, given that his firm had initially advanced it as a basis for resisting the claim against Amiri Yachts and Amiri Protocol.
25 Alan Frederick Lester is a New Zealand solicitor and principal of the firm of Chapman Tripp, Solicitors of Wellington.
Mr Lester was instructed by the Amir's London solicitors to act on his behalf and was given a power of attorney for the purpose of effecting the transfer to the Amir of Amiri Yachts' rights and obligations under its agreement with Sovereign.
Mr Lester deposed to various steps which he took pursuant to the power of attorney and in para 8 swore that:
 To the best of my knowledge and belief, no agreement or other arrangement had been entered into to transfer title or ownership of "Al Duhail" from Sovereign Yachts to any other person prior to 21 July 2008.
26 This statement was apparently intended to exclude the possibility that title to the Ship had vested in Amiri Yachts, Amiri Protocol or the Amir prior to 21 July 2008.
However it is not clear to me that Mr Lester had knowledge of such matters.
27 Paul Alan Turner, a partner at Clyde and Co, the Amir's London solicitors, has sworn three affidavits filed on 8 September, 18 September and 1 October 2008.
In para 3 of his affidavit filed on 8 September 2008, Mr Turner swore that neither Amiri Yachts nor Amiri Protocol was the owner or demise charterer of the Ship as at 20 August 2008, the date of commencement of proceedings.
That matter is no longer in dispute.
However it is difficult to see how Mr Turner could have relevant knowledge of it.
The basis for the statement seems to have been that he was instructed to commence work on "the delivery arrangements to His Highness the Amir of Qatar" on 27 May 2008.
At that time he was informed by Mr Donaldson "then working for Amiri Yachts" that the Ship was being constructed under a contract between Sovereign and Amiri Yachts.
Mr Turner then swore that Mr Lester had told him that Sovereign had not completed the vessel, conducted sea trials and delivered the Ship "until 21 July 2008".
Mr Turner understood that the agreement between Amiri Yachts and Sovereign had been terminated and the new agreement entered into with the Amir.
As to the Qatar certificate of registration of the Ship he said (at paras 8 and 9):
 
 
 8.
It is common practice for the buyer of a new or second-hand vessel to apply to pre-register the vessel under the buyer's chosen flag in order to obtain the registration details that are required to facilitate the radio licence application for an MMSI number (the unique nine digit number that identifies a particular vessel) and call sign, both of which are needed to programme the vessel's safety and communications equipment and so ensure that the vessel is ready to be operated with effect from delivery.

 
 
 
 9.
It is also common practice for the vessel's new certificate of registry to be issued and delivered to the vessel so that at delivery it has on board the full set of flag documents that would be required when the vessel engages in voyages outside the territorial waters of its flag state.

 

28 All of this may be correct, but it says nothing about ownership of the Ship as at the date upon which the cause of action arose.
In his affidavit filed on 18 September 2008 Mr Turner referred to a builder's certificate and a certificate of origin which were filed in support of the application for registration in Qatar.
He then referred to the statements concerning registration practice in his earlier affidavit and continued (at paras 3 and 4):
 
 
 3.
...
In order to obtain a Certificate of Registry for the Vessel, and so to facilitate the application for an issuance of a Radio Licence for the Vessel, well before Sovereign Yachts (NZ) Ltd ("Sovereign") tendered delivery of the Vessel they were requested to provide a Builder's Certificate and a Certificate of Origin.
On 15 May 2008 Sovereign issued the Builder's Certificate and the undated Certificate of Origin attached in annexure " PT 4".
At the time when Sovereign issued the Builder's Certificate it was anticipated that the Vessel would be tendered for delivery on or about 1 June 2008, as is set out in the Affidavit of Didier Royet dated 3 September 2008.
The reference in the undated Certificate of Origin to "INV/CONTRACT JAN 28 2008" is a reference to the contract for the construction of the Vessel dated 26 November 2007 as this contract became effective on 28 January 2008 following Sovereign's receipt of the first payment in respect of the Vessel.

 
 
 
 4.
In my experience a Builder's Certificate is always necessary for ship registration purposes, as in this case it was required by the Qatar Registry.
In the application included in annexure " PT 4" , please see the reference, under the heading Required Documents, to "Ship Building Certificate (If Under Construction)".
These matters were dealt with and regulated by the Acceptance and Delivery Receipt, a copy of which is at the last two pages of the annexure " PT 2" to my first Affidavit.
I should add that the Certificate of Registry was also used, in the usual way, in support of advance preparations for the Vessel's insurance arrangements in order to ensure that the necessary insurance cover would be in place with effect from transfer of possession and control in the Vessel at the time of delivery and acceptance recorded in the Acceptance and Delivery Receipt.

 
 
29 The admissibility of some passages in para 4 was successfully challenged.
Those passages were excised.
The paragraph makes only limited sense in its present form.
When the deponent referred to "these matters" being "dealt with and regulated by the Acceptance and Delivery Receipt" he was, I think, referring to the transfer of title to the Ship.
In any event, the events which occurred on 21 July 2008 are not relevant to the situation which obtained as at the date upon which the cause of action arose.
The Amir was either then the owner of the Ship, or otherwise entitled to possession or control of it, or he was not.
In a third affidavit filed on 1 October 2008 Mr Turner swore that Mr Donaldson had worked for Amiri Yachts until 14 June 2008 and now works for another company.
30 One of the documents exhibited to Mr Turner's affidavit filed on 18 September 2008 is the application for registration in Qatar.
It disclosed that the keel of the Ship was laid on 10 March 2006, that is prior to the contract with Amiri Yachts.
Under the heading "Owner's Particulars" appeared the following: "HH Sheikh, Hamad Bin Khalifia Al Thani Amiri Palace, Doha --- Qatar".
In the attached builder's certificate Amiri Yachts was shown as the person or company for whom the vessel was built by Sovereign.
The document was dated 15 May 2008.
On the application for registration, under the heading "Required Documents", it is stated that a shipbuilding certificate is required "if under construction".
Thus the issue of a certificate should not be taken as necessarily implying completion.
31 The plaintiff submitted that such a certificate was contemplated by cl 5(f) of the agreement and cl 5(g) of the new agreement.
It is possible to construe both subclauses as providing for delivery of such certificate on launching and on acceptance, each subclause apparently assuming that those events would occur simultaneously.
However, as I have demonstrated, earlier subclauses suggested that launching was to be followed by sea trials and then, acceptance.
On its face the certificate suggests that it was issued in a form required for New Zealand registration purposes.
The nature of those requirements is not disclosed by the evidence.
32 In any event, Mr Royet swore that the vessel was launched on 25 May 2008, although some work remained to be done thereafter.
Sea trials followed.
There was further work, continuing into early July, and then further sea trials.
He was not cross-examined.
In those circumstances, I infer that the Ship had not been completed as at the date of registration.
To the extent that Mr Turner gave evidence as to the practice of obtaining registration at an early stage, I accept and act upon that evidence.
However I do not act upon his evidence to the extent that it may be interpreted as reflecting actual knowledge of the circumstances surrounding registration in this case.
He has not claimed direct knowledge of such matters.
Compliance with s 17 
 
33 For present purposes the relevant question is whether, for the purposes of s 17 of the Admiralty Act , the Amir was owner of the Ship as at 9 or 11 June 2008 or alternatively, whether he was then in possession or control of it.
There is no suggestion that he was a charterer.
I infer that whatever Amiri Yachts did on and after 17 May 2008 in connection with the Ship was done for the purpose of acquiring it on behalf of the Amir.
That was the date on which Mr Royet was instructed to travel to New Zealand for the purpose of taking possession of the Ship on his Highness's behalf.
I infer that Mr Donaldson's conduct in arranging the charterparty with the plaintiff was also done on behalf of the Amir.
However that does not lead to the conclusion that his Highness necessarily owned, possessed or controlled the Ship as at 9 June 2008, even assuming that Amiri Yachts then held the benefit of the agreement on his behalf.
Pursuant to the agreement, property was to pass upon acceptance, provided that all moneys had been paid.
There is no evidence of any such acceptance prior to 21 July 2008.
Mr Royet's evidence suggests that the Ship was not completed until on or about that date.
In his affidavit Mr Lloyd was somewhat opaque concerning delivery of the Ship to the Amir on 21 July 2008.
In para 5 he swore:
 On 21 July 2008 Sovereign Yachts was satisfied that all monies due under the Amir of Qatar contract had been paid.
On that basis the Acceptance and Delivery Receipt was signed.
34 Sovereign's satisfaction as to payment was not a condition precedent to the passing of title pursuant to either agreement.
The question is whether the Ship had been accepted and all moneys paid on or before 9 or 11 June 2008.
Mr Lloyd's affidavit simply did not address that question.
However, in para 7, he swore that possession of the vessel was not given to any person by Sovereign prior to 21 July 2008.
Given the fact that neither Mr Royet nor Mr Lloyd was cross-examined, and the absence of any apparent improbability in their evidence, I am compelled to accept, on the balance of probabilities, that the conditions prescribed in the agreement for the passing of title did not occur prior to 21 July 2008.
As to whether or not the Amir was, prior to that date in possession or control of the vessel, it seems to me that, for the same reasons, I must conclude that he was not.
35 The plaintiff sought to establish that property had, nonetheless, passed to the Amir prior to 9 or 11 June 2008.
