
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 The present cases are applications for revocation of a patent pursuant to s 138(3) of the Patents Act 1990 (Cth) (the 1990 Act).
The patent claims an enantiomer of a racemate where that racemate was disclosed and claimed by an earlier patent.
This has been an issue in relation to other compounds, most recently in two judgments published after the close of evidence and, in one case, after the close of addresses --- the decision of Lindgren J in Alphapharm Pty Ltd v H Lundbeck A/S [2008] FCA 559 and the decision of the Full Court in Ranbaxy Australia Pty Ltd v Warner-Lambert Co LLC [2008] FCAFC 82 respectively.
2 Australian Patent 597784 (the patent in suit) was applied for on 4 February 1988.
The patentee is Sanofi-Aventis.
Application had been made for international versions of the patent in suit on 17 February and 27 November 1987.
It is not contended that the priority date is later than the second of those dates.
The term of the patent in suit has been extended pursuant to the provisions of Pt 3 of Ch 6 of the 1990 Act by five years.
Thus, the patent in suit is due to expire on 4 February 2013.
3 Each of Apotex Pty Ltd (Apotex) and Spirit Pharmaceuticals Pty Ltd (Spirit) seeks revocation of the patent in suit on the grounds of lack of novelty, lack of inventive step, not being a manner of manufacture, inutility and false suggestion or misrepresentation.
Both proceedings were heard together, on the same body of evidence, and one set of reasons will be given.
Chemical background 
 
4 The title of the invention in the specification is:
 "Dextro-rotatory enantiomer of methyl alpha-5 (4,5,6,7-tetrahydro (3,2-c) thieno pyridyl) (2-chlorophenyl)-acetate, a process for its preparation and the pharmaceutical compositions containing it.
" 
5 The compound the subject of claim 1 of the patent in suit has the international non-proprietary name clopidogrel.
After obtaining regulatory approval, a product was launched by Sanofi-Aventis in 1998 under the name Plavix, the active ingredient of which is the bisulfate salt of clopidogrel.
It has been very successful commercially.
It inhibits platelet aggregation at the site of blood vessel damage and so inhibits thrombus or clot formation.
It is admitted that the applicant Apotex intends to make and sell compositions, the active ingredient of which is clopidogrel bisulfate and, so, would be in breach of claims 1, 3, 10 and 11 of the patent in suit.
6 The invention relates to organic chemistry, which is concerned with the study of carbon compounds and, in particular, with the stereochemistry of carbon compounds respecting the three dimensional structure of their molecules.
Isomers are compounds whose molecules consist of the same number and kind of atoms but differ in their structure or arrangement.
Material that rotates the plane of polarised light is said to be optically active.
The means of identifying compounds which have that property is by shining the plane of polarised light through a sample of the compound dissolved in an appropriate solvent then measuring the extent of the rotation.
7 If the compound displays optical activity, this indicates that the chemical structure of the molecule is non-superimposable on its mirror image.
That property is called "chirality" and the molecule is described as "chiral".
An organic compound is said to have a chiral centre if it includes a carbon atom bonded to four different substituents.
If the structure of a molecule is non-superimposable on its mirror image, the mirror image must be a different molecule.
In each case of optical activity of a pure compound there are two, and only two, isomers called enantiomers, which differ in structure such that the arrangements of their atoms in space are non-superimposable mirror images of each other.
Enantiomers have identical physical and chemical properties except in two important respects: they rotate the plane of polarised light in opposite directions, though in equal amounts; and they interact in different ways with other chiral compounds, including reacting with them at different rates.
The isomer which rotates the plane of polarised light to the left (counter clockwise) is called the levo isomer, or levo-rotatory or L- enantiomer, and is designated (-), while the one that rotates the plane of polarised light to the right (clockwise) is called the dextro isomer, or dextro-rotatory or D - enantiomer, and is designated (+).
8 Although a pure compound is always optically active if it is composed of chiral molecules, a mixture of equal amounts of enantiomers are optically inactive since the equal and opposite rotations cancel each other out.
A mixture which is comprised of equal amounts of two enantiomers is often designated by the prefix (+/-).
Such mixtures are called racemic mixtures or racemates.
The separation of a racemic mixture into its two optically active enantiomers is called a resolution.
The racemate has the same chemical formula as each enantiomer.
9 There is a debate as to the common general knowledge as to resolving the enantiomers of a racemic mixture in Australia at the priority date of the patent in suit.
I shall return to that issue.
10 In broad terms, the salt of a chemical compound can be formed by combining an acid with a base --- an acidic compound is characterised by its ability to donate a proton to its surroundings whereas a basic compound is characterised by its ability to accept a proton from its surroundings.
Salts may form a crystalline compound.
11 Issues that are critical in relation to pharmaceutical drugs include efficacy, tolerance and toxicity.
These refer to the pharmacological properties of a compound, ie, the operation of the compound in vivo.
This invention is applied to biological systems which are composed of chiral molecules.
Because enantiomers interact with other chiral molecules in different ways, they will often behave differently in biological systems.
This can result in their having different physiological effects.
An enantiomer may also undergo racemization (that is, convert to a 1:1 mixture of both enantiomers) in vivo.
Patent in suit 
 
12 The body of the specification commences as follows:
 "The compound of the invention corresponds to the following formula (I): 
 
 
 in which the C* is an asymmetric carbon atom.
In fact, this formula represents both the dextro-rotatory molecule claimed as well as its levo-rotatory enantiomer.
The racemic mixture corresponding to this formula [PCR 4099] was described in the French patent application published under the No.
2 530 247.
Hereafter the dextro-rotatory enantiomer claimed according to the invention will be designated by Id and the levo-rotatory enantiomer by Il.
It is known that the optical rotatory power of a compound depends on the solvent in which it is measured and on its concentration in this solvent.
The optical rotatory power of the dextro-rotatory isomer according to the invention is positive in methanolic solution.
In an unexpected manner only the dextro-rotatory enantiomer Id exhibits a platelet aggregation inhibiting activity, the levo-rotatory enantiomer Il being inactive.
Moreover, the inactive levo-rotatary enantiomer Il is the less well tolerated of the two enantiomers.
The invention also relates to the addition salts of the compounds of formula (Id) with pharmaceutically acceptable mineral or organic acids.
" 
13 The specification then outlines in detail the production of certain salts of the compound, methods of separating the enantiomers, converting them to salt and then the determination of the enantiomic purity of each.
Discussion of a pharmacological study follows, introduced thus:
 "The platelet aggregation inhibiting activity and the toxicity of these new compounds was compared to those of the racemic mixture described in the French patent No.
82.12599 (Publication No.
2 530 247) [PCR 4099].
A description will now be given of the results of this study which demonstrates another advantage of the invention, namely that the salts of the dextro-rotatory isomer have a better therapeutic index than the salt of the racemic mixture; in fact, the levo-rotatory isomer exhibits almost no platelet aggregation inhibiting activity and its toxicity is markedly higher than that of its dextro-rotatory homologue.
" (Emphasis added.
) 
14 The conclusions included the following:
 "The results obtained for the aggregation with ADP for the hydrochloride of the racemic mixture (PCR 4099), the hydrogen sulfates of the dextro-rotatory (SR 25990 C) and levo-rotatory (SR 25989 C) isomers on the one hand, and for PCR 4099 and the hydrochlorides of the dextro-rotatory (SR 25990 A) and levo-rotatory (SR 25989 A) on the other, are shown in Table 1; they demonstrate that the levo-rotatory isomer is inactive and that the dextro-rotatory isomer is at least as active as the racemate.
" "For the aggregation with collagen, the percentage of inhibition is the difference of the slopes of the curves representing the variation of the optical density as a function of time for the control and the product to be tested divided by the slope for the control multiplied by 100.
The results shown in Table II demonstrate again that only the dextro-rotatory isomer is active whereas the salts have comparable activities.
" "The results which are presented in Table III show that the levo-rotatory isomer is inactive in this test, in contrast to the dextro-rotatory isomer and the racemate.
" "The number of dead animals was determined 14 days after the administration of the compound under study.
The lethal doses thus determined, expressed in weight of the salt administered, are presented in Table IV; these results show on the one hand that the toxicity of the racemic mixture is similar to that of the levo-rotatory isomer whereas the dextro-rotatory isomer is markedly less toxic, and, on the other hand, that the toxicity depends on the nature of the acid used to form the salt.
" "The pharmacological study just presented has demonstrated the interesting inhibitory properties towards platelet aggregation of the compound Id and the absence of any activity of its isomer Il.
" "On account of its interesting inhibitory properties towards platelet aggregation and its interference in the mechanism of formation of arterial and venous thromboses, the medicine of the invention can be usefully administered in the treatment and prevention of platelet disorders due to extracorporeal blood circuits or the consequence of complications in atheroma.
" 
15 The significant claims for this case are:
 
 
 "1.
Dextro-rotatory isomer of methyl alpha-5 (4,5,6,7-tetrahydro (3,2-c) thieno pyridyl) (2-chlorophenyl)-acetate and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts.

 
... 
 
 3.
Hydrogen sulfate of the dextro-rotatory isomer of methyl alpha-5 (4,5,6,7-tetrahydro (3,2-c) thieno pyridyl) (2-chlorophenyl) -acetate.

 
... 
 
 6.
Process for the preparation of the compound according to Claim 1, comprising the formation of a salt of racemic methyl alpha-5 (4,5,6,7-tetrahydro (3,2-c) thieno pyridyl) (2-chlorophenyl)-acetate with an optically active acid in a solvent, repeated recrystallizations of the salt are carried out until a product of constant optical rotatory power is obtained, then the dextro-rotatory isomer is liberated from its salt by a base and, if necessary, salt formation is carried out with a pharmaceutically acceptable acid.
" 
 
 French patent and development of clopidogrel 
 
16 The French patent application referred to in the specification in suit was filed in July 1982 by Sanofi-Aventis.
Its title was "New derivatives of thieno (3,2-c) pyridine, process for their preparation and their therapeutic application".
The specification commenced as follows:
 "This invention relates to new thieno [3,2-c] pyridines, to a process for their preparation and to their therapeutic applications.
The new derivatives of this invention have the following general formula: in which: Y represents the OH group or an OR group in which R is a straight or branched lower alkyl radical, or Y represents a group in which R1 and R2 are each independently of each other hydrogen or a straight or branched lower alkyl group; or RI and R2 form together and with the nitrogen to which they are attached a heterocycle which may include a second heteroatom such as oxygen or nitrogen, wherein the latter may be substituted by a lower alkyl or benzyl radical which may be substituted; and X represents hydrogen, a halogen or a lower alkyl radical.
These compounds having an asymmetrical carbon may exist in the form of two enantiomers.
The invention relates both to each enantiomer and their mixture.
" (Emphasis added.
