
 
1 By notice of motion filed on 26 August 2008 the second respondent, the Commonwealth of Australia, sought an order against the applicant, H E Orhan Ugur, that the proceedings be dismissed on three grounds.
The grounds are:
 
(1) Mr Ugur has no reasonable prospects of successfully prosecuting the proceedings (s 31A(2) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth)).
(2) The proceedings are an abuse of process (Order 20 r 5(1)(b) of the Federal Court Rules ).
(3) Mr Ugur has failed to prosecute the proceedings with due diligence (Order 35A r 2(1)(f) of the Federal Court Rules ).
2 The Commonwealth's notice of motion was supported by an affidavit of Dale Watson, solicitor.
Ms Watson's affidavit summarised the background to the case to date.
3 Mr Ugur, who is not legally represented, opposed the notice of motion.
He sought an adjournment of the proceedings to some later date such as December 2008 (or some other time) and an order revoking the Commonwealth's joinder as the second respondent to the proceedings.
4 Mr Ugur filed two initiating processes on 24 September 2007 (although both bear the proceedings number NSD 1907/2007).
These documents nominate the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission (HREOC) as the respondent.
Mr Ugur filed an affidavit in support sworn 12 September 2007.
At this time, and until January 2008, Mr Ugur was in detention at the Villawood Immigration Detention Centre.
He was also, between about 16 February 2007 and 18 February 2008, subject to a guardianship order under the Guardianship Act 1987 (NSW).
5 The first initiating document is an application for review of the decision of a delegate of the President of HREOC on 9 August 2007 to terminate the complaint of unlawful discrimination on the ground that the complaint was lacking in substance (as provided for in s 46PH(1)(c) of the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 (Cth) (the HREOC Act)).
The application for review seeks an order that the Court refer the matter back to HREOC for further investigation and interlocutory orders for the production of documents by bodies which are not parties to the proceedings (namely, the Department of Immigration and Citizenship (the Department) and the Commonwealth Ombudsman).
6 The second initiating document is a claim alleging unlawful discrimination (as provided for in s 46PO of the HREOC Act).
Under s 46PO(3) the unlawful discrimination in the application must be the same as (or the same in substance as) the unlawful discrimination that was the subject of the terminated complaint or must arise out of the same (or substantially the same) acts, omissions or practices that were the subject of the terminated complaint.
The claim alleges unlawful discrimination and cruel and inhumane treatment by various bodies (including bodies which are not parties to the proceedings) because of Mr Ugur's race and nationality.
Mr Ugur claims remedies relating to the production of documents by the Department and the Commonwealth Ombudsman, and orders for the discontinuance of the guardianship order and for HREOC to re-examine and review Mr Ugur's claims of discrimination and human rights abuses alleged to have been suffered while in detention.
7 Mr Ugur's affidavit in support alleges mistreatment and torture during his time in immigration detention by various bodies and entities including the Department because of his race or nationality.
He complained to the Commonwealth Ombudsman (who is not a party to these proceedings) about his treatment, particularly with respect to the appointment of a guardian.
Mr Ugur said in his affidavit that HREOC terminated investigation of his complaint to "cover up" the "misconduct" of the Commonwealth Ombudsman.
The affidavit annexes many other documents.
This material includes correspondence between Mr Ugur and HREOC and other material including: - (i) a letter to HREOC dated 8 August 2006 alleging that Mr Ugur had been used "as an experiment", (ii) a letter from HREOC of 31 August 2005 relating to an earlier complaint to the effect that there was no or insufficient supporting information, (iii) a letter to HREOC of 31 July 2006 alleging torture, (iv) a letter from Legal Aid New South Wales advising that legal aid had been refused, (v) a letter to HREOC of 9 November 2006 in which Mr Ugur said he wanted to present a fresh case, (vi) a complaint to HREOC dated 15 February 2007 with an attached letter complaining about discrimination by the Commonwealth Ombudsman including with respect to the guardianship order, (vii) a more detailed complaint to HREOC dated 13 March 2007 making a variety of allegations of discrimination mostly by the Commonwealth Ombudsman and the Department including with respect to the guardianship order, (viii) a letter to HREOC of 8 April 2007 making various complaints about discrimination and violation of Mr Ugur's human rights including with respect to medical treatment, medical reports and the appointment of the guardian based on the medical reports, (ix) a letter from HREOC of 8 June 2007 stating, amongst other things, that nothing in the information provided by Mr Ugur (apart from his belief) supported the view that his race or national origin were factors in the matters about which he complained and requesting any further supporting information within 14 days, and (x) a letter to HREOC of 16 July 2007 requesting more time to provide further information (with numerous annexures relating to communications with the Commonwealth Ombudsman).
8 To understand the positions of the Commonwealth and Mr Ugur it is necessary to record the background to the proceedings and the Commonwealth's notice of motion seeking orders dismissing the proceedings.
BACKGROUND 
 
9 HREOC issued the notice of termination under s 46PH(2) of the HREOC Act on 9 August 2007.
The notice records that the complaint had been terminated pursuant to s 46PH(1)(c) of the HREOC Act (satisfaction that the complaint was lacking in substance).
The reasons for this decision identify the complaint as being against the Department and the Commonwealth Ombudsman and involving allegations of breach of human rights and discrimination under the Racial Discrimination Act 1975 (Cth).
The notice of termination continues:
 You state that you are stateless and are currently being held in immigration detention at Villawood Immigration Detention Centre (Villawood IDC).
You state that the Department applied to the Guardianship Tribunal (the Tribunal) to appoint a Guardian for you in order that you may reside out of detention in the community and that the Ombudsman supported this application.
You allege that the Department and the Ombudsman both provided false information and reports about your health to the Guardianship Tribunal.
You allege that the Department and the Ombudsman breached your human rights and discriminated against you on the basis of your race or national origin in the manner in which they provided information to the Guardianship Tribunal.
10 This description of the complaint accords with Mr Ugur's correspondence to HREOC in 2007 (see the references in Mr Ugur's affidavit identified above).
11 The notice of termination records further as follows:
 You have provided numerous documents to the Commission including letters of complaint to the Ombudsman, the Department and the Guardianship Tribunal, letters to your solicitors, Guardianship Tribunal Summary Sheets and letters regarding doctors' appointments and reports.
It appears from these documents that you believe you are not being treated as a person of sound mind.
You also believe you are able to live in the community and do not believe that a Guardian should be appointed for you to do so.
On 8 June 2007, the Commission wrote to you and advised of its assessment that the acts about which you complain may not constitute a breach of human rights and/or may be lacking in substance and you were provided the opportunity to make submissions on this assessment.
You provided your submissions and voluminous documentation in your faxes of 8, 11 and 19 July 2007 and 6 August 2007.
You again state that you believe that you were treated as a person not of sound mind when there was medical evidence to the contrary.
You state that you believe the Guardianship Order is racially motivated and it is to prevent you from using your human rights in Australia.
...
In your most recent submissions you have again provided extensive documentation including letters of complaint you have made to the Ombudsman, the Department, GSL, and the Guardianship Tribunal and responses to these; copies of your client request forms; letters to legal representatives and medical practitioners; letters regarding medical appointments, reports and invoices from medical practitioners; copies of reports from the Commonwealth and Immigration Ombudsman: Guardianship Tribunal Summary Sheets; transcripts of hearings before the Guardianship Tribunal on 21 December 2006 and 16 February 2007; correspondence to the Administrative Decisions Tribunal about your appeal application; Application to Appeal Panel for Urgent Interlocutory Order; copies of Summons to Give Evidence to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and correspondence and documents from the Australian Government Solicitor.
I note that you believe that there is more information that you can provide to support your allegations.
However, I consider that there is more than sufficient information before me to allow me to make a decision on whether I should continue to inquire into your complaint.
12 The notice of termination contains various sub-headings under the heading "My Decision" including "Human Rights", "The Ombudsman", "The Department" and "Allegations of race discrimination".
13 Under the heading "Human Rights" the notice of termination states, amongst other things, the following:
 I have considered all the information you have provided in this matter.
