
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 These are two sets of appeals pursuant to s 14ZZ of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth), the first by Australian Tea Tree Oil Research Institute Limited (in liquidation) ('ATTORI') against objection decisions dated 4 August 2004 made by the respondent ('the Commissioner') in respect of the years of income ended 30 June 1996 ('the 996 year'), 30 June 1997 ('the 1997 year'), 30 June 1998 ('1998 year') and 30 June 1999 ('the 1999 year'); and the second by Australian Agriculture Research Institute Limited (in liquidation) ('AARI') against objection decisions dated 13 October 2004 made by the Commissioner in respect of the 1997 year, the 1998 year and the 1999 year.
2 These appeals were heard immediately following the hearing of the appeals by Business and Research Management Limited (in liquidation) ('BARM').
Notwithstanding that the issues in these appeals are not coterminous with the issues in the BARM appeals, there is a possible common issue and they arise out of the same factual background, which is set out in [4] --- [41] of the reasons for judgment in Business  Research Management Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Taxation [2008] FCA 1652.
The roles of ATTORI and AARI as the researchers in the Budplan projects are referred to at various parts of that background.
In particular, it is noted at [8(3)] that ATTORI was engaged to conduct research and development for all projects except for Budplan 'A' Series No.
1 and Personal Budplan No.
5, where AARI was engaged to conduct the research and development activities.
Unless the context indicates otherwise, terms defined in the BARM reasons that are used in these reasons, have the same meaning.
3 While the issue in the BARM appeals concerned the quantum of the management fees to be brought to account as assessable income in the hands of BARM, the issue of the quantum of the research fees to be brought to account as assessable income in the hands of ATTORI or AARI only arises if the income of ATTORI or AARI is not exempt from income tax on the ground referred to below.
4 There is at least one, but possibly two issues before the Court.
5 There was a third issue concerning additional tax.
On the hearing of the appeals, I was informed that the parties had agreed on a level of further remissions of additional tax in the event that the applicants were unsuccessful 'in any significant way' and that in those circumstances it was unnecessary for me to address this issue.
I indicated I was content to adopt that course.
Issue 1 
 
6 Whether the applicants are exempt from income tax:
 
(1) in respect of the 1996 year (ATTORI only) and the 1997 year pursuant to s 23(e) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 (Cth) ('the ITAA 1936'); and
 
(2) in respect of the 1998 year and the 1999 year pursuant to ss 50-1 and 50-5 (Items 1.1 , 1.3 or 1.4) of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) ('the ITAA 1997').
Issue 2 
 
7 This issue --- the quantum of the research fees to be brought to account as assessable income in the hands of each of ATTORI and AARI in the relevant years of income --- only arises if the Court finds that one or both of the applicants was not exempt from income tax in any of those years of income.
ISSUE 1: ARE ATTORI AND AARI SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTIONS IN THE RELEVANT YEARS OF INCOME 
 
 STATUTORY CONTEXT 
 
8 Section 23(e) of the ITAA 1936 as in force in the years of income up to and including the 1997 year provided:
 'The following income shall be exempt from tax: ... 
 
 
 (e) the income of a religious, scientific, charitable or public educational institution.
' 
 
 
9 In those years, each of ATTORI and AARI is entitled to exemption if it is either a scientific or a charitable institution.
10 Sections 50-1, 50-5 (Items 1.1 , 1.3 and 1.4) and 50-55 of the ITAA 1997 applied in respect of the 1998 year and later years and relevantly provided:
 '50-1 Entitles whose ordinary income and statutory income is exempt The total *ordinary income and *statutory income of the entities covered by the following tables is exempt from income tax.
In some cases the exemption is subject to special conditions.

 
 
 Note 1: Ordinary and statutory income that is exempt from income tax is called exempt income: see section 6-20.
The note to subsection 6-15(2) describes some of the other consequences of it being exempt income.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Note 2: Even if you are an exempt entity, the Commissioner can still require you to lodge an income tax return or information under section 161 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1936 .

 
 
 
 
 50-5 Charity, education, science and religion 
 
 Charity, education, science and religion Item Exempt entity Special conditions 1.1 charitable institution See sections 50-50 and 50- 52 1.2 religious institution See section 50-50 1.3 scientific institution See section 50-55 .333263" colspan="1" rowspan="1" valign="top"> 1.4 public educational institution 
 ... ... 
 
 
 50-55 Special conditions for items 1.3, 1.4, 6.1 and 6.2 
 
 An entity covered by item 1.3, 1.4, 6.1 or 6.2 is not exempt from income tax unless the entity: 
 
 (a) has a physical presence in Australia and, to that extent, incurs its expenditure and pursues its objectives principally in Australia; or ...' 
 
 FACTUAL BACKGROUND 
 
11 The relevant facts are not in dispute, although there is an issue as to what is relevant and what is not.
It is common ground that facts going to: '[W]hat is the true nature and the objects and activities of the [entity]', to use the words of the Lord President (Clyde) in The Commissioner of Inland Revenue v The Aberdeen Medico-Chirurgical Society (1931) 16 TC 237 at 249 quoted with approval by Latham CJ in Royal Australasian College of Surgeons v Federal Commissioner of Taxation ('the Surgeons' Case ') [1943] HCA 34 ; (1943) 68 CLR 436 at 444, are relevant.
But the Commissioner says that facts going to the commercial imperatives that drove both the entity's incorporation and its activities, as well as the arrangements through which, or the manner in which, it carries on its activities, and the lack of public availability or utility of the results of those activities, reflect on the 'true nature' of ATTORI and AARI and their activities and for that reason, are also relevant.
ATTORI's Submissions 
 
12 ATTORI submitted that the facts set out in [13] --- [39] below were relevant to its true nature, objects and activities.
Constitution and membership of ATTORI 
 
13 ATTORI is a company incorporated on 24 November 1995 as a company limited by guarantee.
14 The objects for which ATTORI was established are stated in cll 2(b) to 2(d) of its Memorandum of Association:
 
 
 '(b) The furtherance of scientific research into the properties and uses of plant species and into all the properties of such plant species including such products as may be extracted or derived therefrom.

 
 
 
 (c) To promote and encourage other organisations and individuals in the same endeavour and undertake scientific research into uses flowing from results of its primary research.

 
 
 
 (d) To subscribe to, become a member of and co-operate with any other association or organisation, whether incorporated or not, whose objects are altogether or in part similar to those of the Company provided that the Company shall not subscribe to or support with its funds any association or organisation which does not prohibit the distribution of its income and property among its members to an extent at least as great as that imposed on the Company under or by virtue of Clause 3 of this Memorandum.
' 
 
 
15 ATTORI is prohibited from distributing its assets to its members and on dissolution must ensure that the assets are transferred to another body with the same objectives.
Clause 3 of the Memorandum provides:
 'The income and property of the Company whensoever derived, shall be applied solely towards the promotion of the objects of the Company as set forth in this Memorandum of Association; and no portion thereof shall be paid or transferred, directly or indirectly, by way of dividend, bonus or otherwise howsoever by way of profit, to the members of the Company.
' 
16 Clause 6 provides:
 'If upon the winding up or dissolution of the Company there remains after satisfaction of all its debts and liabilities any property whatsoever the same shall not be paid to or distributed among the members of the Company but shall be given or transferred to some other institution or institutions having objects similar to the objects of the Company and which shall prohibit the distribution of its or their income and property among its or their members to an extent at least as great as is imposed on the Company under or by virtue of Clause 3 hereof such institution or institutions to be determined by the members of the Company at or before the time of dissolution and if and so far as effect cannot be given to the aforesaid provision then to some charitable objects.
' 
17 The objectives of those establishing ATTORI were to 'conduct research into the properties of tea tree oil' and to 'conduct bona fide research ... to verify these properties ... to provide the scientific underpinning for ... claims' of therapeutic benefits.
18 At its establishment, the directors of ATTORI were the subscribers to its Memorandum of Association, Messrs Donald Charles Priest, Glendon Michael Stotter, Alan James Gallagher, Peter Charles Lucas, Dennis Charles Lear and Gordon Quah-Smith.
Mr Quah-Smith retired as a director on 5 December 1995, Mr Lear on 17 October 1996, Mr Lucas on 15 September 1997, Mr Gallagher on 31 January 1998, Mr Stotter on 19 June 1998 and Mr Priest on 21 May 1999.
19 At the time ATTORI went into liquidation on 6 June 2000, its directors were Messrs Stanley Nelson Coupe (formerly managing director of George Weston Ltd, from 16 October 1997), James Joseph Collins (formerly managing director of Parke Davis Pty Ltd, from 18 December 1997) and Robin Trevor Gray (formerly Premier of Tasmania, from 21 May 1999), none of whom were or had been directors or shareholders of BARM.
20 Each of the new directors became a member of ATTORI in May 1999, as did Dr Harvey Craig Bell.
Mr Richard John Burns, who was then appointed business manager and company secretary, became a member in August 1999.
In January 2000, Mr Stephen Leonard Law, who had preceded Mr Burns as company secretary, and Mr John Huntley Knox, a chartered accountant, also became members.
Messrs Quah-Smith (December 1995), Lear (July 1998) and Priest (March 1999) resigned as members and Mr Gallagher was excluded from membership in April 2000.
Activities of ATTORI 
 
21 Throughout its existence, ATTORI has had no activity other than to: 
 
(a) enter into contracts that secured to it funds with which to undertake research (including contracts for research entered into with the Budplan syndicates and with other parties), and
 
(b) undertake (by its employees and contractors) scientific research activities in fulfilment of those contracts.
22 Between April 1996 and June 1999, ATTORI received expendable resources (including interest of $21 million and cash research fees of $94 million but excluding the 'non-recourse' portions of the fees payable to it) of some $115 million, and after expenditure on research activities of $101 million was left with an 'operating surplus' of $14 million.
23 ATTORI contracted with BARM as agent for the Budplan syndicates to undertake research into the properties and applications of tea tree oil for use in acne treatment, hospital, antiseptic and oral hygiene applications; in tinea and other foot problems, dandruff, and candida; in skin care and personal hygiene; and to identify the composition of superior quality oil to prepare genetic maps of suitable families of Melaleuca to identify genetic markers to correlate with high oil yield and optimum oil composition, to cross Melaleuca with appropriate gene structures in order to produce high quality unique hybrids which qualify for commercial protection under plant variety rights legislation and to adapt tissue culture and growth protocols in order to mass produce Melaleuca seedlings by cloning using robotic tissue culture systems.
ATTORI also contracted with BARM to research the properties and applications of celery seed extract and development of products specifically for use in treatment of arthritis, gout, and use as a diuretic; the properties and applications of Coenzyme Q10 for measuring general cellular bioenergy in humans and products to improve general energy, health and lifestyle; and the pet care products based on Australian essential oils and natural ingredients.
24 The research work so contracted for was undertaken and the results reported to the Research Advisory Board (as to which, see below).
25 The contracts with BARM were to do research work for a period of two years.
They did not delimit the activities of ATTORI: for example, ATTORI took a lease of its premises for 10 years and invested in equipment with a useful life well beyond the term of the BARM contracts.
26 Commencing in January 1998, ATTORI undertook research contracts from other clients, for work in related research areas including analysis of lemon myrtle oil and provision of formulations, analysis of major actives in garlic, analysis of herbal extracts and of herbal raw materials, and research directed to formulations for personal care products, from a variety of independent businesses.
Brochures offering its research services were prepared and distributed.
Shortly before it was placed under external administration ATTORI was negotiating research and development contracts with both the Strathclyde Institute of Drug Research and Bio-Gene Bioprospecting Ltd from which its estimated revenue would have been $8 million over a four year research period.
Research Advisory Boards 
 
27 ATTORI established Research Advisory Boards ('RABs') with members of the highest scientific qualifications.
The Lismore RAB comprised Professor Barneston of Sydney University, Professor Baverstock of Southern Cross University, Professor Wyllie of UWS and Mr Collins, former managing director of Parke Davis.
The Melbourne RAB comprised Emeritus Professor Linnane of the Centre for Molecular Biology and Medicine in Victoria, Professor Johnston of Melbourne University, Professor Nagley of Monash University and Dr Bell.
28 The role of the RABs was to: 
 
(a) identify the key research areas and formulate the broad parameters of the research to be undertaken by the Institute;
 
(b) develop detailed research plans in conjunction with ATTORI's general manager and with scientists who had the particular expertise in the areas to which the planned research related;
 
(c) identify, and assist in the engagement or secondment of, key scientists;
 
(d) supervise the conduct of the research, both in implementation and in reviewing regular reports;
 
(e) adjust the detailed research plans, in consultation with the scientists performing the research, as required in light of the reports.
29 The RABs met regularly, generally every two months, and kept detailed minutes recording their deliberations on ATTORI's research.
They reported regularly to the Board of ATTORI.
Research Expertise 
 
30 ATTORI employed directly 10 scientific research staff, three technical officers and three administrative staff.
The research staff was highly qualified: five doctorates and three other postgraduate or honours degrees, four with research experience of at least 20 years.
Dr Leach, the most experienced staff member, had published 35 academic articles.
31 Further research resources were obtained by:
 
(a) subcontracting research work to other research institutions who had specialised scientific expertise or equipment not possessed by ATTORI or its staff.
These included the University of Western Sydney, Monash University, University of Sydney, Southern Cross University, University of Tennessee, the Centre for Molecular Biology, the Sydney Centre for Reproductive Health Research, Xanadu Consulting Pty Ltd (statistical analysis specialists) and Technical Consultancy Services Pty Ltd;
 
(b) making grants to universities on terms which provided research or facility benefits to ATTORI, such as the performance of contract work on equipment purchased with the grant;
 
(c) providing scholarships to universities for study in the areas of ATTORI's research, so making the skills and expertise of the scholarship holders available to ATTORI;
 
(d) sponsoring Chairs and Fellowships at the university, so providing access to the expertise of the holders thereof.
By these means, ATTORI gained access to the experience and expertise of two exceptionally qualified scientists, Dr Lin and Professor Waterman.
32 Obtaining access to expertise resources in this way was a common practice for research institutes.
Research Equipment and Premises 
 
 33 ATTORI initially leased offices and laboratory space from Southern Cross University but when a new building was erected on campus, it took a 10 year lease of a floor of the building, on which it established extensive research facilities including a flameproof room, a pilot scale formulation room, a formulation room, walk-in stability ovens and an analytical laboratory.
In these facilities it installed, inter alia , six gas chromatographs and three liquid chromatographs with the ability to perform Gas Chromatography with Mass Spectrometry detection (GC-MS), Liquid Chromatography with Mass Spectrometry detection (LC-MS), Critical Fluid Extraction (CFE), headspace analysis and Atomic Emission Detection (AED) analysis.
By June 1999, some $1.5 million had been spent on laboratory equipment and $650,000 on laboratory fit-out as well as further sums on other (office, vehicle, etc) equipment.
34 In establishing its premises on the university campus, ATTORI followed a course common for research bodies, so that the very expensive research equipment may be shared and research results may also be shared.
35 Where equipment beyond that possessed by ATTORI was required, ATTORI contracted the work out to other researchers.
Sharing and Publication of Research Results 
 
36 When work was subcontracted out, or made the subject of collaborative research, the results of the research became known to the scientists with or by whom the work was done, although the intellectual property in the results remained with the party for whom the work had been done.
37 The outcome of the research done by the staff of ATTORI was also published in scientific journals, in conference papers and in conference proceedings.
Many of the published papers were the fruit of collaboration among ATTORI's staff and researchers at other institutions, in the course of which the advances resulting from the research were shared among the collaborating parties.
Other institutions whose staff participated in and shared research results included the University of Western Sydney, the CSIRO and the University of Bristol.
38 Published papers acknowledged the sponsorship or participation of ATTORI in the research and posters exhibited at conferences.
The staff of and contractors to ATTORI also published papers resulting from the research done.
39 The papers presented and published by researchers conducting the research undertaken by ATTORI have achieved wide recognition as being of scientific value, as evidenced by their citation by other scientists.
The scientists who participated in the research were of high international standing, and the work done was, in the unchallenged opinion of Professor Baverstock, himself a scientist of the highest standing, of a very high calibre.
The Commissioner's Submissions Concerning ATTORI 
 
40 The Commissioner did not dispute these facts and circumstances, but pointed to the matters set out in [41] to [112] below, as bearing on the true nature of ATTORI and its activities.
Promotion of Objects for Private not Public Benefit or Utility 
 
41 ATTORI was formed to undertake the contractual obligations set out in the prospectus documents.
That is, it was incorporated to meet the objectives of a broader commercial endeavour.
Its activities after incorporation were directed predominantly, if not solely, to that commercial endeavour.
It was not concerned with benefiting the public or advancing science for science's or the public's sake.
No one was intended to benefit from the research but BARM and the Participants.
