
 BACKGROUND 
 
1 The applicant, Caltex Australia Petroleum Pty Ltd (Caltex), is a member of the Caltex Australia Group of companies, one of the largest refiners and marketers of petroleum products in Australia.
The Caltex Australia Group owns and operates two major petroleum fuel refineries, one in Kurnell, New South Wales (the Kurnell Refinery) and the other in Lytton, Queensland (the Lytton Refinery).
These refineries process substantial quantities of crude oil to produce principally petrol, diesel and jet fuel.
They are the largest oil refineries in their respective states.
In addition, the Group owns and operates a lubricating oil refinery, located adjacent to the Kurnell Refinery (the Caltex Lubricating Oil Refinery or CLOR).
The CLOR is the only lubricating oil refinery in Australia and it produces a variety of lubricating oil products for sale in Australia as well as for export (including lubricating oil base products such as engine and gearbox oils, as well as waxes and process oils).
2 The petroleum products at each of the three refineries are manufactured by Caltex pursuant to manufacturer licences issued to it under Part IV of the Excise Act 1901 (Cth) (the Excise Act ).
Part IV of the Excise Act provides a regime for the grant, suspension and cancellation by the Commissioner of Taxation (the Commissioner) of various licences (including manufacturer licences) required to be held under the Excise Act .
Pursuant to s 25 of the Excise Act , it is an offence to manufacture, without holding a manufacturer licence, any goods in respect of which excise duty is imposed by Parliament (referred to in the Excise Act as "excisable goods").
3 Crude oil is the principal raw material (or "feedstock") refined by Caltex at the Lytton and Kurnell Refineries, while the CLOR processes certain hydrocarbon materials that are produced as part of the operations at the Kurnell Refinery.
Crude oil is a naturally occurring liquid consisting of a mixture of hydrocarbons together with various elements considered to be impurities, such as sulphur, nitrogen, various heavy metals (including nickel, iron, vanadium, copper and arsenic) and salts.
Hydrocarbons are molecules made up of carbon and hydrogen atoms only, in various combinations and structures, and are one the most important energy resources in the world.
They are generally categorised by reference to the number of carbon and hydrogen atoms present in each molecule as well as the particular structure each molecule adopts.
Differences in the number of atoms (particularly the carbon atoms) and molecular structure lead to variations in important properties, such as molecular weight and length, density, boiling temperature and volatility.
In particular, the weight of a hydrocarbon is generally determined by the number of carbon and hydrogen atoms present.
For example, methane is the lightest hydrocarbon, consisting of one carbon atom and four hydrogen atoms (with chemical symbol CH 4 ), while octacontane is significantly heavier with 80 carbon atoms and 162 hydrogen atoms (C 80 H 162 ).
One useful method of categorisation refers simply to the number of carbon atoms contained in a molecule, with a convenient nomenclature being the letter 'C' followed by a number reflecting the number of carbon atoms (for example, methane is referred to as C1, whereas C80 identifies a more complex molecule with 80 carbon atoms).
4 Hydrocarbons are also categorised according to their molecular structure, in particular the configuration of carbon atoms and the number of chemical bonds between them.
A hydrocarbon in which there are single bonds between each adjoining carbon atom is called an "alkane" (or, as is common in the petroleum industry, a paraffin).
These are contrasted with "alkenes" and "arenes" which contain double bonds between carbon atoms.
Further 
sub-categorisation is adopted to describe the precise arrangement of carbon atoms.
For example, an alkane may consist of a linear chain of carbon atoms (known as a "straight-chain alkane"), it may be branched where one or more carbon atoms branch off the straight line of joined carbon atoms (known as an "isomer"), or in more complex forms the carbon atoms may be found in a cyclic configuration where the last carbon atoms in a line are linked to form a ring.
5 Crude oil processed at the Lytton and Kurnell Refineries contains a mixture of most hydrocarbons from C1 to C80, with varying molecular structures.
