
 
1 The Applicant and the Respondent in this Application have previously been involved in litigation in the Equity Division of the Supreme Court of New South Wales.
2 In those proceedings the present Respondent was the Plaintiff and the Applicant was the Defendant.
What was in issue was the nature of the arrangement as between them in respect to the development of a property located at Merrylands.
3 During the course of the proceedings in the Supreme Court a costs order was made in favour of the now Respondent which was later assessed to be in the sum of $77,498.96.
Judgment was subsequently entered against the present Applicant in the District Court on 19 December 2007.
4 The present Bankruptcy Notice was served on 11 February 2008 requiring either payment or the making of an " arrangement to the creditor's satisfaction for settlement of the debt " within 21 days.
Annexed to the Bankruptcy Notice was a Certificate of Judgment of the District Court certifying the recovery of judgment in that Court.
5 The Application was filed in this Court on 29 February 2008.
That Application seeks an order setting aside the Bankruptcy Notice .
The power of this Court to set aside a bankruptcy notice was not questioned: Re Sterling; Ex parte Esanda Ltd [1980] FCA 61 ; (1980) 30 ALR 77 at 83 per Lockhart J; Dimasi v Nangiloc Colignan Farms Pty Ltd [2007] FCA 308 at [25] , [2007] FCA 308 ; 239 ALR 330 at 337 per Ryan J.
6 In the present proceeding it is claimed that the Applicant has " a counter-claim, set-off or cross-demand as referred to in s 40(1)(g) " of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth).
Section 41(7) of the 1966 Act has the effect that, upon that Application having been filed, the time for compliance with the Notice is deemed to have been extended until the Court determines the Application .
7 The " counter-claim, set-off or cross-demand " relied upon by the present Applicant is his right to set-off the losses incurred in respect to the development of the Merrylands property.
These losses, it is accepted by the parties, exceed the judgment debt upon which the Bankruptcy Notice is founded.
8 That " counter-claim, set-off or cross-demand " is said by the Applicant to be one that he " could not have set up in the action or proceeding in which the judgment or order was obtained " within the meaning of and for the purposes of s 40(1)(g).
THE SUPREME COURT PROCEEDINGS 
 
9 The litigation in the Supreme Court dates back to 2004 when an Amended Statement of Claim was apparently filed seeking declaratory relief as to the arrangement between the parties in respect to the development property.
To be resolved was whether the nature of any arrangement between the then Plaintiff and Defendant was simply one whereby work was performed in return for remuneration or whether the parties would each be entitled to a 50% share of profits on sale.
10 On 26 April 2006 His Honour Justice Hall of that Court published reasons for his decision that the Plaintiff had an interest in the development property and was entitled to 50% of the profits on sale.
His Honour granted leave to the parties " to bring in short minutes of orders to give effect to the orders proposed ": Esber v Massih [2006] NSWSC 321.
That was done by way of orders made on 8 March 2007, including an order that " there be an account of such profits " and an order that the " Defendant pay the Plaintiff's costs of the proceedings as assessed or agreed ".
11 A Certificate of Determination of Costs dated 15 October 2007 certified that the present Applicant was to pay costs in the sum of $77,498.96.
12 On 8 May 2008 a Notice of Motion was filed in the Supreme Court seeking leave to file and serve a Cross-Claim or seeking a variation of the judgment of Hall J by way of a declaration that " the defendant is entitled to contribution from the plaintiff to half of any losses from the development and sale of the property ".
An Amended Notice of Motion was resolved by Acting Justice Bryson on 31 July 2008 when His Honour concluded in relevant part:
 [4] The order which the trial Judge made on that subject was, obviously in its terms, interlocutory; it is not a final order and could not be the source of any estoppel or res judicata.
The order speaks extremely briefly of an account of profits, obviously in contemplation of further detailed directions about the taking of such an account and about what was to be done with the matter ascertained on taking the account.
... [6] An order for an account of profits, including the order made on 8 March 2007 which used "such profits" to refer back to the declaration previously made, on its ordinary and natural meaning and without any further exposition is an order for an account of losses if matter accounted for should have generated losses.
If the Court had intended anything so strange as an account or enquiry limited only to profits, and to leave ascertainment of losses, if there should be any, to be neglected and not dealt with, there would have been a marked departure from the Court's statutory duty to resolve the whole controversy.
If the order of 8 March 2007 had been intended to effect any [sic] so strange a result I am confident that it would say so in a highly explicit manner.
SECTIONS 40(1)(G)  41(7) 
 
13 Those provisions of the Bankruptcy Act of immediate relevance to the Application now before this Court are ss 40(1)(g) and 41 (7).
14 Section 40(1)(g) of the 1966 Act provides as follows: 
 Acts of bankruptcy (1) A debtor commits an act of bankruptcy in each of the following cases: ... (g) if a creditor who has obtained against the debtor a final judgment or final order, being a judgment or order the execution of which has not been stayed, has served on the debtor in Australia or, by leave of the Court, elsewhere, a bankruptcy notice under this Act and the debtor does not: (i) where the notice was served in Australia--within the time specified in the notice; or (ii) where the notice was served elsewhere--within the time fixed for the purpose by the order giving leave to effect the service; comply with the requirements of the notice or satisfy the Court that he or she has a counter-claim, set-off or cross demand equal to or exceeding the amount of the judgment debt or sum payable under the final order, as the case may be, being a counter-claim, set-off or cross demand that he or she could not have set up in the action or proceeding in which the judgment or order was obtained; ... 
15 Section 41(7) of the 1966 Act provides as follows:
 (7) Where, before the expiration of the time fixed for compliance with the requirements of a bankruptcy notice, the debtor has applied to the Court for an order setting aside the bankruptcy notice on the ground that the debtor has such a counter-claim, set-off or cross demand as is referred to in paragraph 40(1)(g), and the Court has not, before the expiration of that time, determined whether it is satisfied that the debtor has such a counter-claim, set-off or cross demand, that time shall be deemed to have been extended, immediately before its expiration, until and including the day on which the Court determines whether it is so satisfied.
16 Section 41(7) requires the Court to be " satisfied that the debtor has ... a counter-claim, set-off or cross demand " of the kind set forth in s 40(1)(g).
17 To " satisfy " the Court it is not necessary for the debtor to prove, as on a final hearing, the asserted entitlement to recover as against the creditor.
That which is to be established is whether the Court is " satisfied " that the debtor " has a claim deserving to be finally determined ": Re Glew; Glew v Harrowell [2003] FCA 373 at [11] , [2003] FCA 373 ; 198 ALR 331 at 334.
