
 
 1 On 5 February 2007 the first respondent Mr Philip Weeden transferred to the second respondent, his mother Mrs Betty Weeden, one share held by him in each of the companies Weeden Estates Pty Ltd, PCW Estates Pty Ltd and BW Estates Pty Ltd (collectively, the Weeden Companies).
Each share represented two per cent of the issued capital of the company.
The consideration was $2 for each share, a total of $6.
Mrs Weeden already held the remaining 98 per cent.
2 On the following day, 6 February, Mr Weeden became a bankrupt upon the acceptance by the Official Receiver of a debtor's petition presented by him.
The applicants are the trustees of Mr Weeden's bankrupt estate.
They seek an order under s 120 of the Bankruptcy Act 1966 (Cth), or alternatively under s 121 , setting aside the transfers.
Section 120(1) provides that a transfer of property by a person who later becomes a bankrupt is void against the trustee in the transferor's bankruptcy if the transfer took place less than five years before the commencement of the bankruptcy and 
 
 
 (b) the transferee gave no consideration for the transfer or gave consideration of less value than the market value of the property.

 
 
"Market value" is the market value of the property at the time of the transfer: s 120(7).
3 The parties have consented to an order under O 29 r 2 of the Federal Court Rules that the following question be decided separately: 
 Within the meaning of s 120(1)(b) of the Bankruptcy Act 1996 (Cth), what was the market value of the fully paid ordinary share held by the first respondent in 
 
 1.
Weeden Estates Pty Ltd;
 2.
PCW Estates Pty Ltd;
 3.
BW Estates Pty Ltd 
 
at the time of the transfer of such share by the first respondent to the second respondent on 5 February 2007?
4 While a determination of actual market value will no doubt be of assistance to the parties, and the hearing has been conducted on that basis, for the purposes of s 120(1)(b) the applicants need only show that the consideration given was less than the market value, whatever that might be.
5 The bankruptcy of Mr Weeden came about as a result of the failure of the company MSD Sports Pty Ltd which operated a retail chain of sporting apparel and equipment stores under the name Melbourne Sports Depot.
Mr Weeden was the sole director, secretary and shareholder of MSD.
It went into voluntary administration in July 2006 with total liabilities of some $2.4 million and unsecured creditors of almost $2 million.
6 On 6 December 2006 judgment was entered by consent in the County Court against Mr Weeden in two actions for amounts totalling approximately $500,000 plus interest and costs.
7 On 11 January 2007 Mr Weeden resigned as a director of each of the Weeden Companies.
The remaining directors are Mrs Weeden and Mrs Pamela Goldstone, Mr Weeden's sister.
Mrs Goldstone holds an Enduring Power of Attorney from Mrs Weeden.
8 On 16 January 2007 Mr Weeden was served with a bankruptcy notice in respect of one of the County Court judgments.
The last date for compliance was 6 February 2007.
9 In his statement of affairs Mr Weeden disclosed unsecured creditors totalling $596,010.91 and no divisible assets.
Circumstances of the transfers 
 
10 By about late 2004 Mrs Weeden was diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease and by the end of 2006 or early 2007 her mental faculties, including her powers of concentration and both long and short term memory, were diminishing with increasing rapidity.
In addition her physical health was poor.
11 Prior to the transfers Mr Weeden's solicitors obtained a valuation of his shares in the Weeden Companies from Mr Mark Lipson, a director in the firm Sothertons, Chartered Accountants.
In a report dated 5 February 2007 Mr Lipson concluded that the shares had no market value and that it was "reasonable therefore to transfer these shares to the existing shareholder [ie Mrs Weeden] at $2 per share".
I shall return later to details of Mr Lipson's valuation and evidence he gave at the hearing.
12 At a subsequent meeting of his creditors Mr Weeden said that he transferred the shares in the Weeden Companies in order to "streamline his affairs" as "he considered it appropriate to transfer the shares at market value".
He said that he had transferred the shares after he had taken advice from his solicitor and that he understood the term "streamlined"
 to be a process of simplifying the affairs so that the bankruptcy was less complicated... [and that] he needed to divest himself of the shares to avoid bankruptcy.
[This was done] in order to avoid the complexities that would have been incurred with the family companies, the advice given to him was to have the affairs simplified by transferring the shares.
He said that he arrived at the market value after consulting Mr Lipson.
13 Mr Weeden did not give evidence.
Thus there is no explanation as to why, with bankruptcy imminent, he did not wait to ask the trustee in bankruptcy whether such "streamlining" was necessary or desirable.
Assets of the Weeden Companies 
 
14 The Weeden Companies together with other entities (collectively, the Related Entities) constitute the Weeden Group, which is under the control of the Weeden family.
There are other Associated Entities (the Associated Entities).
The accounts of the Weeden Companies for the year ended 30 June 2006 were in evidence.
By their non-response to a notice to admit, the respondents have admitted that as at February 2007 the assets of the various Weeden Companies were as follows:
 
 Current Assets Net Assets Weeden Estates $3,986,568 $4,005,346 PCW Estates $3,882,551 $3,463,107 BW Estates $3,622,032 $3,609,769 

 
15 With one minor exception, the Weeden Companies' assets consist of loans to Related Entities.
