
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 The applicant, Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (Commission), seeks against the respondent, British Airways PLC (British Airways), the imposition of a pecuniary penalty pursuant to s 76 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (the Act) and injunctive relief pursuant to s 80 of the Act.
The application relates to a collusive understanding entered into between British Airways and its competitor Lufthansa Cargo Aktiengesellschaft (Lufthansa) in respect of an element in the price to be charged by them for the carriage of international air cargo between March 2002 and February 2006 (the relevant period).
2 British Airways and Lufthansa arrived at an understanding which had the purpose and likely effect of fixing fuel surcharges for their carriage of air cargo on certain international cargo routes including routes to and from Australia (the Fuel Surcharge Understanding).
3 The Commission and British Airways have put before the Court a "Statement of Agreed Facts and Admissions by [British Airways]", together with "Joint Submissions", in support of the imposition of a penalty of $5 million and the granting of particular injunctive relief.
4 The two documents entitled "Statement of Agreed Facts and Admissions by [British Airways]" and "Joint Submissions" were annexed to an affidavit.
They should not have been.
Apart from any other reason why they should not have been is that being part of an affidavit they could not be inspected without the leave of the Court or a Judge: see O 46 r 6(3)(a) of the Federal Court Rules .
The rule applies even in respect of an affidavit that has been read in whole or in part on a hearing.
Apparently the documents were annexed to the affidavit due to an oversight, and there was no opposition to my making an order on the hearing that leave was granted to any person to inspect the affidavit.
5 For the purpose of this proceeding only, British Airways has admitted that its conduct in arriving at and giving effect to the Fuel Surcharge Understanding constituted conduct in contravention of s 45 of the Act.
6 The parties acknowledge that it is for the Court to be satisfied that British Airways did contravene s 45 of the Act occurred and to determine the quantum of any pecuniary penalty and the nature of other relief that to be ordered.
BRITISH AIRWAYS' CONDUCT 
 
7 What follows under this heading is paras 2-59 of the "Statement of Agreed Facts and Admissions by [British Airways]", my observations being shown in square brackets:
 Description of the Market 2. International air cargo is carried both on passenger aeroplanes, using available hold capacity, and on dedicated air freighters.
Carriers issue a document known as an air waybill (or bill of lading) for the carriage of air cargo.
The air waybill contains the terms and conditions for the carriage of international air cargo including the price of carriage from origin to destination, and serves as the receipt for the shipper, indicating that the carrier has accepted the cargo and is obliged to carry it to its destination.
Fuel surcharges, the subject of the contravening conduct were included on the air waybill.
3.
Air cargo services are provided "one way" from origin to destination, either directly or using an indirect route via one or more midpoints.
Most carriers provide air cargo services on a network-wide basis using their own route networks that offer regular services in different directions.
Through interline and other arrangements with other carriers they also offer air cargo services to or from airports which their own aircraft do not serve directly.
The networks of carriers extensively overlap such that there are various carriers operating to and from any international airport.
4.
Airlines predominantly provide international air cargo services to freight forwarders although individual shippers also acquire their services.
Freight forwarders generally organise the integrated transport of goods on behalf of a range of shippers.
In doing so, they purchase air cargo services from the carriers.
... 5.
The Commission considers, and British Airways does not dispute for the purposes of these proceedings, that the most appropriate market for analysing the conduct the subject of these proceedings is and has been at all material times a worldwide market for air cargo services, hereinafter referred to as the Air Cargo Market, and international air cargo carriers, including British Airways and Lufthansa, are, and at all material times have been, actual or potential competitors in the supply of international air cargo services in the Air Cargo Market.
The respondent 6.
During the relevant period British Airways: 
 
 6.1 carried on business in Australia and elsewhere as a carrier of passengers and air cargo;
 6.2 employed approximately 42,755 staff and operated flights to 147 destinations in 75 countries excluding code-sharing and franchise arrangements;
 6.3 was the tenth largest carrier of air cargo in the world and accounted for slightly less than 3% of international air cargo carried to and from Australia; and
 6.4 was a publicly listed company incorporated in the United Kingdom and a foreign corporation in Australia within the meaning of section 4 of the Act.

 
7.
