
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 This appeal concerns the tax payable by Mr Watson on his income for the financial year ended 30 June 2004.
Mr Watson appeals from a decision of the Deputy Commissioner of Taxation (the Commissioner) made on 7 February 2007.
2 The Commissioner decided in relation to the financial year ended 30 June 2004 that payments Mr Watson received under a personal income protection insurance policy were not assessable income from his business activity as a financial planner.
His business activity otherwise operated at a loss for that year of income, but it would not have done so if Mr Watson could have included the income from the personal income protection insurance policy as assessable income of the business.
The loss suffered in the operation of the business was then treated as a deferred expense, capable of being carried forward, but not capable of being a deduction against his other assessable income, namely the income from the personal income protection insurance policy.
That decision was made under Div 35 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) (the ITAA 1997) headed "Deferral of losses from non-commercial business activities".
3 Mr Watson contends that the decision of the Commissioner was wrong.
THE FACTS 
 
4 Mr Watson was born in 1959.
In 1984, he commenced working as a self-employed financial planner.
He took out income protection insurance at that time, as he says partially to replace the commission or income which he would lose if he could not continue to work in his business through illness or injury.
He has maintained that insurance since that time.
He has conducted his business as a sole trader at all material times.
It involves advising clients on their life insurance and investment needs, recommending an insurance or investment strategy, assisting and implementing the resulting strategy, and monitoring the performance of that strategy and its continued appropriateness to the client's evolving needs.
Those activities generally fall within the description of a financial planning business.
Mr Watson received remuneration by those activities both from fees paid to him by his clients and from commissions paid by investment institutions with which he arranged for his clients to make investments.
5 Initially, Mr Watson was an agent of the life insurance company National Mutual, but after some years he became an authorised agent of its subsidiary National Mutual Financial Planning.
As a result, he was able to recommend financial products other than those provided by National Mutual.
From July 1992 he became a "sub-agent", but nothing turns upon that changed description or the changed structure of his relationship with National Mutual Financial Planning.
In 1995, following the de-mutualising of National Mutual, the French insurance company AXA took a controlling interest in National Mutual and from 1999 National Mutual Financial Planning became known as AXA Financial Planners.
In July 2002, Mr Watson ceased being an authorised representative of AXA Financial Planners and became an authorised representative of Financial Lifestyle Solutions.
6 From 1995, the policy terms for Mr Watson's income protection insurance were changed.
It is common ground that it is the form of policy for income protection cover taken from 3 January 1996 which is the applicable policy.
It is a policy of income protection known as "Professional Income Protection" or "PIP".
7 Unfortunately, later in 1996, Mr Watson fell ill.
He was diagnosed as having a brain tumour for which he underwent surgery in November 1996.
He had a period of total incapacity for work as a result, but then recovered well enough to return to his former business activities, but with somewhat reduced capacity.
He had some short term memory difficulty, inability to concentrate and a tendency to confuse words and sporadic quite debilitating seizures.
He was diagnosed with a further brain tumour in mid-2004 which was treated by radiotherapy.
He nevertheless returned to most of his business activities but at a reduced volume of activity, and he now concentrates on servicing existing clients rather than representing new clients because of his ongoing problems.
8 Mr Watson made a claim under the PIP policy for periodic partial disability payments.
It appears to be accepted by the insurer, and not disputed by the Commissioner, that Mr Watson is partially disabled from working.
At one point (unspecified as to date), he sought some advice from the insurer about his situation and was informed, according to his note, in the following terms:
 
 When a proposal is received by underwriting, their occupation is considered when accepting someone as a risk for an income protection policy with an own occupation clause.
If a person changes their occupation while on claim and earns income, then the income earned does reduce their benefit.
The test for this is whether the income has been earned through person exertion.
Thirdly, if a client is working in their usual occupation but at a reduced income due to their disability, there is no obligation on the client to seek other work.


It is unclear whether that information has prompted Mr Watson to continue operating his financial planning business.
It is also unclear whether that information, in the event that Mr Watson ceased running his financial planning business, fully and correctly describes the way in which the amount of his entitlements under the PIP policy would be assessed.
9 Ultimately, but not without some difficulty, the claim under the PIP policy was accepted and the amount of Mr Watson's entitlements under it resolved.
Partial incapacity payments commenced on 1 October 1996.
For the last several years, Mr Watson has continued to receive payments at a rate applicable to his ongoing partial incapacity for work.
10 In the financial years from 1997 to 2004, Mr Watson's gross fee and commission income in his business decreased somewhat, particularly from financial year ended 30 June 2000 and then quite dramatically in the last few years up to 30 June 2004.
His business expenses remained more or less constant until the financial years ended 30 June 2003 and 30 June 2004 when they too had dropped quite significantly.
He had a shortfall of fee and commission income against business expenses in each of the financial years from 30 June 2001 to 30 June 2004.
In each of those years, and indeed for some years previously, he had received benefits under his PIP policy in the order of $25,000 per year.
It is not necessary to set out the precise details except for the year of income in dispute.
11 In the financial year ended 30 June 2004, Mr Watson's income from his financial planning business (putting aside his partial disability payments under the PIP policy) was $9896, and his expenses $14,554, producing a net loss of $4938.
He sought to include as the income of the business his payments from his income protection policy of $25,719.
That would then have meant Mr Watson's taxable income for that year included business income of $35,615 and, after business expenses and other deductions, his taxable income would have been $20,781.
The Commissioner excluded the partial disability payments under the PIP policy from his business income and determined for that financial year to defer the business loss of $4938 in accordance with Div 35 of the ITAA 1997.
Consequently, the Commissioner assessed Mr Watson's taxable income as including his full PIP policy income of $25,719 (subject to any other appropriate deductions).
12 There are a few other matters of fact to note, as they were referred to in the submissions.
Mr Watson gave evidence that his financial planning business activities included what he described as "non-financial planning business activities" but more accurately are incidental and related activities.
Those activities included obtaining the appropriate licences and professional and statutory registrations, undertaking training in financial planning, securing premises and equipment and consumables to carry on the business, incidental and necessary travel, securing business finance and banking facilities, and obtaining insurance including for loss to premises or equipment, professional indemnity insurance, and of course his income protection insurance.
He said his main purpose in carrying on his business was to be financially self-sufficient by carrying on business as a financial planner.
13 Finally, I note that since payments under PIP policy first commenced on 31 October 1996, under the terms of the policy, Mr Watson has not been obliged to make any further premium payments.
In his own accounts, he treated the premiums as an expense of his business and the policy as an asset of his business.
In his claims and dealings with the insurer, including extensive reporting activities, he has reported it in that way.
He has also in the period before his illness and up to the time when his obligation to pay annual premiums ceased claimed, and been allowed, a deduction against the commission or fee income he derived from carrying on his business in respect of the premiums he has paid.
THE PIP POLICY 
 
14 As there were submissions about the significance of the terms of the PIP policy, it is convenient at this point to note some of its terms.
It is described as "an income protection insurance policy" which, according to the schedule, insured Mr Watson to pay him weekly benefits if he suffered total disability through injury or sickness.
The relevant clause provides as follows:
 
 If the person is totally disabled, we will pay you the weekly benefit.
We will pay you at the end of each fortnight for which you are entitled to be paid.
