
 
1 Harbin Pty Ltd has admitted contravening s 52 and s 53(e) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) in one segment of a full page newspaper advertisement for its products.
The publication was made on 29 March 2007 and was not repeated.
The matter now in issue is that of remedy, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission seeking a significant suite of orders which Harbin in large measure resists.
2 The context in which I need to consider this matter is somewhat unusual.
In September 2004 the ACCC accepted an undertaking of indefinite duration from Harbin under s 87B of the Act which amongst other things obliged Harbin to establish, maintain and have independently audited annually a compliance program which was to have specific regard to conduct that might breach Part V of the TP Act.
The undertaking is, in several respects, more expansive in its terms than would be acceptable to a Court making orders under s 86C of the Act: see Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Visy Paper Pty Ltd (No 2) (2004) 212 ALR 564 at [55]-[56].
It has not been alleged that this undertaking has been breached.
Nonetheless, a further probation order is being sought under s 86C.
3 My own view of the relief that is appropriate to be ordered is less burdensome than what is now sought by the ACCC (the amended application filed at the hearing responded to objections raised in Harbin's written submissions), but is more demanding than Harbin would concede.
THE FACTUAL SETTING 
 
4 I begin with an abbreviated version of the parties' Statement of Agreed Facts.
5 (i) Harbin, trading as "Ray's Outdoors", carries on a business as a retailer of outdoor and camping goods at approximately 37 retail stores throughout Victoria, New South Wales, South Australia and Queensland.
At the relevant time it had three such stores in South Australia, one of which, at Elizabeth, was a new store.
6 (ii) During the period 29 March to 31 March 2007, Harbin conducted an "Elizabeth Opening Sale" to promote the new store.
On 29 March it caused the publication of a full page advertisement in the Advertiser newspaper promoting the sale.
The Advertisement contained amongst other things an image of a barbecue adjacent to which were (a) the words "Rio Grand BBQ" in black text; (b) the characters $299.99 in black text struck through with a red line ("the Strikethrough Price"); and (c) the characters $99 in red text ("the Sale Price").
7 (iii) By so doing Harbin represented that the price ordinary customers would have paid in Ray's Outdoors stores to purchase the barbecue immediately prior to 29 March 2007 was the Strikethrough Price ("The Price Representation"); and that it was offering the barbecue for sale to ordinary customers in Ray's Outdoors Stores at a saving of $200.99 for the duration of the sale ("the Saving Representation").
8 (iv) It is agreed for the purposes of this proceeding that ordinary customers are members of the public other than persons who, when purchasing a product at Ray's Outdoors Store, qualify for a discount by reason of a circumstance that is additional to the purchase of a product.
9 (v) Contrary to the Price Representation, the price ordinary customers would have paid in Ray's Outdoors Stores to purchase the barbecue immediately prior to 29 March was less than the Strikethrough Price.
And prior to that date, ordinary customers last paid the Strikethrough Price on 15 October 2006.
10 (vi) Contrary to the Saving Representation, Harbin was offering the barbecue for sale to ordinary customers at a saving of less than $200.99 for the duration of the sale.
