
 
1 The First Applicant in this proceeding, Readymix Holdings International Pte Ltd ( Readymix Holdings ), is one of what has been described as " the Readymix group of companies ".
Readymix Holdings was previously known as Readymix Management Services Pte Ltd.
The Readymix group is in the business of manufacturing and supplying ready-mixed concrete and quarry products in Indonesia, Vietnam, Brunei and Singapore, and to remote infrastructure projects across South East Asia.
2 The Second Applicant, PT Readymix Concrete Indonesia ( Readymix Indonesia ), is also a part of the Readymix group.
Its business is that of manufacturing and supplying concrete and quarry products in the East Java market.
The quarry it operates, known as the Jeladri Quarry, is located some two hours' drive from Surabaya.
3 The First Respondent, Wieland Process Equipment Pty Ltd ( Wieland Equipment ), manufactures equipment used in the mining industry.
The Second Respondent, Mr Stuart Wieland, is its Managing Director.
He has held that position for a period in excess of ten years and has been involved in the manufacture of mining and earthmoving equipment since 1985.
4 The Application was first filed in this Court on 15 March 2004.
5 Whatever be the reason for the delay in the progress of this case to hearing, it is sufficient for present purposes to note that directions were finally made on 3 December 2007 for the filing of evidence.
On 20 March 2008 the proceeding was set down for hearing for two weeks commencing 21 July 2008.
Notwithstanding those directions, on 18 July 2008 the Applicants served upon the Respondents a further Affidavit in support of their claim for loss or damage.
Not surprisingly, Counsel for the Respondents claimed prejudice and sought a vacation of the entire hearing.
6 No satisfactory explanation for the delay in the service of the Affidavit was then forthcoming from the Applicants and the claim of prejudice advanced on behalf of the Respondents could not summarily be dismissed.
Prior to that Affidavit being served, no order had been sought for separate hearings on liability and damages.
Other than vacating the hearing and ordering the Applicants to pay costs (possibly on an indemnity basis), little choice was left open other than to determine liability first and to reserve to the Respondents the opportunity to seek such orders as to costs occasioned by a resumed hearing on damages.
Witnesses required for cross-examination had been flown to Sydney, including from overseas.
The desirability of attempting to accommodate the convenience of expert witnesses also dictated that so much of the hearing as could then occur should proceed.
CLAIMS BEING MADE 
 
7 The Applicants in their Second Further Amended Statement of Claim as filed on 21 July 2008 claim:
 
(a) damages for breach of a contract executed on 7 February 2003 as between Readymix Management Services Pte Ltd and Wieland Equipment .
The conditions of the contract said to have been breached include breach of both express provisions and provisions implied by reason of s 14(a) of the Sale of Goods Act 1895 (SA), s 19(1) of the Sale of Goods Act 1923 (NSW) and conditions implied " to give business efficacy to the Contract "; 
 
(b) damages as against both Respondents for breach of s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth); and
 
(c) damages by reason of negligent misrepresentation.
The claim reliant upon negligent misrepresentation was abandoned during the course of the hearing.
8 Albeit addressed in a different order to that pursued in the Second Further Amended Statement of Claim , for the reasons expressed below it has been concluded (in summary form) that:
 
(a) there has been conduct engaged in by the First Respondent contravening s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth); 
 
(b) the Second Respondent is also liable for such contravening conduct by reason of s 75B of the 1974 Act;
 
(c) there is an implied term of the February 2003 contract between Readymix Management Services Pte Ltd, now known as Readymix Holdings , and Wieland Equipment that the machine supplied pursuant to that contract (described as an SLP 1100) would be " fit for purpose ";
 
(d) there has been a breach of that contract as executed in February 2003 as the SLP 1100 supplied was not " fit for purpose "; and
 
(e) the Applicants have suffered loss or damage arising by reason of the contravention of the 1974 Act and the breach of contract.
It remains necessary to resolve at a resumed hearing the quantum of the loss or damage suffered by the Applicants.
ORIGINS OF THE DISPUTE 
 
9 The dispute between the parties has its origins in Indonesia.
10 In 1997 Readymix Indonesia decided to establish a crushing plant to produce concrete aggregates and it located a suitable site in that same year.
By 2001 the demand for quarry products and concrete had increased and by May 2002 a decision had been made to replace an existing stone crusher, a 1970's Pegson primary crusher.
A " primary crusher " is usually the first in line of a number of rock crushing machines used to process and reduce rock to a required size.
11 The Pegson crusher over time had (not surprisingly) suffered wear and tear and ultimately it became necessary to find a replacement.
12 Although it is necessary to resolve the dispute to descend into the facts in greater detail, for present purposes it is sufficient to note that there were discussions between (in particular) the Managing Director of Readymix Holdings (Mr Nicholas Cocks) and a Mr Steve Mellor in 2002 and 2003.
Those discussions focussed upon obtaining a replacement crusher.
Mr Mellor was then employed by Chemex Pte Ltd (" Chemex ") and was a person regarded by both Mr Nicholas Cocks and his brother (Mr Jonathon Cocks) as having the requisite expertise to provide advice.
Mr Jonathon Cocks was the Group Operations Director.
13 On or about 11 September 2002 Readymix Management Services Pte Ltd entered into an agreement with Chemex to purchase the SLP 1100 crusher (the " Chemex Agreement ").
This was a machine manufactured by Wieland Equipment .
" SLP " apparently stands for " Super Low Profile " and the SLP 1100 was a machine specifically designed for mobile applications such that it could easily be mounted on a mobile trailer or tracks and moved from site to site.
14 The SLP 1100 supplied pursuant to that agreement was installed in late December 2002.
But by January 2003 difficulties with it were already being experienced.
15 The dispute which followed immediately thereafter was in part resolved by a further agreement executed on 7 February 2003.
The parties to that agreement were Readymix Management Services Pte Ltd (now known as Readymix Holdings ) and Wieland Equipment .
A second SLP 1100 was supplied in accordance with that second agreement and installed and commissioned in April 2003.
It worked satisfactorily until about August 2003.
Difficulties were again experienced and in September 2003 the second SLP 1100 was decommissioned.
16 In early 2004 Readymix Holdings purchased a replacement crusher from a different supplier, described as a Jaques machine.
17 In summary form, the Applicants contend that representations and statements were made as to the fitness and suitability of the SLP 1100 for use in the Indonesian quarry and that -- notwithstanding the representations and statements -- that crusher was manifestly not fit for that purpose.
They also contend that representations were made as to the reliability of the SLP 1100 in circumstances where those representations were misleading or deceptive.
Reliance was placed by the Applicants, they contend, upon what they had been told and as a result they have suffered loss and damage.
18 The Respondents, again in summary form, maintain that the reason why the first SLP 1100 failed was because it was dropped and damaged after it was shipped to the Applicants.
The second SLP 1100, commissioned in April 2003, they contend, failed because it was improperly maintained.
SELECTION OF THE SLP 1100 
 
19 The Pegson crusher, which was the primary crusher on site up to its replacement, was deteriorating by 2002.
20 The decision to replace this deteriorating Pegson crusher was described by Mr Jonathon Cocks as a " substantial investment ".
Mr Jonathon Cocks regarded the purchase of a primary crusher as a " major item " which involved " considerable expenditure ".
In assisting the decision to be made, the services of Mr Mellor were called upon.
He was regarded by both Mr Jonathon Cocks and Mr Nicholas Cocks as a person experienced in concrete crushing equipment.
He had previously supplied parts to the site in Indonesia and had also previously been retained by Readymix Holdings (or its predecessor) as an expert in a dispute between it and one of its customers.
21 Steps to find a replacement primary crusher obviously commenced prior to the purchase of the first SLP 1100 in September 2002.
22 Mr Mellor and Mr Nicholas Cocks had thus visited the Sydney workshop of Wieland Equipment in June 2002.
The visit occupied some hours, from 9.00 am to 2.00 pm.
There was then no SLP 1100 available to be inspected by Mr Nicholas Cocks but he was told by a " fitter " on site that the SLP 1100 was a crusher which was being produced.
During that visit an employee of Wieland Equipment , Mr David Bannister, had also described that company ( inter alia ) as a " reputable operation ".
The conversation with Mr Bannister concerning the SLP 1100 was, however, " quite brief ".
Brochures were supplied and Mr Nicholas Cocks went away believing that Wieland Equipment produced " good quality machines ".
23 At a board meeting of Readymix Holdings on about 21 August 2002, a decision was taken not to purchase a new primary rock crusher but to purchase a smaller Chinese Shan Bao rock crusher to replace the Pegson crusher.
But by 31 August Mr Jonathon Cocks had emailed Mr Mellor advising him that a further decision had apparently been taken to delay the purchase of a primary crusher and to rent a machine for a period of 6---12 months.
But they were unable to find a suitable rental solution.
It was considered that the " best arrangement " was to purchase the Chinese manufactured crusher.
Mr Jonathon Cocks emailed Mr Mellor on that date advising him of that decision.
Mr Mellor replied stating that he could secure a " more recent version of your Pegson crusher " and could have it delivered in three weeks.
The following day Mr Mellor advised that he could offer the " most suitable Chinese crusher ", the Shan Bao, and further advised that if a decision was made to purchase that crusher, spare parts should be ordered at the same time.
24 As between 21---31 August 2002, if not far earlier, Readymix Holdings was clearly exploring its options.
Thereafter, Mr Nicholas Cocks sought out Mr Mellor and organised a lunch in Singapore on 4 September 2002 to explore with Mr Mellor the available " options ".
A variety of other crushers were discussed at that lunch and Mr Mellor then recommended the purchase of the Wieland SLP 1100 which he said was " far superior to the Chinese Shan Bao model ".
Mr Mellor further advised that " Readymix can expect a longer life from the SLP 1100 " and that the " Wieland SLP 1100 will meet what I understand to be your production requirements of at [least] 1500 tonnes per day ".
An email confirming the recommendations made was sent to Mr Nicholas Cocks (and copied to Mr Jonathon Cocks) after the 4 September lunch had concluded.
A hand-written note made by Mr Nicholas Cocks of the lunch also recorded in part as follows:
 ...
Hydraulic adjustment $59,500 Bearings oversize --- SKF Ex China Delivery 3 Weeks Untested 4 Tested Same factory as TIBE --- Quality OK Produced 3 units ... 
25 Although Mr Nicholas Cocks could not recall Mr Mellor telephoning Mr Wieland during the course of that lunch, Mr Mellor clearly did so.
Mr Mellor telephoned Mr Wieland for the purpose of obtaining information to answer questions being put by Mr Nicholas Cocks.
26 There thereafter ensued a period during which the price of the SLP 1100 was negotiated, including a buy-back clause subject to conditions.
On 7 September 2002 Mr Mellor was advised that the SLP 1100 could be purchased for $55,000 and that Wieland Equipment would agree to a buy-back clause.
27 The contract with Chemex for the supply of the SLP 1100 was thereafter executed on 11 September 2002.
28 Other statements had also been made by Mr Mellor.
