
 Background and framework issues 
 
1 The applicant in these proceedings seeks a declaration that the following extraordinary resolutions declared passed on 29 April 2008 at a meeting of members of a managed investment scheme described as Australian Olives Project No.
4 ('Project 4') registered under the provisions of Part 5C.1 of Chapter 5C of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) ('the Act') were not validly passed and were defeated: 
 
 
 (a) Subject to Extraordinary Resolution 2 being passed, that the current responsible entity of the Project, Australian Olives Limited ACN 078 885 042 be removed as responsible entity of the Project, and 
 
 (b) That Huntley Management Limited ACN 089 240 513 be appointed as the new responsible entity of the Project.

 
 

2 At the meeting of members held on 29 April 2008 the chair of the meeting refused to accept the votes of 237 interests in Project 4 sought to be cast by a member, Tyrone O'Grady Pty Ltd ('TOG'), by proxy.
TOG had acquired those interests as trustee for the Tyrone O'Grady Trust from the responsible entity for the scheme, Australian Olives Limited ('AOL').
The chair, Mr Spyridon (Spiros) Livadaras, the first respondent, decided that the votes of TOG had to be excluded by operation of s 253E of the Act as TOG was an associate of the responsible entity, the present applicant.
3 Section 253E of the Act provides that a responsible entity of a registered managed investment scheme 'and its associates' are not entitled to vote 'their interest' on a resolution at a meeting of the scheme's members if they have an interest in the resolution other than as a member.
Since the proposed resolution concerned the removal of AOL as responsible entity and its replacement with the second respondent, Huntley Management Limited ('Huntley'), AOL plainly had an interest in the resolution.
4 Mr Livadaras decided that TOG was an associate of AOL for the purposes of s 12(2)(c) of the Act because each of them were acting in concert in relation to the voting of TOG' s 237 interests in the scheme so as to ensure that the resolutions would be defeated and AOL retained as the responsible entity of the scheme.
The 237 voting interests of TOG in the scheme were decisive of the outcome of the vote.
Had those votes been accepted by the chair, the resolutions would have been defeated.
5 The arrangement constituting 'acting in concert in relation to the designated body's affairs' as contemplated by s 12(2)(c) of the Act was said to comprise an arrangement for the sale by AOL of 237 interests in the scheme, repossessed by AOL from defaulting scheme members, to TOG on Friday, 7 December 2007 at 5.37pm in anticipation of a meeting of members to be held on Monday morning, 10 December 2007 to consider resolutions to remove AOL as responsible entity of Project 4 and replace it with a company called Primary Securities Ltd ('PSL').
The sale was said to be necessary as AOL could not vote the repossessed interests on the resolutions by operation of s 253E and thus the votes had to be sold and transferred to an entity apparently at arms-length to AOL.
The arrangement is said to comprise an agreement with AOL by which TOG would cast the votes thus acquired against the resolutions.
The proposed meeting of scheme members on 10 December 2007 did not proceed as PSL ultimately refused to accept the role.
Accordingly, a fresh meeting of scheme members was convened by notice for 29 April 2008 to consider the resolutions at [1].
6 Mr Livadaras decided as chair of the meeting on 29 April 2008 that a number of foundation facts led him to the conclusion that AOL and TOG were associates.
Broadly, those facts included: the initial compression in the timing of the sale of the repossessed interests on 7 December 2007 at 5.37pm and the meeting of scheme members convened for 10 December 2007; secondly, the perceived extensive business relationship between a director of TOG, Mr Sean Coney and the directors of AOL (and, in particular, Mr Blake Ammit); thirdly, aspects of the repossession and sale by AOL of the 237 interests to TOG; and fourthly, the granting of a proxy by TOG to Mr Ammit to vote against the resolutions.
In addition, Mr Livadaras says he received written legal advice on 28 April 2008 concerning the provisions of the Act in relation to associates and the right of AOL and any associate of AOL to vote on the resolutions.
Mr Livadaras says he also received legal advice orally during the course of the meeting.
These considerations among other matters satisfied Mr Livadaras that AOL and TOG were acting in concert in both the initial sale and purchase of the interests so as to enable the votes to be cast and avoid the operation of s 253E of the Act, and in the casting of TOG's votes against the resolutions.
7 In so deciding, Mr Livadaras had to first decide in the course of the meeting a question of fact, namely, whether AOL and TOG were acting or proposing to act in concert in relation to the resolutions, that is, whether AOL and TOG were pursuing a common purpose to transfer the interests to TOG to enable it to cast the votes against the resolutions at the initial meeting and consistent with that purpose, to cast the votes against the resolutions at the meeting on 29 April 2008.
Having decided those factual questions, Mr Livadaras was satisfied the elements of s 12(2)(c) of the Act were made out and thus TOG was an associate of AOL, as a matter of law.
That decision led to a further conclusion of law that s 253E of the Act required him to exclude the votes of TOG.
8 As a result, the applicant also seeks a declaration that TOG is not an associate of AOL within the meaning of the Act.
The applicant also seeks a declaration that AOL remains the responsible entity of Project 4 and an order pursuant to s 1332(4)(b) of the Act directing the rectification of the register maintained by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ('ASIC') so as to record AOL as the continuing responsible entity of Project 4.
The third to ninth respondents are members of Project 4 and the application is directed to all of the Project 4 members.
The application has been sent by post to each of them pursuant to interlocutory orders.
9 The applicant contends that the denial of TOG's right to vote is the denial of a substantive right, not simply a procedural irregularity.
The applicant says the irregularity can not be cured by operation of s 1322(2) of the Act which is in these terms:
 1322(2) A proceeding under this Act is not invalidated because of any procedural irregularity unless the Court is of the opinion that the irregularity has caused or may cause substantial injustice that cannot be remedied by any order of the Court and by order declares the proceeding to be invalid.
10 Secondly, the applicant says s 253G of the Act which is in these terms,
 253G A challenge to a right to vote at a meeting of members of a registered scheme: (a) may only be made at the meeting; and (b) must be determined by the chair, whose decision is final.
does not operate as a privative clause foreclosing supervisory review by the Court of the decision of the chair of the meeting for three reasons.
11 First, Mr Livadaras, it is said, came to the meeting and the discharge of his role as chair with a pre-determined view and failed to act impartially.
He thus decided to reject the votes of TOG, lacking good faith.
Mr Livadaras is a certified practising accountant in the employ of a firm of accountants and advisers called Stantins.
That firm acts for a number of the members of Project 4.
The applicant contends that Mr Livadaras in his role as an employee of Stantins has either initiated or coordinated the calling of meetings of members of Project 4 to remove AOL as the responsible entity of Project 4 and meetings of members of other managed investment olive schemes of which AOL is the responsible entity, so as to remove AOL from those schemes.
In that sense, Mr Livadaras is seen as a committed prime mover in the removal of AOL and, it is said, brought that perception of AOL to his role as chair of the meeting.
12 Secondly, the applicant says the chair was simply wrong on the factual questions.
The applicant says that error, leading to an error of law, is justiciable on all the evidence now available to the Court including, in particular, the sworn evidence of Mr Ammit and Mr Coney who were subjected to cross-examination.
Accordingly, there is no evidence to support the contention that AOL and TOG were acting in concert as Mr Livadaras thought.
The applicant says the foundation facts relied upon by the respondents in evidence do not support an inference of fact as to acting in concert and in any event, no such inference could be drawn by the Court in the face of the direct evidence of Mr Ammit and Mr Coney contradicting the contended inference.
13 Thirdly, the applicant says the decision of the chair is susceptible of review on grounds analogous to the review of public administrative decisions including such grounds as a failure of the chair to take into account all relevant matters, taking into account irrelevant matters and reaching a decision that no reasonable chair properly directing himself or herself to the relevant duties, could properly reach.
In any event, the applicant puts its case in this matter on the footing that there is 'no evidence' on which the chair could have reached his conclusion that AOL and TOG were associates and no evidence is now before the Court to support the conclusion he reached.
14 The respondents say the evidence of Mr Ammit and Mr Coney should be rejected and an inference drawn of a common purpose as contended, drawn from a body of foundation facts to be described shortly.
Secondly, the respondents say that the applicant has failed to comply with the scheme's Constitution and other documents governing the repossession and sale of the 237 interests of the defaulting members in the scheme.
The respondents say AOL failed to give the defaulting members notice of the proposed sale of the relevant interests as required and thus TOG did not acquire those interests lawfully.
It follows, it is said, that TOG could not vote those interests at the meeting on 29 April 2008 in any event.
Thirdly, the respondents say no instrument of assignment duly stamped was brought into existence in accordance with cl 18 of the Constitution and thus AOL was not entitled to register a transfer from AOL to TOG as assignee.
Fourthly, the respondents say that no order for rectification can be made by the Court under s 1322(4)(b) of the Act as such an order can only be made consequential upon an order made under s 1322(4)(a) and no such order is sought by the applicant in these proceedings.
Section 1322(4) is in these terms:
 1322(4) [Court may make orders] Subject to the following provision of this section but without limiting the generality of any other provision of this Act, the Court may, on application by any interested person, make all or any of the following orders, either unconditionally or subject to such conditions as the Court imposes: (a) an order declaring that any act, matter or thing purporting to have been done, or any proceeding purporting to have been instituted or taken, under this Act or in relation to a corporation is not invalid by reason of any contravention of a provision of this Act or a provision of the constitution of a corporation; (b) an order directing the rectification of any register kept by ASIC under this Act; (c) an order relieving a person in whole or in part from the civil liability in respect of a contravention or failure of a kind referred to in paragraph (a); (d) an order extending the period for doing any act, matter or thing or instituting or taking any proceeding under this Act or in relation to a corporation (including an order extending a period where the period concerned ended before the application for the order was made) or abridging the period for doing such an act, matter or thing or instituting or taking such a proceeding; and may make such consequential or ancillary orders as the Court thinks fit.
The Project 4 Scheme and nature of a scheme interest 
 
15 Project 4 is a managed investment scheme registered under the Act in March 2001 and governed by a Constitution which is binding on all members and the responsible entity of the scheme.
Clause 11.4(a) of the Constitution describes the scheme as a project established for the purpose of inviting persons 'to become proprietors of their own business venture in the field of planting, maintaining and harvesting olive trees followed by marketing the olives and olive products'.
A person wishing to so participate makes an application either in accordance with a prospectus or in the manner described in cl 13.1 of the Constitution .
Upon acceptance by the responsible entity of an application, the participant enters into a Grove Licence Agreement for the use of a 'grove' as a farm and a Grove Agreement appointing the responsible entity to 'manage the member's business venture'.
The participant agrees to be bound by the Constitution (cl 11.4(b)).
The responsible entity is to ensure that land is available for the purpose of allocating groves on that land to members of the scheme (cl 11.5).
A person is a member of Project 4 if that person holds an 'interest' in the scheme.
A person holds an interest if their application has been accepted by the responsible entity and a Grove Licence Agreement and Grove Agreement is in force (cl 14.1(b)).
16 A grove is that 'specified and identifiable area of land on which a member carries or will carry on the business of primary production' (Schedule 1 - Dictionary).
An interest in Project 4 includes a member's participation in a Grove Licence Agreement and a Grove Agreement; the member's business in carrying on the primary production enterprise; and the 'net proceeds which result from the member carrying on its business' (Dictionary).
A single interest is held in respect of a single grove and two interests are held in respect of two groves and so on.
The 'term' of the project is that determined by the events or the period described in cl 11.2 of the Constitution .
The responsible entity is entitled to regard the register of members as conclusive proof of membership at any given time (cl 14.2).
The responsible entity must establish an 'Application Fund' for receipt of all application money received from applicants and a 'Proceeds Fund' for the receipt of all money generated from the project excluding the initial application money.
The responsible entity may transfer money from the Application Fund in accordance with cl 15.1.
An applicant has an interest in the Application Fund equal to the proportional interest an applicant's application money bears to the total application money paid by all applicants.
A member has an interest in the Proceeds Fund equal to the proportion the olives attributable to the member's grove bears to the total (cl 16).
The responsible entity must pay the proceeds from the sale of olives attributable to a member's grove into the proceeds fund.
17 The Grove Licence Agreement and Grove Agreement must be read subject to the Constitution (cl 17.1).
The responsible entity is entitled to be paid the fees described at Item 3 of Sch 3 (cl 7.1) of the Constitution .
A member is entitled to the money held in the Proceeds Fund which represents the gross income from that member's olives attributable to the member's grove for a particular production period less all fees payable under the member's Grove Agreement; less fees payable under the member's Grove Licence Agreement to the Responsible Entity; and less any other monies payable by the member to any person either under the Constitution or the above two agreements.
The member authorises the responsible entity to make the deductions and payments described above.
The surplus available for each member after all deductions are made must be paid to the relevant member within five months after 30 June in each year.
A member remains liable for all fees in the event that money generated by a member from the project is not sufficient to satisfy all fees due and payable under the Constitution and the related agreements.
18 Under cl 16.3(a) of the Constitution each member is 'vested' with the member's interest and the olives attributable to the member's grove as well as any by-products from the sale of the olives.
The responsible entity holds all investments, the application fund and the proceeds fund for the benefit of members (cl 16.3(b)).
19 Clause 17.5 of the Constitution deals with the consequences of termination of a member's interest in Project 4.
Clause 18 deals with the transfer of a member's interest.
Those clauses are in these terms:
 17.5 Consequence of termination 
 
 
 (a) If a Member has its Interest terminated due to a breach of the Grove Licence Agreement, the Grove Agreement or this Constitution and the breach entitled the Interest to be terminated then the procedure in this clause 17.5 applies.

 
 
 
 
 
 (b) The Responsible Entity may give notice to the defaulting Member stating that the Responsible Entity intends to sell the Member's Interest.

 
 
 
 
 
 (c) If the Responsible Entity gives a notice under clause 17.5(b) then the Responsible Entity will use reasonable endeavours to sell the defaulting Member's Interest as attorney for the Member for the best terms reasonably obtainable by the Responsible Entity.
The Responsible Entity is not liable in any way if it is not able to sell the defaulting Member's Interest.
The inability to sell the defaulting Member's Interest does not affect the Member's liability for any amounts owing to the Responsible Entity.

 
 (d) If the Responsible Entity is able to sell the defaulting Member's Interest then after completion of the sale the Responsible Entity must ensure the proceeds of the sale are held separately from the other assets of the Project.
The Responsible Entity is entitled to deduct from the proceedings of that sale the amount of any fees payable to the Responsible Entity as well as any other liabilities and costs for which the defaulting Member may be responsible in this Constitution , the Grove Licence Agreement or the Grove Agreement or any other third party who the Responsible Entity is directed to pay.
The Responsible Entity may also deduct reasonable costs and expenses incurred by the Responsible Entity in connection with the default.
The balance of any money held on behalf of the defaulting Member after the Responsible Entity has paid all amounts owing must be paid to the Member.

 
 (e) If there is insufficient money remaining from the proceedings of the sale of the Member's Interest to pay all of the outstanding costs and liabilities then the Member must make good that difference.
The difference constitutes a debt owing by the defaulting Member to the Responsible Entity.

 
 (f) If the Responsible Entity cannot sell the defaulting Member's Interest after three months from the date the Responsible Entity first offers the Member's Interest for sale then the following provisions apply: 
 
 
 
 (i) If the Responsible Entity requires then the defaulting Member must transfer to the Responsible Entity the Member's Interest.
The Responsible Entity must pay the Member the market value of the Interest which may be determined by an independent valuation at the defaulting Member's cost.

 
 
 
 
 
 (ii) The Responsible Entity must continue to manage the defaulting Member's Interest in accordance with the terms of this Constitution and the Grove Agreement.
