
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 This proceeding relates to the Goods and Services Tax (GST) and the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth) (the Act) (references below to Parts, Divisions, Subdivisions and Sections are references to those things within the Act).
2 The applicant, AXA Asia Pacific Holdings Limited (AXA), is the representative member of a GST group of entities (Group) that has been approved as a GST group by the respondent, the Commissioner of Taxation (Commissioner --- I will sometimes refer to ATO) under s 48-5 of the Act for the purposes of Div 48 of that Act.
3 At the time relevant to the present proceeding (February 2002), the Group apparently comprised 40 members, including AXA itself, although I note that as at the date of approval of the Group by the Commissioner (5 October 2000), the Group had comprised 63 companies.
Other members of the Group to which I will refer are The National Mutual Life Association of Australasia Limited (NMLA), National Mutual Assets Management Limited (NMAM), and National Mutual Funds Management Limited (NMFM).
4 The present proceeding is brought by AXA as representative member of the Group, but it is the business activity of NMLA with which the proceeding is concerned.
I will therefore refer, as the parties did, to NMLA.
The business activities of NMLA 
 
5 NMLA carries on business as an insurer.
Lewis Andrew Culliver, AXA's Taxation Manager, explained the nature of the life insurance market generally.
According to Mr Culliver, the products made available by NMLA to its customers as at 31 December 2002 fell into the following three broad areas:
 
(a) risk products, including term life insurance and income protection policies;
 
 
 (b) whole of life and endowment policies; and 
 

(c) superannuation and retirement products.
6 NMLA's retail activities comprise both life insurance and non-life insurance business.
In accordance with the Life Insurance Act 1995 (Cth), the life insurance business was conducted within one or more separate statutory funds.
The investments of any of those funds may be used only to meet the liabilities and expenses incurred for the purposes of the business of that fund, to make investments in a way that is likely to further the business of that fund, or for the purposes of distribution when certain solvency and capital adequacy requirements are met: see ss 38 and 43 of the Life Insurance Act 1995 .
There was evidence of the composition of the respective statutory funds and of the categories of assets within each.
One of those categories is "'unit trusts'", being investments by NMLA through a holding of units in a unit trust which usually invests in real property or shares".
7 Affidavit evidence describes in detail the steps that are taken to ensure that NMLA's investments are appropriate to meet its insurance risks and to provide a profit.
Events leading to the present proceeding 
 
8 Under the Act, GST is payable by the representative member, not by any other group member, although each member is jointly and severally liable to pay the GST that is payable by the representative member (s 48 - 40 ).
Similarly, it is the representative member, not any other group member, who is entitled to a benefit of any input tax credit (s 48 - 45 ).
The concept of an input tax credit, which is central to the present case, is discussed below.
It is the representative member, not any other group member, who is required to furnish GST returns to the Commissioner (s 48 - 60 ).
For some purposes a GST group is treated as a single entity, and one of those purposes is the working out of the amount of any income tax credits to which the representative member is entitled (s 48 - 55 ).
9 In its role as representative member, AXA furnished to the Commissioner a Business Activities Statement (BAS) in respect of the month 1 February 2002 to 28 February 2002.
10 On 23 March 2006, the ATO notified AXA that it had reviewed some of the information reported in the BAS for February 2002 and made an assessment of the net amount for that period, which was a different amount from that claimed by AXA in its BAS.
11 On 22 May 2006, AXA gave a notice of its objection to the ATO's assessment.
The Commissioner did not make a decision on the objection within the period of 60 days of the day of lodgement of the notice.
By an undated letter, AXA, pursuant to s 14ZYA of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth) (TA Act), required the Commissioner to make an objection decision.
The Commissioner did not make an objection decision within the period of 60 days from being given that letter, and by the operation of s s14ZY(3) the Commissioner was taken to have made a decision under s 14ZY(1) to disallow the taxation objection.
12 Against that deemed decision, AXA exercised its right of appeal to this Court under Div 5 of Pt IVC of the TA Act by filing on 11 December 2006 the application that commenced this proceeding.
13 In para 9 of his amended appeal statement, the Commissioner accepts that by reason of the operation of the former s 35 of the TA Act, the amount of indirect tax the subject of the assessment ceased to be payable at the end of four years after the time when it became payable.
Accordingly, the Commissioner accepts that for this reason his assessment was excessive and will need to be amended once the issues calling for decision in the case have been determined.
The issue in this proceeding 
 
14 It has been a disappointing feature of the case that the respective positions taken by the parties have changed over time, including several times during the hearing, as they have become more aware of the evidentiary position and of the stances taken by each other.
Their changing of positions has made what was already a factually complex contest all the more difficult in terms of judgment writing.
Earlier drafts of the reasons have had to be abandoned or substantially amended as I discovered in the transcript successive changes of position of the parties.
15 The issue raised by AXA's appeal is whether NMLA acquired certain things for a "creditable purpose" (s 11-5) and is therefore entitled under Div 11 of the Act to "input tax credits" in respect of those things (s 11-20).
This question, in turn, raises the question whether NMLA is denied input tax credits by reason of the fact that the acquisitions related to the making of supplies that "would be input taxed" (s 11-15).
The source and significance of these expressions will be discussed below.
16 The "things" acquired by NMLA with which the proceeding is concerned have been variously referred to, somewhat loosely, as "general management expenses", "general administrative expenses" and "overheads".
I say "somewhat loosely" because an "expense" or "overhead" is not a thing acquired.
For convenience, however, I will conform to the parties' usage.
I describe the general management expenses (GME) in more detail at [63]ff below.
AXA claims that they are incapable of being allocated directly to distinct identifiable supplies, although no evidence was specifically directed to showing this.
The particular question posed, therefore, concerns the extent to which the GME of NMLA in February 2002 related to the making of supplies that would be input taxed.
THE STATUTORY FRAMEWORK 
 
17 The Act commenced on 1 July 2000 (s 1-2(1)).
GST is payable only on a supply or importation to the extent that it is made on or after 1 July 2000: s 7(1) of the A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax Transition) Act 1999 (Cth).
The application of the provisions of that Act to the facts of the present case was not disputed.
18 Chapter 2 (Divs 5-37) is headed "The basic rules"; Ch 3 (Divs 37-42) "The exemptions"; Ch 4 (Divs 45-171) "The special rules"; Ch 5 (Div 177) "Miscellaneous"; and Ch 6 (Div 184-195) "Interpreting this Act".
Included in Ch 6 is the Act's Dictionary which is found in Div 195 constituted by s 195- 1 .
19 Section 182- 1 (headed "What forms part of this Act") is within Part 6 - 1 (headed "Rules for Interpreting this Act").
