
 
1 This is an application for the winding up of Arizcorp Pty Ltd.
There has been no appearance on behalf of the defendant this morning on the return date for the application.
The matter was called on at approximately 10.15 am and no appearance was recorded.
The matter was then stood down until 11.00 am and called again.
There has been no appearance upon the matter being called for the second time.
2 The plaintiff has provided a list of materials which are read on the application, and has provided a chronology and written submissions in relation to the merits in support of the making of a winding up order.
Prior to the matter being called on this morning the defendant had provided submissions through lawyers Groom  Lavers and in those submissions the proposition was being advanced that there are special circumstances which would warrant the application being adjourned.
3 Without descending into all the detail of the matter, there has been a history of negotiations between representatives of the defendant and financiers, including Macquarie Bank, and others, to raise money to enable the plaintiff's claim to be discharged.
In the course of those matters, a cheque was drawn and made payable to the Commissioner, which upon presentation was dishonoured.
That payment apparently was made in the context of anticipated fruitful refinancing arrangements.
4 Upon the failure of those arrangements and the dishonouring of the cheque, the defendant apparently has engaged in other discussions with a view to securing a sale of an asset described as its "rent roll".
The submissions set out five matters which are said to constitute special circumstances which would warrant the matter being adjourned.
Two things need to be said about that.
The first is that the defendant has not appeared to articulate the merits of those matters.
Secondly, I am not satisfied, in any event, that they constitute special circumstances, particularly having regard to the payment to the Commissioner of a cheque in discharge of a liability which has been dishonoured upon presentation.
Accordingly I propose to make an order that the defendant be wound up.
I certify that the preceding four (4) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Greenwood.
Associate:

Dated: 29 February 2008

 Solicitor for the Plaintiff: Australian Taxation Office 
 
 Solicitor for the Defendant: The Defendant did not appear 
 
 Date of Hearing: 29 February 2008 
 
 Date of Judgment: 29 February 2008 

 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/212.html 
 
 
