
 Background and a synopsis of the contentions 
 
1 The applicant is the registered owner under the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) (referred to in these reasons as either the 'Act' or the '1995 Act') of Trade Mark No.
876332 (with the initial term commencing on 18 May 2001) which 'consists of a shape kind of sign' for goods in Class 6 of the Register described as 'fence droppers'.
The Certificate of Registration records that the trade mark 'consists of a rod bent to an S shape' as depicted in the Schedule in the Certificate.
That depiction is set out as Schedule 1 to these reasons.
2 A fence dropper is an article made, in the case of the applicant, from heavily galvanised spring wire designed to be inserted into a fence (almost in all cases a fence restraining livestock of one kind or another) to engage or catch the horizontal wires of the fence (which, depending upon the breed of livestock to be restrained, generally comprises three to nine or possibly more horizontal strands) so as to maintain a constant distance between the horizontal fence wires; contribute to the elastic strength of the fence; prevent distortion in the fence as a result of impact by an animal; and act as a substitute for fence posts.
3 The applicant's fence dropper is formed in such a way that it contains a loop in a particular shape which has the appearance of two U-bends formed in the dropper in opposite directions one above the other in the shape of an S-bend thus giving rise to the description of the loop as an S loop or S shape.
The fence dropper is formed by machinery so as to contain the number of S loops required to engage the relevant number of horizontal strands comprising the fence.
The fence dropper must necessarily engage not only the intermediate wires between the top and bottom strands of the fence, but also engage the top and bottom strands.
The applicant's fence dropper contains an angle section (described as 'tails') at each end of the dropper which when wound on to the top and bottom strands of the fence prevent, in conjunction with the S loops, movement of the dropper along the fence.
4 Schedule 2 of these reasons contains a photograph of the applicant's article which would be applicable to a four strand fence, thus requiring two S shaped loops to engage with two intermediate wires and an angle section at each end of the fence dropper to be wound on to the top and bottom strands of the fence.
5 The typical method of engaging the fence dropper with the fence is this.
The user holds the fence dropper against the fence with the S loops parallel to the fence wires and moves the dropper downward so that the intermediate wires are captured within the top section (or upper U section) of the S shape.
The horizontal fence wire will, upon the user moving the dropper downward, pass into the upper section of the S loop and sit upon the base of the upper section of the loop.
The user then rotates the dropper by twisting the tails anti-clockwise 'to lock wires in the loops' until the tail sections are in contact with the top and bottom strands of the fence.
Each angle section or tail is then wound by the user (typically with a screwdriver or rod) on to the top and bottom strands so as to grip the fence and prevent movement.
6 Schedule 3 contains a depiction of the engagement method which illustrates the upper section of the S loop engaging the horizontal wire of the fence; in one case, barbed wire, and in the other, plain wire.
7 The applicant contends that the election by the respondent through its prime mover Mr Hastie, to import fence droppers from a related New Zealand company associated with Mr Hastie and supply fence droppers to distributors in Australia for sale, containing an S loop substantially identical with the shape of the S loop depicted in the applicant's trade mark, and advertise the attractive force of the respondent's fence dropper by reference to the 'unique loop' together with an image of the shape of the S loop, is an infringement of the trade mark for the purposes of s 120(1) of the Act.
The applicant says the question of use of the trade mark by the respondent must be examined in the context of all the circumstances of use and when those contextual circumstances are examined, it is plain that the respondent has used the applicant's 'sign' as a trade mark to distinguish its goods from those of other traders in the course of trade.
8 The respondent says the contention as to 'use', marks out the primary point of departure in the controversy between the parties as the shape of the S loop and thus the applicant's shape mark serves at least, in part (and the respondent says in substantial part), a functional purpose.
The shape of the S loop is said to take its shape in order to efficiently catch and hold one or more intermediate fence wires; facilitate quick and efficient application of the fence dropper into a fence; avoid the use of 'fiddly clips'; aid elasticity and 'like the ropes of the boxing ring' enable the fence wires (and thus the fence) to retain dynamic tension without distortion should a beast or other animal impact the fence.
Since, it is said, the shape of the loop serves these functional purposes, use by the respondent of the mark by incorporation of the shape within the respondent's dropper and depiction of the shape in advertising material is not use of the shape as a trade mark .
It is simply the use of a functional feature of a fence dropper and where depicted in brochures and other material, simply represents an illustration of that feature, its operation, utility and functionality.
9 The respondent says the 1995 Act by introducing the notion of a 'shape' within the definition of 'sign' in s 6 of the Act and thus within the definition of a 'trade mark' in s 17 of the Act as a ' sign used, or intended to be used, to distinguish goods or services dealt with or provided in the course of trade by a person from goods or services so dealt with or provided by any other person ' did not bring about the radical change of providing that a registered trade mark would have the effect of restricting access to functional features or innovations.
The respondent says the trade mark law of this country recognises a continuing fundamental distinction between a shape, whether expressed in part or the entirety of the goods the subject of the registration, that has an element of 'functional significance' and a shape which bears no functional significance.
The respondent says, consistent with observations in Kenman Kandy Australia Pty Ltd v Registrar of Trade Marks [2002] FCAFC 273 ; (2002) 122 FCR 494, were the 1995 Act to enable a registered trade mark to give the owner a monopoly over functional features (and thus suit for infringement of such a registered trade mark) it would indeed have made a radical change to trade mark law and nothing in the Act or in the discussions that preceded it suggest that such a result was intended.
Therefore, it follows, it is said, that in the context of contended infringement, once the evidence demonstrates that the shape serves some functional significance, use of the shape (the trade mark) cannot be use as a trade mark.
In such a case, it is said the shape adopted in the respondent's goods and consequential use of the shape in brochures and advertising material does not differentiate or distinguish the goods as a badge of origin of the user as a purveyor of those goods but serves to identify (distinguish) the content or features of the goods themselves.
In other words, the respondent uses the shape to say in trade 'these are the goods that I sell' not 'know me as the seller or purveyor of these goods by this shape' (although, for trade mark use purposes, the seller need not be specifically identified).
10 The applicant says the respondent has misunderstood the true context in which issues of functionality were discussed Kenman Kandy and related authorities.
In this case, the trade mark has been accepted by the Registrar and has been registered.
The applicant is the registered owner of a valid shape mark which is not the subject of a challenge or cross-claim for cancellation or rectification of the Register on grounds of lack of distinctiveness .
The applicant says that discussions in the authorities of whether a trade mark application is to be rejected if it consists of a shape expressed in the relevant goods so as to achieve a particular technical result or by reason of the nature of the goods or some other functional feature, do not inform in any determinative sense, whether a registered trade mark (assessed in accordance with s 41 of the Act throughout the application stage) is infringed by use of the trade mark or a substantially identical trade mark.
In assessing whether the registered trade mark has been infringed for the purposes of s 120(1) of the Act, the applicant says that all the circumstances of use are examined to answer this orthodox question: has the respondent made use of the mark as a 'badge of origin' in the sense that the use indicates a connection in the course of trade between the goods and the user of the sign?
Further, the applicant says the S loop, although it in part serves a purpose of catching a wire, the bottom section of the S shape (that is, the lower U-shape of the S loop), serves no functional purpose at all.
Secondly, other shapes also catch the wires of a fence and the respondent's fence dropper need not incorporate the S loop, that is, need not use the applicant's trade mark, in order to function as a dropper incorporating a shaped catch.
The applicant, in submissions, put it this way, ' ... it must have something that engages on the intermediate wire, but it doesn't have to have that shape.
That is our case.
' 
 
11 The applicant says that, in fact, the respondent recognises by reliance upon contentions of the applicant's own witnesses, Mr Sachs, and Mr Bailey, that the applicant's article, the fence dropper, has become, through extensive use, well known and is distinguished in the relevant trade by the three dimensional S loop, that is, by the sign comprising the trade mark.
The applicant says that a three dimensional shape mark that performs an aspect of function may, as in the case of this mark, distinguish the goods (fence droppers) in the applicant and although a mark may have a functional element, there is no point of principle derived from the authorities that a shape mark cannot serve as a bade of origin by a respondent to distinguish its goods from those of others.
The question is whether, contextually, it has been so used by the respondent.
An analogue in relation to word marks is a mark that contains a descriptive element which, nevertheless, in the context of contended infringing use, might be seen to serve as a badge of origin.
A question will inevitably arise as to whether the use of words containing a descriptive element might make it difficult to demonstrate that the words have been used to distinguish the goods of the respondent, and that difficulty is likely to be all the more pronounced where the mark is a three dimensional shape forming part of the goods.
12 That question will require consideration in these reasons.
13 The applicant says that although the introduction by the 1995 Act of a shape within the notion of a sign as a trade mark within s 17, did not effect a radical change to trade mark law, it nevertheless enabled a shape for goods or a part of goods, that is, the three dimensional configuration of those goods (or parts of them) to be registered as a trade mark.
Once registered and absent any cross-claim for cancellation or rectification based on lack of distinctiveness in the trade mark, meaning must be given to the scope of s 120(1) of the Act in the sense that the shape the subject of the mark might well be expressed in the respondent's goods and depicted in the respondent's brochures, to distinguish the respondent's goods from those of other traders.
The applicant says a registered shape mark must mean something.
It cannot be rendered nugatory as a distinguishing three dimensional shape trade mark for goods on the footing that use of the shape in the respondent's goods is no more than the commercial use of the configured goods themselves or the identification of the content of the goods and thus never use of the shape as a trade mark .
14 The respondent says that whatever might be the position in other cases, in this case the article is a highly utilitarian article; sold by farm produce outlets or stock and station agents to users engaged in the art of finding functional practical solutions to immediate and recurring problems; the fence dropper serves that purpose by adding to the utility and functionality of the fence; and the shape of the loop is central to the operation of the dropper.
In that sense, the respondent says the three dimensional shape mark is a functional shape par excellence and as a matter of law, use of such a shape is simply a statement of the content and features of the goods and cannot be use of the shape as a trade mark.
The respondent says that although shapes other than the S loop might be identified that also catch a wire, the only relevant question is whether the S loop shape serves, in part or substantial part, a functional purpose.
If so, use by the respondent cannot be a trade mark use.
15 The respondent also pleaded and contended throughout the proceedings, until the point was abandoned in addresses, that the elements of s 24(1) of the Act were made out on the footing that the registered trade mark consists of a sign that, after the date of registration of the trade mark, has become 'generally accepted' within the relevant trade as the sign that describes or is the name of an article.
As a result, s 24(1) has the effect of enlivening a limitation under s 24(2) of the Act on the exclusive rights of the registered owner to use or authorise others to use the sign in relation to the article and by operation of s 24(2)(b), the registered owner ' is taken to have ceased to have those exclusive rights from the day determined by the court under subsection (4).
' Subsection (4) provides that ' a prescribed court may determine the day on which a sign first became generally accepted within the relevant trade as the sign that describes or is the name of the article ... '.
Although the respondent contends that the trade mark consists of a sign that has become generally accepted in the relevant trade as the sign that describes a fence dropper containing an S loop, the respondent says it cannot satisfy the temporal element and show that the sign became so 'generally accepted' after the date of registration of the trade mark.
Accordingly, a defence in reliance upon s 24 of the Act has been abandoned.
16 The respondent relies upon a defence under s 25 of the Act on the footing that the trade mark contains a sign (the S loop shape) that describes a fence dropper that was formerly exploited by the applicant (or its predecessors in title) under a patent lodged on 9 October 1968 under the Patents Act 1952 (Cth) for a term of 16 years which expired on 9 October 1984.
Thus, s 25(1)(a) and (b) are satisfied.
The respondent says, consistent with s 25(1)(c) of the Act, the evidence demonstrates that ' the sign is the only commonly known way to describe or identify the article ... '.
The respondent says that since the trade mark consists of the sign, the registered owner by reason of s 25(2)(a) and (b) does not have any exclusive rights to use or authorise others to use the sign in relation to the article and is taken to have ceased to have those rights from the end of the period of 2 years after the patent expired or ceased.
17 Section 25 is in these terms:
 
 25 Trade mark relating to article etc formerly manufactured under patent 
 
 (1) This section applies if: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) a registered trade mark consists of, or contains, a sign that describes or is the name of: 
 
 
 
 (i) an article or substance that was formerly exploited under a patent; or 
 (ii) a service that was formerly provided as a patented process; and 
 
 
 (b) it is at least 2 years since the patent has expired or ceased; and 
 
 
 
 
 (c) the sign is the only commonly known way to describe or identify the article, substance or service.

 
 
 
 
 (2) If the trade mark consists of the sign, the registered owner: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) does not have any exclusive rights to use, or authorise other persons to use, the trade mark in relation to: 
 
 
 
 (i) the article or substance or other goods of the same description; or 
 (ii) the service or other services of the same description; and 
 
 
 
 (b) is taken to have ceased to have those exclusive rights from the end of the period of 2 years after the patent expired or ceased.

 
 
 
 
 (3) If the trade mark contains the sign, the registered owner: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) does not have any exclusive rights to use, or authorise other persons to use, the sign in relation to: 
 
 
 
 (i) the article or substance or other goods of the same description; or 
 (ii) the service or other services of the same description; and 
 
 
 
 (b) is taken to have ceased to have those exclusive rights from the end of the period of 2 years after the patent expired or ceased.

 
 
 

18 The applicant says s 25 of the Act has no application because as a matter of orthodox language a trade mark consisting of or containing a three dimensional shape sign cannot 'describe' an article (formerly exploited under a patent) as only words can do that and the trade mark is not a word mark.
Further, if the sign describes anything at all, it describes the S loop in the fence dropper which is only a part of an article not the article for the purposes of s 25(1) of the Act.
If, however, s 25 does apply, the sign is not the 'only commonly known way' to describe the article.
The applicant says the evidence shows other commonly known ways of 'describing' or 'identifying' the article.
19 The respondent also relies upon s 122 of the Act which provides for classes of conduct that 'in spite of s 120' do not constitute infringing conduct.
The respondent says, consistent with s 122(1)(b)(i) that it has depicted the 'unique loop' in good faith to indicate the kind, quality, or intended purpose of the respondent's fence dropper or the characteristic of the respondent's dropper of effecting 'constituent, efficient securing loop(s)'.
The respondent also relies upon s 122(1)(c) of the Act on the footing that the respondent has used the trade mark in good faith to indicate the intended purpose of goods.
The applicant says the respondent has used the trade mark as a badge of origin not as an indication of those identified characteristics, and, in any event, the respondent did not do so in 'good faith.
'
 
20 The respondent brings a cross-claim as a person aggrieved.
21 The first of the cross-claims for relief is a declaration in reliance upon s 24(3) of the Act.
That matter is now abandoned.
The second is a declaration that the registered mark ' consists of, or contains, a sign that describes or is the name of an article or substance that was formerly exploited under a patent, namely the Expired Patent.
' The third, either further or alternatively, is a declaration that the registered owner of the trade mark has ' no exclusive rights to use, or authorise others to use the sign in relation to the article or substance or other goods of the same description from the end of the period of 2 years after the Expired Patent expired or ceased.
' The fourth is a declaration that any previous, existing or continued use of the registered mark by the cross-claimant is permitted pursuant to any of ss 120(2), 122(1)(b)(i), 122(1)(c), and 122(1)(e), ss 24 and/or 25 of the Act.
Relief based on s 24 has been abandoned.
Section 122(1)(e) provides that a person does not infringe a registered trade mark when: ' (e) the person exercises a right to use a trade mark given to the person under this Act ... ' Section 120(2) provides for infringement of a registered trade mark if the person uses as a trade mark a sign that is substantially identical with a trade mark in relation to goods of the same description as the goods in respect of which the trade mark is registered.
Section 120(2) contains a qualification in these terms:
 
 However, the person is not taken to have infringed the trade mark if the person establishes that using the sign as the person did is not likely to deceive or cause confusion.

 
 

22 The applicant cross-respondent says that s 120(2) has no application in these proceedings because the applicant in the principal proceedings simply relies upon s 120(1) as the respondent has used a sign substantially identical with the trade mark in relation to the very goods for which the trade mark is registered (fence droppers), rather than goods of the 'same description'.
Accordingly, the applicant relies only upon s 120(1) and says that no conduct in issue in these proceedings can be the subject of a contended permission under s 120(2).
23 By par 5 of the cross-claim for relief, the cross-claimant seeks an order pursuant to s 87(1) of the Act that the Register be rectified by cancelling the registration of the trade mark.
Section 87 is in these terms:
 
 87 Amendment or cancellation --- loss of exclusive rights to use trade mark 
 
 
 
 (1) If section 24 or 25 applies in relation to a registered trade mark, a prescribed court may, on the application of an aggrieved person, but subject to subsection (2) and section 89, order that the Register be rectified by: 
 (a) cancelling the registration of the trade mark; or 
 
 
 
 
 (b) removing or amending any entry in the Register relating to the trade mark; 
 
 
 
 
 having regard to the effect of section 24 or 25 (as the case may be) on the right of the registered owner of the trade mark to use the trade mark, or any sign that is part of the trade mark, in relation to particular goods or services.

 
 
 
 
 
 (2) If section 24 or 25 applies in relation to the trade mark because the trade mark contains a sign that: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) has become generally accepted within the relevant trade as the sign that describes or is the name of an article, substance or service; or 
 
 
 
 
 (b) describes or is the name of: 
 
 
 (i) an article or substance that was formerly exploited under a patent; or 
 (ii) a service that was formerly provided as a patented process; 
 
 
 the court may decide not to make an order under subsection (1) and allow the trade mark to remain on the Register in respect of: 
 (c) the article or substance or goods of the same description; or 
 (d) the service or services of the same description; 
 
 subject to any condition or limitation that the court may impose.

 
 
 

24 The discretion conferred upon the Court to make an order under s 87 is subject to s 89.
Section 89 is in these terms:
 
 
 89 Rectification may not be granted in certain cases if registered owner not at fault etc. 
 
 
 
 
 
 (1) The court may decide not to grant an application for rectification made: 
 (a) under section 87; or 
 
 
 
 
 (b) on the ground that the trade mark is liable to deceive or confuse (a ground on which its registration could have been opposed, see paragraph 88(2)(a)); or 
 
 
 
 
 (c) on the ground referred to in paragraph 88(2)(c); 
 if the registered owner of the trade mark satisfies the court that the ground relied on by the applicant has not arisen through any act or fault of the registered owner.

 
 
 
 (2) In making a decision under subsection (1), the court: 
 (a) must also take into account any matter that is prescribed; and 
 
 
 
 (b) may take into account any other matter that the court considers relevant.

 
 
 
 

25 A number of things should be noted about the cross-application for rectification or cancellation.
The cross-applicant relies upon the contended application of s 25 as the trade mark is said to consist of a sign that describes a formerly patent exploited article and the sign is the only commonly known way of describing or identifying the article.
The cross-applicant does not seek cancellation or rectification on the footing of ' any ground on which the registration of the trade mark could have been opposed under the Act ' (s 88(1) and s 88(2)(a)).
The challenge to registration is based on the legacy consequences of exploitation under the patent and satisfaction of the statutory integers relating to that matter.
Section 87(2) provides that the Court may decide not to make an order under s 87(1) if s 24 or s 25 applies ' because the trade mark contains a sign that has become generally accepted within the relevant trade as the sign that describes or is the name of the relevant article '.
Section 24 contemplates a sign becoming ' generally accepted ' within the relevant trade as the sign that describes or is the name of an article in which event s 87(2)(a) addresses the circumstances of s 24.
Section 87(2(b) alternatively provides that s 25 might apply ' because the trade mark contains a sign that describes or is the name of an article that was formerly exploited under a patent yet s 25 can only apply if all of the integers of s 25(1) are satisfied.
Further s 87(2) contemplates a trade mark that ' contains a sign ' whereas s 25 contemplates a trade mark that ' consists of or contains a sign '.
If s 25 applies according to its terms, s 87(2) may have a limited operation although s 87(2)(b)(i) may simply be selecting only that integer of s 25 for its operation.
The discretion conferred by s 87(1) is to be exercised subject to s 89 (i.e., taking account of whether the registered owner of the trade mark has satisfied the Court that the ground relied upon by the applicant has not arisen through any act or fault of the registered owner) and having regard to the effect of s 25 upon the right of the registered owner of the trade mark to use the trade mark or any sign that is part of the trade mark in relation to particular goods.
26 A further question arises in relation to the onus of proof under s 25 of the Act.
The respondent contends that the applicant bears the onus of establishing, on the balance of probabilities, that the conduct of the respondent constitutes infringing conduct and the exclusive rights conferred by registration continue to subsist.
Thus, the applicant must exclude the operation of s 25.
The applicant says that s 25 is raised by way of defence by the respondent and the respondent bears the onus of making out the elements of the section.
27 By par 6 of the cross-claim, the cross-claimant seeks:
 
 An order pursuant to s 88 [of the Act] that the Register of Trade Marks kept under s 207 of [the Act] be rectified by cancelling the Registration of the Registered Mark.

 

That matter has not been pursued, either in oral or written submissions, and no content has been given to the general form of the order sought or any ground to support it.
The respondent cross-applicant, relies upon the discretion under s 87(1) to support cancellation of the registration of the trade mark based upon the application of s 25 of the Act.
The separate trial 
 
28 Apart from these issues, the applicant seeks relief based upon contended contraventions of ss 52 and 53 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) and passing off.
On 27 March 2007, the Court ordered by consent that the trade mark infringement claim, defences to the claim, and the cross-claim by the respondent be tried separately before the trial of any other question in the proceedings.
The order is in these terms:
 
 The trade mark infringement claim as pleaded in paragraphs 3 to 11 of the Statement of Claim, paragraphs 1 to 8, and 19 to 20 of the Amended Defence, paragraphs 1 to 5 of the Cross Claim as well as the Amended Reply and Defence to the Cross Claim, be tried and determined separately before the trial of any other question in the proceedings.

 
 The evolution of the S loop shape.

 
29 Nicholas David Sachs whose evidence I accept has been the sole director of the applicant for 11 years; one of its directors since 1993; and has worked for the applicant full time since 1993.
Mr Sachs swore an affidavit filed on 5 February 2007 (exhibit 2 in the proceeding) in which he describes the following history of the applicant's fence dropper.
Mr Sachs' father, Roger Sachs, was the managing director of a company called National Nail Pty Ltd (National Nail).
On 9 October 1968, National Nail lodged an application for a patent under the Patents Act 1952 (Cth) (Australian Patent No 402,869) for an invention described as 'an improved wire fence dropper'.
The inventor was Roger Sachs.
The patent granted to National Nail was for a term of 16 years from 6 June 1969.
The applicant admits in the Amended Reply that the patent expired on 8 October 1984.
30 The patent specification describes the invention, the disadvantages of the prior art, the improvements reflected in the invention to overcome those disadvantages, the preferred embodiments of the invention, and the claims defining the monopoly.
The patent specification puts aspects of those matters in these terms:
 
 This invention relates to an improved fence dropper.

 
 It is well known to make fence droppers of wire, such a fence dropper having a generally upright portion with its upper and lower ends bent substantially at right angles, in the same direction, each being shaped to form a grip substantially in the form of an elongated helix with which the top or bottom wires of a fence, as the case may be, may be inter-twisted, the main upright part of the dropper being formed at intervals with intermediate catches, each for engagement with an intermediate wire of the fence.

 
 A disadvantage in these fence droppers hitherto made is that they are so designed that to engage the top and bottom grips, the intermediate catches are so turned as to tend to kink the fence wires engaged therewith, and so difficulty will be encountered if any wire should be broken, repaired and subsequently re-strained, as such a wire will be held firmly at each dropper.
Another disadvantage is that such a dropper is so designed that it must be made of fairly heavy gauge wire, for if an engaged fence wire is forced downwardly, it acts to bring about torsional stresses in the dropper, which must be made of wire of sufficient diameter to resist these.
The droppers are therefore heavier, and also less resiliently flexible, than is desirable.
As a result they are more difficult to transport, and when installed may not recover satisfactorily from being sharply bent by an impact load.
Furthermore such droppers are not well suited to simple and economical manufacture by machine.

 
 The present invention has been devised with the general object of overcoming the said disadvantages, by providing a fence dropper of such novel and improved construction that it is very simple and economical to manufacture; and which, not being subjected to undue torsional stresses when installed in a fence, may be made of smaller diameter wire than commonly used hitherto, with the advantages of increased resilience, lower weight and lower cost.

 
 With the foregoing and other objects in view, the invention resides broadly, in a fence dropper of the type formed of wire having at top and bottom, means for engagement with wires of a fence, and a series of intermediate catches for engagement with intermediate wires of the fence, characterised in that each such intermediate catch is comprised of two U-bends formed in the wire in opposite directions one above the other and interconnected by a transverse section preferably in the form of an S-bend, such that a fence wire may be passed up between the lower U-bend and the portion of wire extending downwardly from the inverted upper U-bend, and seated on the transverse section, preferably in the downwardly extending curve of the transverse S-bend, and adjacent to the portion of wire extending up from the lower U-bend, and to the said portion of wire extending down from the upper inverted U-bend.
Other features of the invention will become apparent from the following description.

 
 One exemplary embodiment of the invention is shown in the accompanying drawings, wherein: 
 FIG.1 is a partially broken-away side elevational view of wires of a fence with a fence dropper according to the invention engaged therewith, 
 FIG.2 is a sectional view along line 2-2 in Fig.1, and 
 FIG.3 is an elevational view of an intermediate catch of the dropper, to enlarged scale, and in the direction of the arrow 3 in Fig.2.

 

31 Figures 1, 2 and 3 are attached as Schedule 4.
Claims 1 and 2 defining the invention are in these terms:
 
 
 1.
A fence dropper of the type formed of wire and having at top and bottom means for engagement with wires of a fence, and a series of intermediate catches for engagement with intermediate wires of the fence, characterised in that each such intermediate catch is comprised of two U-bends formed in the wire in opposite directions one above the other and inter-connected by a transverse section, such that a fence wire may be passed up between the lower U-bend and the portion of wire extending downwardly from the upper inverted U-bend, and seated on the transverse section and adjacent to the portion of wire extending up from the lower U-bend and to the said portion of wire extending down from the upper inverted U-bend.

 
 
 
 
 
 2.
A fence dropper according to Claim 1 and further characterised in that the said transverse section is shaped to form an S-bend, with an upward curve and a downward curve adapted to form a seating for the said fence wire.

 
 
 

32 After the patent was granted, National Nail began manufacturing and selling fence droppers as claimed in the patent for the next 12 years.
In 1971, National Nail became the registered owner of the Lightning trade mark.
From as early as 1969, National Nail sold and advertised the patented fence dropper.
The brochure from 1969 gives emphasis to the basic requirements of an ideal fence dropper including minimum weight for both fence efficiency and height; maximum strength and resilience to withstand impact without damage; quick and easy to apply; and low initial cost and no maintenance.
The brochure says ' National therefore developed its unique Patent Loop which makes possible the manufacture of 'Lightning Droppers' from 8 gauge galvanised spring wire.
' In March 1980, National Nail ceased trading and its assets were transferred to a partnership called 'Mayne Industries' consisting of Roger Sachs and his wife.
The partnership commenced trading on 1 April 1980 and carried on the business previously operated by National Nail.
Roger Sachs died in August 1991 and a new partnership came into existence between his wife and his estate.
This partnership continued to operate the same business until March 1993 when the estate of Roger Sachs was finalised.
In March 1993, the partnership assets were transferred to a new company, the applicant.
Since 1993, the applicant has operated the business previously conducted by National Nail and the partnerships previously mentioned.
The applicant is the owner of the Lightning trade mark.
A further company, Gesellschaft Pty Ltd (formerly known as Mayne Industries Investments Pty Ltd) owns the plant and equipment used to make the applicant's fence droppers.
33 Mr Nicholas Sachs accepted in cross-examination that the fence dropper made by the applicant embodying the S loop which is now the subject of the registered trade mark and complaint as to use by the respondent, is the same fence dropper made and offered for sale from at least 1968 (although Mr Sachs' evidence-in-chief suggests that the year was 1969) by National Nail, the various ad hoc partnerships formed as a result of the death of Roger Sachs and by the applicant.
34 The 1969 brochure illustrates the method of inserting the dropper into a fence; illustrates an exploded view of the S loop catch in situ with a seated intermediate wire; and bears the endorsement 'the unique loop with intermediate wire positively trapped'.
The exploded view of the S loop is beneath the words 'National Lightning Dropper' above which in bold letters is the word 'Lightning'.
Exhibit G to the affidavit of Mr Sachs contains examples of the applicant's brochures 20,000 copies of which have been distributed since 1998 to resellers and graziers.
Some of those brochures (the first six pages of exhibit G) depict a conjunction on each page of 'LIGHTNING ' under which is the words 'FENCE DROPPERS' where greater type face emphasis is given to the word 'Lightning' and next to it is placed a depiction of the S loop (as ultimately depicted in the Trade Mark Certificate).
The remaining brochures comprising exhibit G to Mr Sachs' affidavit describe the applicant's fence dropper as 'National Lightning  Fence Droppers'.
The brochures describe the fence droppers as 'durable, economical, resilient, easily attached, suits barb or plain wires, proven performance' and describes the features and benefits of Lightning fence droppers in these terms:
 
 Save Time and Money ... 
 Lightning Droppers are lightning fast and easy to install.
Installed in under 10 seconds per dropper saving valuable hours of your time or contractors' labour.
Other droppers can take up to two minutes each.

 
 Simple  Efficient 
 The Lightning Dropper is made from 'one piece construction' which eliminates the need for fiddley clips, ties, or specialty tools.
The Lightning Dropper's ingenious design makes it the cheapest dropper to freight (light physical weight) without compromising its phenomenal strength.

 
 Durable  Flexible 
 Lightning Droppers are manufactured from 4.0 mm (8 gauge) heavily galvanised spring wire.
