
 
1 Before the Court is an application by Blue Wedges Inc which challenges the decision made on 20 December 2007, by the first respondent, the Minister for the Environment, Heritage and the Arts (the Minister).
The decision gave approval to the second respondent, the Port of Melbourne Corporation (PMC), to deepen the shipping channels of Port Phillip Heads in Port Phillip Bay (the Bay) and the Yarra River and its approaching channels.
2 Blue Wedges Inc is an association which was incorporated on 30 May 2005 under the Associations Incorporation Act 1981 (Vic).
It started as an unincorporated association in June 2003 in response to the proposed channel deepening project.
By its statement of purpose, it is committed to work to preserve the ecosystems of the Bay and the estuary and ocean environments in and around the Bay and Westernport Bay.
No objection was taken to its standing to bring this application.
3 The PMC was established under the Port Services Act 1995 (Vic) and is the proponent of the channel deepening project.
The PMC is responsible for the management of the port, port waters, shipping movements in the Bay and dealings with shipping operators and stevedores.
The shipping channels to which the channel deepening project relates provide access to the Port of Melbourne.
4 The third respondent, the State of Victoria, undertook the environmental assessment process which will be explained later in these reasons.
The PMC and the State of Victoria were joined as parties to this proceeding because their interests may be affected by the outcome.
Again, no issue was raised over the inclusion of these parties.
5 The Bay is a coastal estuary within the territorial limits of Victoria.
It is a shallow bay of about 1930 square kilometres with a coastline length of 264 kilometres.
It has a maximum depth of 24 metres but is mostly shallower than 8 metres.
The cities of Melbourne and Geelong lie on the north east and western shores of the Bay respectively, and the Yarra and Maribyrnong rivers flow into the Bay from the north.
Some of the localities distant from the main cities on the shore of the Bay are holiday places for the people of Melbourne.
Around the Bay there is commercial, residential and recreational activity.
6 The Bay is environmentally significant in a number of respects.
There are some protected sites of national and international environmental significance, including Ramsar wetlands, intertidal mudflats, salt marsh fringes and coastal dunes.
The area also supports some internationally significant populations of migratory birds and endangered native birds, fish and cetaceans.
A number of social activities, including swimming, diving, recreational fishing, sailing and boating, take place in the locality of the Bay.
It also has a number of tourist attractions and is used for commercial fishing.
7 The entrance to the Bay is through Port Phillip Heads, which is partly closed by a shallow rocky submarine plateau --- Rip Bank and Nepean Bank --- that is cut by a deep canyon.
The Great Ship Channel crosses through this area into the Bay.
Most merchant ships then follow the south channel towards Hovell Pile near Dromana on the eastern shoreline and then travel north towards the docks in and at the mouth of the Yarra.
This path takes ships along the Port Melbourne, Williamstown and Yarra River channels.
8 The aim of the project is to modify the shipping channels to enable access for 14 metre draught vessels to the Port of Melbourne in all tidal conditions.
Currently, access to the port is restricted to vessels of maximum draught of 11.6 metres or 12.1 metres at high tide.
