
 


 Background 
 
1 These reasons should be read against the background of the earlier judgments on service: Humane Society International Inc v Kyodo Senpaku Kaisha Ltd (2004) 212 ALR 551, Humane Society International Inc v Kyodo Senpaku Kaisha Ltd [2005] FCA 664 (the two judgments containing my original reasons for refusing leave to serve outside Australia), Humane Society International Inc v Kyodo Senpaku Kaisha Ltd [2006] FCAFC 116 ; (2006) 154 FCR 425 (the Full Court judgment), and Humane Society International Inc v Kyodo Senpaku Kaisha Ltd [2007] FCA 124 (my reasons on substituted service).
I do not propose to repeat matters there discussed.
Phrases and terms used in these reasons (if otherwise undefined or unexplained) are to be understood by reference to those earlier reasons.
2 This is an application under section 475 of the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (Cth) (the "EPBC Act") for injunctive relief and accompanying declarations in relation to whaling activities undertaken by the respondent in the Australian Whale Sanctuary, in contravention of ss 229-230 of the EPBC Act.
References to section numbers are to provisions of the EPBC Act unless otherwise stated.
3 The respondent is a company incorporated in Japan, which the evidence reveals is the owner of a number of ships from which it has engaged, and is likely in the future to engage, in the killing of various species of whales in the Australian Whale Sanctuary.
The respondent has engaged in such activity pursuant to the Japanese Whaling Research Program under Special Permit in the Antarctic (JARPA), issued under Article VIII of the International Convention for the Regulation of Whaling (opened for signature 2 December 1946) 1948 ATS 18 (entered into force 10 November 1948) (the "Whaling Convention") and monitored by the International Whaling Commission ("IWC").
From 2005, a second, more extensive, whaling programme has been undertaken by the respondent under a special permit, known as JARPA II.
4 The applicant is a public interest organisation incorporated in New South Wales, whose stated objectives include promotion of the "enhancement and conservation of all wild plants and animals".
The applicant qualifies as an "interested person" pursuant to s 475(7) of the EPBC Act, and is therefore entitled to bring an action claiming the relief sought: see Humane Society International Inc v Kyodo Senpaku Kaisha Ltd (2004) 212 ALR 551 at [15].
The EPBC Act 
 
5 The EPBC Act was enacted by the Commonwealth Parliament in 1999.
The objects stated in s 3 of the EPBC Act include, amongst other things, the protection of the environment, particularly for matters of national environmental significance, conservation of biodiversity and heritage and promotion of ecologically sustainable development.
6 The EPBC Act is drafted in wide terms.
It applies throughout Australia, including its external territories (s 5(1)), and to adjacent waters claimed as Australia's Exclusive Economic Zone.
It applies to all persons and all vessels within territorial Australia and the exclusive economic zone, including persons who are not Australian citizens and vessels that are not registered Australian vessels: s 5(4).
7 One of the stated means by which the Parliament has expressed its intention to achieve the objects of the Act is by the establishment of the Australian Whale Sanctuary "to ensure the conservation of whales and other cetaceans": s 3(2)(e)(ii).
The Australian Whale Sanctuary is established by s 225 of the EPBC Act, which is in the following terms:
 
 (1) The Australian Whale Sanctuary is established in order to give formal recognition of the high level of protection and management afforded to cetaceans in Commonwealth marine areas and prescribed waters.

 (2) The Australian Whale Sanctuary comprises: 
 (a) any waters of the sea inside the seaward boundary of the exclusive economic zone, except: 
 (i) waters, rights in respect of which have been vested in a State by section 4 of the Coastal Waters (State Title) Act 1980 or in the Northern Territory by section 4 of the Coastal Waters (Northern Territory Title) Act 1980 ; and 
 (ii) waters within the limits of a State or the Northern Territory; and 
 (b) any waters over the continental shelf, except: 
 (i) waters, rights in respect of which have been vested in a State by section 4 of the Coastal Waters (State Title) Act 1980 or in the Northern Territory by section 4 of the Coastal Waters (Northern Territory Title) Act 1980 ; and 
 (ii) waters within the limits of a State or the Northern Territory; and 
 (iii) waters covered by paragraph (a); and 
 (c) so much of the coastal waters of a State or the Northern Territory as are prescribed waters.

 
 

8 Sections 229 to 230 make it an offence to kill, injure, intentionally take or otherwise deal with a cetacean in the Australian Whale Sanctuary.
The relevant provisions are as follows:
 
 229 Killing or injuring a cetacean 
 (1) A person is guilty of an offence if: 
 (a) the person takes an action; and 
 (b) the action results in the death or injury of a cetacean; and 
 (c) the cetacean is in: 
 
 
 
 (i) the Australian Whale Sanctuary (but not the coastal waters, or a part of the coastal waters, of a State or the Northern Territory for which a declaration under section 228 is in force); or 
 (ii) waters beyond the outer limits of the Australian Whale Sanctuary.

 
 
 
 
 (1A) Strict liability applies to paragraph (1)(c).

 
 (2) The offence is punishable on conviction by imprisonment for not more than 2 years or a fine not exceeding 1,000 penalty units, or both.

 
 229A Strict liability for killing or injuring a cetacean 
 (1) A person is guilty of an offence if: 
 (a) the person takes an action; and 
 (b) the action results in the death or injury of a cetacean; and 
 (c) the cetacean is in: 
 
 
 
 (i) the Australian Whale Sanctuary (but not the coastal waters, or a part of the coastal waters, of a State or the Northern Territory for which a declaration under section 228 is in force); or 
 (ii) waters beyond the outer limits of the Australian Whale Sanctuary.

 
 
 
 
 (2) Strict liability applies to paragraphs (1)(a), (b) and (c).

 
 (3) The offence is punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding 500 penalty units.

 
 229B Intentionally taking etc. a cetacean 
 (1) A person is guilty of an offence if: 
 (a) the person takes, trades, keeps, moves or interferes with a cetacean; and 
 (b) the cetacean is in: 
 
 
 
 (i) the Australian Whale Sanctuary (but not the coastal waters, or a part of the coastal waters, of a State or the Northern Territory for which a declaration under section 228 is in force); or 
 (ii) waters beyond the outer limits of the Australian Whale Sanctuary.

 
 
 
 
 (2) Strict liability applies to paragraph (1)(b).

 
 (3) The offence is punishable on conviction by imprisonment for not more than 2 years or a fine not exceeding 1,000 penalty units, or both.

 
 (4) In this Act: 
 interfere with a cetacean includes harass, chase, herd, tag, mark or brand the cetacean.

 
 trade a cetacean: 
 (a) includes: 
 
 
 
 (i) buy the cetacean, agree to receive it under an agreement to buy, agree to accept it under such an agreement or acquire it by barter; or 
 (ii) sell the cetacean, offer it for sale, agree to sell it, have it in possession for the purpose of sale, deliver it for the purpose of sale, receive it for the purpose of sale or dispose of it by barter for the purpose of gain or advancement; or 
 (iii) cause or allow any of the acts referred to in subparagraph (i) or (ii) to be done; but 
 
 
 
 (b) does not include export the cetacean from Australia or an external Territory or import it into Australia or an external Territory.

 
 229C Strict liability for taking etc. a cetacean 
 (1) A person is guilty of an offence if: 
 (a) the person takes, trades, keeps, moves or interferes with a cetacean; and 
 (b) the cetacean is in: 
 
 
 
 (i) the Australian Whale Sanctuary (but not the coastal waters, or a part of the coastal waters, of a State or the Northern Territory for which a declaration under section 228 is in force); or 
 (ii) waters beyond the outer limits of the Australian Whale Sanctuary.

 
 
 
 
 (2) Strict liability applies to paragraphs (1)(a) and (b).

 
 (3) The offence is punishable on conviction by a fine not exceeding 500 penalty units.

 
 229D Treating cetaceans 
 Treating unlawfully killed or taken cetaceans 
 (1) A person is guilty of an offence if: 
 (a) the person treats a cetacean; and 
 (b) the cetacean has been: 
 
 
 
 (i) killed in contravention of section 229 or 229A; or 
 (ii) taken in contravention of section 229B or 229C.

 
 
 
 
 (2) An offence against subsection (1) is punishable on conviction by imprisonment for not more than 2 years or a fine not exceeding 1,000 penalty units, or both.

 
 Treating unlawfully imported cetaceans 
 (2A) A person commits an offence if: 
 (a) the person treats a cetacean; and 
 (b) the cetacean has been unlawfully imported.

 
 (2B) An offence against subsection (2A) is punishable on conviction by imprisonment for not more than 5 years or a fine not exceeding 1,000 penalty units, or both.

 
 (3) In this Act: 
 treat a cetacean means divide or cut up, or extract any product from, the cetacean.

 
 230 Possession of cetaceans 
 Possession of unlawfully killed cetaceans 
 (1) A person is guilty of an offence if: 
 (a) the person has in his or her possession: 
 
 
 
 (i) a cetacean; or 
 (ii) a part of a cetacean; or 
 (iii) a product derived from a cetacean; and 
 
 
 
 (b) the cetacean has been: 
 
 
 
 (i) killed in contravention of section 229 or 229A; or 
 (ii) taken in contravention of section 229B or 229C.

 
 
 
 
 (2) An offence against subsection (1) is punishable on conviction by imprisonment for not more than 2 years or a fine not exceeding 1,000 penalty units, or both.

 
 Possession of unlawfully imported cetaceans 
 (3) A person commits an offence if: 
 (a) the person has in his or her possession: 
 
 
 
 (i) a cetacean; or 
 (ii) a part of a cetacean; or 
 (iii) a product derived from a cetacean; and 
 
 
 
 (b) the cetacean, part or product, as the case may be, has been unlawfully imported.

 
 (4) An offence against subsection (3) is punishable on conviction by imprisonment for not more than 5 years or a fine not exceeding 1,000 penalty units, or both.

 

9 A "cetacean" is defined in schedule 1 to the Act as "a member of the sub-order Mysticeti or Odontoceti of the Order Cetacea".
Relevantly, Antarctic minke whales, fin whales and humpback whales are cetaceans as defined by the EPBC Act.
10 The Commonwealth Director of Prosecutions is responsible for prosecuting any offences under the EPBC Act, a decision which is made independently of the Executive Government.
To date, the DPP has not sought to prosecute the respondent or others for undertaking the activity complained of by the applicant.
In the absence of, or in addition to, criminal prosecution, section 475 of the Act gives the Minister, or an "interested person", standing to seek in a civil action an injunction to restrain conduct that would amount to an offence.
This is what has been sought in this case.
The section plainly gives locus standi to the applicant to seek the orders in this proceeding, without seeking the fiat of the Attorney-General and without any attendant complexities that might otherwise arise in the civil enforcement or prevention of conduct that is provided for by the criminal law (here by the same Commonwealth statute).
UNCLOS 
 
11 Territorial claims for some form of sovereignty over waters adjacent to a state are regulated in international law by the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea done at Montego Bay, 10 December 1982 ("UNCLOS").
Article 57 of UNCLOS defines the exclusive economic zone of a coastal state as not exceeding 200 nautical miles from the baseline from which the territorial sea is measured.
12 Australia's claimed exclusive economic zone extends to the waters adjacent to the baseline of Australia's external territories, including, importantly for this matter, the Australian Antarctic Territory.
By virtue of the statutory definition in s 225 of the EPBC Act, the waters within 200 nautical miles from the Australian Antarctic Territory land mass are within the Australian Whale Sanctuary.
13 Australia's claim to sovereignty over the Australian Antarctic Territory is recognised only by four nations (New Zealand, France, Norway and the United Kingdom), themselves with asserted (and otherwise disputed) claims over various parts of the Antarctic land mass.
Japan rejects Australia's purported exercise of jurisdiction over waters that are considered by Japan to be the high seas.
This is not a ground for invalidity of the EPBC Act: the sovereign claim by Australia to the Australian Antarctic Territory is not a matter capable of being questioned in this Court in this proceeding: cf Mabo v Queensland (No 2) [1992] HCA 23 ; (1992) 175 CLR 1.
These matters of sovereignty and international recognition (and lack of extensiveness thereof) can be taken to have been before, and well recognised by, Parliament when it enacted the EPBC Act.
14 A claim to an exclusive economic zone does not amount to sovereignty for all purposes.
See Humane Society International Inc v Kyodo Senpaku Kaisha Ltd [2005] FCA 664 at [11] --- [13] for a discussion of the rights flowing from a claim to the exclusive economic zone.
History of the litigation 
 
15 The applicant commenced proceedings in this Court on 19 October 2004.
On the same day, the applicant also filed a notice of motion, together with supporting affidavits, seeking leave to serve the respondent out of the jurisdiction in Japan, in accordance with Order 8 rule 2 of the Federal Court Rules .
On 23 November 2004, I ordered the applicant to serve copies of documents in the proceeding on the Attorney-General for the Commonwealth, on the basis that it was appropriate that he be informed of the nature of the matter.
16 In due course, the Attorney-General filed submissions as amicus curiae .
The substance of those submissions was that the subject matter of the proceedings was a matter best dealt with by the Executive Government, and it was not appropriate for the Court to exercise its discretion to grant relief, either to serve the respondent out of the jurisdiction, or final relief of the nature of the declarations and injunctions sought.
After considering submissions both from the Attorney-General and the applicant, I gave judgment on 27 May 2005, dismissing the motion: see Humane Society International Inc v Kyodo Senpaku Kaisha Ltd [2005] FCA 664.
I do not propose to set out my reasons enunciated therein; it is sufficient to say that, in light of the international position, including the view of Japan that the assertion of jurisdiction in this matter would be a breach of international law, including, but not limited to, the Whaling Convention, of the place of an international body, the IWC, to deal with the issue of the killing of whales for scientific or other purposes, of the expression of the Executive Government of its (non-justiciable) view of Australia's long-term national interest, of the placing of the Court at the centre of an international dispute (indeed, helping to promote such a dispute) between Australia and a friendly foreign power, and of the likelihood that any attempt to enforce an injunction against the respondent would be futile (a matter that was never seriously contested by the applicant on the application for leave to serve out of Australia), I was not persuaded that the Court's exercise of discretion to grant leave to serve the respondent outside the jurisdiction was appropriate.
17 On that day, senior counsel for the applicant made an application for leave to appeal under the Federal Court Rules , as he was entitled to do.
I granted that leave.
18 The applicant was successful on appeal to the Full Court: see Humane Society International Inc v Kyodo Senpaku Kaisha Ltd [2006] FCAFC 116 ; (2006) 154 FCR 425.
The Full Court unanimously held that the considerations to which I referred (which were broadly characterised by the Full Court as "political") should not affect the exercise of judicial discretion where, as here, the action is otherwise justiciable.
The joint judgment of Black CJ and Finkelstein J at [12] and [13] (with which propositions Moore J concurred at [38]) stated:
 
 ...It may be accepted that whilst legal disputes may occur in a political context, the exclusively political dimension of the dispute is non-justiciable.
It is appropriately non-justiciable because the Court lacks competence to resolve disputes and issues of an exclusively political type, the resolution of which will involve the application of non-judicial norms: compare Japan Whaling Association v American Cetacean Society (1986) 487 US 221 at 230.

 
 Even if, in special circumstances, there is occasion for political considerations to be taken into account in deciding whether an action should be permitted to go forward, there is no room, in our view, for those considerations where, as here, the Parliament has provided that the action is justiciable in an Australian court: R v Bow Street Metropolitan Stipendiary Magistrate; Ex parte Pinochet Ugarte [1998] UKHL 41 ; [2000] 1 AC 61 at 107.


19 Further, the majority of the Full Court (Black CJ and Finkelstein J, contra Moore J) stated that considerations of futility of enforcement of any final relief were premature when determining whether or not to exercise discretion to allow service out of the jurisdiction.
The majority said the following at [14] --- [16]: 
 
 On the question of futility, that is the lack of means of making an injunction effective, we also disagree with the approach of the primary judge in several respects.
First, while it may be accepted that an injunction is by its nature a discretionary remedy which may be refused if it cannot be enforced, the question whether an injunction should be granted is to be dealt with either in an application (if there be one) to set aside service ( Agar v Hyde at 574-575) or, more appropriately, when the application itself is heard and not when the court is deciding whether there should be leave to serve out of the jurisdiction (see, by analogy, Helicopter Utilities Pty Ltd v Australian National Airlines Commission ( 1963) 80 WN NSW 48 at 51).

 
 Second, it seems to us that the judge in effect imposed upon the appellant the obligation of showing that an injunction would be a useful remedy.
In fact the reverse is true.
It is the defendant who has the onus of showing that it has no assets within the jurisdiction which could be sequestrated in punishment for contempt: Hospital for Sick Children (Board of Governors) v Walt Disney Productions Inc [1968] Ch 52 at 71.

 
 Third, we consider that when asked to grant an injunction, the court should not necessarily contemplate that it would be disobeyed: In re Liddell's Settlement Trusts [1936] Ch 365 at 373-374; Castanho v Brown  Root (UK) Ltd [1981] AC 557 at 574; Republic of Haiti v Duvalier [1990] 1 QB 202 at 216 ; South Bucks District Council v Porter [2003] UKHL 26 ; [2003] 2 AC 558 at 580.
There are many cases where parties out of the jurisdiction have been subjected to an injunction regarding their conduct abroad.
The cases to which we have referred show that if a person is properly served in accordance with the court's exorbitant jurisdiction, that person (so far as the jurisdiction of the court is concerned) is in the same position as a person who is within its territorial jurisdiction.
Nevertheless, in an appropriate case the judge may refuse to grant an injunction because the defendant is outside the jurisdiction and is likely to ignore the order.
It will all depend upon the circumstances and, at the present stage of these proceedings, they are not yet known.

 Service and non-appearance of the respondent 
 
 20 Following the Full Court judgment, the applicant attempted, unsuccessfully, to serve the respondent in Japan via diplomatic channels.
The Japanese Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in a note verbale dated 26 October 2006, refused to allow the documents to be accepted for service on the grounds that "this issue relates to waters and a matter over which Japan does not recognise Australia's jurisdiction".
The applicant then filed a notice of motion on 31 January 2007, seeking substituted service upon the respondent in accordance with Order 7 rule 9 of the Federal Court Rules .
21 On 2 February 2007, I made the following orders for service upon the respondent:
 
 1.
The applicant be permitted to serve the originating process on the respondent in Japan by: 
 (a) Serving the following documents on or before 1 April 2007: 
 (i) Copies in English of the amended application and the amended statement of claim; 
 (ii) Copies in Japanese of the amended application and the amended statement of claim; and 
 (iii) A copy of this order in English and Japanese.

 
 (b) Serving the documents referred to in 1(a) on the respondent by: 
 (i) Sending by registered post addressed to the managing director of the respondent at the following address, being the respondent's registered place of business: 4-5 Toyomi-cho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan; and 
 (ii) Serving the said documents at the respondent's registered place of business: 4-5 Toyomi-cho, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

 
 

22 The applicant relied on an affidavit of Emily Lucienne Besser, a solicitor of the firm representing the applicant, affirmed 6 August 2007, in relation to service upon the respondent by registered post.
Ms Besser deposed that on 27 February 2007, copies of the relevant documents were sent to the respondent by registered post in accordance with order (1)(b)(i) of the orders of 2 February 2007.
Exhibit ELB-2 to that affidavit is the registered post receipt, identifying the respondent's address.
Exhibit ELB-3 is a copy of the envelope sent to the respondent, which was returned on 12 March 2007.
The envelope was unopened and was marked with Japanese characters, the translation of which reads "refuse to receive".
23 The applicant also relied upon an affidavit of Diana Beaton, affirmed 31 August 2007.
Ms Beaton is an administrative assistant at the firm representing the applicant.
Ms Beaton deposed that on 27 July 2007, she sent by registered post a further copy of the relevant documents to the respondent's registered address in Tokyo.
That package was also returned, unopened, marked "RETOUR/REFUSE".
24 In relation to the personal service upon the respondent at its offices in Tokyo, the applicant read the affidavit of Mikio Hisamatsu, affirmed 24 March 2007.
Mr Hisamatsu, a lawyer, attended the respondent's office in Tokyo on 21 February 2007.
Mr Hisamatsu attended upon the respondent's General Affairs Department, and handed the package of service documents to a woman there, identifying the package as legal documents to be served upon the company.
Mr Hisamatsu deposed that the woman took the envelope, but indicated that she was not authorised to accept service.
Mr Hisamatsu was then confronted by a man who identified himself as the "sub-department leader" of the respondent.
That person was holding the package, but also stated he would not accept service.
Mr Hisamatsu then deposed that the sub-department leader returned with an apparently more senior person, who again refused to accept service on the grounds that "you have not identified yourself, this envelope is not sealed and there is no name on it".
The senior person attempted to return the package to Mr Hisamatsu.
However, Mr Hisamatsu refused to accept it and left the building, leaving the package with the employees of the respondent.
25 Based on the above, I am satisfied that the applicant has served the relevant documents on the respondent in accordance with the orders of 2 February 2007 and that the respondent was aware of the proceeding against it in this Court.
26 After reserving judgment on this matter, I directed the applicant to write to the Attorney-General for the Commonwealth to ascertain whether he remained of the same view as expressed in his submissions relating to leave to serve out of the jurisdiction.
In a letter dated 12 October 2007, the Attorney-General's advisors expressed the opinion that the service by the applicant was defective and that "Japan would view neither the proceedings nor any judgment arising from them as legitimate".
However, in circumstances such as these, where the Full Court of this Court has ordered that the respondent be served out of the jurisdiction, and where the Japanese Government has declined to assist in that service (as outlined above), I am of the opinion that the orders of 2 February 2007 are in accordance with the Rules.
In so saying, I refer to my reasons given for granting substituted service (given on 16 February 2007): see Humane Society International Inc v Kyodo Senpaku Kaisha Ltd [2007] FCA 124.
27 Following substituted service, the matter was called on for hearing on 18 September 2007.
The respondent did not file a notice of appearance prior to that time and did not appear on the morning of the hearing.
The respondent was called outside the Court, but failed to appear.
The matter then proceeded without the respondent being present.
The applicant did not seek orders on a default basis, but proceeded to prove the matters required to establish the claim.
Pleadings 
 
28 The applicant originally sought leave to serve upon the respondent a pleading to the effect that the whaling conducted pursuant to the Japanese Whaling Research Program under Special Permit in the Antarctic (JARPA) by the respondent was not scientific whaling.
Leave was not given to serve a pleading containing that allegation, as the allegation was not particularised.
There was no appeal from that part of the original decision to refuse leave to serve out of Australia.
In the circumstances, this proceeding has been conducted on the premise that JARPA (and later JARPA II) are not challenged as lawful permits under the Whaling Convention and thus it was not asserted that the impugned activity of the respondent was and is not scientific research.
