
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 The applicant (Eden) applies for an extension of time in which to file and serve notice of an appeal from the judgment of a Judge of the Court given on 9 May 2007: see Eden Construction Pty Ltd v State of New South Wales (No 2) (2007) ATPR 42.
On that date, the primary Judge, Graham J, answered a number of questions separately and before any other questions in the proceeding.
According to the application, the extension of time is required because the notice of appeal was not filed and served within the time limited by O 52 r 15 of the Federal Court Rules .
Order 52 r 15 provides, relevantly, that a notice of appeal must be filed and served within 21 days after the date when the judgment appealed from was pronounced.
In its written submissions, Eden states that its application is for "leave to appeal out of time".
There is no right of appeal from an interlocutory judgment unless the Court or a Judge gives leave to appeal: see s 24(1)A of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth).
2 On 8 June 2007, his Honour made an order dismissing the proceeding and reserving the question of costs for argument.
Subsequently, on 20 June 2007, his Honour ordered that Eden pay the costs of the respondent (the State): see Eden Construction Pty Ltd v State of New South Wales (No 3) [2007] FCA 946.
3 Eden has not sought either an extension of time or leave to appeal in relation to anything other than the answering of the separate questions on 9 May 2007 (the draft notice of appeal would also seek a setting aside of the order as to costs).
It seems clear that the present application is deficient in that it seeks an extension of time in which to appeal from an interlocutory judgment and does not seek an extension of time in which to appeal from the final judgment.
4 Since I have come to the view for the reasons given below that no arguable question of law warranting the attention of a Full Court has been raised, and this would be a sufficient ground on which to dismiss any application for either an extension of time or leave to appeal, I will not discuss the deficiencies mentioned any further but will simply dismiss the application.
5 Unless otherwise specified, my references to the primary Judge's reasons are a reference to his Honour's reasons in Eden Construction Pty Ltd v State of New South Wales (No 2) (2007) ATPR 42.
BACKGROUND FACTS 
 
6 Eden is a pipe laying contractor.
The proceeding at first instance related, relevantly, to the Moruya Heads Sewerage project (Moruya Heads Project) and the Kremur Street Pumping Station project (Kremur Street Project).
Both projects are also relevant to the present application.
The "Principal" in the case of the Moruya Heads Project was the Eurobodalla Shire Council and in the case of the Kremur Street Project was the Albury City Council.
In both cases the State's Department of Public Works and Services (DPWS) was the project manager.
7 The opening paragraph of his Honour's reasons for judgment encapsulated the position as follows:
 
 The primary concern of the parties in this matter is to have the Court determine whether the non-award of a civil engineering subcontract to the applicant, for the construction of gravity and rising mains and pipework at Moruya Heads, can be attributed to wrongful bad-mouthing of the applicant by the respondent's Department of Public Works or one of its successor Departments ('the Department') in respect of the applicant's performance of a contract with the Albury City Council for the Kremur Street Pumping Station (part of the Council's Sewerage Works), to a wrongful placement of the applicant on the Department's Provisional Contractors' Review List, to a wrongful description by the Department of the applicant as a litigious contractor and as an unsuitable contractor and/or to a breach by the respondent of an agreement made 7 January 1994 said to have arisen from the settlement of a dispute between one of the applicant's related companies and the Department in respect of a Norah Head civil engineering contract.


8 On 31 May 1999, Allied Constructions Pty Ltd (Allied) invited Eden to quote for a subcontract on the Moruya Heads Project.
Apparently Eden did so and on the basis of Eden's quote, Allied tendered to the DPWS for the job.
9 Eden had previously been contracted to undertake construction and associated mechanical electrical work on the Kremur Street Project.
The contract for that Project was between the Albury City Council and Eden, and the performance of the contract was managed on behalf of the Council by the DPWS.
In connection with the Kremur Street Project, "Contractor Performance Reports" had been made within the DPWS which were in some respects adverse to Eden in terms of its management and quality of work.
