
 
1 This is an appeal from a decision of a Federal Magistrate dismissing an application for review of a decision of the Migration Review Tribunal ("the Tribunal") which affirmed a decision of a delegate of the first respondent ("the Minister") to refuse the appellant a Partner (Temporary) (Class TK) visa and a Partner (Residence) (Class BS) visa because she did not meet certain health criteria.
2 The criteria relevant to this appeal is that, under Item 4007 of Schedule 4 and par 820.223 of Schedule 2 of the Migration Regulations 1994 (Cth) ("the Regulations "), the applicant at the time of decision must be a person who does not have a disease which requires him or her to receive health care during the period of proposed stay in Australia which would be likely to result in a significant cost to the Australian community: see par 4007(1)(c)(ii)(A).
The Minister has power to waive this requirement if the applicant satisfies all other criteria for the grant of the relevant visa and the Minister is satisfied that the grant of the visa would be unlikely to result in undue cost or prejudice to the Australian community: see par 4007(2).
If an applicant fails to meet the requirements of par 4007(1) and the Minister does not waive these requirements, then the applicant will not be able to obtain a visa pursuant to par 820.223 of Schedule 2 to the Regulations .
Under reg 2.25A of the Regulations , when determining whether an applicant satisfies certain health criteria for the grant of a visa, the Minister must seek the opinion of a Medical Officer of the Commonwealth ("MOC") on whether, inter alia , the applicant satisfies the criteria contained in par 4007(1)(c).
Under reg 2.25A(3) of the Regulations , the Minister must take the opinion of the MOC to be correct for the purpose of deciding whether a person meets the requirements of par 4007(1)(c).
BACKGROUND 
 
3 The appellant is a foreign national who married an Australian citizen on 30 June 2001 and thereafter applied for a visa on 23 July 2001 with her husband as nominator.
The relationship broke down permanently in 2003 as a consequence of domestic violence from her husband.
Her application for a visa was subsequently refused by a delegate of the Minister on 10 October 2003 because the delegate concluded that the appellant did not satisfy the health criteria specified in par 4007(1) of Schedule 4 of the Regulations .
The delegate based this conclusion on a report of an MOC that the appellant had been diagnosed as HIV positive, that she was receiving therapy, and that the cost of her health care would be approximately $250,000.
In the view of the delegate, these matters demonstrated the appellant did not satisfy the health criteria in par 4007(1) due to the likelihood of "undue cost to the Australian community".
4 The medical evidence relevant to this case arises chiefly from reports of Dr Marcus Chen, the appellant's doctor at the Sydney Sexual Health Centre, and Dr Julie Phillips, the MOC consulted by the Minister.
The appellant provided the Minister with a letter from Dr Chen dated 20 May 2002, which stated that she was "first diagnosed with HIV in December 2000", and after anti-retroviral medication now presents with "an undetectable viral load of 50 copies/ml and a CD4 count of 320 (20%)".
5 On 8 May 2003, Dr Phillips issued an "Opinion of a Medical Officer of the Commonwealth", which concluded that the appellant did not satisfy the health requirements in par 4007(1) of Schedule 4 of the Regulations .
On 28 August 2003, Dr Chen issued a second report stating that the appellant had responded well to HIV medication and that "the viral load has remained undetectable and the CD4 count had increased to 620 by February 2003".
This was said to be a "sustained and significant response over three years", and Dr Chen concluded that "the prognosis is good".
In relation to the burden of her treatment on society, Dr Chen noted that the appellant had only required outpatient visits for routine blood tests, and had not required, and was unlikely to require for the foreseeable future, any inpatient management.
Dr Chen also expressed the view that the appellant had several treatment options if the current combination of medications lost its potency.
6 On 8 October 2004 (which was after the date of the Tribunal's hearing but before it handed down its decision) Dr Chen provided another report stating that the appellant's "antiretroviral combination ... continues to suppress [her] HIV viral load to an undetectable level (less than 50 copies per ml) ... [and] her CD4 count was 680 when last checked in August 2004".
Dr Chen concluded that the appellant's outlook was "very good, with little chance of AIDS developing within the foreseeable future".
He stated she would require "3 monthly outpatient visits with routine blood tests, but inpatient management is unlikely to be necessary for some years".
Dr Chen also pointed out that the appellant was always a regular attendee at his clinic and that her excellent adherence to treatment contributed to her above average response.
7 The appellant applied to the Tribunal for a review of the delegate's decision on 16 October 2003.
On 22 March 2004, the Tribunal wrote to the appellant's solicitor, stating that:
 
 'The Tribunal cannot review a medical assessment by a MOC.
