
 
1 Proceedings have been instituted in this Court by the Police Federation of Australia ("PFA") and The Police Association ("TPA") against the first respondent, Christine Nixon ("the Commissioner"), who is the Chief Commissioner of the Victoria Police and the second respondent, the State of Victoria.
By their amended statement of claim, the PFA and TPA have alleged that the Secretary of TPA, a Senior Sergeant Paul Mullett ("Mullett") has been engaged on behalf of TPA in industrial negotiations and the prosecution in the Australian Industrial Relations Commission ("the AIRC") of industrial disputes with the Commissioner and has also campaigned against proposed changes to the Police Regulation Act 1958 (Vic) ("the PRA ").
It is further alleged in the amended statement of claim that Mullett has convened meetings of members, or delegates' conferences of TPA which have carried motions of no confidence in the Commissioner.
2 A separate part of the amended statement of claim alleges that Mullett and TPA successfully made political representations which resulted in an agreement being concluded, without any involvement by the Commissioner, about matters to be included in a new enterprise bargaining agreement.
It is also asserted that the PFA had, in August and September 2007, instigated industrial action by its members in support of what it claimed should be contained in the proposed new enterprise bargaining agreement.
3 It is further alleged in the amended statement of claim that Mullett has convened meetings of members or delegates' conferences of TPA which have carried motions of no confidence in the Commissioner.
As well, the amended statement of claim recited various complaints by the Commissioner that TPA had misrepresented, on various issues, her position and had made her personally a target of aspects of its campaigns.
4 A specific focus of hostile relations between the Commissioner on the one hand, and Mullett and TPA on the other, is identified in par 141 of the amended statement of claim as "the Bullying Allegations.
" That paragraph, omitting particulars, is in these terms;
 
 
 '141.
On 3 May 2006 Nixon wrote to Mitchell and the Executive of TPA stating that: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) she had "received a complaint under Part IVA of the Police Regulation Act in relation to alleged bullying behaviour in the Association"; 
 (b) that the "complaint alleges serious misconduct for the purposes of s86L2(A) of the Act and I am required to investigate the matter"; 
 (c) that she had "advised the Director of Police lntegrity of the nature of the complaint" and was to "shortly commence an investigation in to the allegations"; 
 (d) that "the complainant has also provided a copy of a report prepared by Grant Brecht dated February 2006 titled 'Health and Wellbeing Review, Report for the Police Association'.
The report characterises the alleged behaviour of the Secretary and others in leadership positions as falling into the category of bullying and intimidatory behaviour.
The complaint supports the findings of the Report and submits that the TPA has not done enough to address the alleged behaviour of the Secretary".

 
 
 
 
 ("the Bullying Allegations")' 
 


 
 5 As revealed by the amended statement of claim and confirmed by an affidavit sworn by Thomas Donald Luke Cornelius, an Assistant Commissioner of Police ("Cornelius") on 30 January 2008 and filed on behalf of the respondents, the Bullying Allegations have, since September 2006, been the subject of investigations by the Victorian Workcover Authority ("WorkSafe") and the Victorian Ombudsman.
In a report issued in April 2007, the latter recommended that Victoria Police should "further investigate the matter by interviewing all relevant witnesses and the Secretary of the Police Association [Mullett] (if necessary under direction).
" By par 150D which was introduced as part of the amended statement of claim, it is recited that, on 16 November 2007, Mullett complained to TPA that he had been the victim of contraventions of Part 16 of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 ("the WRA ") and the application which instituted the substantive proceedings in this matter was filed in this Court on 20 December 2007.
The amended statement of claim also sets out an extract from a letter dated 8 January 2008 from the Commissioner to the President and Executive of TPA which was in these terms;
 
 'I write further to our correspondence regarding the investigation under Part IVA of the Police Regulation Act of alleged bullying behaviour in the Association.

 As you know, the Ombudsman tabled a report to the Parliament in April 2007 titled "Investigation into a disclosure about WorkSafe's and Victoria Police's handling of a bullying and harassment complaint"
 In his report the Ombudsman recommended, among other things; 
 "that Victoria Police further investigate this matter by interviewing all relevant witnesses, including the Secretary of The Police Association, if necessary under direction.
"
 Accordingly, investigators are now approaching current and former members of the Executive, and will seek their cooperation in providing further information.

 Consistent with the normal practice in the investigation of incidents of possible serious misconduct by members of Victoria Police, the investigators will initially invite the member's co-operation.
If the member chooses not to co-operate, the investigators will then consider the use of the provisions of Section 86Q of the Police Regulation Act, and directing the member to provide specific information.

 The Ombudsman made specific reference to the meeting of the Executive on 6 June 2006.
I understand that the meeting was electronically recorded.
I ask that you provide the Assistant Commissioner ESD, or the investigators with a copy of the recording of that meeting.
Please feel free to contact the investigators.
Superintendents Tim Cartwright (03 8398 9859) and Tony Biggin (03 9865 2129), to finalise any arrangements.

 I seek the cooperation of members of the Executive in this matter.
The assistance that you provide will help ensure a full and fair investigation and consideration of this matter.
' 


 
6 After new paragraphs framed to charge the respondents with resuming, in contravention of Part 16 of the WRA , the investigation of the Bullying Allegations, the amended statement of claim continues by alleging that the suspension, on 15 November 2007, of Mullett from the Police Force and the prohibition of his entering any police premises unless under a direction to do so, were done for a prohibited reason or for reasons that included a prohibited reason within the meaning of s 793(1)(a) of the WRA , namely that Mullett is an officer of either or both the PFA and TPA.
A further contravention of Part 16 of the WRA is alleged in par 159 of the amended statement of claim to have been constituted by statements by the Commissioner;
 
 '(a) that she will never again negotiate with Mullett; 
 
 
 (b) that she wanted to end the practice of the Police Association Secretary being paid by the union while remaining a member of the force and that the arrangement created a conflict of interest.
' 
 


 
7 It is finally alleged in the amended statement of claim that, in the light of the institution of the present proceedings, the resumption of the investigation of the Bullying Allegations against Mullett;
 
 
 'constitutes an injury or threatened injury or alteration or threatened alteration of his position to his prejudice in his employment within the meaning of s 792 of the Act in that: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) his standing and reputation amongst members of the force is damaged.

 
 
 
 
 (b) he is restricted in his access to police premises; 
 
 
 
 
 (c) he is restricted in his dealings with members of command of the force; 
 
 
 
 
 161.
The respondents' conduct referred to in each of paragraphs 154 to 159 was done and continues to be done for a prohibited reason or for reasons that include a prohibited reason within the meaning of s 793(1)(a) of the WR Act, namely that Mullett is an officer of an industrial association, namely the PFA and/or the TPA.

 161A.
The respondents' conduct towards Mullett referred to in paragraphs 150A to 150F, constitutes an injury or threatened injury or alteration or threatened alteration of his position to his prejudice in his employment within the meaning of s792 of the Act in that: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) He is subjected to an investigation under Part IV of the Police Regulation Act 1958 ; 
 (b) His standing and reputation amongst members of the force is damaged.
' 
 
 


 
8 Paragraph 161B of the amended statement of claim then proceeds to allege (omitting particulars);
 
 'The respondents' conduct referred to in each of paragraphs 150A to 150F was done and continues to be done for prohibited reasons or for reasons that include prohibited reasons within the meaning of s793(1) of the WR Act, namely that Mullett: 
 
 
 (a) is an officer of an industrial association, namely the first applicant; 
 (b) made complaint to a person having the capacity under an industrial law to seek compliance with that law; 
 (c) participated in, or proposes to participate in a proceeding under an industrial law.
' 
 


 
9 By an affidavit sworn 23 January 2008, Gregory John Davies, the Manager, Disciplinary/Legal of TPA ("Davies") who holds the rank of Senior Sergeant within the Victoria Police has verified the allegations in the applicants' statement of claim.
He has also deposed that he has no knowledge of allegations of bullying within the Victoria Police Force having been referred to the Force's Ethical Standards Division ("ESD") for investigation pursuant to Part IV of the PRA .
Moreover, according to Davies, "any member of the Force subject to investigation by the [ESD] is regarded by the membership of the Force as under suspicion and accordingly that member's reputation is detrimentally affected.
" 
 
10 The Bullying Allegations were first raised by the Commissioner in a letter to the President and Executive of TPA dated 3 May 2006 which, omitting formal parts, recited;
 
 'Please be advised that I have received a complaint under Part IVA of the Police Regulation Act in relation to alleged bullying behaviour in the Association.
The complaint alleges serious misconduct for the purposes of s86L2(A) of the Act and I am required to investigate the matter.
The Whistleblowers Protection Act 2001 applies to the complaint and the source of the complaint.
It is important that your organisation is aware of the statutory protections given to whistleblowers under Part 3 of that Act and the confidentiality and penalty provisions that exist.
It is also important to take note of the victimisation provision in s. 86V of the Police Regulation Act .

 Part 3 of the Whistleblowers Protection Act provides significant penalties for individuals who seek to cause detriment or incite others to cause detriment to a whistleblower or to a person who is believed to be a whistleblower.
Persons causing or inciting detriment are also personally liable for civil damages.

 While reports of workplace conflict are dealt with at first instance under the Workplace Conflict Issue Resolution Process  Guidelines , those guidelines provide that in instances of serious misconduct, a formal investigation should be undertaken, Accordingly, I have no option other than to refer the matter to Ethical Standards Department for investigation.
You would also be aware that I am obliged under the Police Regulation Act to investigate complaints of serious misconduct and report the receipt of the complaint to the Director of Police Integrity.

 Accordingly, I have advised the Director of Police Integrity of the nature of the complaint and shall shortly commence an investigation into the allegations.

 The complainant has also provided a copy of a report prepared by Grant Brecht dated February 2006 titled 'Health and Well-being Review, Report for the Police Association'.
The report characterises the alleged behaviours of the Secretary and others in leadership positions as falling into the category of bullying and intimidatory behaviour.
The complaint supports the findings of the report and submits that the TPA has not done enough to address the alleged behaviour of the Secretary.

 Clearly the TPA has an obligation to provide a working environment that is safe and without risk to the health of it's employees and members.
Victoria Police also has an interest in ensuring that such obligations are met by the TPA given that a significant majority of police members are members of the Association and all management and executive positions are held by police members.
Bullying is unacceptable in the workforce and if practiced by police members, whether in an official capacity or not, brings disrepute to the force and attracts disciplinary measures.

 Please contact my office on 9247 6868 to arrange a meeting to discuss this issue and the nature of the investigation.
This matter raises issues of mutual concern and it is hoped that we can approach it in the spirit of mutual cooperation.
' 


 
11 By motion on notice also dated 23 January 2008, the applicants seek, amongst other things;
 
 
 '3.
An order that, until the final hearing and determination of this matter, the respondents, their servants or agents, be restrained from taking any further action with respect to the investigation of Mullett referred to in the letter from the first applicant and dated 8 January 2008 ....' 
 


 
12 In support of that motion for interlocutory relief, Mr Borenstein SC, who appeared with Mr Craig Dowling for the applicants, contended that Mullett and the applicants would suffer a significant detriment if the Bullying Allegations continued to be investigated while the substantive application to this Court was pending.
That, it was said, would particularly be so if the assumed investigation were to involve the use of coercive powers conferred on the ESD by the PRA rather than being conducted, as it was said investigations into bullying usually are, by the Human Resources Department of the Police Force.
Support for that contention was said to be afforded by par 29 of the affidavit of Cornelius, which recites;
 
 '... bullying complaints are generally dealt with by Ms Langlands under the oversight of the Human Resources Department, through the use of the Victoria Police's "Workplace Conflict Issue Resolution Process Guidelines" .
' 


 (i) Is there a serious question to be tried?

 (a) Is the resumption of the investigation of the Bullying Allegations capable of constituting an injury to Mullett or an alteration of his position to his prejudice?

 
13 Reliance was placed on behalf of the applicants on Kimpton v Minister for Education of Victoria (1996) 65 IR 317 where North J declined a motion to strike out similar proceedings under the corresponding provisions of the Industrial Relations Act 1988 (Cth) observing, at 319;
 
 'I do not regard it as hopeless or untenable to contend that the requirement to participate in the investigatory process may amount to a relevant injury or prejudicial alteration.
' 


 
 14 Counsel for the applicants similarly invoked the observations in the joint judgment of Brennan CJ, McHugh, Gummow, Kirby and Hayne JJ in Patrick Stevedores Operations No 2 Pty Ltd v Maritime Union of Australia [1998] HCA 30 ; (1998) 195 CLR 1 , at 17 when speaking of the proscribed conduct described in what was then s 298K(1) of the WRA .
Their Honours there said;
 
 'Paragraph (a) covers termination of employment; par (b) covers injury of any compensable kind; par (c) is a broad additional category which covers not only legal injury but any adverse affection of, or deterioration in, the advantages enjoyed by the employee before the conduct in question.
Proof of the reason for engaging in the prescribed conduct is the subject of s 298V.
' 


 
15 As well as exposing Mullett to the exercise of coercive powers conferred by the PRA , the conduct of the resumed investigation by the ESD was said to involve "an element of odium" which amounted to "an adverse affection" in the sense used by the High Court in the passage just quoted.
16 By way of further illustrating the unusual course which is said to have been followed in relation to the Bullying Allegations, the applicants pointed to the acknowledgment at par 70 of the affidavit of Cornelius that;
 
 'On 21 September 2006, all staff of Victoria Police were notified of the outcome of the initial investigation and the referral of the continued investigation to WorkSafe, by way of a general email to all staff.
' 


 
17 The evidence suggests that material by way of propaganda has been distributed by both the Police Force and TPA, but Davies has deposed that circulation by the Police Force of emails to all members of the Force in relation to the Bullying Allegations has, in his experience, been unprecedented.
18 Although Davies acknowledged that the Ombudsman's report of April 2007 had recommended that the Bullying Allegations should be investigated further by both the Police Force and WorkSafe, he contended that the recommendation in respect of WorkSafe could not warrant re-opening the investigation to the extent that it concerned Mullett.
That was because the only relevant Workcover claim by an employee of TPA based on an anxiety disorder claimed to have been caused by workplace bullying implicated another police officer, a Mr Kent, and made no allegation against Mullett.
In combination, it was said on behalf of the applicants, the unusual aspects of the investigation of the Bullying Allegations raise serious questions to be tried as to whether, for a prohibited reason, Mullett has been injured in his employment or had his position altered to his prejudice; see Squires v Flight Stewards Association of Australia (1982) 2 IR 155, at 164 and Health Services Union of Australia v State of Tasmania (1996) 73 IR 140, at 145.
19 The PRA appears to draw a distinction between breaches of discipline by members of the Police Force and conduct which is capable of being the subject of a complaint and investigation under Part IVA of the PRA .
Part IVA contains s 86A defining "conduct" and "serious misconduct" as follows:
 
 ' conduct , in relation to a member of the force, means - 
 
 
 (a) an act or decision or the failure or refusal by the member to act or make a decision in the exercise, performance or discharge, or purported exercise, performance or discharge, whether within or outside Victoria, of a power, function or duty which the member has as or, by virtue of being, a member of the force; or 
 (b) conduct which constitutes an offence punishable by imprisonment; or 
 (c) conduct which is likely to bring the force into disrepute or diminish public confidence in it; or 
 (d) disgraceful or improper conduct (whether in the member's official capacity or otherwise); 
 serious misconduct, in relation to a member of the force, means- 
 (a) conduct which constitutes an offence punishable by imprisonment; or 
 (b) conduct which is likely to bring the force into disrepute or diminish public confidence in it; or 
 (c) disgraceful or improper conduct (whether in the member's official capacity or otherwise).
' 
 


 
20 By s 86L(1), which is also to be found in Part IVA of the PRA ;
 
 'A complaint about the conduct of a member of the force may be made - 
 (a) to another member of the force; or 
 (b) to the Director.
' 


 
As defined by s 3 of the PRA, "Director" means the Director, Police Integrity.
21 Section 86M, which is likewise in Part IVA of the PRA, contemplates that an investigation of a complaint made to a member of the Police Force about the serious misconduct of another member must be carried out by the Chief Commissioner.
That section provides;
 
 
 '(1) The Chief Commissioner must investigate a complaint made to a member of the police force about the serious misconduct of a member of the police force.

 (2) The Chief Commissioner must as soon as practicable after a complaint of serious misconduct is made give to the Director in writing the prescribed details of the complaint.

 (3) The Chief Commissioner must as soon as practicable after commencing an investigation into any alleged serious misconduct by a member of the force give to the Director in writing the prescribed details of the investigation.
' 
 


 
However, if a complaint warranting investigation is made directly to the Director, he or she must, subject to certain exceptions, refer it to the Chief Commissioner; PRA s 86N(2).
The conduct by the Chief Commissioner of investigations under Part IVA is regulated to some extent by s 86O, which provides;
 
 
 '(1) The Chief Commissioner must as often as requested by the Director report in writing to the Director on the progress of an investigation.

 (2) The Chief Commissioner may attempt to resolve a complaint by conciliation and must- 
 
 
 
 
 (a) before commencing to conciliate, notify the Director of the proposed attempt; and 
 
 
 
 
 (b) notify the Director of the results of the attempt.

 (3) After completing an investigation the Chief Commissioner must in writing report to the Director on the results of the investigation and the action (if any) taken or proposed to be taken.
' 
 


 
22 The provision within Part IVA of the PRA which has attracted most attention on the hearing of the application for interlocutory relief is s 86Q empowering the Director or the Chief Commissioner to direct any member of the Police Force to furnish relevant information.
That section provides;
 
 '86Q.
Power to require answers etc. of a member of the force 
 
 
 (1) For the purposes of an investigation into a complaint concerning a possible breach of discipline under section 69 , the Director or the Chief Commissioner (as the case may be) may direct any member of the force to furnish any relevant information, produce any relevant document or answer any relevant question.

 (2) A member of the force who does not comply with a direction commits a breach of discipline and is liable to be dealt with as for a breach of discipline under section 69.

 (3) Except in proceedings for perjury, for a breach of discipline under section 69 or for failure to comply with a direction, or review proceedings under Division 1 of Part IV , any information, document or answer given pursuant to a direction is not admissible in evidence before any court or person acting judicially.
' 
 


 
 23 It is noteworthy that the power conferred by s 86Q is predicated on its being "for the purposes of an investigation into a complaint concerning a possible breach of discipline under section 69.
" That section which appears in Div 2 of Pt IV of the PRA entitled "Employment, Disciplinary and Other Matters" provides as follows;
 
 
 '69 Breaches of discipline 
 (1) A member of the force commits a breach of discipline if he or she-- 
 
 
 
 
 (a) contravenes a provision of this Act or the regulations; or 
 (ab) fails to comply with a direction under section 55 or 90 of the Whistleblowers Protection Act 2001 ; or 
 (b) fails to comply with a standing order or instruction of the Chief Commissioner; or 
 (c) engages in conduct that is likely to bring the force into disrepute or diminish public confidence in it; or 
 (d) fails to comply with a lawful instruction given by the Chief Commissioner, a member of or above the rank of senior sergeant or a person having the authority to give the instruction; or 
 (e) is guilty of disgraceful or improper conduct (whether in his or her official capacity or otherwise); or 
 (f) is negligent or careless in the discharge of his or her duty; or 
 (g) without the approval of the Chief Commissioner-- 
 
 
 
 (i) applies for or holds a licence or permit to conduct any trade, business or profession; or 
 (ii) conducts any trade, business or profession; or 
 (iii) accepts any other employment; or 
 
 
 
 (h) acts in a manner prejudicial to the good order or discipline of the force; or 
 (i) has been charged with an offence (whether under a Victorian law or under a law of another place) and the offence has been found proven.

 
 
 
 
 (2) A member of the force who aids, abets, counsels or procures, or who, by any act or omission, is directly or indirectly knowingly concerned in or a party to the commission of a breach of discipline, also commits a breach of discipline.

 (3) A member of the force may commit a breach of discipline under subsection (1) in respect of conduct engaged in while seconded to the Office of Police Integrity.
' 
 


 
 24 Section 70(1) of the PRA gives the Chief Commissioner a discretion to investigate the matter if he or she reasonably believes that a member of the Force may have committed a breach of discipline.
Section 71(1) creates a further discretion in the Chief Commissioner if, after conducting a preliminary investigation, he or she reasonably believes that a member of the Force has committed a breach of discipline, to charge the member with that breach of discipline.
The following sub-sections of s 71 contain machinery provisions, including s 71(3) empowering the Chief Commissioner, in respect of a charged member, to transfer him or her to other duties, direct him or her to take any accrued leave or suspend the member from the Force with or without pay.
Sub-section 71(4) provides that;
 
 'Any action taken under subsection (3) remains in force until the charge has been finally determined.
' 


 
25 Section 72 prescribes the form which a charge must take by providing;
 
 
 '72 Form of charge 
 
 
 
 
 (1) A charge must-- 
 
 
 
 (a) be in writing; and 
 (b) contain particulars of the alleged breach of discipline; and 
 (c) specify when and where an inquiry into the charge is to be conducted; and 
 (d) specify that the member must state in writing whether or not he or she admits or denies the truth of the charge; and 
 (e) specify the time within which the member must make the statement under paragraph (d).

 
 
 
 (2) If a member has not made the statement required under subsection (1)(d) within the time specified under subsection (1)(e), the Chief Commissioner can proceed without the statement.
' 
 
 


 
 26 Sections 73 and 74 provide respectively for the inquiry into, and determination of, a charge to be conducted by the Chief Commissioner or an officer authorised by him or her and for the classes of persons who may be authorised by the Chief Commissioner to exercise those functions.
Section 75 prescribes the procedure to be observed in the conduct of an inquiry and s 76 stipulates a range of determinations which may be made if the person conducting the inquiry finds that the charge has been proved.
27 The evidence discloses that Cornelius holds an active delegation from the Chief Commissioner under s 6A of the PRA .
That delegation is said to be "in relation to the conduct of investigations into alleged disciplinary matters involving sworn members of Victoria Police under Parts IV and IVA of the [ PRA ]".
According to Cornelius, on 10 March 2006 he interviewed one of the two confidential complainants who had made allegations of bullying by Mullett in his capacity as Secretary of TPA.
That complainant indicated that he or she intended the complaint to be treated as an allegation of serious misconduct and investigated under the PRA .
After receiving further details from the complainant, Cornelius formed the view that "at least some of the conduct alleged might have amounted to 'serious misconduct' if proven after a thorough investigation.
"
 
28 In his affidavit sworn 30 January 2008, Cornelius, who has at all material times been the officer in charge of the ESD, also deposed that on 4 May 2006 he decided that, in the circumstances which included the fact that some members of the Executive of TPA "were/are serving members of ESD", the initial investigation of the Bullying Allegations should be conducted by two officers outside ESD, namely Superintendent Biggin ("Biggin") and Superintendent Cartwright ("Cartwright").
Those officers were later instructed to commence their investigation on 24 May 2006.
29 In pars 55 to 65 of the same affidavit, Cornelius described steps taken in, and reports made to him of, the investigations undertaken by Biggin and Cartwright.
Those steps taken included interviews with various witnesses and the reports to Cornelius enabled him to depose that "Some of the alleged behaviours identified at the preliminary level included physical confrontations, bullying behaviour, intimidation and harassment.
" 
 
30 Cornelius further deposed that "The Investigations also noted that the allegations against Senior Sergeant Mullett could not be particularised without breaching the obligation to protect the identity of the complainants and witnesses.
" That part of the account by Cornelius concluded with the making of a report by Biggin and Cartwright of their initial investigation and the decision by the Commissioner, on the advice of Cornelius, to refer the Bullying Allegations for investigation by WorkSafe because of the inability of Biggin and Cartwright to complete a full investigation without the benefit of evidence from non-police witnesses.
On 14 September 2006, a copy of the initial investigation report was forwarded to the Director of the OPI under cover of a letter from Cornelius which, omitting formal parts, was in these terms;
 
 'I enclose a copy of the initial investigation report in relation to this matter.

 As you are aware, this investigation was initiated as a result of a complaint being received from two serving members of the Victoria Police, alleging bullying behaviour amounting to serious misconduct on the part of Senior Sergeant Paul Mullett.
As the complainants attract the protection of the Whistleblowers Protection Act , it is not appropriate for me to identify them in this correspondence, however I would be happy to disclose their identity, should you require this in the discharge of your functions as either the Director of Police Integrity, or the Ombudsman.

 You will note the initial investigation has identified evidence of a culture of bullying behaviour within The Police Association (TPA) workplace.
The initial investigation has also identified evidence that Senior Sergeant Paul Mullett is a principal agent in the propagation of that culture and has engaged in direct bullying behaviour.

 These matters have not been put to Senior Sergeant Mullett however, due to the sensitivities which attach to the use of the s.86Q questioning power against a person who is a full time union official.
You will note the reasons for adopting this course are outlined in the investigation report, the key reasons being a concern that the use of the power will be challenged in the Supreme Court and the significant risk to witnesses and protected complainants, should the matters be particularised and so allow their identity to be deduced.

 In the normal course of events, such matters are dealt with in accordance with the Victoria Police Workplace Conflict Issue Resolution Process Guidelines .
However, in this case, the application of these guidelines are problematic as the TPA workplace is beyond our reach and includes a mix of police and non-police employees.
Accordingly, mediation, management intervention and workplace based remediation are options which are not available through the application of this policy in the TPA workplace.
Again, in the normal course of events, these interventions would be sufficient to settle a complaint and allow the matter to be concluded without further disciplinary action.

 While we do not have the capacity to reach into another workplace, we remain concerned that there is an ongoing risk of injury to staff working for the TPA and we are also concerned that the behaviours giving rise to this risk need to be addressed.
Further, while we do not have the capacity to secure safety in another employer's workplace, it is clear that WorkSafe Victoria has the capacity to intervene and work with the TPA (as the employer) to recover workplace safety at the TPA workplace.

 Given that we have determined that there is evidence of a present and ongoing risk of injury in the TPA workplace.
we have concluded that the matter should be referred to WorkSafe Victoria for investigation and resolution.

 I advise that we have had preliminary discussions with WorkSafe Victoria and they advise that they would be in a position to handle the matter.
They have also indicated that witnesses would be afforded protection similar to that available under the Police Regulation Act and the Whistleblowers Protection Act , under their legislation.
They have also indicated that they would seek to negotiate with the TPA the implementation of systems and processes which would prevent the perpetuation of a bullying culture and hold individuals accountable for changing their behaviour.

 The purpose in me writing therefore, is to seek your agreement to our referral of this matter to WorkSafe Victoria and in light of section 86O of the Police Regulation Act , seek your agreement to us asking WorkSafe Victoria to attempt to conciliate an outcome as a means or resolving the complaint directed against senior Sergeant Paul Mullett.

 Should WorkSafe Victoria be unable to resolve the matter satisfactorily, then we will reconsider the application of the discipline regime in resolving the complaint.

 Your early consideration and advice in relation to this matter would be appreciated.
Please do not hesitate to contact me to discuss any aspects of this matter which may concern you.
