
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 The issue before the Court for determination is whether, in the events which have occurred, a pre-emption procedure in a Shareholders Agreement in relation to a transfer of shares in a joint venture company has been triggered and consequently not observed.
The resolution of the issue turns substantially upon the proper construction of one clause in the Shareholders Agreement.
The first applicant, Kawasaki (Australia) Pty Ltd ("Kawasaki") and the second applicant, DP World (Australia) Ltd ("DP World"), together with the first respondent, ARC Strang Pty Ltd ("ARC Strang") and the second respondent, Toll (FHL) Pty Ltd ("Toll (FHL)"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the third respondent, Toll Holdings Ltd ("Toll Holdings"), are participants in an automotive storage, preparation and distribution joint venture carried on through the fourth respondent, PrixCar Services Pty Ltd ("PrixCar").
The participants in the joint venture executed a Shareholders Agreement on 31 March 1995.
At that time the participants in the joint venture were Kawasaki, ARC Strang, Finemore Holdings Limited and Conaust Limited.
Subsequently, Finemore Holdings Limited changed its name to Toll (FHL) and Conaust Limited's interest was acquired by DP World.
The Shareholders Agreement regulated the rights, duties and obligations of the shareholders towards each other and PrixCar.
It contained a pre-emption clause, cl 5.1, requiring any shareholder desiring to transfer shares in PrixCar to give a transfer notice in relation to the shares it desired to transfer to the directors of PrixCar.
The directors, who were appointed by the shareholder companies in proportion to their shareholdings, were then required to provide the other shareholders with the first opportunity to purchase the shares.
The Shareholders Agreement, relevantly, provided as follows: 
"5.1 It is acknowledged and agreed between the shareholders that: 
 
 
 (a) a person desiring to transfer any shares in the Company shall give a Transfer Notice to the Directors and the Directors and the proposing transferor shall proceed to establish the Fair Value of the shares within 28 days after the Transfer Notice is given; 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) ... 
 
 
 
 
 (c) If the proposing transferor does not withdraw its Transfer Notice the Directors shall proceed to offer the shares to the other Shareholders in the same proportion, as nearly as the circumstances admit, as the shares held by them at the time of the offer bear to the total number of shares held by all Shareholders, excluding the shares held by the proposing transferor; 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) ... 
 (e) ... 
 (f) ... 
 
 
 
 
 (g) If the whole of the shares desired to be transferred have not been transferred within 90 days from the date of the offer made pursuant to clause 5.1(c), the proposing transferor may sell the shares for a price not less than the Fair Value to any person, but the Directors may refuse to register the transfer on the grounds that either: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) they are not satisfied that the transaction is a bona fide sale at a price not less than the Fair Value; or 
 
 (ii) the proposing transferee is a competitor of the Company.

 
 
 
 
 
 (h) ... 
 (i) ... 
 (j) In this clause: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (i) 'Transfer Notice' means a notice given by a person to the Directors stating that he proposes to transfer shares and specifying the number of shares the subject of the notice; 
 
 (ii) 'Fair Value' means the amount per share which is the fair selling value of the share as between a willing purchaser and a willing vendor as agreed between the Directors and the proposing transferor or failing agreement within 30 days after the Transfer Notice is given to the directors, to be fixed by the Company's auditors upon the application of either the Directors or the proposing transferor.
In determining the Fair Value pursuant to this clause, the Company's auditors will act as an expert and not as an arbitrator and the cost of any such determination will be borne equally between the proposing transferor and the Company; 
 
 
 
 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 
 5.2 Subject to the prior approval of the Directors, a Shareholder shall not be required to comply with the provisions of clause 5.1 where it proposes to transfer shares in the capital of the Company to: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) the trustee of a trust under which the Shareholder is the sole beneficiary; 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) a corporation which is deemed by section 50 of the Law to be related to the Shareholder.

 
 
..." 
 At the date of the Shareholders Agreement, PrixCar's issued capital was held by the shareholders in the following proportions: 

Kawasaki 50.0101%
 
ARC Strang 16.6633%
 
Finemore Holdings Limited (now Toll (FHL)) 16.6633%
 
Conaust Limited (now DP World) 16.6633%

 
 Prior to 30 May 2007 ARC Strang was the trustee of The A.R.C.
Strang Family Trust which was established by a deed of settlement on 5 January 1994.
ARC Strang Australia Pty Ltd became the trustee of The A.R.C.
Strang Family Trust on 30 May 2007.
Since June 2001 Mr Robert Strang Senior ("Mr Robert Strang") has been the sole director and company secretary of ARC Strang, and he has always been the appointor of The A.R.C.
Strang Family Trust with the power to remove and appoint any trustee.
The A.R.C.
Strang Family Trust is a "discretionary trust": Chief Commissioner of Stamp Duties for New South Wales v Buckle [1998] HCA 4 ; (1998) 192 CLR 226 at 234; Commissioner of Taxation (Cth) v Vegners (1989) 90 ALR 547 at 552.
That is to say, the entitlement of the beneficiaries of the trust to the income and capital of the trust is not specified in, or immediately ascertainable from, the terms of the trust.
The distribution of the income and capital of the trust is dependent on the exercise of a discretion by the trustee who is able to select from a nominated class of beneficiaries the beneficiary or beneficiaries to whom, or for whose benefit, any income or capital of the trust is to be distributed from time to time.
In the deed of settlement establishing The A.R.C.
Strang Family Trust, two classes of beneficiaries were provided for.
One class described as "Primary Beneficiaries" included Mr Robert Strang and any spouse, widow or child of Mr Robert Strang.
The other class described as "General Beneficiaries" included the Primary Beneficiaries, their children and remoter issue, other relatives of them and charities.
PrixCar operated a profitable business for a number of years, and the value of its issued capital appears to have increased significantly over time.
In 2006, ARC Strang, through Mr Robert Strang, expressed a desire to exit the joint venture.
It entered into negotiations with both Kawasaki and Toll (FHL) to give effect to this desire.
Various types of transactions were considered.
In particular, Kawasaki and Toll (FHL), as prospective purchasers, were concerned to structure the transaction in such a way so as to avoid the triggering and operation of cl 5.1 of the Shareholders Agreement.
On 30 May 2007, a number of documents were executed whereby: 

(a) Toll Holdings agreed to purchase the existing two shares in ARC Strang from Mr Robert Strang and his wife Mrs Elizabeth Strang for $2.00 and to subscribe for 13.5 million new shares in ARC Strang for which it paid $13.5 million; 
 

 
(b) ARC Strang as trustee and legal owner of the PrixCar shares assigned to itself in its own capacity the beneficial interest in the PrixCar shares, which until then had been held on and subject to the terms and provisions of the deed of settlement constituting The A.R.C.
Strang Family Trust.
The purchase price for the assignment was $13.5 million;
 

 
(c) ARC Strang retired as trustee of The A.R.C.
Strang Family Trust and ARC Strang was appointed as the new trustee of the trust;

(d) The execution of guarantees.
By acquiring the shares in the shareholding company which held shares in PrixCar, rather than acquiring its shares in PrixCar, Toll Holdings thereby gained control of ARC Strang's shares in PrixCar.

 Before these documents were executed, ARC Strang did not give a transfer notice to the directors of PrixCar as provided for in cl 5.1 of the Shareholders Agreement.
The issue is whether ARC Strang was obliged to do so and whether the execution of the documents resulted in a breach of cl 5.1 of the Shareholders Agreement.



 BACKGROUND 
 
 On 9 June 2006 Toll (FHL), in accordance with cl 5.1(a) of the Shareholders Agreement gave notice to the directors of PrixCar of its desire to transfer the 725,283 shares it held in PrixCar.
As a result of the giving of that notice the directors of PrixCar and Toll (FHL) were required to establish the fair value for the shares within 28 days of the date of the giving of the notice.
By letter dated 14 July 2006 (apparently received on 17 July 2006) ARC Strang gave notice to the directors of PrixCar of its desire to transfer the 362,642 shares it held in PrixCar.
Accordingly, the directors of PrixCar and ARC Strang were also required to establish the fair value for those shares within 28 days of the date of the giving of the notice.
Issues arose between the parties as to the determination of the fair value of the shares in PrixCar held by Toll (FHL) and ARC Strang.
In short, the non-Toll directors in PrixCar determined the fair value of the shares held by Toll (FHL) as $11,665,000 whereas Toll (FHL) considered the fair value of the shares to be not less than $23,000,000 which equated to a price per share of $31.71.
ARC Strang considered Toll (FHL)'s fair value to be conservative and it was prepared to participate in a negotiation between Toll (FHL) and the directors in relation to the determination of the fair value of its shares in PrixCar.
On 11 August 2006, the directors of PrixCar notified ARC Strang that they had determined the fair value of its shares in PrixCar to be $5,833,095.
On 23 November 2006, ARC Strang notified the directors of PrixCar that it was withdrawing its transfer notice given in its letter dated 14 July 2006.
In December 2006 Mr Robert Strang had discussions with Kawasaki and Toll interests about a proposal that the shares in ARC Strang be sold.
Mr Robert Strang made an offer to Toll Holdings on 15 December 2006 to sell it the shares in ARC Strang for $12.5 million.
On 14 December 2006 Mr Alan Miles, the General Manager of Kawasaki and Chairman of directors of PrixCar, met with Mr Robert Strang at his request.
Mr Robert Strang said that he wanted to get out of ARC Strang, sell the shares in ARC Strang and give Kawasaki the first option to purchase them because of his traditional long association with Kawasaki through Mr Yuzuru Miyachi, a director of Kawasaki.
Mr Miles told Mr Robert Strang he should discuss the proposal with Mr Miyachi.
At a further meeting with Mr Robert Strang on 21 December 2006, Mr Strang told Mr Miles that he had had discussions with Toll about the sale of ARC Strang but his real intention was to deal with Kawasaki and that he was confident that the pre-emptive rights would not be triggered under the proposal.
These conversations make it clear that Mr Robert Strang was not manifesting a desire on behalf of ARC Strang to sell or transfer its shares in PrixCar.
He did not want the pre-emption rights in cl 5.1 of the Shareholders Agreement triggered.
After the meetings between Mr Miles and Mr Robert Strang all further discussions and negotiations between Mr Robert Strang and Kawasaki and Toll proceeded on the basis that the shareholders in ARC Strang were proposing to sell their shares in ARC Strang.
On 18 December 2006, Mr Robert Strang telephoned Mr Miyachi and told him that he wanted to sell his company and give Kawasaki first priority in respect of such sale.
Mr Robert Strang indicated to Mr Miyachi a price of $11 million.
The directors of Kawasaki were concerned whether the purchase of the shares in ARC Strang would circumvent the pre-emptive provisions of cl 5.1 of the Shareholders Agreement.
Mr Robert Strang told Mr Miyachi that the understanding that he had obtained from his lawyer was that the sale of the shares in ARC Strang would not trigger the pre-emptive provisions in cl 5.1 of the Shareholders Agreement.
In an email sent to Mr Miyachi on 20 December 2006 Mr Robert Strang indicated the Strang Group would be selling the shares in ARC Strang.
On 22 December 2006, Kawasaki wrote to Mr Robert and Mrs Elizabeth Strang confirming that Kawasaki wished to acquire all the issued shares in ARC Strang for $11 million.
In the letter Kawasaki set out a number of conditions relating to the proposed transaction including the payment of a preliminary refundable deposit of $250,000 to be held by ARC Strang's lawyers on trust for Kawasaki and paid to the vendors on completion of the purchase of the shares in ARC Strang.
That deposit was paid on 28 December 2006.
Kawasaki was proceeding with the transaction on the basis that a sale of the shares in ARC Strang would not trigger the pre-emption provisions in cl 5.1 of the Shareholders Agreement.
It was not prepared to purchase the shares in ARC Strang unless it was certain that the purchase would not attract the operation of those pre-emption provisions.
Early in January 2007, Kawasaki became aware that the PrixCar shares registered in the name of ARC Strang were only legally held by it as trustee and that the beneficial owner of the shares was The A.R.C.
Strang Family Trust.
Kawasaki and its solicitors were concerned that the transfer of the shares from the beneficial owner to ARC Strang in its own right might activate the pre-emption provisions of cl 5.1 of the Shareholders Agreement which would defeat Kawasaki's reason for purchasing the shares in ARC Strang.
On 11 January 2007, ARC Strang wrote to the secretary of PrixCar in the following terms: 
"Proposed Transfer of Shares We propose to transfer the 362,642 shares held in PrixCar Services Pty Ltd held by A.R.C.
Strang Pty Ltd to a company to be known as A.R.C.
Strang Australia Pty Ltd (currently known as Wahnz Pty Ltd) ACN 123 236 519.
This company will be a wholly-owned subsidiary of A.R.C.
Strang Pty Ltd.
Please confirm that, pursuant to clause 5.2(b) of the Shareholders Agreement dated 31 March 1995, a decision of the directors has been made approving this transaction.
" 

This letter did not refer to the proposed agreement that the shareholders in ARC Strang had reached with Kawasaki to sell their shares in ARC Strang to Kawasaki.

 The directors of Kawasaki were not prepared to complete the proposed acquisition of shares in ARC Strang until it was certain that such acquisition could be effected without giving rise to a triggering of the pre-emption provisions in cl 5.1 of the Shareholders Agreement.
On the following day, 12 January 2007, PrixCar sent to each of its directors a copy of ARC Strang's letter of 11 January 2007 and sought their prompt response to the proposed transfer.
On 29 January 2007, the two Toll (FHL) directors on the board of PrixCar approved the transfer proposed by ARC Strang on the basis that it was a transaction which fell within cl 5.2(b) of the Shareholders Agreement.
A meeting of the board of directors of Kawasaki was held on 1 February 2007 at which the managing director advised the board that: 
"...Strang had offered to sell ARC Strang Pty Ltd, the registered owner of its PrixCar shares to Kawasaki (Australia) and that the offer had been accepted conditional upon Kawasaki (Australia) completing due diligence investigations which were satisfactory to it and the board of directors of Kawasaki approving the proposed transaction" 

Around this time there was concern within Kawasaki that full disclosure of ARC Strang's proposal had not been made to Toll.
Mr Robert Strang had agreed to make such full disclosure.

 On the evening of 7 February 2007 Mr Robert Strang telephoned Mr Miles and told him that Mr Stephen Stanley from Toll Holdings had called him offering to purchase the shares in ARC Strang for $2 million more than Kawasaki's proposed price.
Mr Robert Strang said that he told Mr Stanley he was negotiating with Kawasaki and had a handshake agreement.
On 8 February 2007, Mr Robert Strang sent Mr Alan Miles minutes of the meeting between him and his son Mr Robert A S Strang and Mr Charles Thompson and Mr Adam Martin from Toll on 7 February.
The minutes were in the following terms: 
"We thanked Charles and Adam for seeing us today.
1.
Important to speak to Toll personally 2.
ARC Strang succession planning for the family.

 
 3.
Strang's concern and review of our investment in PrixCar as no control over the dividend or direction 
 
 4.
RWAS getting older / wanting to stand back 5.
Strang family investments to be in companies that they can control 
 
 6.
We advised that we have a handshake with Kawasaki Australia sell.
Details to be finalized 
 
 
 
 7.
Toll requested whether there was an opportunity to change the outcome.
Strang advised that there wasn't.

 
 
 
 8.
Toll advised that the ACCC had ham strung ( sic ) Toll's position as they would have moved earlier.

 
 
 
 9.
We expressed our concern at the long drawn out litigation set down for direction on Friday February 9 2007.

 
 
 
 10.
Strang founded PrixCar with Kawasaki Australia and the family wanted to return the shareholding to a member of the foundation team.

 
 
 
 11.
Strang has a very exciting new project that requires all our time and a considerable amount of capital going forward and we are moving on.
" 
 


 
 Mr Strang telephoned Mr Miles on 8 February 2007 to discuss his meeting the previous day with the Toll representatives.
He said that he had explained to them that the Strang Family was restructuring its business with a view to selling its investment in PrixCar.
Mr Strang said he had told the Toll representatives that he had an arrangement with Kawasaki to purchase the shares in ARC Strang and they asked whether they could make a counter-offer for the shares in ARC Strang.
It was after this conversation that Mr Robert Strang sent Mr Miles the minutes of the meeting with the Toll representatives.
On 8 February 2007, Toll (FHL) sent a letter to Mr Alan Miles, the Chairman of PrixCar in the following terms: 
"As you may be away, ARC Strang Pty Ltd has recently written to the directors of the Company, seeking their consent under clause 5.2(b) of the Shareholders Agreement, for the transfer of ARC Strang's shares in the company ("Sale Shares") to Wahnz ("Proposed Transfer").
Robert Strang of ARC Strang informed us yesterday, that he had entered into an agreement with Kawasaki (Australia) Pty Ltd ("K-Line") for the sale of Wahnz to K-Line, which would include, the Sale Shares.
In circumstances where: 
 
 (a) no prior approval of the directors has been given to the proposed transfer of shares in accordance with clause 5.2(b); and/or alternatively, 
 
 
 
 (b) there has been a lack of disclosure of the true circumstances surrounding the Proposed Transfer, in particular the lack of disclosure of the agreement to sell the shares in Wahnz to K-Line which has the effect of transferring the Sale Shares to K-Line ; and/or alternatively 
 
 
 
 (c) ARC Strang has (and another shareholder may have) acted in breach of the duty of utmost good faith contained in clause 23 of the Shareholders Agreement by reason of it not disclosing the full details of the Proposed Transfer to circumvent the operation of clause 5.1 of the Shareholders Agreement, 
 
 the Company should not take any steps to register the Proposed Transfer and/or alternatively, the ultimate transfer of the Sale shares to K-Line.
We should be grateful if you would acknowledge receipt of this letter, and confirm in writing by 2.00 pm today (8 February 2007) that: 
 
 (i) neither you nor the Company will take any steps to register the Proposed Transfer nor the transfer of the Sale Shares to K-Line, pending ARC Strang's compliance with clause 5.1 of the Shareholders Agreement; and 
 (ii) you will convene a meeting of the directors of PrixCar, to consider a resolution to decline to register the proposed Transfer and/or the ultimate transfer of the Sale Shares to K-Line, in accordance with Article 21 of the company's Constitution.

 
 Failing receipt of your written undertakings as sought, we reserve the right to approach the Supreme Court of Victoria for appropriate relief.
" 

 
 On the same day, Toll (FHL)'s solicitors wrote to Mr Robert Strang and ARC Strang seeking an undertaking that they would take no further action to effect a transfer of the shares to Wahnz Pty Ltd ("Wahnz").
On 8 February 2007, ARC Strang's solicitors wrote to Toll (FHL)'s solicitors notifying them that ARC Strang would not proceed with the transfer of the shares in PrixCar to Strang Australia Pty Ltd, that the PrixCar shares would continue to be held by ARC Strang, that no binding arrangements had been entered into with Kawasaki but it was the intention of the shareholders of ARC Strang to transfer their shares in ARC Strang to Kawasaki and that the Shareholders Agreement did not have any application to a transaction of this nature.
On 9 February 2007, ARC Strang's solicitors wrote to Toll (FHL)'s solicitors informing them that the shareholders of ARC Strang would not conclude a binding agreement with Kawasaki before a proposed directors' meeting to be held on 19 February 2007 without giving them 72 hours' notice.
On 15 February 2007, Kawasaki's solicitors wrote to ARC Strang's solicitors in the following terms: 
"Thank you for sending us a copy of your letter of 8 February 2007 to Clayton Utz.
Is that letter you have indicated that it is the intention of the shareholders of ARC Strang Pty Ltd (ARC Strang) to transfer their shares in ARC Strang to Kawasaki.
However, as the shares in PrixCar held by ARC Strang are presently held by it in its capacity of trustee of the Strang Family Trust, before Kawasaki could acquire the shares in ARC Strang (and thereby the interest in the PrixCar shares) there would need to be a transfer of all of the beneficial interest in the PrixCar shares to ARC Strang in its personal capacity.
In our view this will be a transfer of shares for the purposes of clause 5.1 of the Shareholders' Agreement relating to PrixCar.
As you will recall, for this reason Kawasaki withdrew from the original proposal to purchase ARC Strang once Kawasaki became aware of the existence of the Trust.
While Kawasaki remains interested in acquiring (directly or indirectly) the PrixCar shares held by ARC Strang, in the circumstances it is not able to consider any transaction relating to the shares in ARC Strang without the agreement of all of the shareholders in PrixCar.
Kawasaki accordingly proposes to advise Toll that it is not presently intending to acquire the shares in ARC Strang.
It would also be appropriate for your client to advise Toll of the true nature of the existing ownership of the shares in PrixCar held by ARC Strang.
" 

 
 On 15 February 2007 Kawasaki wrote to Toll (FHL) informing it that Kawasaki had no agreement with the shareholders of ARC Strang to acquire the shares in ARC Strang and that it had no intention in the present circumstances, given its knowledge of ARC Strang's holding in PrixCar, of acquiring ARC Strang.
There the matter rested until towards the end of April 2007 when Mr Robert Strang had discussions with Toll (FHL) about it acquiring all the issued shares in ARC Strang for a proposed purchase price of $13.5 million.
It was apparently the view of Mr Strang that such a sale was not caught by cl 5.1 of the Shareholders Agreement.
On 1 May 2007 Mr Robert Strang sent an email to Mr Miyachi in the following terms: 
"We have received an offer regarding our Prix Car shareholding which we have referred to our lawyers and accountants for their edification.
The Strang board will then need to take a view as to the direction we will take thereafter.
" 

 
 On 11 May 2007 Mr Miyachi sent an email to Mr Robert Strang in the following terms: 
""Further to our recent exchange of emails, I confirm that Kawasaki remains very keen to acquire control of the shares in Prix Car held by your family trust.
We have been working with our lawyers and are confident that we can structure a purchase of the Trust (after all assets other than the Prix Car shares are divested) in a way which will not trigger the pre-emption provisions of the Prix Car shareholders agreement and will have no tax disadvantages for you.
We would expect that we can manage any tax risks which arise for Kawasaki from such a purchase.
" 

 
 On or about 18 May 2007 a recommendation was prepared for the board of Toll Holdings in relation to a "Proposed acquisition of 17% interest in PrixCar Services Pty Ltd --- May 2007".
