
 
 Introduction: 
 
1 The Australian Competition and Consumer Commission ("the ACCC") has claimed legal professional privilege over the redacted portions of the exhibits referred to in [10 of the affidavit of Mr Scott Gregson of 14 March 2008.
2 Redacted portions of those exhibits were produced by the ACCC in answer to paragraphs 5(d) and (e) of a notice to produce dated 25 February 2008.
3 The parties are content for me to decide Korean Air Lines' ("KAL's") notice of motion filed 31 March 2008 on their written submissions without hearing oral argument.
4 Two questions arise on the motion.
The first is whether Exhibit SG 32 is properly the subject of a claim for legal professional privilege.
The second is whether the ACCC has waived privilege over the redacted portions of the exhibits described in [10] of Mr Gregson's affidavit.
5 Exhibit SG 32 is described as a file note prepared by a junior member of staff which records communications engaged in at a meeting for the dominant purpose of the ACCC being provided with legal advice in relation to various aspects of the investigation.
6 In my view privilege extends to the document even though it was not prepared by a lawyer and did not pass between lawyer and client.
The claim falls within the principles stated by a Full Court in Pratt Holdings Pty Ltd v Commissioner of Taxation [2004] FCAFC 122 ; (2004) 136 FCR 357 at [20] , [22](i) and [88] --- [90]; see also Trade Practices Commission v Sterling (1978) 36 FLR 244 at 245.
7 The claim for privilege appears to me to have been properly made by the description of SG 32 and in [11] of Mr Gregson's affidavit.
I have not found it necessary to inspect the document: Trade Practices Commission v Sterling at 247.
8 KAL relies upon the terms of the Notice to Produce and upon the assertions made in certain paragraphs of the affidavits of Mr Pearson and Mr Owbridge as set out in [6] --- [10] of KAL's written submission to support its contention of waiver.
The ACCC does not dispute that it intends to call evidence to that effect.
9 It is true, as was submitted by the ACCC, that it has not sought to rely upon any privileged advice in advancing the evidence referred to in the affidavits of Mr Pearson and Mr Owbridge.
10 It is also true that, ordinarily, a statement such as that made by Mr Owbridge to the effect that no legal advice had been requested on a particular topic would not involve any inconsistency between the statement and the maintenance of confidentiality of advice on other topics.
11 However, three difficulties arise for the ACCC.
First, the Notice to Produce seeks documents which record or refer to the possible commencement of legal proceedings by the ACCC against KAL or the reasons for recommending the issue of the 
 s 155 notice.
I must therefore infer that the redacted portions of the documents go to those topics.
