
 HIS HONOUR 
 
1 This is an appeal on a point of law pursuant to s 44 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (Cth) from a decision of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal (the Tribunal) adverse to the applicant.
The Senior Member set aside a decision of Comcare (which had affirmed an earlier decision) to deny liability for the respondent's claim for compensation under the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 (Cth) (the Act) in respect of an anxiety state condition.
Background 
 
2 At the relevant time, the respondent had been employed by the Department of the Senate (the Department) for about six years.
A new fellow employee, Ms Slattery, joined the section in which Ms Eames worked.
The relationship between the two deteriorated.
The respondent asked her immediate supervisor to take steps to have the differences resolved.
Nothing was done.
3 
 
On Friday 12 November 2004 there was an altercation between her and Ms Slattery, which ended with the respondent becoming very upset and telling Ms Slattery that she was "a fucking pest".
4 On the same day, the respondent discussed this incident with the Clerk Assistant (Procedural), Mr Elliot.
She told him that the affair had caused her to suffer a panic attack (to which she said she was prone).
5 On Monday 15 November the respondent told Mr Elliot that she intended to resign and apply for another position, as a result of Friday's events, and asked that Mr Elliott act as a referee.
Mr Elliot told her he would not give her a reference until she apologised to Ms Slattery.
The respondent protested, referring to the history of disharmony and management inaction.
The respondent was outraged and upset by Mr Elliot's attitude.
She said she would apologise for using the swear word.
Immediately after this meeting the respondent said to Ms Slattery that she had to apologise to her, and that she was sorry for using the word "fucking" but that she, Ms Slattery, was still a pest.
6 The next day the respondent consulted her medical practitioner, Dr Wessell.
According to that doctor, she "showed evidence of great emotional distress".
7 On 1 December 2004 Mr Curtis, an officer of the Department, was appointed by the Usher of the Black Rod, Ms Griffiths, to investigate possible breaches by the respondent of the Parliamentary Service Code of Conduct.
The respondent was informed on that day that "[t]he possible breaches relate to two alleged incidents (12 and 15 November 2004) of abusive language and threatening behaviour toward a departmental staff member, Ms Loes Slattery".
By email of 3 December, the respondent requested that Mr Curtis provide her with a copy of the allegations made against her.
Mr Curtis replied, saying among other things: "Prior to having any formal discussion with you, I will make sure that you have all the relevant evidence".
On 7 December Mr Curtis interviewed the respondent in relation to the allegations.
She had not been provided with the evidence he had before him, which included statements of witnesses, among them Ms Slattery.
8 
 
On 13 December 2004, the respondent lodged the claim for compensation the subject of the proceedings before the Tribunal presently appealed against.
The respondent claimed that she suffered from an anxiety disorder and that she had been injured or had first noticed her injury, on 12 November 2004.
9 On 15 December Mr Curtis sent a written report of his investigation to Ms Griffiths, with the various witness statements referred to annexed.
Mr Curtis found that the respondent was guilty of misconduct on both 12 and 15 November, in that she had failed to abide by the Parliamentary Service Values.
He suggested that the sanction must take into account a number of mitigating factors and recommended a reprimand.
On the same day he also sent the report to the respondent, without the witness statements.
10 Also on the same day, 15 December, Ms Griffiths notified Ms Eames that she had accepted Mr Curtis' findings and proposed to impose a sanction of reprimand.
Ms Griffiths invited her to provide a response as to why the proposed sanction should not be imposed, by 7 January 2005.
11 On 20 December, the respondent again requested Ms Griffiths provide her with copies of the witness statements.
Following legal advice from the Australian Government Solicitor, Ms Griffiths responded by letter dated 18 January 2005.
She informed the respondent that no further documents would be given to her, and that, after 2 February 2005, she would consider any mitigating comments the respondent may provide, before advising the respondent of any sanction to be imposed.
12 The respondent provided Ms Griffiths with a response on 31 January.
Ms Griffiths indicated that no further action would be taken until Ms Eames returned to work.
No further action was ever taken.
Ms Griffiths gave the explanation that, as Ms Eames was on sick leave, Ms Griffiths regarded the matter as insufficiently serious to require further consideration until Ms Eames was fit to return to work.
The matter thereafter seems just to have lapsed.
13 On 10 March 2005 Comcare rejected the respondent's claim in respect of an anxiety state.
The respondent's solicitor then requested an internal Comcare review of this decision which was also decided adversely to the respondent on 8 April 2005.
The respondent then sought further review by the Tribunal.
Statutory framework 
 
14 Section 14(1) of the Act provides: "Subject to this Part, Comcare is liable to pay compensation in accordance with this Act in respect of an injury suffered by an employee if the injury results in death, incapacity for work, or impairment".
15 At the relevant time, s 4 defined "injury" as 
 
 (a) a disease suffered by an employee;
 ...
 but does not include any such disease ... suffered by an employee as a result of reasonable disciplinary action taken against the employee...
 

The definition of "disease" was
 
 (a) any ailment suffered by an employee; or
 (b) the aggravation of any such ailment;
 being an ailment or an aggravation that was contributed to in a material degree by the employee's employment by the Commonwealth or a licensed corporation.

 The Tribunal's decision 
 
16 The primary issue to be decided by the Tribunal was whether the respondent suffered an injury such as to entitle her to compensation in accordance with the Act.
In order to decide this issue, the Tribunal identified and determined two subsidiary issues: firstly, had the respondent suffered an ailment or an aggravation of an ailment, contributed to in a material degree by her employment?
Secondly, if she had so suffered, was this as a result of reasonable disciplinary action taken against her?
17 The Senior Member issued a formal decision record as well as his "Reasons for Decision".
In the decision record he said:
 
 ... it is decided that:
 
 (a) Comcare is liable to pay compensation to Ms Eames in accordance with the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 in respect of the injury of an anxiety state or alternatively, the injury of the aggravation of an anxiety state, suffered by her on 14 November 2004;
 

18 In his reasons for decision the Senior Member said:
 
 
 34.
I am satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Ms Eames suffered an ailment within the meaning of the Act.
Alternatively, I am satisfied that Ms Eames suffered an aggravation of a pre-existing ailment, being an exacerbation of her anxiety.
I make this finding on the basis of the evidence of Dr Wessell ...
It has not been argued that if Ms Eames suffered an ailment such as I have found, that the ailment was not contributed to in a material degree by her employment by the Department of the Senate and I find accordingly.
I am satisfied therefore that Ms Eames has suffered a disease within the meaning of the Act.

 
 
 
 
 
 35.
On the basis of the evidence of Dr Wessell, I am satisfied on the balance of probabilities that Ms Eames suffered the disease on 14 November 2004 and that she continued to suffer the effects of that disease until April 2005 when she commenced her new employment.
I am not satisfied that Ms Eames has suffered from the effects of the disease from April 2005 until the date of this decision.

 
 
 

19 The Senior Member then went on to consider the question: "Was the disease suffered by Ms Eames suffered as a result of reasonable disciplinary action against her?
" He found that there was no disciplinary action against the respondent and, if there was, it was not reasonable disciplinary action.
20 In deciding the first point the Senior Member relied on the following passage from Commission for the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation of Commonwealth Employees v Chenhall [1992] FCA 535 ; (1992) 37 FCR 75 at 83-4:
 
 In the context of the definition of "injury" in s 4(1) of the Act, the phrase "disciplinary action" means no more than reasonable action lawfully taken against an employee in the nature of or to promote discipline.
... What is clear to my mind is that it is the disciplinary action itself and not the steps anterior to the decision to take such action which is covered by the definition.
...
Thus, action taken to determine whether or not disciplinary action will be taken against an employee, although it may be characterised as part of a system or process to maintain discipline, is not action within the meaning of the definition of "disciplinary action" in the Act.


21 The Department of the Senate had adopted a regime of Procedures for ... Determining Breaches of the Parliamentary Service Code of Conduct (the Procedures).
This document provided for the Usher of the Black Rod to appoint an investigator to determine whether there had been a breach of the Code by an employee, and to report his or her findings to the Usher.
The document provided that "[h]aving considered any mitigating comments from the employee, the [Usher] will determine the case and inform the employee in writing of the determination, any sanction imposed, the reasons for them, and the employee's rights of review".
22 The Tribunal held that, according to these procedures, it was "clear that the process did not go beyond an investigation and reporting of findings to the Usher of the Black Rod and the disciplinary action envisaged by the Procedures document did not take place".
In these circumstances the Senior Member found that no disciplinary action was taken against the respondent.
23 The Tribunal went on to find that, even if disciplinary action had been taken, in the above circumstances it would not have been reasonable.
The learned Senior Member held that it was a requirement of reasonable disciplinary action that it be fair, following Inglis and Comcare [1997] AATA 307 (27 August 1997) and relying on the provision in the Procedures that allegations are to be dealt with having due regard to procedural fairness.
