
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 This is an appeal from part of a decision of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal ('the Tribunal') namely, the part in which the Tribunal set aside the applicant's ('the Commission's) decision in relation to osteoarthrosis of the right hip and both knees.
The Tribunal held that those conditions were war-caused and remitted the assessment of the respondent's (Mr Newson's) entitlement to the Commission.
2 The Commission's notice of appeal puts the question of law raised by the appeal as being whether the Tribunal misconstrued and misapplied cll 5(j) and 5(k) of the Statement of Principles No 82 of 2001, made pursuant to s 196B of the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 (Cth) ('the Act'), by failing to take into account the requirement in cl 4 of the Statement of Principles that the various factors set out in cl 5 of the Statement of Principles ' must be related to any relevant service rendered by the person '.
3 The grounds of appeal were put as being whether the Tribunal erred by interpreting and applying cll 5(j) and 5(k) of the Statement of Principles No 82 of 2001 as if it dealt with or included activity that the applicant performed during the 20-year period (up to 1967) and the 42-year period (up to 1999) respectively after he had ceased rendering eligible service.
It is asserted that the Tribunal failed to take into account the requirement in cl 4 of the Statement of Principles that the factors listed in cl 5 ' must be related to any relevant service rendered by the person '.
FACTUAL BACKGROUND 
 
4 The following factual background is taken from the Commission's written submissions.
Apart from one minor error, which has been corrected, Mr Newson does not dispute these facts, nor the statements of the relevant legislation and the relevant statement of principles which follow.
5 Mr Newson enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Force ('RAAF') on 3 November 1942, and served as a ' trainee technical ' and then a ' fitter general ' on various RAAF bases until he was discharged on 6 January 1947.
His RAAF service was ' eligible service ' for the purposes of the Act: see s 7(c).
6 After his discharge, Mr Newson worked as a carpenter/joiner for various building companies from 1947 until 1967.
7 In 1967, Mr Newson became an employee of the Sydney County Council (SCC), now known as Energy Australia.
He worked there until 1989.
He retired ' mainly ' because he had suffered a heart attack.
8 On 16 June 2005, Mr Newson claimed a disability pension under the Act in respect of conditions described in his claim form as ' heart problems ', ' hearing problems and ringing in ears ', ' cataracts ', ' knee problems (both) and right hip problem ' and ' back problems '.
