
 
1 In April 2007, and in the context of the present proceedings, two events of significance occurred in the affairs of the Central Queensland University ("the University").
2 On 24 April 2007, a collective agreement known as the Central Queensland University Union Collective Agreement (General Staff Employees) 2007 ("the Collective Agreement") was lodged with what was then known as the Office of the Employment Advocate (replaced on and from 1 July 2007 by the Office of the Workplace Authority Director) pursuant to the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) ("Workplace Relations Act").
3 Within a few days thereafter and certainly by the end of April 2007, the University's Vice Chancellor, Professor Rickard, who is the Second Respondent in these proceedings, received, in the course of the usual and regular updating of enrolments, advice of a significant and unexpected decline in the number of international students for the 2007 calendar year.
That decrease greatly impacted upon the University's finances.
It required prompt remedial action by the University.
4 Unfortunately, in taking that remedial action, the University breached particular terms in the Collective Agreement to which it had so recently subscribed.
Those breaches have given rise to the present proceedings in which the National Tertiary Education Industry Union ("the Union") seeks the imposition of the pecuniary penalties against both the University and its Vice Chancellor pursuant to s 719 of the Workplace Relations Act .
5 Prior to the University's receipt of the updated advice in respect of enrolments, it had already embarked upon a review of its strategic direction, academic and administrative structures and processes and staffing.
The updated enrolment advice lent a particular urgency to aspects of this review.
An indication of just how dramatic the change in projected enrolments was is provided by the following statistics to which Professor Rickard attested in an affidavit read on the penalty hearing:
 AICs Load 2006 Projected 2008 Reduction Courses 72,000 40,000 32,000 
"AIC" is an abbreviation for what the University terms its "Australian International Campus", i.e.
those campuses situated in Brisbane, Gold Coast, Melbourne and Sydney.
6 That there would be such a decline was not foreseen at the time when the University's Council adopted the University's 2007 budget in December 2006.
According to Professor Rickard, that budget, "although tight, was balanced and provided for acceleration of the capital expenditure programme from accumulated liquid reserves".
The decline in enrolments created a severe financial situation for the University which persists to this day.
7 On 1 May 2007, Professor Rickard met with the following senior officials of the University to discuss the dire situation faced by the University --- the Deputy Vice Chancellor, Professor Angela Delves, the Executive Director (Resources) Mr John Nelson and Ms Jenny Roberts, an Executive Officer as well as a "specialist consultant", Mr Barry Rees.
In the result, it was determined at this meeting that the University would need to reduce costs through various measures which included a reduction in the number of employees.
It was further determined at the meeting that it was preferable that permanent employees of the University not be adversely impacted by the overall reduction in employee numbers contemplated.
It was also considered that it was not at that time viable to reduce academic roles.
Instead, on a review of the University's payroll data, a large number of general staff fixed term appointments (145 in total) which were due to end by 30 June 2007 were identified.
The upshot of the meeting was a decision the effect of which Professor Rickard described as follows:
 "If the urgent savings we required could in part be achieved and the University's operational needs met by not renewing these fixed term appointments, then this was the most appropriate and expeditious means of implementing a reduction in employee numbers".
8 On 15 May 2007, the decision made at the meeting on 1 May 2007 not to renew some 200 fixed term appointments of general staff whose appointments expired between that date and 31 December 2007 was announced with Professor Rickard's authority by Professor Delves at a staff forum.
At that staff forum Professor Delves stated, inter alia , as follows:
 "The Vice Chancellor has directed that we will not renew some 200 fixed term contracts ... by the end of the year, by the end of December 2007.
" "...This is 200 positions out of a total workforce of around 3500.
" "... and we are also going to focus very carefully on casual positions.
" "In the short term those fixed term positions not required will expire when their turn becomes due.
" 
 9 On 17 May 2007, in a memorandum to the University's Pro-Vice Chancellors, Heads of Division and Heads of Campus, Professor Rickard stated as follows:
 "I have decided that by 31 December 2007 we will not renew some 200 fixed term positions, and will also critically review casual positions.
At June 2007, a minimum of 51 fixed term positions will not be renewed.
" 
10 The Collective Agreement continued clauses respectively directed to introduction of change and job security.
Unsurprisingly, given the subjects to which they were directed, the clauses admit of an overlapping application.
They provide:
 22 Introduction of Change 
 
 22.1 The University acknowledges that the management of workplace change requires the involvement of employees who will be directly affected by that change.
22.2 Following a decision by the University that changes may be required in work activities, programmes, organisation, structure or technology which may have significant consequences, the University will initiate consultation with the relevant employees, and/or at the request of the employees with the employees' representative(s), in a timely manner about the need for the change and the development of any significant change proposal in accordance with the University guidelines.
22.3 This consultation will occur via the variety of mechanisms to communicate and consult, including the Staff Consultative Committee.
This consultation will provide an opportunity for employees, and/or at the request of employees, their representatives, to consider and purpose alternate options for managing change and to be meaningfully involved in the final decision about proceedings with change.
