
(For General Distribution: 1 August 2008)
 
 BUCHANAN J: 
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 This case concerns a challenge to a decision by the first respondent, the Minister for Justice and Customs ('the Minister') under the Customs Act 1901 (Cth) ('the Act') to accept recommendations of the second respondent, the Chief Executive Officer of Customs ('the CEO') concerning the imposition of 'anti-dumping' measures on the applicant, Thai Pineapple Canning Industry Corporation Ltd ('TPC').
The challenge is made under the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) ('the ADJR Act') which permits a challenge to administrative decisions on the ground (generally speaking) of legal error.
TPC also challenges the recommendations themselves under s 3(3) of the ADJR Act which provides:
 
 'Where provision is made by an enactment for the making of a report or recommendation before a decision is made in the exercise of a power under that enactment or under another law, the making of such a report or recommendation shall itself be deemed, for the purposes of this Act, to be the making of a decision.
' 
 

2 Although the CEO was responsible, under the Act, for the recommendations made to the Minister, it will generally be convenient to refer to the actions and decisions of the CEO and others simply as those of Customs.
3 The challenged recommendations arose from a Report ('the Final Report') made by the CEO to the Minister.
The full version of the Final Report (the confidential version) contained confidential material not included in a publicly available version.
The Minister formally adopted, as a sufficient statement of his reasons for decision, the findings and reasons stated by Customs for its recommendations which were set out in the publicly available version.
However, the parties agreed that the challenges to the Minister's decision in the present case should be determined by reference to the confidential material also.
That is the approach I have followed although it will be relevant to draw attention to some differences between the two versions of the Final Report.
4 I am satisfied that there were legal errors made in Customs' findings and recommendations and hence in the Minister's decision.
In particular there were failures to properly apply the statutory tests under the Act and there was a failure to accord procedural fairness to TPC.
Although I have not accepted all the arguments advanced by TPC there has been a sufficient foundation established under the ADJR Act to set aside the CEO's recommendations and the Minister's decision so far as they concern TPC.
5 The case itself, in this Court, was argued under confidentiality restraints sought by the respondents and accepted by the applicant.
In light of their agreement I made no separate adjudication of whether, and to what extent, confidentiality was required about specific factual matters and various analyses by Customs.
Under the Act, the confidentiality of matters relating to the commercial interests of those who provide information to Customs is protected to a significant extent.
Customs' practice therefore is to bring into existence both public and confidential versions of some documents.
The public versions are placed, along with other non-confidential material, on a public file which is available for inspection by interested parties.
The public file system is an important element in the maintenance of transparency in the processes directed by the Act to deal with anti-dumping and countervailing subsidy issues.
A detailed examination of the structure of that part of the Act may be found in the judgment of a Full Court in Pilkington (Australia) Ltd v Minister for Justice and Customs [2002] FCAFC 423 ; (2002) 127 FCR 92 ( 'Pilkington').
It is not necessary to repeat it here.
6 The legitimate need for confidentiality must be balanced with the objective of providing as much transparency as reasonably possible to the decision-making process.
Although interested parties may make their own claims for confidentiality of the material they provide to Customs (so that it does not fall, for example, into the hands of their commercial rivals), it is Customs which decides what will appear in the public version of its reports and what will appear only in a confidential version.
In the present case there were also some lines of analysis which were central to the decision-making process which were not described adequately by a public summary.
Although those matters were able to be examined in closed session before the Court, those parts of the proceedings were closely confined.
The legal representatives of both sides gave appropriate undertakings to the Court and had full access.
Those officers of Customs who were assisting the case for the respondents had full access.
Access on TPC's side was more limited.
7 I do not suggest any general criticism of the overall nature of the confidentiality arrangements in this or any other case.
As I said earlier, in the present case they were accepted by TPC.
Those restraints, however, present difficulties for the adequate resolution of the matters raised by the proceedings in this Court.
Apart from the necessity to move in and out of confidential session in a way which will prevent the whole transcript of the proceedings ever being available for intelligent public scrutiny, the arrangements adopted pose major challenges for the formulation of publicly available reasons for my conclusion that the decision of the Minister and the recommendations of the CEO should be set aside so far as they affect TPC.
I have found it sufficiently difficult to provide adequate reasons outside the limits of the constraints adopted that I have decided to forego that attempt, for the time being at least.
I also remain uncertain where some of the limits are.
As counsel for TPC observed in submissions, there are aspects of the decision-making process for which the respondents claimed confidentiality which appear to be disclosed by material on the public file.
8 I have decided, in the circumstances, that I should provide my reasons in a form which is, although final, confidential at this stage.
I will order that the parties confer about such redactions as may be necessary to preserve reasonable confidentiality consistent with the broader public interest in permitting public understanding of the reasons for the Court's decision.
If the parties cannot agree I will take further submissions about that issue.
9 I hope that the explanation given for the course I have chosen will go some way to explain the inevitable disjunction which will appear in the judgment as it is later published in a non-confidential form.
BACKGROUND 
 
10 The recommendations and decision under challenge concerned the imposition of anti-dumping duties on pineapple fruit in containers exported from Thailand to Australia.
There are two types of pineapple goods exported to Australia from Thailand which are subject to anti-dumping measures.
They are known as 'consumer pineapple' (pineapple fruit prepared or preserved in containers not exceeding one litre) and 'FSI pineapple' (pineapple fruit prepared or preserved in containers exceeding one litre).
On the Australian market these goods compete with locally produced pineapple products.
Pineapple fruit similarly packaged is produced and sold in Australia by Golden Circle Limited.
Customs considers it the sole manufacturer and processor of pineapple fruit in Australia.
11 TPC is a privately owned Thai company.
It has been operating since 1967.
It has one factory.
It was the first company in Thailand to process pineapple products.
Its core business is the manufacture and distribution of canned pineapple, pineapple juice concentrate and pineapple products.
12 The present proceedings are concerned only with the export by TPC to Australia of consumer pineapple.
In the relevant period TPC did not export FSI pineapple to Australia and did not sell consumer pineapple on the Thai domestic market.
THE 2001 REPORT 
 
13 Anti-dumping measures were on 18 October 2001 imposed on both consumer pineapple and FSI pineapple exported from Thailand following an earlier enquiry and report (the 2001 Report) by Customs to the Minister.
TPC was directly affected.
14 The 2001 Report made important distinctions between the market segments for the sale of pineapple fruit in containers and amongst quality differences within those market segments.
The distinctions are relevant for the present case because in the period under consideration, TPC exported to Australia in only one of the market segments (consumer pineapple) and its sales were predominantly of the lowest grade of fruit.
15 One distinction made by the 2001 Report has been already identified: the distinction between consumer pineapple and FSI pineapple.
Another distinction made was a distinction in quality amongst three different standards of fruit.
Typical branding associated with the different grades of fruit was also described.
16 The 2001 Report contained the following:
 
 ' Pineapple (fruit) , either prepared or preserved, in syrup or juice, in containers, falls into two distinct market segments (see also discussion under like goods at section 4.1.2).
