
 
1 This morning in Court Mr Kelso for the applicants sought to file a notice of discontinuance in this matter pursuant to O 22 r 2 Federal Court Rules .
The application was not specifically opposed by the respondents, however it was also not by consent.
In the circumstances I gave leave for the proceedings to be discontinued, subject to resolution of the issue of costs.
2 Mr Kelso conceded this morning that, as a general proposition, costs follow the event, and that the applicants in discontinuing the proceedings would be liable for the costs of the respondents.
Dr McGrath for the second, third and fourth respondents has however submitted that the costs should be awarded on an indemnity basis.
3 In relation to this matter I note that it is not in dispute that the first respondent, Ms Booth, has not been served in these proceedings.
Accordingly Ms Booth has not been represented in Court during the course of these proceedings and is not entitled to the benefit of any costs order.
4 Further, I understand that the respondents were first made aware of the applicants' notice of discontinuance this morning immediately prior to the hearing.
Background 
 
5 This matter was listed for hearing today in relation to a notice of motion filed by the second, third and fourth respondents seeking summary dismissal of the proceedings on the basis that:
 
 
 1.
The proceeding was frivolous and vexatious; and
 2.
The proceeding was an abuse of the process of the Court.

 

6 It is not in dispute that the parties have been involved in extended litigation in the Queensland Planning and Environment Court and the Court of Appeal in Queensland in relation to issues subsequently raised in the applicants' statement of claim in the Federal Court of Australia.
I note four relevant decisions: Booth v Frippery Pty Ltd [2005] QPEC 095 , Booth v Frippery Pty Ltd [2006] 2 QdR 210, Booth v Frippery Pty Ltd [2007] QPEC 99 and Frippery Pty Ltd v Booth (unreported, Queensland Court of Appeal 123/08, 15 and 25 February 2008).
