
 
1 The Application for an Order of Review in these proceedings seeks to challenge a decision of the Repatriation Commission made on 10 September 2007.
The jurisdiction of the Court is invoked pursuant to ss 5 and 6 of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth).
2 The decision of the Commission was the product of a review undertaken pursuant to s 31(4) , (6) and (7) of the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 (Cth).
The result of the review undertaken by the Commission's delegate was that the delegate was " satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that Mr Godwin did not experience a severe service-related stressor nor did he suffer a service related psychiatric illness ".
The delegate went on to conclude that he was " therefore satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that his PTSD is not war-caused ".
3 A number of grounds are set forth in the Application as filed.
One matter which the Applicant contends assumes particular importance is the fact that the review by the Commission was undertaken whilst proceedings were pending in the Administrative Appeals Tribunal and the result of that review was announced immediately subsequent to the decision of the Tribunal, published on 28 August 2007.
The claims made by Mr Godwin for a pension, he contends, had been resolved such that there was no power thereafter to review his entitlement.
Section 31 , he contends, confers no such power.
Even if s 31 confers a power of review, he further submits that the conduct of the Commission in undertaking that review is wrong in law.
4 The Commission rejects each of the grounds relied upon and contends that the review was authorised and lawfully undertaken.
THE CLAIMS MADE BY MR GODWIN 
 
5 Mr Godwin enlisted in the Royal Australian Navy in January 1964 and was discharged in April 1972.
During this period he served onboard the HMAS Parramatta in Malaysia.
6 He also rendered operational service in Vietnamese waters onboard the HMAS Sydney from 8 to 22 April 1967 and from 28 April to 12 May 1967.
7 In 2002 he claimed a disability pension relevantly in respect of a PTSD, a post traumatic stress disorder.
His claim was determined by the Commission and review was sought from the Veterans' Review Board.
He thereafter appealed to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal.
8 The Administrative Appeals Tribunal concluded on 8 April 2005 that Mr Godwin did suffer from a war-caused post traumatic stress disorder and remitted the claim to the Commission to assess the rate of pension payable.
It was this decision of the Tribunal that accepted that Mr Godwin had witnessed in Vung Tau harbour the destruction of a civilian sampan by a United States patrol boat: Re Godwin and Repatriation Commission [2005] AATA 309.
9 The Commission then determined the rate of pension and Mr Godwin again applied to the Veterans' Review Board.
The Board affirmed the Commission's decision and on 22 May 2006 Mr Godwin applied to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal for review of the decision which had been affirmed.
It was that decision of the Tribunal which was published on 28 August 2007.
That decision was that the Applicant was " entitled to pension at the special rate pursuant to section 24 of the Veterans' Entitlements Act 1986 as and from 5 May 2005 ".
THE TRIBUNAL'S 2005 DECISION AND THE SECTION 31 REVIEW 
 
10 The significance of the review undertaken pursuant to s 31 of the 1986 Act is that the delegate reached a very different conclusion as to the events relied upon by Mr Godwin.
11 The Administrative Appeals Tribunal in 2005 in determining the eligibility of Mr Godwin for a pension concluded that it could not be satisfied that he had not witnessed the sampan incident.
That Tribunal relevantly concluded:
 
 [71] ... the question is whether the Tribunal is satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that Mr Godwin's incapacity due to PTSD does not arise from a war-caused disease.
If it is not so satisfied, beyond reasonable doubt, the claim must succeed.
[72] There was no challenge to Mr Godwin's credit, and the Tribunal was satisfied that he was a witness of credit who had given a consistent account of his experiences to the doctors who assessed him, and to the Tribunal.
[73] The Tribunal accepted that no formal record of either the Gurkha incident or the sampan incident, or indeed the New Guinea incident was put before it, but was also satisfied that Mr Josephs' research did not extend to all possible sources.
Further, in relation to the sampan incident, an American Swift Boat may have been involved, which was likely to mean that Australian records would not be made.
The Tribunal was mindful Mr Josephs did not check any American records, or ship's logs from the archives, and concluded that there may have been no record of the sampan incident, or that it may have been recorded where Mr Josephs research did not extend.
...
 [80] The Tribunal accepted that the template in Instrument No.3 of 1999 had been satisfied, and that Mr Godwin had been subjected to a severe stressor as defined there, in that he witnessed the sampan incident during his operational service.
The Tribunal was satisfied that this was the cause of the development of his PTSD.
[81] On the evidence of the Applicant, and the medical evidence therefore, the Tribunal could not be satisfied beyond reasonable doubt that Mr Godwin did not witness the sampan incident.
Witnessing that event satisfied the definition of "experiencing a severe stressor" in the SoP, and led to the development of Mr Godwin's PTSD.
Accordingly Mr Godwin's PTSD can be held to be war-caused pursuant to section 9 of the Act.


Before the Tribunal in 2005 were two reports prepared by Writeway Research Service Pty Ltd, one dated 2 March 2002 and the other dated 16 July 2004.
12 The delegate when making his decision recited that, unlike the Tribunal, there was now available a further report of the incident said to have been witnessed by Mr Godwin.
This was the report from Writeway Research Service Pty Ltd dated 24 February 2007.
The delegate sated:
 
 The claim for PTSD may be refused only if it can be shown beyond reasonable doubt, that Mr Godwin did not experience, witness or confront an event that involved actual or threat of death or serious injury or a threat to his or other people's physical integrity.
On 24 February 2007, a report was received from Writeway Research Services [Writeway], in relation to the incident in Vung Tau harbour which Mr Godwin had described in his evidence to the Tribunal and to the Board and in histories he provided to various psychiatrists.
