
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 The applicant, Mr Morrison, is a citizen of the United Kingdom.
He first arrived in Australia on 15 March 1977.
He was then 12 years old.
It appears that he did not enjoy a particularly privileged secondary education.
Three years later his criminal record commenced.
He now has 95 convictions.
On 21 August 1990 he was convicted of a charge of attempted murder and was sentenced to 7 years 10 months imprisonment.
In May 2007, Mr Morrison was suddenly and forcibly detained and deported from Australia to the United Kingdom by officers acting on behalf of the Minister.
Although Mr Morrison had been given considerable advance notice as to the possibility of his deportation, and had made submissions opposing it, the actual decision to proceed with the deportation and its execution were carried out swiftly, aggressively and without further notice to him.
While at the airport awaiting his deportation to the United Kingdom, Mr Morrison sought urgent interlocutory relief to restrain the Minister from causing his deportation to occur.
That relief was declined.
He has now pursued this application seeking orders quashing the Minister's decision so that he may return to Australia.
He contends that both the Minister's decision and its manner of execution were unlawful and therefore beyond the jurisdiction and power of the Minister.
For reasons appearing below the relief sought can not be granted.
The circumstances in which such relief may be granted are quite limited.
This case does not fall into the limited category of cases in which relief of the nature sought may be granted.
THE PROCEEDINGS 
 
2 These proceedings are an application for review.
The application is brought pursuant to s 476A of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) (the Act).
The scope for review is limited to identifiable jurisdictional errors.
Errors of law which constitute jurisdictional error are the only basis on which the Court may grant relief in proceedings such as the present: Minister for Immigration and Citizenship v Haneef [2007] FCAFC 203 at [63] .
3 Mr Morrison sought an urgent interim injunction to prevent his removal from Australia on 8 May 2007.
That motion was heard by French J who dismissed it: Morrison v Minister for Immigration and Citizenship [2007] FCA 723.
Two days later Mr Morrison filed an application for review which has since been amended on various occasions.
4 The current form of the amended application for review focuses on complaints about the actions of the Minister (or the Department of Immigration and Citizenship (DIAC) for the Minister) at two different times.
The first is at the time of cancellation of Mr Morrison's visa by the Minister in February 2006.
The second is at a later time.
The second complaint is of a different and serious nature.
It is, in essence, that the detention and removal of Mr Morrison from Australia was contrived in a special manner which was intended to preclude his ability to obtain adequate legal representation such that he was deprived, in effect, of the jurisdiction of the Court to review the Minister's decision.
The amended application is in the following terms: 
 
 THE APPLICANT CLAIMS: 
 
 1.
An Order that the Respondent DO SHOW CAUSE: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) WHY A WRIT OF PROHIBITION should not be issued out of this Court directed to the Respondent prohibiting him from further proceeding to act on the decision made by the Respondent on 20 February 2007 to cancel the Applicant's visa by preventing the Applicant from re-entering Australia, and 
 
 (b) WHY A WRIT OF CERTIORARI should not be issued out of this Court directed to the Respondent removing into this Court to be quashed the said Decision made by the First Respondent on 20 February 2007.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 2.
An interlocutory Order requiring the Respondent to grant the Applicant a special purpose visa and/or to otherwise return the Applicant to Australia pending the hearing of this Application.

 
 3.
Costs.

 
 4.
Such other Orders as the Court may consider appropriate.

 
 THE GROUNDS OF THE APPLICATION ARE: 
 
 1.
The Respondent's decision to cancel the Applicant's visa made on 20 February 2007 was made without jurisdiction and was not authorised by the Migration Act and is accordingly void and of no effect: 
 
 
 
 
 
 a) The Respondent, in considering the Expectations of the Australian Community and in considering that the Australian community would have some compassion for the Applicant in that he had been lived (sic) in Australia since 1977 and had a [sic] formed a de-facto relationship with Ms Maria Roberts, but the Respondent nevertheless determined that, in view of the Applicant's pattern of offending, the Australian community would expect the Applicant's visas to be cancelled and the Respondent placed great weight on this consideration, the Respondent failed to have regard to the relevant consideration that the Applicant had 4 young children, who were Australian citizens and with whom he had a close and beneficial relationship and in the circumstances the Australian community would not expect the Applicant to removed (sic) from Australia with the result that those young children would be permanently deprived of that relationship with their father.

 b) There was no evidence or other material on which the Respondent could conclude that the Australian public would expect the Applicant to be now removed from Australia, alternatively such conclusion was irrational, alternatively such conclusion was reached without any proper consideration, in the circumstances where the Applicant's serious offence had occurred 17 years earlier without any attempt by the Respondent or his predecessors to then remove the Applicant from Australia and where subsequent to that offence the Applicant was the father of 4 young children who were Australian citizens with whom he had a close and beneficial relationship and in the circumstances where the Applicant's removal from Australia would have [the] result that those young children would be permanently deprived of that relationship with their father.

 c) The Respondent failed to have regard to the relevant consideration that the Applicant was facing serious criminal charges in the District Court of Western Australia in relation to a trial which charges the Applicant had denied and which had been adjourned from a previous trial date and in respect of which there was a co-accused and that it was in the interests of both the Applicant and the Australian community as represented by the State of Western Australia that those charges be determined whilst the Applicant remained in Australia and was therefore available to face and defend those charges.

 
 
 
 
 
 2.
The Respondent and/or his officers and/or in conjunction with the Federal Police and Western Australian Police had made prior plans to remove the Applicant from Australia without informing the Applicant of the Respondent's decision made on 20 February 2007.
The Applicant's arrest and detention on 8 May 2007 was violent and unlawful.
Following the arrest of the Applicant on 8 May 2007, the Respondent and/or his officers deliberately kept the Applicant from contacting any legal representative from the morning of 8 May 2007 until late afternoon on 8 May 2007 in order to prevent the Applicant from seeking a review by the Federal Court of the Respondent's decision.
The Respondent and/or his officers did not act pursuant to s 198 to remove the Applicant from Australia as soon as reasonably practical, but rather acted to remove the Applicant in circumstances where he was denied his right to seek a review by the Federal Court of the Respondent's decision to cancel the Applicant's visa.
Further the Applicant was denied his rights under s 256 of the Migration Act .
The Applicant's removal from Australia was thereby unlawful.

 
 STATUTORY FRAMEWORK 
 
5 Section 501 of the Act deals with the refusal or cancellation of visas on character grounds.
These provisions and their effect have now been extensively examined by the Full Court in Haneef [2007] FCAFC 203.
By s 501(2) , the Minister may cancel a visa if he or she reasonably suspects that the person does not pass the character test and also if the person does not satisfy the Minister that the person passes the character test.
There are two elements to s 501(2) and the second of those elements must contemplate the opportunity for the person concerned to attempt to satisfy the Minister that the person passes the character test.
6 The character test in turn is defined by s 501(6) for the purposes of the Act.
Specifically, a person will not pass the character test if the person has a substantial criminal record.
Such a record is expressly defined by subs (7).
Subsection (7) provides that a substantial criminal record is held if a person has been sentenced to a term of imprisonment of 12 months or more.
7 There are further provisions of the Act relevant to this application.
By ss 13 and 14 , lawful non-citizens and unlawful non-citizens are defined.
By s 13 , a lawful non-citizen is a non-citizen in the migration zone who holds a visa that is in effect.
An unlawful non-citizen, by s 14 , is a non-citizen in the migration zone who is not a lawful non-citizen.
There is no doubt that at all relevant times, Mr Morrison was in the migration zone.
8 The characterisation within these descriptors has a bearing on the consequences provided for in the following reasons.
9 By s 189 of the Act, provision for detention of unlawful non-citizens is set out.
Relevantly that section provides that if 'an officer knows or reasonably suspects that a person in the migration zone (other than an excised offshore place) is an unlawful non-citizen, the officer must detain the person' (emphasis added).
An officer is defined by s 5 of the Act to include an officer of DIAC and a member of the Australian Federal Police (AFP) or the Police Force of a State.
10 Section 193 of the Act provides:
 
 (1) Sections 194 and 195 do not apply to a person: 
 
 
 (a) detained under subsection 189(1): 
 
 
 (i) on being refused immigration clearance; or 
 (ii) after bypassing immigration clearance; or 
 (iii) after being prevented from leaving a vessel under section 249 ; or 
 (iv) because of a decision the Minister has made personally under section 501 , 501A or 501B to refuse to grant a visa to the person or to cancel a visa that has been granted to the person; or 
 
 
 (b) detained under subsection 189(1) who: 
 
 
 (i) has entered Australia after 30 August 1994; and 
 (ii) has not been immigration cleared since last entering; or 
 
 
 (c) detained under subsection 189(2), (3) or (4); or 
 (d) detained under section 189 who: 
 
 
 (i) held an enforcement visa that has ceased to be in effect; and 
 (ii) has not been a lawful non-citizen since the enforcement visa ceased to be in effect.

 
 
 (2) Apart from section 256 , nothing in this Act or in any other law (whether written or unwritten) requires the Minister or any officer to: 
 
 
 
 
 (aa) give a person covered by subsection (1) an application form for a visa; or 
 (a) advise a person covered by subsection (1) as to whether the person may apply for a visa; or 
 (b) give a person covered by subsection (1) any opportunity to apply for a visa; or 
 (c) allow a person covered by subsection (1) access to advice (whether legal or otherwise) in connection with applications for visas.

 
 
 
 
 (3)(a) If a person covered by subsection (1) has not made a complaint in writing to the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission, paragraph 20(6)(b) of the Human Rights and Equal Opportunity Commission Act 1986 does not apply to the person, and (c).

 (4) This section applies to a person covered by subsection (1) for as long as the person remains in immigration detention.

 

11 The consequence of the detention itself, is then dealt with (relevantly for present purposes) by s 196 of the Act.
That section provides:
 
 Duration of detention 
 
 
 
 (1) An unlawful non-citizen detained under section 189 must be kept in immigration detention until he or she is: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) removed from Australia under section 198 or 199; or 
 (b) deported under section 200; or 
 (c) granted a visa.

 
 
 
 
 (2) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) does not prevent the release from immigration detention of a citizen or a lawful non-citizen.

 
 
 
 
 
 (3) To avoid doubt, subsection (1) prevents the release, even by a court, of an unlawful non-citizen from detention (otherwise than for removal or deportation) unless the non-citizen has been granted a visa.

 
 
 
 
 
 (4) Subject to paragraphs (1)(a), (b) and (c), if the person is detained as a result of the cancellation of his or her visa under section 501, the detention is to continue unless a court finally determines that the detention is unlawful, or that the person detained is not an unlawful non-citizen.

 
 
 
 
 
 (4A) Subject to paragraphs (1)(a), (b) and (c), if the person is detained pending his or her deportation under section 200, the detention is to continue unless a court finally determines that the detention is unlawful.

 
 
 
 (5) To avoid doubt, subsection (4) or (4A) applies: 
 
 
 (a) whether or not there is a real likelihood of the person detained being removed from Australia under section 198 or 199, or deported under section 200, in the reasonably foreseeable future; and 
 
 (b) whether or not a visa decision relating to the person detained is, or may be, unlawful.

 
 
 
 
 (5A) Subsections (4) and (4A) do not affect by implication the continuation of the detention of a person to whom those subsections do not apply.

 
 
 
 (6) This section has effect despite any other law.

 
 (7) In this section: 
 
 
 
 visa decision means a decision relating to a visa (including a decision not to grant the visa, to cancel the visa or not to reinstate the visa).

 

12 Section 198 of the Act deals with the removal from Australia of unlawful non-citizens.
Relevantly s 198(2A) provides:
 
 
 (2A) An officer must remove as soon as reasonably practicable an unlawful non-citizen if: 
 
 
 
 
 (a) the non-citizen is covered by subparagraph 193(1)(a)(iv); and 
 
 (b) since the Minister's decision (the original decision) referred to in subparagraph 193(1)(a)(iv), the non-citizen has not made a valid application for a substantive visa that can be granted when the non-citizen is in the migration zone; and 
 
 (c) in a case where the non-citizen has been invited, in accordance with section 501C, to make representations to the Minister about revocation of the original decision--either: 
 
 
 
 (i) the non-citizen has not made representations in accordance with the invitation and the period for making representations has ended; or 
 
 (ii) the non-citizen has made representations in accordance with the invitation and the Minister has decided not to revoke the original decision.


13 In short, as will be seen below, the Minister authorised the detention of Mr Morrison under s 189(1) of the Act on the basis that he was a non-citizen 'covered by sub-paragraph 193(1)(a)(iv)'.
That sub-paragraph provides that Mr Morrison is a non-citizen because of a decision the Minster has made 'personally under section 501, 501A or 501B to refuse to grant a visa to the person or to cancel a visa that has been granted to the person'.
14 Section 256 of the Act provides as follows:
 
 Where a person is in immigration detention under this Act, the person responsible for his or her immigration detention shall, at the request of the person in immigration detention, give to him or her application forms for a visa or afford to him or her all reasonable facilities for making a statutory declaration for the purposes of this Act or for obtaining legal advice or taking legal proceedings in relation to his or her immigration detention.


15 Finally, s 476A of the Act is in the following terms: 
 
 
 (1) Despite any other law, including section 39B of the Judiciary Act 1903 and section 8 of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 , the Federal Court has original jurisdiction in relation to a migration decision if, and only if: 
 
 
 (a) the Federal Magistrates Court transfers a proceeding pending in that court in relation to the decision to the Federal Court under section 39 of the Federal Magistrates Act 1999 ; or 
 (b) the decision is a privative clause decision, or a purported privative clause decision, of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal on review under section 500; or 
 (c) the decision is a privative clause decision, or purported privative clause decision, made personally by the Minister under section 501, 501A, 501B or 501C; or 
 (d) the Federal Court has jurisdiction in relation to the decision under subsection 44(3) or 45(2) of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 .

 
 
 (2) Where the Federal Court has jurisdiction in relation to a migration decision under paragraph (1)(a), (b) or (c), that jurisdiction is the same as the jurisdiction of the High Court under paragraph 75(v) of the Constitution .

 
 THE MINISTER'S DECISION 
 
16 On 16 February 2007, DIAC provided the Minister with submissions and annexures to enable the Minister to consider whether or not Mr Morrison's visa should be cancelled.
17 As that submission correctly records, Mr Morrison had originally been notified by mail on 4 July 2005 of the Intention to Consider Cancelling the visa held by him pursuant to s 501 of the Act.
The cancellation grounds were set out in the notification and he was invited to submit to DIAC any comment that he believed to be relevant to the consideration of the issue of visa cancellation.
A signed acknowledgment of receipt was received on 22 August 2005.
18 As Mr Morrison did not respond, another notice of Intention to Consider Cancellation was sent to him on 22 May 2006.
Mr Morrison responded by submission received on 8 June 2006 which included letters of support from Ms Maria Roberts (his fiance) and several friends and associates.
Copies of several certificates including certificates of business registration and copies of letters in relation to Mr Morrison's complaint against police were also included.
Letters of support were subsequently received from Ms Janette Bowra, his mother on 8 June 2006 and from his sister on 22 June 2006.
19 It is common ground that by February 2007 when DIAC's submission was made to the Minister, DIAC was aware that Mr Morrison had appeared in the District Court of Western Australia to answer a serious criminal charge of doing grievous bodily harm with intent.
The allegation is that he shot a man in the leg.
The trial date in respect of that charge had been vacated for reasons not presently relevant.
DIAC did not refer to that charge in the submission to the Minister.
Mr Morrison makes submissions in relation to that omission and I will refer to those below.
One matter to be clarified is that as at the date of the original notification on 4 July 2005, Mr Morrison had not been charged with this offence of unlawful wounding and therefore any response by him in relation to that charge was not possible.
20 The Minister was given Mr Morrison's submission.
It was observed that the offences which rendered Mr Morrison for consideration under s 501 of the Act were the conviction on 21 August 1990 in the Supreme Court of Western Australia at Perth for entry of a dwelling with intent for which he was convicted and sentenced to three years imprisonment concurrent with his conviction for attempted murder for 7 years and 10 months imprisonment.
By mid-2006, Mr Morrison had been convicted of approximately 90 other offences.
Reference was made to the sentencing comments of the Hon Justice Walsh in the Supreme Court of Western Australia to the effect that Mr Morrison had acted with considerable premeditation and the nature of the assault in the course of the attempted murder was brutal and repetitive.
21 The Minister also received the letter from Mrs Janette Bowra, Mr Morrison's mother, explaining that in 1990 her 17 year old niece, Janette, was allegedly killed by her fianc, an ex-police officer, who was then 34 years of age.
Her son, being very close to Janette went 'haywire over it all in throes of grief and alcohol ...'.
She went on to say that her son (Mr Morrison) '... was in such a wasted state that he stabbed himself, needing nine stitches and was allowed medical treatment himself only after he signed his statement for the police'.
22 DIAC's submission to the Minister was prepared in sections, the first being under the heading of 'Consideration of Visa Cancellation' which dealt at length with the previous convictions.
The second section was headed 'The Best Interest of the Children and dealing with Article 3.1 of the Convention on the Rights of the Child'.
There was then a further section dealing with 'Other Considerations'.
In this regard reference was made to the nature of the visas held, making the point that Mr Morrison was the holder of two permanent visas, a Transitional (permanent) visa and an Absorbed Person visa.
It was explained that since 1 September 1994, s 34 of Act provides that persons who had ceased to be immigrants before 2 April 1984 and had not left Australia between that date and 1 September 1994 were taken to have been granted an Absorbed Person visa thus bringing them within the universal visa system.
These people, therefore, remained subject to the provisions of the Act and the character provisions of the Act.
23 The submission then focused on the degree of hardship which would be caused to the immediate family members lawfully resident in Australia.
24 Other than by the omission of reference to the charge in the District Court, the submission itself does not appear to be under any attack.
My impression is that it was reasonably comprehensive providing both material which would invite the Minister to form a view for visa cancellation and also material to the contrary.
25 On assessment of that material, however, the Minister on 20 February 2007 considered that the seriousness of Mr Morrison's offences and to a lesser extent the expectations of the Australian community outweighed all other considerations and, therefore, having given full consideration to all of the matters he decided to exercise his discretion to cancel Mr Morrison's visas under s 501(2) of the Act.
26 There is one particular section of the Minister's determination which is of importance to the argument advanced for Mr Morrison.
That section reads as follows:
 
 Expectations of Australian Community 
 
 
 
 10.
I gave primary consideration to the expectations of the Australian community.
In accordance with the Government's view that is expressed in the Direction, I considered that the Australian community expects non-citizens to obey Australian laws while in Australia.

 
 11.
I also accepted, that the Australian community would have some compassion for Mr MORRISON's situation.
Mr MORRISON entered Australia in 1977 as a 12 year old and has resided in Australia since that time.
I also noted that Mr MORRISON has formed a de facto relationship with Ms Maria Roberts who has three children from a previous relationship, and that he claims to have no relatives overseas.

 
 12.
However, in view of Mr MORRISON's pattern of criminal offending and the seriousness of those offences, I believe that the Australian community would expect Mr MORRISON's visas to be cancelled and him to be removed from Australia.
I gave great weight to this consideration.

 
 Best Interests of the Child 
 
 13.
I gave primary consideration to the best interests of the children.
Mr MORRISON is that father figure for his de facto's three Australian born children, and they have three children together.
Mr MORRISON also has a son to a former partner.

 
 14.
Ms Roberts, Mr MORRISON's de facto spouse, stated that, should Mr MORRISON's visas be cancelled and he be removed to the United Kingdom, she would find it very difficult raising the children by herself.
I found, therefore, that the children would suffer hardship relating to the loss of a father figure, if Mr MORRISON is removed from Australia.
On the other hand, I also found that all the children would also suffer hardship if Mr MORRISON continues to re-offend.

 
 15.
I noted Mr MORRISON's letters of support comment that the interests and well being of his family and particularly those of the children, would be adversely affected, if he was to be removed from Australia.
I concluded that the cancellation of Mr MORRISON's Transitional (permanent) and Absorbed Person visas and his removal from Australia would cause hardship to the children.
I accepted that it would possibly be difficult for Mr MORRISON's family to cope financially and for his de facto spouse to cope with six children.
I gave the difficulties these children would suffer if Mr MORRISON were removed from Australia considerable weight but noted that Mr MORRISON's criminal history and incarceration also cause him and his family hardship.

 
 PRELIMINARY IMPLEMENTATION OF THE DECISION 
 
27 From the perspective of the Minister, the starting point is an affidavit sworn the day before Mr Morrison's removal, in anticipation of an injunction application by him.
28 Mr Richards, Assistant Secretary of the Compliance Operations Branch of DIAC had sworn an affidavit on 7 May 2007 in anticipation of the potentiality of proceedings being issued the following day by Mr Morrison to restrain his removal from the country.
That anticipation proved to be correct.
29 The purpose of this affidavit was to outline the history and reasons behind the steps that were taken for the removal of Mr Morrison.
Mr Richards referred to DIAC records showing that Mr Morrison was born in Scotland in 1965 to citizens of the United Kingdom and that on 20 February 2007 the Minister cancelled Mr Morrison's visa pursuant to s 501(2) of the Act.
Since cancellation of the visa of Mr Morrison, officers of DIAC had been conducting inquiries and planning his location and detention in accordance with the provisions of s 189 of the Act.
He pointed to the fact that Mr Morrison had an extensive criminal history, particularly involving violence and of particular concern was his conviction in 1995 of attempted murder and a then current charge before the District Court of Western Australia in respect of assault occasioning grievous bodily harm and unlawful wounding.
He said that officers of DIAC had worked closely with members of West Australian Police (WAPOL) who had supplied DIAC with information based on Mr Morrison's history and a document setting out the risks in detaining him.
30 He confirmed that WAPOL had assessed Mr Morrison as posing a high risk and had advised that they had received information that he had made threats against officers of DIAC.
He also annexed an assessment from the Western Australia Department of Corrective Services which assessed Mr Morrison as posing a high risk in its assessment of 15 April 2007.
This evidence was adduced not as to its truth but as to the information on which DIAC and the Minister say that they reasonably relied.
31 As a result of the information received from these sources, DIAC had formed the view that Mr Morrison posed a significant risk to DIAC's officers.
The information was substantially more detailed than the short summary in these reasons.
I stress that Mr Morrison disputes a great deal of the descriptions attributed to him.
He contends that WAPOL and others have exaggerated and fabricated both their concerns and the basis of them.
He attributed this to long running disputes between himself and WAPOL.
32 I do not, in order to address the issues raised in these proceedings, need to determine the truth or otherwise of the assertions about the level of risk posed by Mr Morrison or his propensities.
It is clear that DIAC and the Minister did receive and, in my view, reasonably rely upon the various accounts from the official sources that are referred to in these reasons.
Mr Morrison was given the opportunity to comment on the substance of most of those matters in 2005 and did so.
33 Although, on 28 April 2007, the Minister had written to the Western Australian Minister for Corrective Services requesting Mr Morrison be placed within a Western Australian correctional facility whilst in immigration detention, as at that stage the Minister had received no response to that request (I observe that this was only a little over a week before the events the subject of these proceedings).
DIAC had also attempted to mitigate the risks considered to be posed by the views expressed as to Mr Morrison's propensities, by seeking approval from WAPOL to accommodate Mr Morrison in the Perth Watch House 48 hours after his initial detention.
There was reluctance to hold Mr Morrison in the Perth Immigration Detention Centre which was a place of administrative detention not a correctional facility and which did not have the physical security measures or resources associated with correctional facilities.
34 Mr Richards observed that Mr Morrison had an extensive criminal history, a history of violent behaviour in correctional facilities, two charges of escaping legal custody and two charges of assaulting police.
He was also said to be 'known' to have associations with motor cycle gangs and there was a concern that those associates may attempt to intervene in his immigration detention.
35 Despite DIAC's usual policy of allowing people to be removed from Australia with at least 48 hours notice, it was considered that because of the extraordinary nature of this case and the special risks posed by the propensities of Mr Morrison that DIAC would cause him to be removed from Australia as soon as reasonably practicable and prior to the expiration of the 28 day period within which an application for judicial review might be lodged.
36 A Justice Intelligence Service Prisoner Risk assessment provided in confidence to DIAC informed it that Mr Morrison was a high risk of escape during movement, a risk of extreme violence, an elevated risk of self-harm, required a maximum security rating and had self-harm potential.
DIAC was advised to watch for knives.
Reference was made to 'extremely violent offences' and to being 'found in possession of a home made [prison issue] key (2005), increased evidence of paranoia, previous self-harm attempted by banging his head against a wall, and heightened threat towards female staff'.
I repeat that Mr Morrison also denies many aspects of this report.
37 The report went on to observe that Mr Morrison had shown a propensity towards violence throughout his criminal career, showing little or no regard for the consequences of his actions and displaying little or no empathy towards his victims.
It said:
 
 A considerable number of his crimes are preceded by the use of illicit drugs or an excess of alcohol, during these incidents and is recognised that the level of violence used by MORRISON is disproportionate to the actual criminal act.


38 The report continued:
 
 A review of the behaviour displayed by MORRISON during his previous incarceration indicates that threats and violence towards staff and other prisoners is a common theme.
MORRISON has shown that he will initiate violence towards himself at times where he is frustrated or unable to engineer a situation to his advantage, this will include smashing his head against a wall.


39 The report expressed a view that Mr Morrison, after being arrested and awaiting deportation, would 'react in a violent manner against public officers, including prison staff and against himself through acts of self-harm'.
40 His offences were described as having commenced in 1989 and continued steadily.
They included driving under the influence, disorderly conduct, resisting arrest, unlawful assault, driving without a motor driver's licence, assault occasioning bodily harm, threatening behaviour, damage, further assault, assaulting a public officer, further assault, further assaulting a public officer, refusing a breathe test, resisting arrest, attempted murder, entering a dwelling with intent, assault occasioning bodily harm, assault not otherwise specified, aggravated assault, being a prohibited person on licensed premises, resisting arrest, being unlawfully on premises and a further assault charge.
He had served sentences in more than a dozen different correctional centres in Western Australia.
41 The reasons for his removal and the manner adopted were recorded by DIAC as being as follows:
 
 There exists a significant and real risk of the client self-harming, harming others, damage to property or the occurrence of direct external intervention to disrupt the removal as detailed below.
...
 Mr Morrison has a significant and lengthy criminal history that includes crimes of violence, including attempted murder, assault, resisting arrest and assaulting Public Officers.
He is currently on bail facing charges of unlawful wounding and grievous bodily harm.
The Western Australia Police have obtained information form a credible source that Mr Morrison has indicated that, in order to avoid removal from Australia, he would rather do something really bad to be imprisoned.
He is also alleged to have indicated that if DIAC tried to remove him he would harm officers at the Midland Police Station.
Mr Morrison has a defacto spouse, children and other close relatives in Australia and no known relatives in the UK, all of which provide a strong incentive for him to seek to prevent removal.
Based on Mr Morrison's past behaviour, including his use of violence and access to firearms there is serious concern that he could act on the threats to harm people to avoid removal.
In these circumstances it is considered that providing Mr Morrison with 48 hours notice of his removal may trigger actions on his part that represent a significant and real risk of harm to other people, property, or self harm.


42 Further information from WAPOL to DIAC confirmed that:
 
 ... WAPOL are extremely nervous and would not be prepared to compromise on their risk assessment and formulated plan.
Scott Morrison is well known to them.
They believe he has access to firearms and is already on bail due to him shooting an individual at point blank range in the leg.
This incident is believed to be Gang related involving drugs.
He has made repeated threats at Police.
They believe he has the mind-set to carryout (sic) his threats.
WAPOL state that an anonymous informant has advised them that Scott Morrison upon receiving his NOICC said that he will not be sent out of Australia.
He would rather go to gaol and will kill someone to avoid removal.
WAPOL believed that this is a real threat.

 It is believed that Scott Morrison resides with his defacto spouse (fianc [sic] ) and has six children and step children to her.
Possibly one other child to a previous relationship also resides at the premises.
WAPOL stated that they would use the DIAC search warrant to gain entry.
The TRG will control and restrain Scott Morrison and use such force as they deem necessary.
They have indicated that they will employ tazers, if necessary, to detain him under s.189.


43 In relation to some of the material describing his background character and propensities, there is reference to his crimes having been preceded by the use of illicit drugs or excessive alcohol.
Mr Morrison says that he accepts that his previous offences have been related to the excessive use of alcohol.
He smoked marijuana as a young man but has not done so for 20 years.
He says he has never been involved in solvent or any other illegal drug use and has never been a member of any motorcycle or other gang and has never been involved in any gang activity, legal or illegal.
However, he says there has been long running antagonism between himself and WAPOL and he accepts that he has reacted badly on occasions.
He was upset when he believed that he was wrongly convicted and imprisoned in 2004.
He was also upset at being charged and held for approximately nine months without bail for an alleged offence of which he had no knowledge or involvement in 2005.
He says, nevertheless, that on neither occasion did he react with violence and there was no violence at all whilst he was being held in prison.
He has had verbal exchanges.
He says: 
 
 I have had words with both male and female guards in Prison when I have been pushed.
It is part of Prison Life.
Nothing serious.
I did not at any time whilst in prison threaten to kill myself.
There are at least two other persons, who have the same name as me, i.e.
'Scott Morrison', in the WA Prison system.
I am aware that at times matters relating to them have been mistakenly related to me.


44 There is also reference in the materials on which I comment below to his ownership or interest in firearms.
He denies that he has ever owned or had any interest in firearms.
The only interest he has had in something that could be used as a weapon is in two ceremonial swords which are on the wall of his fiance's home.
45 As the day of his removal drew closer, in a situation report prepared on 3 May 2007, the status of events within DIAC was relevantly recorded as follows.

 Sitrep # 2 OPERATION DUGITE --- Removal of Mr Scott Morrison from Perth to UK via commercial flight.

 
 A further teleconference was held at 1630hrs on Thursday, 3 May 2007 to progress planning for the removal of Mr Morrison on 8 May.
