
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 1 From about 1995 to 2002 Ms Dowling was a customer of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia Limited ('CBA').
During that period she borrowed approximately $750,000 from the CBA.
She used this money to buy and develop one property and to develop a number of others.
In due course she defaulted on some of her loan agreements and the CBA eventually forced the sale of two of her properties to repay the outstanding loans.
During and since that process, Ms Dowling has pursued a number of grievances she has against the CBA in a range of different forums.
These proceedings are the most recent step in that pursuit.
2 The CBA's immediate response to these proceedings was to file this application for summary judgment.
It has been made under section 31A (2) of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth) on the ground that Ms Dowling has no reasonable prospect of successfully prosecuting these proceedings.
In the alternative the CBA has applied to have the proceedings dismissed under O 20 r 5 of the Federal Court Rules on the grounds that they are frivolous, vexatious, or an abuse of the process of the Court.
In the further alternative the CBA has applied to strike out the whole of Ms Dowling's statement of claim under O 11 r 16 of the Federal Court Rules on the grounds that it does not disclose a reasonable cause of action, or that it will cause prejudice, embarrassment or delay in the proceedings, or that it is otherwise an abuse of the process of the Court.
3 The critical issue in this application is whether any of Ms Dowling's grievances amount to a valid claim at law that this Court can determine and, if so, whether Ms Dowling has any reasonable prospects of successfully prosecuting that claim in these proceedings.

 MATERIALS RELIED UPON --- INITIALLY AND SUBSEQUENTLY 
 
 4 At the hearing of this application Mr Farquhar, for the CBA, relied upon the amended notice of motion filed on 12 December 2007.
The CBA's original notice of motion filed 16 November 2007 was amended in accordance with the leave I gave on 11 December 2007 (see further below).
Mr Farquhar also relied upon parts of the affidavit of Ms Meghann Louise Everett sworn on 16 November 2007.
In response Ms Dowling, who appeared in person and represented herself, relied upon some thirty affidavits that she had filed since she first commenced these proceedings on 25 October 2007.
Whilst all of these documents were entitled " affidavit ", many of them were not in fact written statements of evidence sworn on oath but instead chronologies, submissions, or requests directed to the Court or the CBA.
To add to this avalanche of material, Ms Dowling appears to have filed at least seven further affidavits since I reserved my decision on 20 December 2007.
I have not taken these affidavits into account in reaching this decision.
I have attached to these reasons marked "Annexure A" a summary of the thirty affidavits Ms Dowling has relied upon.
During the hearing of the application Mr Farquhar did not object to the contents of any of Ms Dowling's affidavits.
I presume he took this course in the interests of saving time and avoiding confusion.
5 The hearing of the CBA's application proceeded over a part of each of three days: on 11, 17 and 20 December 2007.
On the first day I gave Mr Farquhar leave to file and serve an amended notice of motion which relied upon section 31A(2) of the Federal Court of Australia Act as the CBA's primary application and, in the alternative, relied upon O 20 r 5 and O 11 r 16 of the Federal Court Rules .
This issue arose during submissions because the CBA's original notice of motion filed on 16 November 2007 made no mention of section 31A of the Federal Court of Australia Act , nor O 11 r 16 of the Federal Court Rules , yet the CBA's written submissions filed on 4 December 2007 relied upon both of these provisions.
There is, of course, a significant difference in the nature and effect of an application under section 31A of the Federal Court of Australia Act on the one hand, and an application under O 20 r 5, or O 11 r 16, on the other.
The former application strikes at the heart of the whole proceedings and, if successful, can only result in a judgment to the opposite party, whereas the latter type of application is usually directed to the way in which the case has been pleaded and more often than not, dealt with by allowing the offending party to file an amended pleading: see Fortron Automotive Treatments Pty Ltd v Jones (No 2) [2006] FCA 1401 at [19] to [21] per French J.
6 In addition to procedural fairness considerations, Ms Dowling's status as a self represented litigant, dictated that she should be told in the clearest possible terms the precise applications the CBA was making and the grounds of each application.
Moreover, during the hearing of the application Ms Dowling claimed not to have any legal training or experience and claimed not to have been able to obtain any assistance from a legal practitioner in relation to her proceedings.
Consistent with these claims, Ms Dowling presented as a person who did not have appear to have an understanding of the legal and factual issues involved in her proceedings and did not appear to have an understanding of the legal intricacies of evidence or the Court's practice and procedures.
To the extent possible, given Ms Dowling's lack of legal training, experience and understanding mentioned above, I consider the CBA's amended notice of motion filed and served on 12 December 2007 achieved the purpose of giving Ms Dowling the necessary notice referred to above.
7 On the first hearing day, as well as granting Mr Farquhar leave to file and serve an amended notice of motion and an adjournment to undertake those steps, I granted Ms Dowling an adjournment to allow her to file a further affidavit which annexed and explained a further document she said she wished to rely upon.
Furthermore, Ms Dowling also said that in this further affidavit she would identify precisely what she was claiming against the CBA and what materials she intended to rely upon in support of those claims.
Ms Dowling gave this indication after I told her during submissions on the first hearing day, among other things, that I was having considerable difficulty identifying exactly what it was she claimed the CBA had done to wrong her and how that amounted to a valid basis for a claim in this Court.
8 By the second hearing day on 17 December 2007, Ms Dowling had filed and served (although it emerged at the hearing she had not served all of them) not one, but four further affidavits.
Each of these documents suffered from the same deficiencies as all the earlier ones in that none of them explained how the CBA had wronged Ms Dowling and how that amounted to a valid basis for a claim in this Court.
During the second hearing day, in the hope that Ms Dowling may be able to explain orally what she had thus far failed to explain in all the writing she had placed before the Court, I asked her numerous times to tell me what she thought the CBA had done to wrong her and why she thought that amounted to a valid basis for a claim in this Court.
In this process I took Ms Dowling to her affidavit sworn on 25 September 2007 and went through some of the crucial paragraphs therein, one by one, asking her to identify where she believed she had stated that the CBA had wronged her and how she believed that had occurred.
My questions were generally answered by what I considered to be a series of irrelevant and confused statements.
9 However, two specific allegations eventually emerged from this process.
The first was an allegation that on about 3 August 1995 the CBA had taken, or stolen, $25,000 that Ms Dowling had paid as a deposit in connection with the purchase of a property at 108 Wood Street, Warwick in south-east Queensland.
The second was an allegation that on about 25 September 1995 the CBA had recorded a loan of $350,000 against Ms Dowling's name when she had neither requested that loan, nor received the proceeds of it.
Significantly, neither of these two allegations was contained in any of the numerous affidavits Ms Dowling had filed to that time.
The closest were some statements in her affidavit of 25 September 2007 that these two events involved "suspect transaction(s)".
Eventually, Ms Dowling indicated that if she were to be given a further opportunity she could outline exactly what her claim was and explain more fully what she meant by various statements in her affidavit sworn on 25 September 2007, including the "suspect transaction(s)" mentioned above.
Since Mr Farquhar could not point to any prejudice that would be caused to the CBA if I were to adjourn the matter one more time, I allowed Ms Dowling a further very short adjournment to 20 December 2007 and the opportunity to file and serve this further material.
10 On 19 December 2007 Ms Dowling filed her thirtieth affidavit in response to the CBA's application.
In this affidavit Ms Dowling went through the 176 paragraphs of her affidavit of 25 September 2007 and provided a series of comments thereon.
Curiously, in that process, she did not repeat the first allegation mentioned above, viz that the CBA had taken, or stolen, the $25,000 deposit paid in connection with the purchase of the property at 108 Wood Street, Warwick.
Instead she made the more vague and obscure claims that $25,000 was paid for the deposit on the purchase of the 108 Wood Street property leaving $225,000 to be paid at settlement but that the CBA paid $ 250,000 at settlement and she " could not turn the matter around and back to the $ 225,000".
Ms Dowling concluded that section of this affidavit by the puzzling statement that: "The Applicant was in breach with the Respondent of all Records and Transactions and had received a contrary Account the attitude of unable to be true at once established, with the Government Departments, the Vendors, the Real Estate Agent, the Lawyer and the credit information available to all and sundry".

 11 As to the second allegation mentioned above, viz that the CBA had raised a loan of $350,000 in Ms Dowling's name without her requesting such a loan and without her receiving the proceeds of it, the material provided about this claim was less vague, but it appeared to contradict this allegation.
Ms Dowling repeated her allegations that this loan was offered to her without her requesting it and that it was recorded against her name, but she concluded that section of this affidavit by saying: "At this point in time the Applicant had to apply for the Funds to the Starta Office Building: The repayment of the NBA loan: The Renovation of the Warwick Property ... (not originally applied for)" .
So, contrary to her allegation (above) that she had not received the proceeds of this loan, this latter statement appeared to concede that she had; and moreover that she had applied those proceeds to the specific purposes stated.
During the third and last hearing day on 20 December 2007, I again endeavoured to raise with Ms Dowling my concerns about the vagueness of her claims but I failed to receive any satisfactory explanations.
I will return to these two allegations later in these reasons.
12 Before proceeding to consider the operation of section 31A(2) of the Federal Court of Australia Act and its application to these proceedings, it is necessary to set out the background to Ms Dowling's proceedings in some more detail.
I do so in the paragraphs below under the heading 'Background'.
I have obtained some of this detail from the affidavits of Ms Dowling, particularly her affidavit sworn 25 September 2007, and the remainder from the affidavit of Ms Everett mentioned above.
In this respect, I should mention another issue that was raised during the hearing of this application: whether the CBA could rely upon hearsay evidence in support of its application for summary judgment under section 31A(2) of the Federal Court of Australia Act .
13 Ultimately, Mr Farquhar dealt with this issue by electing not to rely upon the hearsay evidence in paragraph 8.21 and annexure MLE11 to Ms Everett's affidavit and by only seeking to rely upon the balance of the affidavit to the extent that it provided proof that annexures MLE2 to 10 and 12 to 16 to the affidavit were business records of the CBA.
He then sought to rely upon the contents of those business records to establish the relevant course of dealings between the CBA and Ms Dowling.
In taking this course, Mr Farquhar relied upon the provisions in sections 69 and 170 to 172 of the Evidence Act 1995 (Cth ) .
The following is a brief description of the annexed documents that Mr Farquhar sought to rely upon as business records: 
 
 
 Annexure number Description of document 
 

 2 to 4 incl Schedules of loan conditions dated 23 August 1995 ($250,000), 27 March 1996 ($100,000) and 29 March 1996 ($80,000) between the CBA and Ms Dowling
 
 5 Letter dated 4 October 1996 from the CBA to Ms Dowling in relation to a loan of $150,000
 
 6 Schedule of loan conditions, undated but with the date of funding stated as 18 June 1997, between the CBA and Ms Dowling in relation to a loan of $195,000
 
 7 Letter dated 6 October 1997 from the CBA to Ms Dowling in relation to a loan of $100,000
 
 8 Letter dated 2 March 1999 from the CBA to Ms Dowling in relation to the CBA's concerns about adverse trends in the conduct of Ms Dowling's loan accounts
 
 9 Letter dated 16 May 2000 from the CBA to Ms Dowling in relation to the CBA's intention to issue notices under the Property Law Act 1974 (Qld ) if Ms Dowling's loan accounts continued to be in default
 
 10 CBA diary note dated 30 November 2000 re: various discussions between officers of the CBA and Ms Dowling
 
 12 Five notices of demand all dated 5 September 2001 from the CBA to Ms Dowling demanding the balance due and payable under Ms Dowling's five loan accounts
 
 13 Two notices of exercise of sale both dated 5 October 2001 in relation to two of Ms Dowling's properties located in Toowoomba 
 
 14 Notice of completion of sale dated 22 April 2002 in relation to the sale of one of the properties mentioned immediately above
 
 15 Letter dated 7 May 2002 from the CBA to Ms Dowling in relation to the sale of other property mentioned above
 
 16 Letter dated 15 October 2002 from the CBA to Ms Dowling stating, among other things, that the CBA considered the matter closed and would not respond to any further correspondence
 
 14 As it turns out, this question may be of little moment in this application because as the hearing proceeded the history of the dealings between the CBA and Ms Dowling did not appear to be in dispute and, in that situation, hearsay evidence may be admitted: see Multi Modal Ltd ---v- Polakow (1987) 78 ALR 553 at 558 per French J and ACCC ---v- Billbusters Pty Ltd [2003] FCA 423 at [50] --- [52] per Kenny J, cf Warea Pty Ltd v Waterloo Industries Pty Ltd (1986) 12 FCR 152 per Pincus J.
Furthermore, having now considered the question more closely, I consider Mr Farquhar would have been entitled to rely upon the hearsay evidence in Ms Everett's affidavit without the election he adopted.
This is so, first, because in paragraph 8 of her affidavit, Ms Everett clearly identified the CBA and its records as the source of the hearsay evidence in her affidavit.
Secondly, section 75 of the Evidence Act 1995 (Cth ) , provides an exception to the hearsay rule in interlocutory applications if the person who adduces the evidence also adduces evidence of its source.
As I have observed above, I consider that Ms Everett has done this in her affidavit.
Thirdly, there is clear authority that an order summarily dismissing proceedings on the ground that no reasonable cause of action has been disclosed is an interlocutory order: see Re Luck [2003] HCA 70 ; (2003) 203 ALR 1 at [9] , Dai ---v- Telstra Corp Ltd (2000) 171 ALR 348 at [21] and Marketing Advisory Services (MAS) v Football Tasmania Ltd [2002] FCAFC 165 at [29] , cf Egglishaw-v- Australian Crime Commission [2007] FCAFC 183 involving a dismissal based upon res judicata, issue estoppel and Anshun estoppel, none of which arise in this case.
15 Finally, and in any event, I consider that Mr Farquhar was correct in his submission that the annexed documents were business records of the CBA under section 69 of the Evidence Act 1995 (Cth ) .
In reaching that conclusion I have looked at the documents and drawn inferences from their contents in accordance with section 183 of the Evidence Act .
Specifically I have observed that the documents variously contain the CBA's letterhead, or its full name, or have been signed by persons who claim to hold positions of authority in the CBA.
I have also relied upon the contents of Ms Everett's affidavit to establish that the documents are the business records of the CBA in accordance with sections 170 and 171 (proof by affidavit evidence) and section 172 (evidence based upon knowledge, belief or information where the source is given) of the Evidence Act .

 BACKGROUND 
 
 16 From approximately 1995 until approximately 2002, Ms Dowling was a customer of the CBA.
During this period she was living at 129 Spring St, Toowoomba, in south-east Queensland.
At about this time Ms Dowling owned or acquired a number of properties in south-east Queensland, specifically those located at the following addresses: 

1.
129 Spring St, Toowoomba --- Ms Dowling's home at the time;
 
2.
Corner James and Ruthven Street, Toowoomba;
 
3.
26A Hill Street, Toowoomba; and
 
4.
108 Wood Street, Warwick.

 According to a statement of assets and liabilities prepared by Ms Dowling in 1999 and annexed to one of her affidavits, these properties and some other personal property had a total value of approximately $ 1.62 million.
17 To acquire the 108 Wood Street property and to develop some of the other properties, Ms Dowling obtained a number of loans from the CBA and provided mortgage securities over her various properties (above) to secure those loans.
Between 31 August 1995 and 6 October 1997, Ms Dowling obtained six such loans (involving five separate loan accounts) for a total amount of $725,000.
The brief details of those loans are as follows:
 

 Date Amount Purpose 
 
 31 August 1995 $250,000 to purchase the property at 108 Wood Street, Warwick.
28 March 1996 $100,000 to undertake improvements to the property 
 
 at 26A Hill Street, Toowoomba
 
 29 March 1996 $80,000 purpose not identified
 4 October 1996 $150,000 to construct two office shop buildings on the 
 26A Hill Street, Toowoomba property
 26 May 1997 $ 45,000 to extend the $ 150,000 loan mentioned 
 above to $195,000
 6 October 1997 $100,000 for property improvements 

In addition to these loans, Ms Dowling obtained an overdraft facility from the CBA with a limit of $25,000.

 18 In about early 1996 Ms Dowling encountered some difficulties with the property at 108 Wood Street, Warwick when the lessee withdrew from the lease and she was not able to find a replacement lessee immediately.
Then the lessee that she did find, a Mr. Lye, proved to be unsatisfactory and he subsequently abandoned the premises allegedly taking some of the fittings with him.
Mr. Lye's involvement was apparently the cause of some tension between Ms Dowling and the CBA because she later made a complaint to the Australian Banking Industry Ombudsman Limited that Mr. Lye had been recommended to her by the CBA.
She apparently pursued this complaint through a series of letters in 1999 and 2000.
For its part, the CBA denied it had any involvement in recommending Mr Lye to Ms Dowling.
19 In about 1998, whether because of these difficulties with the leasing of the 108 Wood Street property, or for other reasons, Ms Dowling fell into default under her loan agreement with the CBA in relation to the Wood Street property.
In particular, she did not repay this loan when it matured on 1 September 1998.
The CBA made contact with Ms Dowling on a number of occasions in 1998 and eventually, in early 1999, it transferred the management of all her loan accounts to the Credit Management Unit in its Brisbane head office.
By that time, in addition to her default under her loan agreement for the 108 Wood Street property, Ms Dowling had overdrawn her overdraft facility by almost $10,000 (to $34,999) above the approved limited of $25,000.
20 The Credit Management Unit of the CBA wrote to Ms Dowling on 2 March 1999 calling on her to bring her overdraft facility within its limit forthwith and to enter into discussions about the management of her various loan accounts.
Ms Dowling and the CBA corresponded about these issues on a number of occasions during 1999 and 2000.
Eventually, on 16 May 2000, the CBA sent Ms Dowling a letter giving notice that it intended to proceed to serve notices under the Property Law Act 1974 (Qld ) to enable it to take possession of 'the security properties'.
21 Notwithstanding this stated intention, the CBA waited until 22 September 2000 before appointing agents to act to take possession of the security properties.
In the meantime, or at about the same time, Ms Dowling received an offer of $675,000 for the purchase of the James and Ruthven Street property, which offer she rejected.
Her rejection of this offer apparently led the relevant officers at the CBA to conclude she was not taking their threats of action sufficiently seriously.
There followed a series of meetings and conversations between Ms Dowling and the relevant officers of the CBA during November 2000.
Some of these meetings and conversations were apparently quite tense because during one of them Ms Dowling is recorded as threatening to sue the bank for fifty million dollars "unless the assault on my property is not stopped" .
In another, with a Mr Olson of the CBA, Ms Dowling is recorded as questioning whether Mr Olson might be a criminal and might have a hidden agenda in respect of her properties.
22 There must have been a lull in these hostilities for a period because the CBA did not deliver its final and formal notices of demand for the repayment of Ms Dowling's outstanding loan accounts until some nine months later, on 5 September 2001.
On that date the CBA issued five notices of demand requiring Ms Dowling to repay each of her five loan accounts within fourteen days of the receipt of the notices.
By the time these notices were issued, the amount owing under the five loan accounts totalled $913,768.06.
When these notices of demand were not met, the CBA then issued a Notice of Exercise of Power of Sale under the Property Law Act 1974 (Qld ).
It did that on 5 October 2001.
23 In early 2002 the CBA sold the 26A Hill Street property for $199,500.
In April 2002 the property situated at the corner of James and Ruthven Streets in Toowoomba was sold for $797,796.35.
It appears that this latter property may have been sold by Ms Dowling herself, rather than by the CBA exercising its power of sale.
From the proceeds of these two sales the balance owing under the five loan accounts was paid to the CBA and it then discharged the mortgages it held over Ms Dowling's other two properties at 108 Wood Street, Warwick and 129 Spring Street, Toowoomba.
The CBA confirmed these discharges in a letter it sent to Ms Dowling dated 15 October 2002.
In the same letter, the CBA told Ms Dowling that it considered the matter to be closed and it would not respond to any further correspondence from her.
24 This statement apparently did not deter Ms Dowling, because it appears from her various affidavits filed in these proceedings that since 2002 she has pursued her grievances against the CBA in correspondence directed to a wide range of public officials in Australia and elsewhere, including the Speaker of the House of Representatives in Canberra, the Australian Federal Police, the United States of America Embassy in Canberra, the United States Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Mayor of Toowoomba.
However, in all this time she does not appear to have commenced any proceedings against the CBA in any court in relation to her grievances before she commenced these proceedings.

 SECTION 31A 
 
 25 The respondent's primary application is made under section 31A(2) of the Federal Court of Australia Act .
S 31A was introduced by the Migration Litigation Reform Act 2005 (Cth) and came into effect on 1 December 2005.
It provides: 
 
 
 
 (1) The Court may give judgment for one party against another in relation to the whole or any part of a proceeding if: 
 
 

(a) the first party is prosecuting the proceeding or that part of the proceeding; and
 
(b) the Court is satisfied that the other party has no reasonable prospect of successfully defending the proceeding or that part of the proceeding.

 
 
 (2) The Court may give judgment for one party against another in relation to the whole or any part of a proceeding if: 
 
 

(a) the first party is defending the proceeding or that part of the proceeding; and
 
(b) the Court is satisfied that the other party has no reasonable prospect of successfully prosecuting the proceeding or that part of the proceeding.

 
 
 (3) For the purposes of this section, a defence or a proceeding or part of the proceeding need not be:
 (a) hopeless; or
 (b) bound to fail; 
 
 
 
 for it to have no reasonable prospect of success.

 
 
 
 (4) This section does not limit any powers that the Court has apart from this section.

 
 


 
 26 On the Second Reading Speech of the Bill, the Attorney-General noted that the courts would have an increased ability " to deal with unmeritorious matters, by broadening the grounds on which federal courts can summarily dispose of unsustainable cases" .
In White Industries Aust Limited v Commissioner of Taxation (2007) 160 FCR 298, Lindgren J examined the introduction and operation of section 31A at some length: see paragraphs [50] to [60].
At paragraph [53] Lindgren J noted that the "no reasonable prosects of success" formula echoed rule 24.2 of the United Kingdom's Civil Procedure Rules in which context that formula has been held to " require attention to be given to real, as opposed to ' fanciful ' or ' merely arguable prospects'": see Swain v Hillman [2001] 1 All ER 91 at 92; Three Rivers District Council v Bank of England (No 3) [2001] UKHL 16 ; [2003] 2 AC 1 at [90] , [95], [133-134] [158-162], and ED  F Man Products Ltd v Patel [2003] EWCA Civ 742 at [8] .
His Honour also noted that the formula has been used in a similar context in Queensland's Uniform Civil Procedure Rules : see Deputy Commissioner of Taxation v Salcedo [2005] 2 Qd R 232 at 235.
At paragraph [54] his Honour observed that the " legislature's intention in enacting s31A was to lower the bar for obtaining summary judgment (including summary dismissal) below the level that had been fixed by such authorities as Dey v Victorian Railway Commissioners [1949] HCA 1 ; (1949) 78 CLR 62 at 91-92.
" At paragraph [55] his Honour noted that " by ' broadening the grounds ' the Attorney General was referring to the formula ' no reasonable prospect of success' , as contrasted with a 'hopeless' or ' bound to fail' test" .
See also: Barwick CJ in General Steel Industries v Commissioner for Railways ( NSW) [1964] HCA 69 ; (1964) 112 CLR 125 at 128-130.
27 Earlier, in Boston Commercial Services Pty Ltd v GE Capital Finance Australasia Pty Ltd (2006) 236 ALR 720, Rares J reviewed the authorities on section 31A to that time: see paragraph [26] to [48].
His Honour concluded that what is required of the Court in applying that section is not a predictive assessment of the prospects of success in the matter should it proceed to trial, but rather an assessment of the evidence and pleadings on the incomplete material available: see paragraph [26] and [38] to [39].
His Honour said that if, on that assessment, the evidence is ambivalent and there is a real issue of fact to be decided, or a real issue of law, the matter should be allowed to proceed to trial in accordance with the principles set out in Hocking v Bell [1947] HCA 54 ; (1947) 75 CLR 125: see paragraph [43].
He emphasised that the Court should be careful not to do a party an injustice by summarily dismissing proceedings.
He added that the moving party bears the onus of enlivening the Court's " discretion to authorize a summary termination of the proceedings which s31A envisages" : see paragraph [45].
28 In Fortron Automotive Treatments Pty Ltd v Jones (No 2) [2006] FCA 1401 at [20] French J set out what the moving party must show: 
 
 
 "in order to secure judgment under s31A it must be shown that the party prosecuting or defending the proceeding has no reasonable prospects of success.
This judgment may be made, by reference to pleadings, where there is a defect in the pleadings which cannot be cured.
Alternatively, it may be a judgment made by reference to evidence put on in support of an application under s31A which reasonably excludes the possibility that facts essential to the success of the claim or defence will be able to be established".

 
 
 
 29 His Honour went on to give some examples.
He instanced a claim involving a critical allegation that the defendant was present at a particular time and place.
If, upon an application for summary judgment or dismissal being made, that defendant files affidavit evidence to show he was not present at that time and place, and there is no other evidence to contradict this 'alibi', the court would be justified in summarily disposing of the claim on the ground that it has no reasonable prospects of success.
He also instanced a defence which relies upon the defendant not being party to a contract.
If, on an application for summary judgment or dismissal, the plaintiff is able to put into evidence the contract signed by the defendant with supporting (and undisputed) affidavit evidence of the witnesses to his signature, the court would likewise be justified in summarily disposing of the defendant's defence on the ground it has no reasonable prospects of success.
30 To these examples must be added the situation where a party completely fails to identify any valid claim or cause of action, to the court or fails to provide any factual material that could amount to a valid claim, in the materials he or she places before the court, having been given a reasonable opportunity to do so.
This situation is different from one where a party has identified what appears to be a valid claim or cause of action but has failed to delineate the factual basis for the claim e.g.
a failure to plead all the necessary material facts to found the claim that has been identified, or one where a party has pleaded the necessary material facts for a claim but failed to plead any connection between those facts and the respondent.
These situations essentially involve pleading issues that may be remedied by orders to amend or strike out the pleadings.
However, where the applicant has failed to identify any valid claim in the materials he or she has placed before the court and has failed to provide any factual material that could amount to a valid claim and the court concludes that the party has no reasonable prospects of ever being able to do so, the situation is fundamentally different.
The complete absence of an identified and valid claim and, more importantly, the factual materials to found either that valid claim, or some other form of valid claim, along with the likelihood that the applicant has no reasonable prospects of ever being able to produce that material, justifies a conclusion that there is not, and never will be, a valid claim before the court.
This obviously cannot be remedied by orders to amend or strike out the pleadings because no amount of pleadings will remedy the fundamental absence of a valid claim.
Moreover, the complete absence of a valid claim in this sense i.e.
no identification of a claim, no factual foundation for a claim and no prospect of providing either, must lead inexorably to the conclusion that the applicant has no prospects of prosecuting his or her proceedings to a successful conclusion.
31 It follows that in the circumstances of this particular case, to determine whether Ms Dowling has any reasonable prospects of successfully prosecuting her proceedings against the CBA, it is necessary to examine the materials she has filed in this Court to attempt to ascertain whether she has identified a valid claim and, more importantly, delineated the factual materials necessary to found that claim, or some other claim that she could identify as a valid claim.
If the conclusion is that Ms Dowling has not done so, the question will then arise whether she has any prospect of ever providing either.
The answers to these two questions will then determine the ultimate question whether Ms Dowling has any reasonable prospects of successfully prosecuting her proceedings against the CBA.
