
 
1 This is an application for review of two decisions and a consequential action of the Native Title Registrar (the Registrar).
By its Further Amended Application for an Order of Review, filed on 11 March 2008, the applicant seeks to review:
 
1.
A decision of the delegate of the Registrar (the delegate), made on 20 August 2007, refusing to grant the applicant an extension of time to produce certain materials;
 
2.
A decision of the delegate, made on 28 September 2007, not to accept the applicant's native title claim for registration on the Register of Native Title Claims (the Register) pursuant to s 190A of the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth) (the Act); and
 
3.
The Registrar's subsequent act of removing the applicant's claim from the Register.
BACKGROUND 
 
2 The Commonwealth Attorney-General (the Attorney-General) was added as an intervener in these proceedings on 26 February 2008, pursuant to s 18(1) of the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) (the ADJR Act).
Submissions filed on behalf of the Attorney-General set out the legislative history of the Act and its interaction with the native title claim the subject of this application:
 
 
 44.
The application was lodged with the Native Title Registrar on 26 June 1996.
Under the NTA as it then stood, details of the application were placed upon the Register of Native Title Claims once the application was accepted by the Registrar (ss 63 and 66 NTA as originally enacted).
By operation of s 190(1)(a) of the NTA as originally enacted, the Registrar was required to include in the Register details of any claims contained in applications given to the Registrar.

 
 
 
 45.
The registration test (contained in ss 190A, 190B and 190C) was incorporated into the NTA by the Native Title Amendment Act 1998 (schedule 2, pt 1, Item 64).
Item 11 of Schedule 5 to that Act made provision for s 190A to be applied to certain applications, the details of which were already recorded on the Register of Native Title Claims prior to the commencement of the 1998 amending Act.
However, the subject application (having been lodged on 26 June 1996) was not one in relation to which s 190A was to be applied.
Thus, the subject application remained on the Register by virtue of ss 66(1)(b) and 190(1)(a) of the NTA as originally enacted.

 
 
3 The current application has arisen by virtue of the operation of the transitional provisions of the Native Title Amendment Act 2007 (Cth) (the Amending Act), which came into force on 15 April 2007.
Relevantly, Item 90(1)-(2) of Sch 2 to the Amending Act provides as follows:
 90 Transitionals--applications made before 1998 amendments (1) This item applies to a native title determination application made by a person or persons claiming to hold native title if: (a) the application was made before the day on which Schedule 2 to the Native Title Amendment Act 1998 commenced; and (b) either: (i) the claim was not considered by the Registrar under item 11 of Schedule 5 to that Act; or (ii) the claim was considered by the Registrar under that item but not accepted for registration; and (c) the claim is not one that, because it was amended on or after the day on which Schedule 2 to the Native Title Amendment Act 1998 commenced: (i) was considered under section 190A of the Native Title Act 1993 ; and (ii) is on the Register of Native Title Claims on the day on which this Schedule commences.
(2) The Registrar must: (a) consider the claim under section 190A , or if the claim has already been considered under that section, reconsider the claim under that section; and (b) use his or her best endeavours to finish doing so by the end of one year after the commencing day.
If the Registrar does not do so by that time, the Registrar must consider, or reconsider, the claim under that section as soon as reasonably practicable afterwards.
4 Item 90(1) thus sets out the circumstances in which Item 90 applies.
It is not in dispute, as confirmed by the written submissions of both the applicant and the Attorney-General, that the applicants' native title determination application satisfies all of the elements of Item 90(1).
5 The requirement to consider the claim under s 190A , which is required by Item 90(2)(a), directs attention to s 190A(6) , which relevantly requires the Registrar to accept a claim for registration if the claim satisfies all the conditions in s 190B (which deals mainly with the merits of the claim) and all of the conditions in s 190C (which deals with the procedural and other matters).
Those conditions, both about the merits of the claim and of procedural and other matters, are extensive and detailed.
6 The Registrar concluded that, as Item 90(1) was satisfied, he was obliged to consider the applicants' native title determination claim, pursuant to Item 90(2)(a).
The Registrar accordingly wrote to the applicants on 24 April 2007:
 Because of the changes [to the Act] I now have to apply the registration test to your application.
If your application passes the test, it will remain on the Register of Native Title Claims, as a 'registered claim', and you will retain certain important procedural rights, like the right to negotiate with other people about some things proposed to be done to the area covered by your application.
If your application fails to satisfy the conditions of the registration test, your application will come off the Register of Native Title Claims.
Because of the changes you can provide new information to support your application if you wish.
If you want to make changes to your application, you must amend your application by filing a notice of motion in the Federal Court.
As your application is one of the older applications, I would like to test it as soon as possible.
7 The Registrar also assigned a case officer to the application, indicating that the case officer would shortly be in contact.
On 14 May 2007, the case officer wrote to the applicants:
 I am now writing to you to advise you of the timeframe for the registration testing of your claim, and to invite you to consider providing further information or amending your claim in order to meet the registration test.
A delegate of the Registrar will apply the registration test to your claim in September 2007.
Please ensure that any amendments you may intend to file have been filed with the Federal Court by 17 August 2007.
If you are providing additional material directly to the delegate, please provide this material to me by 17 August 2007.
The material needs to be provided by this date to allow the Registrar to provide procedural fairness to persons who may be affected by the registration decision.
This will also allow the delegate an opportunity to properly consider all the relevant material and draft their reasons for decision.
8 The case officer wrote to the applicants again on 7 August 2007, reminding the applicants that the registration test was due to be applied by 30 September 2007, and that any material the applicants intended to provide should be provided by 17 August 2007.
That letter further informed the applicants that " If I do not receive anything further from you by 17 August 2007, the Registrar's delegate will proceed to test the claim on the basis of the information now before him or her.
"
 
 9 On 17 August 2007, the applicants sent the following email to the case officer:
 Dear Ann At first we thought about withdrawing the [application], but now we wish to ask for an extension of time, to prepare the claim in conformity with the new format as it is quite different to that under which we presented the original.
I might point out that there has never been any cultural heritage work in the national park in the last 15 years and probably never will be.
This can be confirmed with National Parks  Wildlife.
Our function in this matter is not for cultural heritage (as was stated at the last Directions Hearing), but to protect the mountains --- our time and energy have been given freely.
Would you mind passing on this request to the Court.
Eve Fesl  Nurdon Serico 
10 On 20 August 2007, the delegate decided to reject the request for an extension of time for the registration test decision (meaning the applicants' claim would still be tested by 30 September 2007), but granted the applicants until 24 August 2007 to provide any material in support of their claim.
The case officer accordingly wrote to the applicants to inform them of the decision.
That letter noted the following:
 As a general principle, there is no express statutory authority for delaying the application of the registration test once the duty to test has arisen and the Registrar or his delegate is ready, willing and able to do so.
Whether or not an extension of time should be granted is assessed on a case by case basis, taking into account statutory timeframes, the applicant's situation, whether a reasonable amount of time has already been allowed, and the effect of the delay on third party interests.
11 In addition, an internal memorandum written by the delegate on 20 August 2008 has since been provided to the applicant as part of these proceedings.
A number of comments are relevant:
 In its current form [the applicants' claim] is not capable of registration.
Whilst the applicant is unrepresented, I understand there have been a number of telephone conversations between the Case Manager and Dr Eve Fesl and Mr Nurdon Serico, claimants on the application.
During these conversations, both Dr Fesl and Mr Serico have been reminded that the application in its current form is unlikely to be capable of registration and that considerable amendments would need to be made to make it capable of registration.
They have both understood that to be the case.
They have indicated on more than one occasion that they intend to withdraw the application and, probably, file a new application.
The Case Manager advises that she suggested to Dr Fesl and Mr Serico that they seek legal advice from Ms Susan Gilmour who has been providing legal assistance to them in relation to other matters.
The Case Manager is unaware as to whether they have sought that advice.
12 The applicants did not file any further material, and on 28 September 2007 the delegate considered the applicants' claim for registration against ss 190B and 190C of the Act.
The delegate decided not to accept the claim on a number of grounds.
As a consequence, the applicants' claim was removed from the Register.
13 On 9 November 2007 the applicants filed an Application for Review.
By leave, an Amended Application for Review was subsequently filed on 14 December 2007, and on 11 March 2008 the applicants were granted leave to file a Further Amended Application for Review in Court.
That Further Amended Application seeks review of the decisions and action set out in [1] above.
JURISDICTION 
 
14 The particular jurisdictional basis upon which the applicants' claim was made is not articulated in the application for review, although it has been addressed by both the applicants and the Attorney-General in their respective submissions.
The applicant submits that both decisions of the delegate were decisions "of an administrative character" made "under an enactment" such as to bring them within the scope of s 5 of the ADJR Act.
In addition and in the alternative, the applicant submits (relying upon Western Australia and the Northern Territory of Australia v Patricia Lane, Native Title Registrar [1995] FCA 1484) that s 39B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) could confer jurisdiction on the Court, as the Registrar is an officer of the Commonwealth, and it is within the original jurisdiction of the Court to review the decisions of such officers.
15 The Attorney-General does not dispute that the decision of the delegate made on 28 September 2007 in relation to the claim for registration falls within the scope of the ADJR Act.
However, the Attorney-General submits that the earlier decision of the delegate, made on 20 August 2007 in relation to the extension of time, was not of an administrative character, nor was it made "under an enactment".
16 Mason CJ set out, in Australian Broadcasting Tribunal v Bond (1990) 170 CLR 321 , characteristics of decisions to which s 5 applies.
