
 
 1 On 8 April 2008 I gave ex tempore oral reasons for making an order under s 411(1) of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) ("the Act ").
The following sets out those reasons subject only to grammatical and other editing but not such as to alter the substance.
2 Ellendale Resources NL seeks an order under s 411(1) of the Act for the convening of meetings of its members and option holders for the purpose of considering the proposed scheme of arrangement.
The objective of the proposed scheme is to effect a merger between Ellendale Resources and Hawthorn Resources Limited, formerly known as Great Goldmines NL.
If, in due course, the proposed scheme is approved, Ellendale will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Hawthorn Resources.
I am satisfied that the statutory requirements under both ss 411 and 412 of the Act have been satisfied.
3 The Explanatory Statement is assisted by the contents of Appendix A to the applicant's written outline of submissions.
This contains, in schedule form, the relevant Corporations Act requirements and related compliance with those requirements.
The Court has a supervisory role in relation to such applications.
I am satisfied to the requisite degree at this stage of the proceeding, that the proposed merger appears both fair and reasonable and is one which the relevant shareholders and option holders might well approve in a general meeting.
That, of course, is no more than a provisional view.
I note, however, that it has the support of the directors of both Ellendale and Hawthorn Resources.
It is supported by an independent expert's report which describes the proposed scheme as fair and reasonable, as well as being in the best interests of both the share and option holders.
4 The position of ASIC is relevantly contained in a letter from it, dated 7 April 2008, to the solicitors for the applicant.
ASIC advises that it does not currently propose to appear to make submissions or intervene to oppose the schemes at the first hearing.
I note this to be expressly stated to be the position of ASIC upon the current information provided to it by the applicant to date in relation to whether the schemes have been proposed for the purpose of enabling any person to avoid the operation of any of the provisions of Chapter 6 of the Act .
It also notes that ASIC's position may change if it considers it appropriate to do so.
Consistent with that statement in its letter, ASIC has not appeared this morning and there is no present change in the position evident in the terms of the letter.
5 I am satisfied that ASIC has had a reasonable opportunity to examine the terms of the proposed scheme.
Indeed, it was by reason of ASIC's requirements, for a number of amendments to the Explanatory Statement, which occasioned two prior adjournments to the application for convening the meetings which has been heard today.
So far as particular provisions of the scheme are concerned, and in particular, I am referring to the merger implementation agreement, I do not consider the exclusivity provision in clause 12 to be any barrier to making the orders sought.
The period of restraint is not unreasonable; it lasts only until approximately late May 2008.
This provides a period reasonably required for the implementation of the proposed merger.
6 I do not consider the 'Competing Transaction' carve-out to be unreasonable in the circumstances.
The break-fee is within a reasonable range, being just over half a percent of the aggregate of the values of the shares and options.
Finally, the vast majority of shareholders and option holders reside on the eastern seaboard of Australia with more than 50% of the shareholders and more than 70% of the option holders resident in Victoria.
In those circumstances, it is appropriate for the meetings to be held in Melbourne.
7 For these reasons, I am persuaded that the orders sought in the minute of proposed orders dated 7 April 2008, as amended in the course of discussions with Mr Young, appearing as counsel for the applicant, are appropriate orders to be made.
Accordingly, there will be orders in those terms.
I certify that the preceding seven (7) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Gilmour.
Associate:

Dated: 18 April 2008


 Counsel for the Plaintiff: Mr J G Young 
 
 Solicitor for the Plaintiff: Steinepreis Paganin 

 Date of Hearing: 8 April 2008 
 
 Date of Judgment: 8 April 2008 


 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/530.html 
 
 
