
 
1 The Appellant claims to be a citizen of India.
2 The Appellant arrived in Australia on 3 March 2007 and applied to the Department of Immigration and Citizenship for a Protection (Class XA) Visa on 29 March 2007.
A delegate refused to grant that visa on 27 April 2007.
In refusing the application the delegate noted that the applicant claimed to be a " thirty one year old homosexual Indian Punjab Sikh male " and that Indian society was hostile to homosexuality.
3 An application for review of the delegate's decision was lodged with the Refugee Review Tribunal on 8 May 2007.
The Tribunal by way of a decision signed on 15 August 2007 affirmed the delegate's decision.
In doing so, the Tribunal made an " Assessment of sexual orientation claims " and concluded in part as follows:
 The Tribunal appreciates the need for particular care in assessing claims about sexual orientation.
It may be easy to assert such claims, yet difficult for applicants to substantiate and for decision-makers to evaluate them.
By their very nature, they involve private issues of self-identity and sexual conduct, and sometimes personal issues for individuals that may be stressful or unresolved.
Social, cultural and religious attitudes to homosexuality in an applicant's society may exacerbate such problems.
With these issues in mind, the Tribunal explored with the applicant a wide range of circumstances relevant to its assessment.
These included his self-identity; his self-disclosure and others' perceptions of him; his past experiences; his knowledge of and association with other homosexuals; his relationships and personal contacts; and incidental evidence.
Assessment of the applicant's claims The Tribunal finds on the available material that the applicant is not a homosexual and that he will not be perceived as such.
... 
Reasons were thereafter provided for the conclusion reached.
4 An application to review that decision of the Tribunal was dismissed by the Federal Magistrates Court on 4 March 2008: SZLJN v Minister for Immigration  Citizenship [2008] FMCA 352.
5 The Appellant now appeals to this Court.
The Notice of Appeal as filed sets forth as follows the Grounds of Appeal , namely:
 GROUNDS: 1.
The Honourable Federal Magistrates Court erred in interpreting the construction of s424A of the Migration Act 1958 ('the Act").
2.
His Honour failed to determine that the purpose of s424A was not served in the proceeding of this applicant.
3.
The Honourable Court also erred in law determining that the Refugee Review Tribunal ("the Tribunal") was in a breach of procedural fairness.
4.
Additional details will be provided later.
No " Additional details " have been provided.
The Appellant appeared before this Court unrepresented, albeit with the assistance of an interpreter.
He was unable to provide further clarification as to what was intended to be conveyed by the Grounds of Appeal .
6 It is considered that the appeal should be dismissed.
SECTION 424A 
 
7 Section 424A of the Migration Act 1958 (Cth) provides as follows:
 424A Information and invitation given in writing by Tribunal (1) Subject to subsections (2A) and (3), the Tribunal must: (a) give to the applicant, in the way that the Tribunal considers appropriate in the circumstances, clear particulars of any information that the Tribunal considers would be the reason, or a part of the reason, for affirming the decision that is under review; and (b) ensure, as far as is reasonably practicable, that the applicant understands why it is relevant to the review, and the consequences of it being relied on in affirming the decision that is under review; and (c) invite the applicant to comment on or respond to it.
(2) The information and invitation must be given to the applicant: (a) except where paragraph (b) applies--by one of the methods specified in section 441A ; or (b) if the applicant is in immigration detention--by a method prescribed for the purposes of giving documents to such a person.
(2A) The Tribunal is not obliged under this section to give particulars of information to an applicant, nor invite the applicant to comment on or respond to the information, if the Tribunal gives clear particulars of the information to the applicant, and invites the applicant to comment on or respond to the information, under section 424AA.
(3) This section does not apply to information: (a) that is not specifically about the applicant or another person and is just about a class of persons of which the applicant or other person is a member; or (b) that the applicant gave for the purpose of the application for review ; or (ba) that the applicant gave during the process that led to the decision that is under review, other than such information that was provided orally by the applicant to the Department; or (c) that is non disclosable information.
8 Section 424A(1) employs the term " must " and compliance with that provision is, accordingly, mandatory: SAAP v Minister for Immigration  Multicultural  Indigenous Affairs [2005] HCA 24 , 228 CLR 294 ; SZBYR v Minister for Immigration  Citizenship [2007] HCA 26 at [13] , [2007] FCA 26 ; 235 ALR 609 at 614 per Gleeson CJ, Gummow, Callinan, Heydon and Crennan JJ.
9 Compliance with s 424A must necessarily be judged by reference to the facts as they emerge in each individual case.
In the present proceedings the Tribunal wrote to the now Appellant on 25 July 2007 inviting him to comment upon the matters raised in that letter.
