
 
1 The applicant seeks leave to appeal from an interlocutory judgment of Federal Magistrate Smith dismissing the applicant's application for judicial review of a decision by the second respondent Refugee Review Tribunal not to grant him a protection visa: see SZLQD v Minister for Immigration and Citizenship [2008] FMCA 190.
The Tribunal had earlier affirmed the first respondent Minister's decision to refuse the grant of a protection visa.
Leave to appeal is required from this Court because the Federal Magistrate dismissed the application on the ground that it does not raise an arguable case for the relief claimed pursuant to r 44.12(1)(a) of the Federal Magistrates Court Rules 2001 (Cth).
Such a procedure is interlocutory in nature: see r 44.12(2) of the Rules .
2 The applicant is a citizen of India who arrived in Australia on 27 March 2007.
He claims to be an active member of the Bharatiya Janta Party in Kerala State.
He claims a well founded fear of persecution due to his support for the BJP.
He claims that because of his political views, imputed or otherwise, he has suffered arrest, attacks and mistreatment.
3 The applicant applied for a protection visa on 10 April 2007.
A delegate of the first respondent Minister rejected that application.
The delegate noted that the applicant was free to relocate to another part of India where the applicant's localised problems would not continue.
4 The applicant sought merits review of the Minister's decision by the Tribunal.
The applicant was invited to give oral evidence and present arguments to the Tribunal and did so with the assistance of an interpreter.
The Tribunal considered the applicant's claims, questioned him about them and considered independent country information.
After considering the evidence it concluded that it was:
 
 ...not satisfied that the applicant has been attacked, arrested and mistreated as claimed because the Tribunal has found that he was not involved with the BJP as claimed, and his evidence about the attacks and arrests was vague and unconvincing.


 The Tribunal affirmed the decision not to grant the applicant a protection visa.
5 The applicant sought judicial review of that decision in the Federal Magistrates Court.
The applicant's amended application in that court relied on several grounds of review.
The learned Federal Magistrate considered all the grounds and concluded that none of them was made out by the applicant and that they did not raise an arguable case for the relief claimed.
The application was dismissed.
6 The applicant now seeks leave to appeal from the judgment of the court below.
