
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 By ex parte application, the plaintiff seeks orders relating to service of an examination summons on the examinee.
The plaintiff contends that on the evidence the Court should infer that the examinee resides out of the jurisdiction, probably in the principality of Monaco and that he wishes to avoid being served with the summons.
The plaintiff also seeks an order for substituted service in a variety of different ways.
2 The plaintiff's application raises two questions.
The first is whether service out of the jurisdiction should be permitted and the second is whether, assuming that such leave is granted, substituted service should be permitted at this stage if service out of the jurisdiction would be impracticable.
3 There is also an application brought in opposition to the plaintiff's ex parte application.
That application is brought by the examinee's father and the company in respect of which the examinee is a director.
The examinee is, of course, not represented as it is an ex parte application.
However, counsel for his father and for the company which he is a director, seeks leave to be heard in opposition to the plaintiff's application.
4 For the reasons which appear below, in my view, the application for leave to serve out of the jurisdiction should be adjourned and the application to be heard must be dismissed.
BACKGROUND 
 
5 On 18 October 2007, under s 596B of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (CA), District Registrar Jan ordered that a summons for examination be issued to the examinee.
To date the plaintiff has been unable to effect personal service on the examinee.
6 The factual basis for the issue of summonses pursuant to s 596B CA against Mr Barry Waller and Mr Andrew Waller bears upon the plaintiff's current leave application.
An affidavit of Mr John King Atkins, sworn on 24 September 2007 and filed in these proceedings sets out the basis.
In short the basis is as follows.
7 In December 2002 administrators were appointed in respect of New Tel Limited (in liquidation) (New Tel) pursuant to Pt 5.3A CA. On 13 January 2003 the creditors of New Tel resolved that it be placed in liquidation.
The administrators were appointed as liquidators.
8 The plaintiff is a creditor of New Tel for unpaid legal fees and disbursements and is an eligible applicant pursuant to an authorisation from the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) dated 11 October 2004 for the purpose of CA 2001 Div 1 Pt 5.9.
9 In 2004, Wainter Pty Ltd (Wainter) of which the examinee is a director, also applied for and obtained orders for summonses for examinations of members of the plaintiff.
The proposed examinations by Wainter were in relation to an agreement entered into between Wainter and New Tel in 2001.
Wainter contends that it suffered loss by reason of that agreement.
Wainter has a claim in respect of that alleged loss against New Tel and the plaintiff.
10 The purpose of the plaintiff's application for examination of the examinee was said to be to determine the merits of the claim by Wainter against New Tel and the plaintiff.
The additional purpose was to examine the examinees to determine whether there was a failure by the directors of Cable  Telecoms Limited (CAT), to reveal to New Tel before and/or in the course of New Tel's takeover of CAT, the true worth of CAT and its assets.
11 The examinee was a director of CAT, having been so appointed on 5 June 2000.
The examination would enable the plaintiff to determine whether one of the reasons for the demise of New Tel was the takeover of CAT by New Tel in late 2001 and whether the examinees may be guilty of civil or criminal wrong in relation thereto.
12 The ex parte application of the plaintiff is supported by an affidavit of Mr Andrew Ryan, a solicitor employed by the plaintiff.
On 7 November 2007 the plaintiff engaged Legal Process Services (WA) (LPS) to effect service on the examinee.
Several internet searches were carried out by Mr Ryan in order to attempt to locate the examinee.
Those searches revealed that the examinee was a non-executive director of Chrome Corporation Limited (CCL) and Acclaim Exploration NL (Acclaim).
Mr Ryan telephoned the offices of CCL and spoke with a receptionist who informed him that the examinee was overseas and would not be back for some time.
He also telephoned Acclaim's offices and spoke to a non-executive director of Acclaim who informed Mr Ryan that the examinee was overseas, was not due back in Australia for some time and that he would be in the USA later in the month.
He did not know the whereabouts of the examinee at that stage and the examinee had not been at his home address for some months.
Mr Ryan requested the examinee's contact details.
The request was declined.
Accordingly, Mr Ryan left his telephone details with the request that the examinee contact him.
13 The further attempts to effect service failed.
There was an adjournment of the hearing date for the summons to facilitate further service attempts.
In January 2008, Mr Ryan attempted further telephone contact with the examinee through CCL and received a similar response.
