
 PROCEEDINGS IN THIS COURT 
 
1 The applicant (' Sydney Ferries ') commenced proceedings in this Court on 26 May 2008 against four unions, each of which is a party to an Enterprise Agreement with Sydney Ferries.
Three of the unions (together ' the Respondents ') have now filed motions seeking to restrain Sydney Ferries from proceeding with an application for certain orders in the Australian Industrial Relations Commission (' AIRC '), pending resolution of the proceedings in this Court (see [16] below).
2 By its application in this Court, Sydney Ferries seeks an interpretation of similar, but not identical, clauses in each of the Enterprise Agreements.
Specifically, Sydney Ferries seeks declarations in the following form:
 
 
 '1.
A declaration that upon the proper construction of the AMOU Agreement the Applicant's proposed changes to the rosters for all Permanent and Temporary Maritime Officers employed by the Applicant and about which the Applicant gave notice to all Permanent and Temporary Maritime Officers on 2 May 2008: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) are a "significant roster change" within the meaning of clause 7.5.3 of the AMOU Agreement; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) do not breach any provisions of the AMOU Agreement.

 
 2.
A declaration that upon the proper construction of the MUA Agreement the Applicant's proposed changes to the rosters for all Permanent General Purpose Hands employed by the Applicant and about which the Applicant gave notice to all Permanent General Purpose Hands on 2 May 2008: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) are a "significant roster change" within the meaning of clause 7.3.2 of the MUA Agreement; and 
 
 (b) do not breach any provisions of the MUA Agreement including without limitation provisions relating to: 
 
 (i) work as directed; 
 (ii) rostering of leave entitlements; 
 (iii) days on / days off; 
 (iv) weekend on / weekend off; and 
 (v) leave relief.

 
 
 
 
 
 3.
A declaration that upon the proper construction of the AIMPE Agreement the Applicant's proposed changes to the rosters for all Engineers employed by the Applicant and about which the Applicant gave notice to all Engineers on 2 May 2008: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) will "result in a majority of Engineers [being] subjected to change" within the meaning of clause 11.4.3 of the AIMPE Agreement; and 
 
 (b) do not breach any provision of the AIMPE Agreement.
' 
 
 
 

3 The application also seeks other relief, including injunctions and penalties under s 494(5)(a) of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) (' Workplace Relations Act ').
However, as will be seen, that relief is now not to be pursued by Sydney Ferries.
