
 TABLE OF CONTENTS 
 


 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 This application is made under the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) and s 39B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) to challenge the validity of a decision of the Commonwealth Minister for the Environment and Heritage (the Minister or the Commonwealth Minister) under s 133 of the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 (Cth) (the Act).
The decision was made on 20 October 2006.
By the decision, the Minister approved a proposed action of the second respondent, McArthur River Mining Pty Ltd (MRM) to convert an underground lead and zinc mine to an open cut mine and associated works, including the diversion of the McArthur River (the decision).
2 The underground mine as operated prior to the decision was adjacent to the McArthur River, some 740km south-east of Darwin, in the Gulf Region of the Northern Territory.
It is upstream of the town of Borroloola.
It is approximately 100km inland from the mouth of Bing Bong Creek on the Gulf of Carpentaria, and ore concentrate recovered from the mine is shipped from a port at the mouth of that creek.
The McArthur River flows across the site of the proposed open cut mine.
The proposed conversion and expansion of the mine by MRM approved by the decision includes a proposal to divert the course of the river for 5 km around the site of the open cut mine.
3 The applicants in this matter are seven native title claim groups with native title determination applications under the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth) over land in the vicinity of the mine and over land through which the McArthur River flows.
The claims include a claim over the McArthur River Project Area and areas upstream and downstream of it.
The town of Borroloola is surrounded by Aboriginal land granted under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 (Cth), including land which abuts the north eastern boundary of the McArthur River pastoral lease and which abuts the western boundary of that lease.
In addition, the islands in the Gulf of Carpentaria at the mouths of the McArthur River and the Bing Bong Creek are also Aboriginal land and the beds and banks of the McArthur River from its mouth to the land grant around Borroloola and the intertidal zone of the Bing Bong Creek have been recommended for grant by the Aboriginal Land Commissioner.
The applicants share significant concerns over the potential environmental impacts of the proposed action, in particular by the diversion of the McArthur River, which relevantly include the potential impact on certain fish and migratory bird species in the region.
4 In those circumstances, both the Minister and MRM have accepted that at least one member of each applicant group has standing in this matter.
It is not necessary to further consider that matter.
LEGISLATION AND APPROVAL PROCESS 
 Objects of the Act 
 
5 At the outset it is useful to state the relevant objects of the Act.
They are found in s 3(1):
 
 The objects of this Act are:
 
 
 
 (a) to provide for the protection of the environment, especially those aspects of the environment that are matters of national environmental significance; and
 
 (b) to promote ecologically sustainable development through the conservation and ecologically sustainable use of natural resources; and 
 
 
 
 (c) to promote the conservation of biodiversity; and
 ... 
 
 
 (d) to promote a co-operative approach to the protection and management of the environment involving governments, the community, land-holders and indigenous peoples; and 
 
 
 ... 
 
 
 (f) to recognise the role of indigenous people in the conservation and ecologically sustainable use of Australia's biodiversity; and
 
 (g) to promote the use of indigenous peoples' knowledge of biodiversity with the involvement of, and in co-operation with, the owners of the knowledge.

 
 
 

6 Section 3A sets of the principles of ecologically sustainable development, including what is referred to as the precautionary principle at s 3A(b):
 
 ... if there are threats of serious or irreversible environmental damage, lack of full scientific certainty should not be used as a reason for postponing measures to prevent environmental degradation;
 
 Decision that Action is a Controlled Action 
 
7 Section 67 of the Act defines a 'controlled action' as any action that is prohibited under a provision of Part 3 of the Act without approval under Part 9.
The relevant Part 3 provision is the 'controlling provision' for an action.
The process of seeking approval for an action that a person thinks might be a controlled action begins with s 68.
That section states that if a person thinks that an action may be a controlled action, that person must refer it to the Minister for a decision as to whether or not that is the case.
8 Pursuant to s 68, a referral of the proposed development by changing from an underground mine to open pit mining and the diversion of the McArthur River and Barney Creek was made by MIM Holdings Limited (MIM) to the Minister on 6 February 2003.
(The relationship between that company, now Xstrata Queensland Limited, and MRM is unclear, but nothing apparently turns on that.
It appears from the material before the Court that MRM took ownership of the proposed action from MIM sometime between 4 March 2003 and 3 August 2005.
) The referral by MIM noted that the proposed action may impact members of listed threatened species and members of listed migratory species, but it argued that its proposed action was not considered to be a controlled action for the purposes of the Act so that it required approval under that Act.
9 Section 18 of the Act prohibits an action that has, will have or is likely to have a significant impact on a listed threatened species.
Section 18A of the Act makes it an offence to take an action that results or will result in a significant impact on a listed threatened species of a listed threatened ecological community: s 18A(1).
It also makes it an offence if an action is likely to have a significant impact on a listed threatened species or listed threatened ecological community if the person taking the action is reckless as to that fact: s 18A(2).
Under s 19 of the Act, ss 18 and 18A do not apply if the Minister has approved the action under Part 9 (including an approval under s 133) of the Act.
10 Section 20(1) of the Act prohibits an action that has, will have, or is likely to have a significant impact on a listed migratory species.
That sub-section also does not apply if approval of the action under Pt 9 is given by the Minister: s 20(2).
Sub-section 20A makes it an offence to take an action that results or will result in a significant impact on a listed migratory species: s 20A(1).
It also makes it an offence if an action is likely to have a significant impact on a listed migratory species if the person taking the action is reckless as to that fact: s 20A(2).
Actions of those types are also not offences if the Minister has approved the action under Part 9: s 20A(4).
11 Pursuant to s 75 of the Act, a delegate of the Minister decided on 4 March 2003 that the proposed action was a controlled action and, as such, required the approval of the Minister.
He found that ss 18, 18A, 20 and 20A, were the controlling provisions.
The Minister's reasons for decision outline why those controlling provisions were enlivened.
He found that thirty one listed migratory bird species were likely to be in the vicinity of the site at various times, including some that utilise permanent pools along the river.
He also found that six listed threatened species were likely to be in the vicinity of the site, including an 'important population' of freshwater sawfish ( pristis microdon ).
12 The delegate also designated MIM as the proponent of the action, as required by s 75(3).
Section 78(5) states that if the Minister believes the person designated as the proponent of the action under s 75 is no longer the appropriate person, the Minister may designate a different person as the proponent.
There is no evidence that a designation for MRM has been made, but again nothing has been made of that.
I shall proceed, as the parties proceeded, on the basis that MRM is so identified with MIM that MRM can be treated as the entity giving notice under s 68 and as the designated entity under s 75(3).
The bilateral agreement 
 
13 The consequence of the proposed action by MRM being designated as a controlled action was potentially to enliven Ch 4 Pt 8 of the Act.
It provides a structure for the assessment of the impacts of the controlled action, so as to provide information for a decision whether or not to approve the taking of the proposed action.
However, s 83 provides:
 
 
 (1) This Part does not apply in relation to an action if: 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) The action is to be taken in a State or self-governing Territory; and
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) A bilateral agreement between the Commonwealth and the State or Territory declares that actions in a class that includes the action need not be assessed under this Part; and
 
 (c) The provision of the bilateral agreement making the declaration is in operation in relation to the action.

 
 
 
 ...
 
 Note 2A: An action will be in a class of actions declared not to need assessment under this Part only if the action has been assessed in a manner specified in the bilateral agreement.


14 The cooperative nature of the Act, especially in relation to cooperation between the States, Territories and the Commonwealth is reflected in Ch 3 Pt 5 of the Act.
The object of that Part is expressed in s 44 as follows:
 
 The object of this Part is to provide for agreements between the Commonwealth and A State or self-governing Territory that:
 
 (a) protect the environment; and
 
 
 
 (b) promote the conservation and ecologically sustainable use of natural resources; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) ensure an efficient, timely and effective process for environmental assessment and approval of actions; and 
 
 
 
 
 
 (d) minimise duplication in the environmental assessment and approval process through Commonwealth accreditation of the processes of the State or Territory (and vice versa).

 
 
 

Section 45(1) of the Act then gives the Commonwealth Minister the power to enter into bilateral agreements, which are defined in ss 45(2) in similar terms to the objects in s 44.
15 There is a relevant bilateral agreement between the Commonwealth and the Northern Territory (the Agreement).
The Agreement was entered into on 31 May 2002.
At cl 10.1, the Agreement declares that any action assessed in the manner specified in the Agreement does not require assessment under Part 8 of the Act.
16 It is not straightforward that Pt 8 of Ch 4 of the Act did not apply to the process of assessing the relevant impacts of the controlled action by MRM.
The Agreement was entered into on 31 May 2002, well prior to the decision of the Minister of 4 March 2003 that the proposed development of the mine was a controlled action.
17 However, cl 5 of the Agreement provides that:
 
 This agreement will enter into force on the date specified in a notice given by the Northern Territory as being the date on which the amendments to the Administrative Procedures (referred to in clause 4) commence.


According to the Notes in the Environmental Assessment Administrative Procedures (NT) (the Administrative Procedures), the relevant variation was made on 28 February 2003, and commenced on 19 March 2003.
18 Consequently, it appears that the date on which the Agreement entered into force is 19 March 2003.
That commencement date is confirmed in the undated letter from the Northern Territory Minister for Environment and Heritage (the Territory Minister) to the Commonwealth Minister that confirmed the Northern Territory Government's intention to conduct the assessment pursuant to the Agreement.
19 That date is after the Minister's decision of 4 March 2003 under s 75, following MRM's referral of the proposed action under s 68 of the Act on 6 February 2003.
20 Thus, unless s 83 operated so as to exclude Pt 8 from applying, s 82 required MRM to give the Minister in the prescribed way the prescribed information in relation to the controlled action and s 83 required the Minister to choose one of five alternative assessment approaches specified within it.
The Minister's decision was required within 20 business days of the later of the decision under s 75 or the provision of the information under s 82, subject to some exceptions which are not presently relevant: s 88.
The Minister must then give written notice of the decision about the assessment approach within a further 10 business days: s 91.
21 It is common ground that the Minister made no decision under s 87 of the Act selecting one of the assessment approaches listed in s 87(1) and that the controlled action was not assessed under Pt 8 of the Act.
The evidence also shows that the Territory Minister on 2 April 2003 wrote to the Commonwealth Minister, in response to the notification under s 77 of the Act of the decision that the proposed action was a controlled action.
The Territory Minister at that time notified the Commonwealth Minister that, pursuant to cl 5 of the Agreement, it commenced on 19 March 2003 when the amendments to the Administrative Procedures commenced so that the assessment of the proposed action would be under the Agreement.
The Commonwealth Minister accepted that position on 27 May 2003.
22 Upon the issue being raised, the applicants put the contention that there has been no valid assessment of the controlled action because, in the circumstances, the assessment should have taken place under Pt 8 of the Act.
In fact, it took place under the Agreement.
The consequence, they contended, is that the Minister has failed to exercise the power and to perform the functions required by Pt 8 of Ch 4 of the Act.
They sought leave to amend their application to make such a claim, as it had not otherwise been expressed in their application, and to make consequential amendments to their application.
There was no objection to that application.
I shall give leave to further amend the application in the terms proposed by the applicants.
23 Both the Commonwealth Minister and MRM contended that s 83 operated to remove the consideration of the controlled action from Pt 8 of the Act in the circumstances because each of the three conditions prescribed by s 83 were met on 19 March 2003 when the Agreement came into effect, and that the obligation of the Minister under s 87 to select an assessment approach in relation to the controlled action did not arise because, at the earliest, the 20 business days time limit prescribed by s 88 occurred after 19 March 2003.
Indeed, they contended, the Minister after that date had no power to make a decision under s 87.
In essence, they contended that Pt 8 applied between 4 and 18 March 2003 but that it then ceased to apply, and as the Minister had made no decision under s 87 by that time, s 83 then operated in respect of the earlier decision under s 75 so as to enliven the assessment process under the Agreement.
24 The starting point to consider the respective contentions is s 81 of the Act.
It provides:
 
 
 (1) This Part applies to the assessment of the relevant impacts of an action that the Minister has decided under Division 2 of Part 7 is a controlled action.

 
 
 
 
 
 (2) This section has effect subject to sections 83 and 84.

 
 
 
 
 
 (3) This section does not limit section 82.

 
 
 

Of itself, it does not appear to address the particular circumstances.
Section 83(1)(c) is expressed in the present tense.
But it is not clear whether it is directed to a state of affairs which exists at the time of the decision under s 75 or at the time of the Agreement coming into force.
25 The Minister and MRM pointed out that s 83 could have been drafted to indicate that it applied at the time of the decision under s 75, and at no later time.
So it could.
On the other hand, to give s 83 "an ambulatory operation" as contended would or could mean that after an assessment approach selected under s 87 had been decided (and perhaps that the assessment procedures under Pt 8 extensively followed) the fact of a bilateral agreement then coming into force might frustrate that process.
Of course, in those circumstances, one might expect the parties to a bilateral agreement to expressly cover that situation by ensuring it did not frustrate the ongoing assessment processes.
Indeed, the contention of the applicants that s 83 does not permit a bilateral agreement coming into effect only after the decision under s 75 from having impact upon the applicability of Pt 8, because it would or could render nugatory the Pt 8 assessment process so far as it has gone, is readily met.
The Commonwealth Minister would be well alert to that risk.
That prospect would inform the decision whether to enter into a bilateral agreement, and upon its terms and its applicability to the decision under s 75, and the extent to which any assessment processes already undertaken under Pt 8 should be taken into account as part of the assessment procedure under the bilateral agreement.
It might also be that, once the assessment process was selected under s 87, s 83 would be construed so as not to operate to bring to an end the application of Pt 8 to the assessment of the relevant impacts of the controlled action.
That would require reading s 83(1) as providing that Pt 8 does not apply in relation to an action if the Minister had made a decision under s 87(1).
That is not a matter which directly arises for consideration, although it is desirable to construe s 83 in a way which would provide a harmonious operation in relation to events which may arise.
26 I have come to the conclusion that s 83 operated in the particular circumstances to exclude the assessment processes which Pt 8 provides for, so that the assessment of the relevant impacts of the controlled action was to be made in accordance with the Agreement.
In other words, although Pt 8 applied when the Minister's decision was made under s 75 that the proposed action of MRM was a controlled action, it ceased to apply to the assessment of the relevant impacts of that controlled action from 19 March 2003.
I do not think s 83(1) should be read to exclude the application of a bilateral agreement which comes into force before the Commonwealth Minister makes a decision under s 87 as to the assessment approach.
I do not intend to express any view about the application of Pt 8, after both a decision under s 75 and a decision under s 87, save to note that it is not clear even then that a bilateral agreement entered into in such a circumstance would not displace the ongoing operation of Pt 8.
27 That conclusion reflects the object of the Act specified in subs 3(1)(d) of promoting a cooperative approach to the protection and management of the environment between governments.
That object is explained in subs 3(2)(b) by reference to strengthening intergovernmental cooperation through bilateral agreements and in subs 3(2)(g) by reference to promoting a partnership approach to environmental protection and biodiversity conservation through bilateral agreements with States and Territories.
Reference may also be made in that regard to s 44(d) of the Act.
28 It is consistent with those purposes that a bilateral agreement might displace the operation of Pt 8 of Ch 4, at least up to the time that the Commonwealth Minister under s 87 makes a decision about one or other of the assessment approaches it provides for.
There is no apparent reason why the opportunity for cooperative agreement about a State or Territory based assessment method should be available only up to the time the Commonwealth Minister decides under s 75 that a proposed action is a controlled action.
The Minister retains the quality control on the means of assessment by deciding whether or not to enter into a bilateral agreement.
29 Chapter 3 Pt 5 deals generally with bilateral agreements.
Section 45(2) defines a bilateral agreement as one which, inter alia, provides for an efficient and timely and effective process for environment assessment and approval of actions, and for minimising duplication in the environment assessment and approval process through Commonwealth accreditation of the processes of the State or Territory.
Part 5 contains extensive provisions to ensure that a bilateral agreement is consistent with and reflects the expectations of the Commonwealth Minister, including s 53 dealing specifically with its terms concerning listed threatened species and ecological communities and s 54 dealing with migratory species.
As the applicants' submission described it, there is an "up-front" accreditation of State and Territory assessment and approval processes of classes of action.
30 There is no apparent reason why, given the requirements for a bilateral agreement, and the cooperative objectives of the Act, the opportunity for a bilateral agreement to apply to the assessment of a controlled action should be confined.
It is also, in my view, consistent with the context of s 83 that that opportunity should be available at least until the making of a decision by the Commonwealth Minister about some other assessment approach under s 87.
Part 8 applies by reason of the making of a decision under s 75 that a proposed action is a controlled action: s 81(1).
But Pt 8 does not apply only at or immediately after that point in time.
Section 81(2) provides that s 81(1) has effect subject to ss 83 and 84.
That contemplates Pt 8 having the state of being operative from, and not merely at, a particular point in time.
It connotes a continuous temporal operation.
That is consistent with the procedural steps which the balance of Pt 8 prescribes.
Sections 83 and 84 then prescribe circumstances, at least until a decision is made under s 87, in which the continued applicability of Pt 8 will come to an end.
31 In that contextual setting, s 83 would apply during the period of assessment of relevant impacts of a controlled action.
When its conditions were satisfied, it would cause s 81(1) to cease to have effect and Pt 8 would no longer apply to the assessment of those impacts.
32 The terms of s 83 also readily accommodate that view.
It provides that Pt 8 is not to apply if certain facts are in existence.
It does not confine its operation to the existence of those facts at the time of the Minister's decision under s 75 that proposed action is a controlled action.
Unlike s 81(1), expressed by reference to a past fact (the decision of the Minister), s 83(1)(c) refers to a present fact: the current operation of the declaratory provision of the bilateral agreement; and generally s 83(1) is activated by reference to the existence of three current facts or conditions.
33 In my view, other provisions of the Act to which the applicants drew attention do not suggest the alternative construction of s 83 for which they contended.
34 
 
Section 47 permits a bilateral agreement to declare classes of actions do not need assessment under Pt 8, if they have been assessed in a specified manner.
That must contemplate prospective assessment in the specified manner (approved by the Commonwealth Minister: s 47(2)), otherwise it would only operate after the specified assessment and in the meantime the assessment procedure under Pt 8 would have to be followed: see eg Cooper Brookes (Wollongong) Pty Ltd v Federal Commissioner of Taxation [1981] HCA 26 ; (1981) 147 CLR 297 at 320-321.
In my view, s 47 does not inform the proper construction of ss 81 and 83.
I also note that ss 87(1)(a), 87(4) and 91(2) provide for the Minister to select an assessment approach by an "accredited assessment process".
That contemplates what the applicants called a "one-off" accreditation process.
But I do not think that the power of the Minister to select an accredited assessment process under s 87 and in furtherance of the assessment of the impacts of a controlled action under Pt 8 supports the view that a bilateral agreement, coming into force at least before the Minister's decision under s 87, cannot operate to exclude the application of Pt 8 to the assessment process.
The two processes simply are different.
35 Section 46 permits a bilateral agreement to declare that actions in a class specified in the bilateral agreement do not need approval under Pt 9 if they are approved under a bilaterally accredited management plan.
It is one of the class of actions which s 29 recognises may be declared by agreement not to need approval under Pt 9.
It is not suggested that the bilateral agreement under consideration attracted the application of s 46.
The process of achieving a bilaterally accredited management plan under s 46 is obviously a prolonged and complex one.
Section 46 operates in a different context to s 47.
Section 46 contemplates that no approval at all by the Minister under Pt 9 would be required.
It is common ground that the Minister's approval under Pt 9 in respect of this controlled action was necessary.
I do not therefore regard s 46 as throwing light upon the proper construction of ss 81 and 83 in the present circumstances.
36 For those reasons in my judgment, the assessment procedure in relation to the controlled action undertaken under the Agreement was not of itself unauthorised or invalid.
Preparation of Assessment Report 51 
 
37 Pursuant to cl 1 of Sch 1 of the Agreement, the assessment must be carried out under the Environmental Assessment Act 1982 (NT).
Section 7 of that Act allows for administrative procedures to be determined, for the purpose of achieving the objects of that Act.
Under that section, the Administrative Procedures were established.
As noted above, apparently because the Administrative Procedures were not initially suitable for assessment of actions under the Agreement, cl 4 and cl 5 of the Agreement provided that the Agreement did not enter into force until certain amendments were made to the Administrative Procedures.
Those amendments commenced on 19 March 2003.
They are referred to in the Administrative Procedures as 'modified procedures'.
38 Clause 3A of the Administrative Procedures states that:
 
 The modified procedures apply in relation to a proposed action when the proposed action is assessed by the Territory in accordance with a bilateral agreement between the Territory and The Commonwealth made under section 45 of the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999 of the Commonwealth.


39 Clause 13.2 of the Agreement and s 77 of the Act require the Commonwealth Minister to give notice of the decision that the proposed action is a controlled action to the relevant Minister of the Northern Territory.
Such notice was given by letter to the Territory Minister dated 4 March 2003.
40 Clause 14.2 of the Agreement required the Territory Minister to indicate by written notice to the Commonwealth Minister whether the proposed action would be assessed pursuant to the Agreement.
On or about 2 April 2003, an undated letter from the Territory Minister was received by the Commonwealth Minister (the undated letter), which indicated that the assessment of the proposed action would be undertaken pursuant to the terms of the Agreement.
41 In many cases, the requirements of the Administrative Procedures simply mirror explicit requirements of the Agreement.
Where such provisions are relevant in the following paragraphs, they are both identified.
Clause 2.1 of sch 1 of the Agreement and cl 8 of the Administrative Procedures required the Territory Minister to decide which assessment approach will be used.
The possible approaches include the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement, the preparation of a Public Environment Report, and inquiry carried out under the Inquiries Act (NT).
The undated letter of the Territory Minister indicated that the assessment approach would be by the preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement (EIS).
42 The Agreement (at cl 3.1) and the Administrative Procedures (at cl 8(3)-(6)) also required the Territory Minister to produce guidelines relating to the matters that should be dealt with in the EIS, and set out certain requirements for those guidelines, including that a draft be made available for public comment for at least 14 days.
The undated letter confirmed that such guidelines had been prepared and that they had been available for public review for a period of 28 days to 14 March 2003.
The Territory Minister advised that public comments received would be taken into account in finalising the guidelines.
Final guidelines were issued in the second half of March 2003.
43 On 15 August 2005, MRM wrote to the Commonwealth Minister's Department to advise that a draft EIS had been lodged with the Northern Territory.
That letter also enclosed a copy of the draft EIS.
Clause 4 of Sch 1 of the Agreement and cl 9 of the Administrative Procedures required that the draft EIS be made available for public comment for a period of at least 28 days.
The letter of 15 August 2005 from MRM indicated that the draft EIS would be available for public comment for 10 weeks, ending 21 October 2005.
44 The draft EIS noted the presence of threatened terrestrial fauna species and migratory fauna species in and near the project area.
It considered possible impacts upon fauna of the controlled action.
It suggested that no migratory species were likely to be significantly affected by the controlled action.
45 The draft EIS also addressed aquatic ecology.
It noted that the McArthur River ceases to flow during most dry seasons, and that most stretches of water --- particularly those near the mine project area --- dry to a series of larger isolated pools during most dry seasons.
The major permanent refuge pools for aquatic ecology were said to be Eight Mile Waterhole, about 8 km upstream of the mine project area and Djirrinmini Waterhole, about 1 km upstream of the mine project area and of the proposed diversion of the McArthur River.
It noted the recorded presence of the freshwater sawfish in the McArthur River system, and it identified the possible effect of the proposed diversion of the river on that species from river and creek re-alignments, downstream water degradation, drawdown effects on permanent refuge pools, and change in stream flow volumes.
It concluded that:
 
 Due to the current lack of data on the endangered freshwater sawfish in the region of the mine, a specific survey for this species will be undertaken and, based on the survey findings, a management and monitoring plan for this species will be developed.


46 Among the comments received on the draft EIS was a letter from the Commonwealth Department of the Environment and Heritage (DEH) dated 31 October 2005.
It expressed concerns about the impact of the controlled action on the freshwater sawfish and populations of migratory birds in the wetlands at the mouth of the McArthur River.
As to the freshwater sawfish, the DEH commented upon the absence of an outline of a survey design and management plan; and upon the need for prescribed remedial measures for drawdown of dry season refuge pools.
As to migratory bird populations, the DEH commented upon the increased sediment load carried in wet season flow to the mouth of the river; and upon the need to monitor sediment deposition to assist in determining if any significant impacts are occurring.
47 The Northern Land Council, who act for the applicants in this matter, also made comments on the draft EIS during that period including recommendations that the controlled action not be approved until issues relating to the freshwater sawfish, other aquatic fauna, and various bird species were more thoroughly considered.
48 Clause 5 of sch 1 of the Agreement and cl 12 of the Administrative Procedures required MRM to produce and lodge a supplement to the EIS that took into account any public comments received on the draft EIS.
Despite the fact that cl 12 of the Administrative Procedures states that the proponent must 'conduct a revision of the statement and produce a supplement to the statement', the clause should be read as requiring a 'revision of the statement by the production of a supplement to the statement'.
That is consistent with the requirements of the Agreement, which only makes reference to the production of a supplement and is made clear by cl 12(2) of the Administrative Procedures which states:
 
 A supplement referred to in subclause (1) shall, on its completion, become part of the statement it supplements and a reference to the statement then becomes a reference to the statement together with the supplement.


49 In December 2005, MRM released a Supplement to the draft EIS.
It provided a copy to the DEH.
The original was lodged with the Northern Territory Government.
50 The Supplement to the draft EIS addressed the public comments, including those of the DEH.
MRM proposed the extension of its environmental monitoring of the McArthur River estuary to transect the delta of its mouth --- apparently to respond to one of the concerns of the DEH about monitoring impacts on migratory birds.
It proposed a survey of freshwater sawfish, and that a detailed management and monitoring plan for the freshwater sawfish would be formulated based on the results of the survey.
The initial survey was to be conducted in the early part of the 2006 dry season and towards the end of the 2006 dry season.
Each sampling trip was to include a leading authority on freshwater sawfish, who had proposed the methodology for the proposed survey.
51 Clause 6 of the Agreement required the Territory Minister to prepare an Assessment Report that takes into account the draft EIS, comments received on the draft EIS, the Supplement to the draft EIS and any other relevant information available.
Pursuant to that clause, the Territory Minister provided the Commonwealth Minister with Assessment Report 51 (AR 51), with a letter of 23 February 2006.
AR 51 was unable to conclude that the project could proceed without unacceptable environmental impacts.
52 AR 51 said that:
 
 The outcome of the environmental impact assessment for this proposal is that the EPA (Environmental Protection Authority) is unable to conclude that the project can proceed without unacceptable environmental impacts.
The EPA is not confident that mining at the site can be managed with minimal long-term risk to the environment adjacent and downstream of the mine site.
The proponent has not been able to adequately demonstrate that there will be no significant environmental impacts as a result of the operation.


53 It identified the issues of most concern to include the potential impacts associated with river and creek re-alignments and the potential environmental risk of mining operations posed by their location within the primary channel of a major tropical river.
It considered environmental impacts from the river and creek re-alignments, leaching of waste rock and tailings seepage, degradation in surface water quality, and increased groundwater drawdown.
It considered impacts on biology by habitat loss and fragmentation, and impacts on aquatic environments by isolation of upstream and downstream aquatic environments, downstream impacts of sedimentation and contamination, and alteration of river flows and drawdown effects, including impacts on the Djirrinmini Waterhole as an aquatic habitat.
54 AR 51 specifically commented on the potential impact of the controlled action on the freshwater sawfish.
It concluded:
 
 In the absence of baseline surveys, and proposed management, monitoring and mitigation strategies, adequate assessment of the potential impacts of the open cut project on the freshwater sawfish cannot be made at this point in time.


55 AR 51 also addressed impacts on migratory species.
It concluded that monitoring of sediment deposition and contamination in the wetlands at the north of the McArthur River would assist in determining if any significant impacts were occurring.
It observed that the commitment by MRM to expand its monitoring program should include consideration of migratory birds.
It also noted the potential impact upon the white-browed Robin by habitat fragmentation in the McArthur River riparian corridor.
56 Also enclosed with the letter of 23 February 2006 was a notice under s 130(1B)(b) of the Act.
That section refers to a notice:
 
 
 (i) stating that the certain and likely impacts of the action on things other than matters protected by the controlling provision for the action have been assessed to the greatest extent practicable; and 
 
 
 
 (ii) explaining how they have been assessed.


The statements comprising the notice were expressed in terms to meet the requirements of s 130(1B)(b).
The Territory Minister also concluded in the letter of 23 February 2006 that the controlled action described in the draft EIS should not proceed.
It does not appear that, under the Act or the Agreement, that conclusion had any particular status or consequence for the Commonwealth Minister.
Under s 130(1B) of the Act, the first day after the provision of that notice (being 24 February 2006) marked the start of the period within which the Commonwealth Minister had to make a decision whether or not to approve the taking of the controlled action.
That period was 30 business days pursuant to s 130(1)(a) and (2)(a), subject to certain time extensions provided for.
Consideration of Assessment Report 51 
 
57 Section 132 of the Act states:
 
 If the Minister believes on reasonable grounds that he or she does not have enough information to make an informed decision whether or not to approve for the purposes of a controlling provision the taking of an action, the Minister may request any of the following to provide specified information relevant to making the decision:
 
 (a) the person proposing to take the action;
 (b) the designated proponent of the action;
 ...
 

58 By letter of 16 March 2006, a delegate of the Commonwealth Minister made such a request of MRM.
The letter noted the conclusion of AR 51 that there was insufficient information in the EIS to enable an adequate assessment of the impacts on the freshwater sawfish.
The delegate requested a revised description of the potential impacts associated with the realignment of the McArthur River and of Barney Creek and an assessment of the potential impacts of the controlled action on the freshwater sawfish, and details of how MRM proposed to manage, monitor and mitigate those potential impacts upon the freshwater sawfish.
Under s 130(5) of the Act, that request caused the time period under s 130(1)(a) to pause.
The letter noted that the statutory time period within which the Commonwealth Minister was required to make a decision would restart when that information was received.
It is the submission of the respondents that a second assessment report --- discussed below --- was prepared as part of the response to that request for further information.
However, there is an issue as to whether the second report had to be prepared pursuant to the Agreement.
That question is dealt with later in these reasons.
Preparation of Assessment Report 54 
 
59 According to the Commonwealth Minister's statement of reasons for decision, on 20 March 2006 the Northern Territory Minister for Mines and Energy asked MRM to lodge an amended proposal under cl 14A of the Administrative Procedures to address outstanding environmental issues.
It is unclear on the material why the Northern Territory Minister for Mines and Energy made that request, or whether it related at all to the assessment of the proposed controlled action under the Act.
It may have been part of a separate approval process under the Mining Management Act 2001 (NT) (the NT Mining approval process), which was being undertaken concurrently with the process under the Act and the Agreement.
60 
 
In any case, on 12 April 2006, MRM notified the Northern Territory Environment Protection Agency (the EPA) of its intention to alter the proposed action under cl 14A of the Administrative Procedures.
It was to do so to address the concerns raised in AR 51.
It is apparent that the alteration was not such that the proposed action became a different action, but rather was directed toward additional information that was required to satisfy the Northern Territory and the Minister as to the impacts of the same action.
The alterations are discussed below.
61 Pursuant to cl 14A, the Territory Minister is required to
 
 ... re-consider the environmental significance of the proposed action and by notice in writing to the proponent ... inform [it] that --- 
 
 ... 
 
 
 
 (b) he has decided that a report or a statement is necessary in respect of the proposed action, 
 
 
 
 
 as appropriate on account of the alteration and the notice shall be complied with and have effect as if a notice under clause 8(2).
(See above, [18].
)
 

62 On this occasion, the Territory Minister decided that the amended proposal would be formally assessed under the Environmental Assessment Act 1982 (NT) by a Public Environment Report (PER).
Guidelines for the preparation of the PER were produced by the EPA on 9 May 2006.
63 The guidelines required the PER to identify and describe the proposed alterations to the plan to convert the mine from underground to open cut operations and the change in environmental significance of the proposal by virtue of the alterations.
It also had to address the findings made in AR 51, by the collection of further appropriate data, the provision of supporting information, the redesign of the proposal, the preparation and demonstration of appropriate management measures, and the proposed monitoring plans to be implemented, as well as the formulation of appropriate contingency plans.
64 As to the diversion of the McArthur River, MRM was required in the PER to provide details of the design measures and proposed management strategies to demonstrate that downstream and upstream impacts to the McArthur River system, and impacts to the diversion channel, are minimised in any altered diversion design taking into account the issues raised in Appendix 1 of AR 51.
MRM was to demonstrate that river morphology upstream and downstream of the realignment could be maintained during mine life and after mine closure; that the aquatic habitat integrity could be maintained both downstream (including estuarine, wetland and coastal areas) and upstream through the life of the mine and after mine closure; and that a functioning aquatic, riparian and riverine system in the diverted river channel is able to be established and sustained within a timeframe that would not cause fragmentation of fauna populations in the medium to long terms.
It specified the need for detailed characterisation of the in-stream and riparian habitats of the existing river channel and detailed biological design specifications proposed for the realigned channel.
65 On 4 July 2006, MRM advised the Commonwealth Minister by letter that a PER had been lodged with the Northern Territory and would be available to the public for 28 days.
A summary of the PER attached to that letter stated that:
 
 Information sought by the Australian Government Department of Environment and Heritage has been covered in previous sections in relation to the river diversions and freshwater sawfish assessment.


66 With regard to the alterations from the previous proposal, the PER stated that '[t]he overall development proposed by MRM has not changed.
' It stated that the design and planning of the proposed action had been completed in greater detail.
It also stated that the 'modifications proposed for the project include design improvements for the diversion channels, additional safeguards for waste management and water quality, an expanded environmental monitoring program, and a delivery model to improve social and economic benefits to the community.
' The Minister's delegate described the controlled action as:
 
 ... [expansion of] the existing McArthur River zinc/lead/silver mining and processing operations, including the diversion of the McArthur River, development of a zinc refinery and weir on the Glyde River, and all associated infrastructure and operations ...
 

The alterations identified above did not materially change the proposal from that which was identified as the controlled action.
67 The PER noted that a survey of freshwater sawfish had been undertaken in May 2006 to provide additional data.
A total of 29 species of freshwater or brackish water fish species were recorded, including the capture of one sawfish at Eight Mile Waterhole.
This occurred in a sampling trip of eight days carried out at the end of the wet season at 16 sites.
A survey report appended to the PER noted that, due to water levels and flow rates being higher than average for that period, there was impeded access to parts of the river.
Sampling sites were therefore selected on the basis of accessibility and flow rate, but included sites above and below the proposed diversion area, tidal and non-tidally affected waters and permanent waterholes.
68 The survey report noted that the capture of a freshwater sawfish at Eight Mile Waterhole supported the theory that juveniles migrate upstream from their estuary birthplace into fresh water habitat during the beginning of the wet season and highlighted the importance of upstream refuge pools.
They migrate back to marine environments to breed and give birth.
Consequently, it would be necessary for those fish to use the proposed diversion channel when travelling up and down the river.
In respect of Djirrinmini Waterhole, the report considered that its shallow depth and limited size suggests that it is unlikely to represent an important refuge for freshwater sawfish throughout the dry season, but that this did not negate its importance as a resting pool for migrating freshwater sawfish and as a dry season refuge for smaller fishes, and it said that:
 
 ... the significance of this pool in terms of offering dry season refuge needs to be confirmed by subsequent sampling during the dry season and throughout the realignment program.


69 The survey report concluded that, as few large permanent waters exist on the McArthur River, waterholes such as Eight Mile, and to a lesser extent Djirrinmini, represent important refuge habitat for fishes during the dry season, and that subsequent dry season sampling would be to confirm the significance of these pools and that of any waters remaining.
70 The key changes to the design of the diversion channels were said to result in channels which will replicate the form and function of the existing river and creek, and to ensure the channels will not be subject to significant erosion or sediment depositions.
It was said that detailed design and planning into the speed of water flow, shape of the diversions, and use of rocks and woody debris to mimic the existing river and creek will ensure there are no detrimental impacts on the McArthur River up stream or down stream of the diversion.
It was then asserted that the rehabilitation of the channels will provide a suitable environment for fish passage and establish a functioning riverine ecosystem.
71 The PER also commented on the relative importance of the population of freshwater sawfish in the McArthur River as compared to other sites in Australia.
It stated:
 
 Results of the ichthyological surveys of northern Australian rivers suggest those that contain permanent deeper waters, attributable to a large catchment area or spring/groundwater feeding etc, and which maintain a comparatively high level of interconnectedness between dry season pools, may contain higher numbers of sawfishes than those systems that have limited permanent waters or disjunct pools (Thorburn et al , 2003).
From a regional perspective, the upper reaches of the McArthur River may be described as marginal habitat for P. microdon in comparison to other Gulf rivers, such as the Roper River.
It is possible that the permanent nature of estuarine waters and complex tidal delta of the lower McArthur River is more likely to hold higher numbers of P. microdon throughout the year than upper freshwater reaches.


72 It then asserted that a key design objective of the diversion was to ensure that the diversion channels did not create a barrier which would restrict or impede the up stream or down stream migration of fish species including freshwater sawfish, reduce the length of the potential migration period or result in the biological segregation of up stream and down stream populations of non-migrating species.
It also noted that the proposed ongoing monitoring of fish distribution, abundance and migration data would provide an indication of the utilisation of the diversion channels and the ability of the channels to function in an ecological sense.
The PER further undertook that, if it was found that particular features of the channels were proving a barrier to fish passage, the design would be reviewed.
73 In respect of proposed monitoring programs for aquatic ecology, riparian birds and migratory birds, the PER stated:
 
 All programs are currently in draft form as detailed information such as sampling size and frequency, sample sites, and data collection/analysis methods cannot be finalised until preliminary field survey trials are undertaken.
Following initial field surveys, the programs will be refined and presented to the Northern Territory Government for comment, after which agreed commitments will be made.


The monitoring proposed in the PER had four key elements: monitoring fish populations in refuge pools and tidal reaches, monitoring fish and macro invertebrate populations in seasonal pool riffle habitats; monitoring for heavy metals in aquatic biota; and monitoring fish passage through the diversion channels.
74 MRM contended that the steps taken in respect of the PER were not taken as part of any assessment process undertaken for the purposes of Pt 8 of the Act.
It says the PER process was a separate assessment process undertaken under, and for the purposes of, the Northern Territory legislation.
The PER thus fulfilled two functions: as a PER for the purposes of the Northern Territory's assessment processes, and as utilised by MRM to provide to the Commonwealth Minister additional information for the purpose of the Minister making his decision under Pt 9 of the Act in the light of its response to the request for information under s 132 of the Act.
75 By letter of 1 September 2006 the Northern Territory Department of the Environment and Heritage provided the DEH with Assessment Report 54 (AR 54).
It was based on the PER.
That letter indicated the Northern Territory had completed its assessment of the relevant impacts of the controlled action.
It said that MRH had incorporated the information requested by the DEH under s 132 in the PER.
It also concluded that the provision of the PER and AR 54 would trigger s 130(5)(b) of the Act, such that the time in which the Commonwealth Minister had to make the decision resumed.
76 AR 54 records that submissions on the PER were received from government agencies and from the public, and that additional information sought by DEH had been included in the PER.
No Supplement to the PER taking into account and responding to any public comments on the PER was prepared.
77 AR 54 states:
 
 In presenting the amended proposal in the Public Environmental Report (PER) the proponent has adopted a similar approach to that taken in the previous Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and Supplement.
That is, rather than taking action to minimise longer term environmental impacts of operations, it proposes to wait to see if impacts occur and then take remedial actions.
This is not best practice risk management as defined by AS/NZS4360: 2004-risk management, nor does it meet the principles underpinning ecologically sustainable development as set out in the intergovernmental agreement on the environment.
(COAG 1992).
It is recognised that taking a precautionary and best practice risk management approach will potentially raise the level of capital investment required to commence operation.
Information contained in the PER as well as discussions with representatives of the company indicated that the proponent places a value on avoiding/deferring such expenditure.


78 After referring to the use of reactive management techniques, the AR 54 states:
 
 The approach adopted by the company requires a heavy reliance on rigorous monitoring, and clear and agreed understanding of trigger points for action (which in turn requires a good understanding of ecological implications of any impacts of the mining operation).
The PER does not demonstrate that this approach is backed up with appropriate levels of knowledge and understanding.


79 AR 54 said that the absence of a baseline study of dispersal of freshwater sawfish in the McArthur River system was a "notable limitation in the material presented" and that a dispersal study could serve as a baseline against which use of the diversion channel could be monitored.
In addition to impacts on the migration of the freshwater sawfish from the river realignment, it considered impacts by water drawdown in Djirrinmini Waterhole, particularly during the late dry season, and the risk of downstream estuarine delta contamination.
As to the 2006 survey, it said:
 
 The 2006 survey does not represent a particularly comprehensive nor substantial baseline for the ongoing assessment of impacts upon freshwater sawfish; and does not provide any detail on dispersal patterns.


80 AR 54 also noted uncertainty about possible risks to significant biodiversity values in the coastal and marine environments around the lower McArthur River, so that the project should include a substantially enhanced monitoring program.
It recorded:
 
 That EIS and PER for this proposed development suggest a number of monitoring programs that may or may not be developed for various aspects of biodiversities.
In most cases, these monitoring programs are indicative only, based on currently very limited (or no) baseline information, have had no assessment of statistical power (the effectiveness with which change can be detected), and no clearly developed linkage with management or regulatory response.


81 Nevertheless, AR 54 includes the observation by the expert engaged by the Northern Territory Environment Protection Authority that the shortcomings in the draft EIS and its Supplement had been meaningfully addressed in the PER.
That is plainly so.
It would be surprising if those shortcomings had not been addressed in a responsive way.
That does not, however, mean that they had been fully addressed and resolved to the satisfaction of the Minister.
Consideration after Provision of Assessment Report 54 
 
82 Before any approval decision can be made, s 131(1) of the Act requires the Commonwealth Minister to 
 
 
 (a) inform any other Minister whom the Environment Minister believes has administrative responsibilities relating to the action of the decision the Environment Minister proposes to make; and
 
 (b) invite the other Minister to give the Environment Minister comments on the proposed decision within 10 business days.

 
 
 

Pursuant to that section, requests for comment were sent to the Commonwealth Minster for Industry, Tourism and Resources and the Commonwealth Minister for Families, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs on 15 September 2006.
83 The letters did not contain information as to the decision which the Commonwealth Minister proposed to make.
They referred to an attached draft decision, but due to an administrative error, a copy of the draft decision was not sent to the Commonwealth Minister for Industry, Tourism and Resources until 19 September 2006.
It is unclear as to whether the Commonwealth Minister for Families, Community Services and Indigenous Affairs ever received a copy of the draft decision.
In any event, no comments were received from either Minister relating to the proposed decision.
It is not suggested that any such shortcomings vitiate the Minister's decision.
84 On 17 October 2006, the NT Minister for Mines and Energy informed the Commonwealth Minister that the proposed controlled action had been approved under the NT Mining approval process.
85 On the same day, the Commonwealth Minister's Department received a Mining Management Plan (the MMP) from MRM.
It was subtitled "Update for period October 2006 to October 2007".
It was to be lodged with the Northern Territory Department of Primary Industries, Fisheries and Mines.
According to the Commonwealth Minister's reasons for decision, the MMP was received as a response to a request under s 132 of the Act.
It is unclear whether the MMP was included in the brief that went to the Commonwealth Minister on 18 October 2006.
Furthermore, it is unclear whether the MMP was provided to the Commonwealth Minister at all before he made his decision.
86 Pursuant to s 133 of the Act, the Commonwealth Minister approved the proposal, subject to certain conditions, on 20 October 2006.
