
 
 Introduction 
 
1 These proceedings were commenced by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) against Nudie Foods Australia Pty Ltd (Nudie) in relation to the packaging and promotion by Nudie of two fruit juice products, namely Rosie Ruby and Rosie Blue.
The company has admitted that its packaging and promotional materials were misleading or deceptive in that they misrepresented the composition of the juices.
Declaratory orders, an injunction, a corrective advertising order and an order for establishment of a compliance program within the company have been agreed to.
For the reasons that follow, I am of the opinion that the proposed orders are within power and appropriate and, subject to some minor variations, will make the orders sought.
Factual background 
 
2 Nudie is a company incorporated in New South Wales in July 2004.
It manufactures and supplies fruit juice to retailers throughout Australia.
3 Commencing from 1 July 2007 Nudie supplied to retailers for sale to consumers a new product range under the brand name "Rosie" comprising two fruit juice products called "Rosie Ruby" and "Rosie Blue".
The company has the right to use the registered trade marks Rosie Ruby and Rosie Blue.
The products were supplied between July 2007 and 30 January 2008 to retailers throughout Australia through national supermarket chains and independently owned shops.
They were promoted by advertising campaigns in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane using signboards on buses and trams, street posters and postcard flyers.
4 During the relevant period the Rosie Ruby product was marketed in a transparent plastic screw top bottle of 1.25 litre capacity, approximately 68 centimetres high, with packaging which included the following characteristics:
 
1.
A wrap-around label with the name "Rosie Ruby" in large and prominent font on the front and rear of the label.
2.
A description of the product on the front and rear of the label as "cranberry cloudy juice".
3.
Adjacent to the description a prominent picture of a cranberry on a white background.
4.
No pictorial representation of any other type of fruit.
5.
The visible contents of the bottle being substantially the same colour as the fruit pictured on the label.
5 The Rosie Blue product came in a transparent plastic screw top bottle of the same dimensions as the Rosie Ruby product.
It bore: 
 
1.
A wrap-around label with the name "Rosie Blue" in large and prominent font on the front and rear of the label.
2.
A description of the product on the label as "cranberry blueberry juice".
3.
Adjacent to the description and below the name was a prominent picture of a cranberry and a blueberry on a white background.
4.
No pictorial representation of any other fruit on the label.
5.
Beneath the picture and at the bottom and rear of the label were the words "no preservatives, additives, added sugar or guilt".
These products were supplied to retailers for sale to consumers between 1 July 2007 and 30 January 2008.
6 The promotion of the two fruit juices involved the use of bus and tram signboards, street posters and postcards as already mentioned.
The Rosie Ruby and Rosie Blue signboards used on buses and trams described Rosie Ruby as "cranberry cloudy juice" and Rosie Blue as "cranberry blueberry juice".
They also bore the statement: 
 NOTHING ADDED, NOTHING GAINED (PHEW) 
in conjunction with a description of the product as "Chilled cranberry juice with no added sugar.
And no guilt.
" These signboards were used between 20 August 2007 and 16 September 2007.
A variant of the signboards used between 3 September 2007 and 16 September 2007 bore the descriptions of Rosie Ruby and Rosie Blue as "cranberry cloudy juice" and "cranberry blueberry juice" and the statement: 
 IT'S WHAT WE DON'T PUT IN THAT YOU DON'T PUT ON 
in conjunction with the use of the words "Chilled cranberry juice with no added sugar.
And no guilt.
"
 
7 The street posters which were used between 3 September 2007 and 16 September 2007 described the products as "cranberry cloudy juice" and "cranberry blueberry juice" respectively and contained the words "NOTHING ADDED NOTHING GAINED (PHEW)" in conjunction with the use of the words "Chilled cranberry juice with no added sugar.
And no guilt.
" The postcard promotional flyers were used between 16 January 2008 and 30 January 2008 and again described the two products as "cranberry cloudy juice" and "cranberry blueberry juice" respectively.
They stated on one side that:
 At rosie we can't help but look at the fun side of life.
With no added sugar or preservatives, you can enjoy the refreshing taste of real cranberries whenever (or however) you like and feel great about it".
This was accompanied by a pictorial representation of the packaging and labelling of Rosie Ruby and Rosie Blue.
On the reverse side of the postcards was a pictorial representation of a single cranberry and blueberry accompanied by the words "Chilled cranberry juice with no added sugar.
And no guilt.
"
 
8 It is an agreed fact between the parties that by reason of the promotion, marketing and sale of these products as described above, Nudie represented to consumers that: 
 
1.
Rosie Ruby consisted solely of cranberry juice; and 
 
2.
Rosie Blue consisted solely of cranberry juice and blueberry juice.
9 Nudie now admits that in respect of those members of the public that purchase fruit juice, the representations were false, misleading and deceptive.
As appears from its specific admissions, both Rosie Ruby and Rosie Blue comprise largely apple juice with significantly lesser proportions of cranberry juice and blueberry juice respectively.
Specifically Nudie admits that: 
 
1. the proportion of apple juice in Rosie Ruby is 80%;
 
2. the proportion of apple juice in Rosie Blue is 78%;
 
3. the proportion of cranberry juice in Rosie Ruby is 20%;
 
4. the proportion of cranberry juice in Rosie Blue is 15%; 
 
5. the proportion of blueberry juice in Rosie Blue is 7%.
Proposed orders 
 
10 The ACCC and Nudie have agreed upon various orders that the Court should make in these proceedings.
These comprise declarations setting out the admitted contraventions of ss 52 , 53 and 55 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
An injunction restraining Nudie from repetition of such conduct for a period of three years, a corrective advertisement and the establishment by Nudie of an education, training and trade practices compliance program.
They also filed an agreed statement of facts upon which the preceding factual background is based.
Whether the orders proposed should be made 
 
11 The ACCC and Nudie filed joint submissions in support of the consent orders.
They referred to the well established proposition that in such cases the Court will not impede settlements between parties legally represented and able to understand and evaluate the desirability of agreeing to a settlement.
The Court will not ordinarily refuse to give effect to terms of settlement by refusing to make orders or accept undertakings where they are within the Court's power to make and are otherwise appropriate.
The Court will generally not substitute its own view of the orders or undertakings which it would have made provided that those which are suggested fall within the range of an appropriate disposition in the case: Australian Competition  Consumer Commission v Real Estate Institute of Western Australia Inc [1999] FCA 18 ; (1999) 161 ALR 79 at [20] .
12 I am satisfied that the Court has power to make the orders which are sought.
I am also satisfied that the orders are appropriate.
The declarations that are proposed are more numerous than would appear necessary and could have been collapsed into one or two declarations.
That, however, is a matter of drafting rather than a matter of substance.
The proposed injunction is expressed with sufficient precision to make it enforceable.
13 Having regard to the misleading promotion, which has been admitted, the corrective advertisement is appropriate.
The compliance program is related to the contraventions which have occurred and is appropriate in the circumstances.
14 Subject to some slight redrafting, which the parties have accepted, of the terms of the orders to express them with greater clarity, I am prepared to make the orders sought.
I certify that the preceding fourteen (14) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice French J.
Acting Associate:

Dated: 19 June 2008

 Counsel for the Applicant: Ms J Lord 
 
 Solicitor for the Applicant: Australian Government Solicitor 
 
 Counsel for the Respondent: Ms K Morgan 
 
 Solicitor for the Respondent: Gilbert Tobin 

 Date of Hearing: 19 June 2008 
 
 Date of Judgment: 19 June 2008 

 

 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2008/943.html 
 
 
