
 
1 The Applicant in these proceedings, E.  J. Gallo Winery ( Gallo Winery ) began operations on 1 December 1933, the day on which Prohibition ended in the United States.
It is incorporated in California in the United States of America and is the second largest wine-producing company in the world.
It distributes its alcoholic beverages in over 90 countries and its international business is managed from offices located around the world, including California, Canada, England, Florida, Germany, Hong Kong, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland and Sweden.
2 By way of a Further Amended Statement of Claim filed on 22 February 2008, the Applicant contends that it is the registered owner under the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) of the word " BAREFOOT ".
That trade mark has been registered with effect from 9 March 1999 in respect of " wines ".
Prior to 17 January 2005, the registered owner of that mark was Mr Michael Houlihan; E  J Gallo Winery became the registered owner after that date.
It contends that it sells wine in Australia under the trade mark BAREFOOT .
That trade mark, it is further contended, has been and is being infringed by the conduct of the Respondent by using as a trade mark the words " BAREFOOT " or " BAREFOOT RADLER " in relation to its new radler beer.
3 Declaratory and injunctive relief is sought together with an account of profits.
4 The Respondent, Lion Nathan Australia Pty Limited ( Lion Nathan ), on 5 September 2007 lodged an Australian trade mark application for the mark " BAREFOOT RADLER " in relation to beers and other goods in class 32.
On 20 September 2007 the Respondent also lodged an application for the mark " LIFE'S BETTER BAREFOOT " and on 17 December 2007 it lodged an application for the mark " BAREFOOT RADLER " with a bare foot design in relation to beers and other goods in class 32, and " alcoholic beverages (except beers) " in class 33.
5 The Respondent, by way of an Amended Cross-Claim filed on 2 April 2008, contends that there has been a non-use by Gallo Winery of the trade mark BAREFOOT in Australia.
The Respondent seeks an order for the removal of the trade mark relied upon by the Applicant pursuant to s 94(2)(b) of the 1995 Act.
Gallo Winery denies that there has been a non-use of the mark and further contends, in the alternative, that if there has been a non-use the Court should exercise the discretion conferred by s 101(3) and not remove the mark from the Register.
THE FACTS: A VERY SUMMARY OVERVIEW 
 
6 In the United States a company, Grape Links Inc , carried on business under the trading name " Barefoot Cellars ".
The principals of that business were Mr Michael Houlihan and Ms Bonnie Harvey.
The business had its headquarters in Santa Rosa, California.
Mr Houlihan was the President and Ms Harvey was the Vice-President.
7 In January 2005 Gallo Winery acquired the share capital of Grape Links Inc and acquired the rights to the BAREFOOT brand.
The brand was perceived to be " an attractive acquisition for Gallo Winery because its carefree, slightly irreverent, California 'surf and sand' lifestyle positioning had significant consumer appeal ".
8 By early 2006 there were discussions between officers of Gallo Winery and McWilliams Wines Pty Ltd ( McWilliams Wines ) for the sale of BAREFOOT wine in Australia.
McWilliams Wines is one of Australia's largest family-owned wine companies.
Samuel McWilliams first planted vines at Cowra in New South Wales in 1877.
Gallo Winery has owned approximately 10% of the shares in McWilliams Wines since September 2004.
9 Difficulties began to emerge, however, in mid-July 2007 when Gallo Winery became aware of an application made by Lion Nathan for the removal of Gallo Winery's BAREFOOT trade mark from the Register.
10 In September 2007 Gallo Winery licensed its Australian BAREFOOT trade mark and associated intellectual property rights to McWilliams Wines .
On 14 September 2007 the first bottles of BAREFOOT wine were placed on the market in Australia by McWilliams Wines .
Twelve thousand 750ml bottles were then released, being cabernet/merlot and semillon/sauvignon blanc.
In December 2007 Gallo Winery commenced to ship from California to McWilliams Wines four different types of BAREFOOT wine.
The first 225 cases of each type were air-freighted.
11 A limited quantity of BAREFOOT wine originating from California had previously been sold by a wholesaler of wine in Melbourne, Beach Avenue Wholesalers Pty Ltd ( Beach Avenue Wholesalers ), from 2004 to 2007.
12 Proceeding in tandem with the activity of Gallo Winery during 2006 to 2007 were the steps being undertaken by Lion Nathan to attract legal-aged drinkers who did not drink beer.
These steps commenced in about August 2006 and involved developing the concept of a beer that was less bitter to the taste than traditional beers.
The concept was developed of adding a lemon flavouring which was intended to be " a suitably refreshing taste for the warmer weather ".
13 That was the concept.
It was then necessary to create a brand name.
14 The term " RADLER" had already been decided upon as part of the branding.
That term is apparently the German word for " cyclist " and describes a traditional Bavarian beer flavoured with a mixture of lemon and lime.
The use of the term to describe a beer has its origins in June 1922 when a Munich publican, Franz Kugler, " started mixing dark beer with lemonade to meet the high demand from large groups of cyclists who wanted a more refreshing drink so they could continue on their journey without falling off their bicycles!
".
15 Other distinctive words in addition to the word " RADLER " were also being considered by Lion Nathan .
It was in February 2007 that the Consumer Insight Manager for that company, Mr Ralph Simpson, came up with the marketing term " BAREFOOT ".
Mr Simpson came up with the idea of using that term from his reading of a " Form Guide" for horse racing where the name of a horse attracted his attention, namely " Barefootonbondi ".
He thought that it was an " interesting name " as it " conjured up a positive mental image and feeling of relaxation, summer and the beach ".
16 Checks made of registered trade marks in February 2007 revealed the trade mark BAREFOOT in relation to wine.
That did not cause Mr Simpson any concern as beer was his principal focus of attention.
Prior to February 2007, Mr Simpson had never heard of a BAREFOOT branded wine in Australia or heard of Barefoot Cellars or E.  J. Gallo Winery.
17 In January 2008 the beer BAREFOOT RADLER was launched on the Australian market.
It was launched across all States and Territories.
INFRINGEMENT: SECTION 120?

 
18 Gallo Winery contends that the Respondent has infringed its trade mark and will continue to do so unless restrained.
19 A " trade mark " is defined by s 17 of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) as being:
 ... a sign used, or intended to be used, to distinguish goods or services dealt with or provided in the course of trade by a person from goods or services so dealt with or provided by any other person.
The function of a trade mark, it has repeatedly been said, is "to give an indication to the purchaser or possible purchaser as to the manufacture or quality of the goods -- to give an indication to his eye of the trade source from which the goods come, or the trade hands through which they pass on their way to the market": In re Powell's Trade Mark [1893] 2 Ch 388 at 403---4 per Bowen LJ.
Use "as a trade mark" in s 120(1) is use of the mark as a "badge of origin" in the sense that it indicates a connection in the course of trade between goods and the person who applies the mark to the goods: Coca Cola Co v All-Fect Distributors Ltd [1999] FCA 1721 at [19] , [1999] FCA 1721 ; 96 FCR 107 at 115 per Black CJ, Sundberg and Finkelstein JJ; Global Brand Marketing Inc v YD Pty Ltd [2008] FCA 605 at [45] per Sundberg J.
See also: Shell Co of Australia Ltd v Esso Standard Oil (Australia) Ltd (1964) 109 CLR 407 at 424---5 per Kitto J; Rothnie W, Gray Goods Billow onto the Open Main: Section 123 of the Trade Marks Act 1995 (1996) 7 AIPJ 87 at 89---90.
20 One of the principal matters in issue in these proceedings is whether there has been a breach, or a threatened breach, within the meaning of s 120(2) of the 1995 Act by Lion Nathan .
21 Section 120(2) provides as follows:
 When is a registered trade mark infringed?
... A person infringes a registered trade mark if the person uses as a trade mark a sign that is substantially identical with, or deceptively similar to, the trade mark in relation to: (a) goods of the same description as that of goods (registered goods) in respect of which the trade mark is registered; or (b) services that are closely related to registered goods; or (c) services of the same description as that of services (registered services) in respect of which the trade mark is registered; or (d) goods that are closely related to registered services.
However, the person is not taken to have infringed the trade mark if the person establishes that using the sign as the person did is not likely to deceive or cause confusion.
22 In addition to contending that the Gallo Winery trade mark should be removed for non-use, the Respondent further maintains (at least in its written submissions) that the " sign " that it uses in marketing its beer is the words " BAREFOOT RADLER " and the image of a bare foot; denies that the sign BAREFOORT RADLER is " substantially identical or deceptively similar to " Gallo Winery's BAREFOOT trade mark; denies that the goods in relation to which the sign is used are " goods of the same description as wines " and contends that its use is " not likely to deceive or cause confusion ".
23 The resolution of these competing submissions involves a resolution of the following questions, namely:
 
(i) what is the " sign " being used as a trade mark by Lion Nathan ?
(ii) is the " sign " being used by Lion Nathan " substantially identical with " the trade mark of Gallo Winery ?
(iii) is the " sign " being used by Lion Nathan " deceptively similar to " the trade mark of Gallo Winery ?
(iv) are the radler beers of Lion Nathan " goods of the same description " as the BAREFOOT wine of Gallo Winery ?
(v) is the manner in which Lion Nathan uses its sign " not likely to deceive or cause confusion "?
(vi) has there been a " non-use " of the BAREFOOT trade mark during the period from 7 May 2004 to 8 May 2007?
The resolution of this question, as it was advanced in submissions, separately involves a consideration as to:
 
(a) whether there were sales of the BAREFOOT wine during the non-use period; 
 
(b) whether the wine was offered for sale during the non-use period;
 
(c) if the wine was sold or offered for sale during the non-use period, whether there was a use of the trade mark by Barefoot Cellars as an authorised user;
 
(d) if the wine was sold or offered for sale during the non-use period, whether there was a use of the trade mark by Beach Avenue Wholesalers as an authorised user;
 
(e) whether the negotiations as between Gallo Winery and McWilliams Wines during the non-use period constituted a use of the trade mark;
 
(f) whether there was an " obstacle " to the use of the Gallo Winery trade mark; 
 
(g) even if there was a use, which mark was in fact being used; and 
 
(h) whether any use was a use " in good faith ".
(vii) if there has been a " non-use " of the trade mark by Gallo Winery , should the discretion conferred by s 101(3) of the 1995 Act be exercised so as to allow its trade mark to remain on the Register?
Depending upon the manner in which one or other of these questions may be answered, other questions may not necessarily have to be answered.
With the concurrence of the parties, however, the course has been taken of answering each of these questions should the matter proceed further.
THE " SIGN " AS USED BY LION NATHAN ?

 
24 Section 120(2) dictates that Lion Nathan infringes the trade mark of Gallo Winery if Lion Nathan " uses as a trade mark a sign that is substantially identical with, or deceptively similar to " the trade mark of Gallo Winery .
The term " sign " is itself broadly defined by s 6 as including:
 ... the following or any combination of the following, namely, any letter, word, name, signature, numeral, device, brand, heading, label, ticket, aspect of packaging, shape, colour, sound or scent.
25 The trade mark of Gallo Winery is the word " BAREFOOT ".
26 In the present proceedings there is a dispute at the outset as to the ability of Lion Nathan to rely upon any sign other than the word " BAREFOOT " or the combination of words " BAREFOOT RADLER ".
The dispute centres upon whether the Amended Defence so confines Lion Nathan or whether Lion Nathan is otherwise free to contend that its sign also incorporates the image of a bare foot.
27 Gallo Winery contends that that sign is the simple use of the word " BAREFOOT " or, in the alternative, that the sign is " BAREFOOT RADLER ".
Gallo Winery contends that that is the way in which the proceedings have been pleaded and the basis upon which the proceedings have been conducted -- at least for its part.
28 In support of that contention, Gallo Winery relies upon the allegations in its Further Amended Statement of Claim that Lion Nathan intends to offer for sale alcoholic beverages " under the name BAREFOOT " and is offering for sale its " radler beer under the name BAREFOOT ".
In response, Lion Nathan in its Amended Defence says that it " intends to offer for sale and sell an alcoholic product (not wine) under the trade mark BAREFOOT RADLER " and says that it " commenced to promote, advertise, offer for sale and sell in Australia a beer under the name BAREFOOT RADLER ".
It also denies that its beer is called " BAREFOOT ".
29 Significantly, contends Gallo Winery , there is nowhere stated in the Amended Defence a contention that the sign being used by Lion Nathan is a combination of the words " BAREFOOT RADLER " and the image of a bare foot.
Indeed, Gallo Winery contends with some force that the Amended Defence identifies the sign being used as that of the combination of words alone.
30 Albeit only during the course of closing submissions by Lion Nathan , Gallo Winery supplemented its earlier contentions by placing reliance upon O 11, r 10 of the Federal Court Rules .
That rule requires a matter to be specifically pleaded if it " might take the other party by surprise ": Dyno Wesfarmers Ltd v Orica Australia Pty Ltd [1999] FCA 554 , 46 IPR 386 ; Delta Metallics v Hawley-Jacobs t/as Fightboi Health  Fitness Centre [2006] FCA 334 at [8] per Kenny J.
31 Lion Nathan contends that as a matter of fact, the " sign " which it is using for the purposes of s 120 is a combination of the words and the image -- and further contends that such a finding of fact is not to be denied by the pleadings.
Its position is that:
 
(i) its Amended Defence is simply a response to the allegations being made against it and there was no obligation or requirement placed upon it to positively set forth what was the " sign " in fact being used by it for the purposes of s 120; and 
 
(ii) any unfairness to the Applicant is removed by reason of its written Outline of Opening Submissions , available at the outset of the hearing, which stated that:
 [46] The Court should find that the trade mark used by the Respondent to distinguish the Respondent's beer from other beers on the market comprises the words BAREFOOT RADLER and an image of a bare foot.
... 
32 Notwithstanding paragraph [46] of its Outline of Opening Submissions , it is considered that the Amended Defence confines Lion Nathan to the position that the " sign " upon which it places reliance for the purposes of defending the current proceedings is the combination alone of the words " BAREFOOT RADLER ".
Albeit in response to the allegation in the Further Amended Statement of Claim that it has infringed Gallo Winery's BAREFOOT trade mark, the Amended Defence states in part that it " denies that the sign to be used by the Respondent, BAREFOOT RADLER, is substantially identical or deceptively similar to the Applicant's BAREFOOT Trade Mark ".
This can only be construed as conveying to the Applicant at least two things: (i) the position that the Respondent denies that the sign to be used is substantially identical with or deceptively similar to the Applicant's sign; and (ii) the sign " to be used " by the Respondent, and to be relied upon in resisting the Applicant's claim, is the sign it then identifies, namely " BAREFOOT RADLER ".
33 Had the Amended Defence simply denied the infringement being alleged, Lion Nathan may well have been able to advance submissions that the sign to be used was a combination of the words and the image.
But the fact is that the Amended Defence goes on to expressly identify the sign which it says is not substantially identical with or deceptively similar to that being relied upon by Gallo Winery , and it identifies that sign as being " BAREFOOT RADLER ".
At the very least, that express statement in the Amended Defence is productive of such uncertainty that it was thereafter incumbent upon Lion Nathan to identify in its Amended Defence the sign upon which reliance was to be placed -- if that sign was to be anything other than the combination of words.
Without that further express clarification, a contention that the " sign " is the words and the image would be a contention that would " take the other party by surprise " within the meaning of O 11, r 10.
34 The function of pleadings is to state with sufficient clarity the case to be met: Banque Commerciale SA en liquidation v Akhil Holdings Ltd [1990] HCA 11 ; (1990) 169 CLR 279 at 286---7 per Mason CJ and Gaudron J.
And written submissions can be no substitute for a properly pleaded case.
35 It is thus considered that Lion Nathan is confined by its pleadings to placing reliance upon the combination of words alone.
Its Amended Defence , it is considered, does not state with sufficient clarity the defence that it was raising in respect to the claims of Gallo Winery ; indeed, as pleaded, it was only likely to have misled Gallo Winery .
No application was made by Lion Nathan to amend its pleadings.
Had such an application been made, it most probably would have been granted.
Such limited cross-examination as there had been by Senior Counsel for Gallo Winery was not such as to have given rise to any irremediable prejudice that could not have been accommodated by recalling witnesses.
36 But for its pleadings, there was otherwise no reason not to conclude that the " sign " Lion Nathan was in fact the following, incorporating both a combination of the words and the image:
 
 
 
 Such is what appears on the cardboard packaging for its " six pack "; such is what appears on the individual bottles of beer and in its advertisements for its beer.
And each of the elements of that " sign " has a degree of prominence.
Prominence is attracted to the image of the bare foot and the word " BAREFOOT " by reason of their being printed in white; prominence is also equally attracted to the word " RADLER " by reason of it being printed in green.
The words and the image of the bare foot are given additional prominence by all being set against a blue background encircled by a roughly drawn white circumference.
The word " BAREFOOT " is also given additional prominence by that word dissecting the image of the bare foot.
37 Given the constraint imposed by the pleadings, however, there is similarly no reason not to conclude that the " sign " being used by Lion Nathan is the combination of the words " BAREFOOT RADLER " alone.
This was the sign identified in the Amended Defence.
Even without the image of the bare foot, the prominence and distinctiveness of those words remains sufficiently discrete as to be the " sign " used.
38 What is the " sign " being used by Lion Nathan , it is accepted by both parties, is a question of fact.
SUBSTANTIALLY IDENTICAL?

 
39 The second of the questions posed requires resolution of whether the " sign " being used by Lion Nathan is " substantially identical with " the trade mark of Gallo Winery.

 
40 There is no dispute between the parties as to the meaning of the phrase " substantially identical " as used in s 120(1) -- the dispute is as to the manner in which that phrase is to be applied to the facts.
41 There is no definition in the 1995 Act of the phrase " substantially identical ".
42 The meaning of that phrase is to be determined by its ordinary or usual meaning, namely that which is in substance the same or essentially the same: Registrar of Trade Marks v Woolworths Ltd [1999] FCA 1020 at [70] , [1999] FCA 1020 ; 93 FCR 365 at 387 per Branson J.
43 And whether marks are " substantially identical " requires a side by side comparison and depends on the Court's own judgment: Shell Co of Australia Ltd v Esso Standard Oil (Australia) Ltd (1963) 109 CLR 407 at 414.
Windeyer J there observed:
 In considering whether marks are substantially identical they should, I think, be compared side by side, their similarities and differences noted and the importance of these assessed having regard to the essential features of the registered mark and the total impression of resemblance or dissimilarity that emerges from the comparison.
"The identification of an essential feature depends", it has been said, "partly on the Court's own judgment and partly on the burden of the evidence that is placed before it": de Cordova v. Vick Chemical Co. [(1951) 68 RPC 103 at] [2], at p. 106.
Whether there is substantial identity is a question of fact...
In order to determine whether marks are " substantially identical ", they should thus be compared side by side with their similarities and differences noted: Coca-Cola Co v All-Fect Distributors Ltd [1999] FCA 1721 at [38] , [1999] FCA 1721 ; 96 FCR 107 at 121.
Black CJ, Sundberg and Finkelstein JJ there observed that the similarities and differences should be noted and the importance of these similarities and differences assessed having regard to the essential features of the registered mark and the total impression of resemblance or dissimilarity that emerges from the comparison.

 
44 A " side by side " comparison of the trade mark of Gallo Winery and the " sign " as used by Lion Nathan -- as confined by its pleadings -- discloses, it is considered, no substantial identity .
The two marks are certainly not " identical ".
The two marks have in common the word " BAREFOOT ".
But the " sign " as used by Lion Nathan also employs the additional word " RADLER ".
The question is thus whether there is a substantial identity.
Section 120(2), it will be noted, does not require that the two marks be " identical "; s 120(2) is infringed if the mark of Lion Nathan is " substantially identical with " that of Gallo Winery .
45 In reaching the conclusion that the marks are not substantially identical, it has been recognised that the word " BAREFOOT " is both an ordinary English word and a word which has been used in a variety of contexts advertising many different types of goods.
An internet search undertaken by a law graduate employed by the solicitors for Lion Nathan (Mr Campbell) disclosed the word " BAREFOOT " being used in the promotion of a beach-side resort; a water-skiing club; a sailing cruise; a coffee roaster; weddings; horse saddles; furniture; and vacations.
Other instances were also exposed.
Not surprisingly, many of these products had some association with the beach or water.
46 It is a word, however, common to both marks and a word which is strongly associated with a carefree lifestyle.
47 But it is the addition of the word " RADLER " which denies any substantial identity as between the trade mark of Gallo Winery and the " sign " as used by Lion Nathan .
Rejected is a submission advanced by Gallo Winery that the word " RADLER " is but a description of a particular type of beer and that it is the word " BAREFOOT " alone which distinguishes its beer from that of others.
It is the combination of the words which distinguishes the Lion Nathan beer -- an essential and prominent feature of the sign as used by Lion Nathan is thus not only the word " BAREFOOT" but also the word " RADLER ".
Lion Nathan's use of the word " RADLER " is an important and integral part of the sign it uses and is an obvious source of distinction.
48 Of limited assistance in confirming such a conclusion is the following exchange between the Deputy Chairman of McWilliams Wines (Mr Kevin McLintock) and his cross-examiner:
 But your reaction at the time when you saw the product was that the name of the product was Barefoot Radler capital B, capital R, wasn't it?
--- Correct.
... ... because you think that the name of this product is Barefoot Radler don't you?
--- Yes.
49 Had Lion Nathan not been confined by its pleadings and had it been free to also include as part of its sign the image of the bare foot, any finding of fact that there was substantial identity would have been more easily denied.
The differences would be such that -- and the total impression would be such that -- any similarity as would have been occasioned by the word " BAREFOOT " alone would be of little significance.
The similarity, of course, would remain the single word " BAREFOOT ".
But the differences would be even more significant if the prominent image of the bare foot were able to be included.
DECEPTIVELY SIMILAR?

 
50 Section 120(1) is expressed in the alternative and requires a consideration of whether the " sign " being used by Lion Nathan is " substantially identical with, or deceptively similar to " the trade mark of Gallo Winery .
51 Again, there is no dispute between the parties as to the meaning to be given to the phrase " deceptively similar " -- the dispute is as to the manner in which that phrase is to be applied to the facts.
52 A trade mark is taken to be " deceptively similar to " another trade mark if it so nearly resembles that other trade mark that it is likely to deceive or cause confusion: s 10.
53 Whether a mark is " deceptively similar " is not to be determined by a side by side comparison, but rather by reference to whether there is a likelihood of deception or confusion from a recollection or impression of the registered mark: Anheuser-Busch Inc v Budejovick[yacute] Budvar [2002] FCA 390 at [143] , [2002] FCA 390 ; 56 IPR 182 at 216.
Allsop J there observed:
 [143] The question of deceptive similarity must be judged by a comparison different from the side by side comparison undertaken to assess substantial identity; the question being the likelihood of deception or confusion from a recollection or impression of the registered mark.
Thus, a side by side comparison is inadequate, and too narrow a test.
The comparison is between, on the one hand, the impression based on recollection of the registered mark used in a normal or fair manner that persons of ordinary intelligence and memory would have, and, on the other hand, the impressions that such persons would get from the impugned mark as it appears in the use complained of... 
54 It is necessary to make an attempt to estimate the effect or impression produced on the mind of persons of ordinary intelligence and memory.
It is the impression or recollection which is carried away and retained that is necessarily the basis of any mistaken belief that the challenged mark is the same: Australian Woollen Mills Ltd v F S Walton  Co Ltd [1937] HCA 51 ; (1937) 58 CLR 641 at 658 per Dixon and McTiernan JJ.
See also: Global Brand Marketing Inc v YD Pty Ltd [2008] FCA 605 at [84] ---[89] per Sundberg J.
The " recollection " may be imperfect: Crazy Ron's Communications Pty Ltd v Mobileworld Communications Pty Ltd [2004] FCAFC 196 at [87] , [2004] FCAFC 196 ; 209 ALR 1 at 21 per Moore, Sackville and Emmett JJ.
55 Whether a mark is likely to deceive or cause confusion is, in the end, a question of impression and common sense: Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd v NSW Dairy Corporation [1990] FCA 32 ; (1990) 24 FCR 370 at 377 per Lockhart, Pincus and von Doussa JJ.
(On appeal, see: NSW Dairy Corporation v Murray Goulburn Co-operative Co Ltd [1990] HCA 60 ; (1990) 171 CLR 363).
56 The comparison, it should be noted, is different to that undertaken in a passing off action where the plaintiff points to the goodwill built up around a mark by reason of prior use and then points to the conduct of the defendant as leading to deception, or perhaps merely confusion, and the consequent damage to that goodwill of the plaintiff: Wingate Marketing Pty Ltd v Levi Strauss  Co (1994) 49 FCR 89 at 128---9 per Gummow J.
Essentially what is required when considering whether a mark is deceptively similar to another is a comparison between the mark of the registered owner and that of the alleged infringer: C A Henschke  Co v Rosemount Estates Pty Ltd [2000] FCA 1539 at [44] , [2000] FCA 1539 ; 52 IPR 42 at 62.
Ryan, Branson and Lehane JJ there considered that it was not appropriate to undertake a wider inquiry of the kind undertaken in a passing off action or in a proceeding in which a contravention of Part V of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) is alleged.
57 The impression based on a recollection of the " sign " as used by Lion Nathan and a recollection of Gallo Winery's trade mark, it is considered, would lead to a likelihood of deception or confusion.
58 It is considered that the impression which would be left on the mind of a person of ordinary intelligence would be that there was a deceptive similarity as between the mark used by Gallo Winery and that used by Lion Nathan and as pleaded in its Amended Defence .
The similarity is such that persons would wonder whether the products came from the same source; an actual probability of deception need not be established: Southern Cross Refrigerating Co v Toowoomba Foundry Pty Ltd (1954) 91 CLR 592.
Kitto J was there dealing with an application for registration of a trade mark and the statutory phrase " likely to deceive " and observed (at 595): 
 ...
It is not necessary, in order to find that a trade mark offends against the section, to prove that there is an actual probability of deception leading to a passing-off.
While a mere possibility of confusion is not enough--for there must be a real, tangible danger of its occurring ... --it is sufficient if the result of the user of the mark will be that a number of persons will be caused to wonder whether it might not be the case that the two products come from the same source.
It is enough if the ordinary person entertains a reasonable doubt.
... 
No intention to deceive or cause confusion is required and there is no element of culpability to be inferred from the word " deceive ": Coca Cola Co v All-Fect Distributors Ltd [1999] FCA 1721 at [39] , [1999] FCA 1721 ; 96 FCR 107 at 122 per Black CJ, Sundberg and Finkelstein JJ.
59 In reaching this conclusion considerable assistance has been gained from the decision of Burchett J in Polo Textile Industries Pty Ltd v Domestic Textile Corporation Pty Ltd [1993] FCA 203 ; (1993) 42 FCR 227.
Polo Textile was there the registered proprietor of the mark " Polo " in respect of manchester, including sheets and towels.
It was concluded that Domestic Textile did not avoid infringing that mark by selling bed linen products using the mark " Polo Club ".
Burchett J concluded that it was of importance that the distinctive impact of the word " Polo " was likely to affect the mind while the presence or absence of the blander word " Club " may escape notice.
See also: de Cordova v Vick Chemical Co (1951) 68 RPC 103.
60 In the present proceedings, the strong impression left on the mind of persons of ordinary intelligence by the use of the word " BAREFOOT " would not relevantly be affected by Lion Nathan's use of the word " RADLER " as well.
The addition of that word is sufficient to preclude a finding that the two marks are " substantially identical "; but the addition of that word is not sufficient, it is considered, to preclude their being " deceptively similar ".
61 A distinction may be drawn as between the present case and that in Polo Textile -- but that distinction does not lead to any different conclusion.
Unlike the use of a bland word such as " Club " -- as in the Polo Textile decision -- the word " RADLER " adds an additional and important distinguishing feature to the product.
The word " RADLER " is not an ordinary English word and its use, it is considered, adds an element of both distinction and curiosity, such that persons will query what that particular word means.
62 The word " RADLER " is not a word having any meaning found in either the Macquarie or Shorter Oxford Dictionaries.
It is a German word and, not being a word of everyday usage in the English language, its use would unquestionably leave an impression on the mind of a person.
The word " RADLER ", it is considered, would leave an impression on the mind of a person who knew what the word meant and would leave an even firmer impression upon the mind of a person who had no such knowledge.
And it is a word given prominence in the Lion Nathan sign.
But those factors either alone or in combination would not be such as to remove the likelihood of deception or confusion.
Contrast: Crazy Ron's Communications Pty Ltd v Mobileworld Communications Pty Ltd [2004] FCAFC 196 , 209 ALR 1.
63 An essential feature common to both the mark of Gallo Winery and the sign as pleaded by Lion Nathan remains the word " BAREFOOT " which, it is considered, would leave a considerable impression on the mind of a consumer of ordinary intelligence.
Notwithstanding the distinctiveness which the word " RADLER " brings to the sign of Lion Nathan , it would not be sufficient to remove the likelihood of deception otherwise arising.
64 Again, it should be noted, any deceptive similarity with the Gallo Winery mark would not have arisen had Lion Nathan been free to rely upon the combination of words and the image of the bare foot.
GOODS OF THE SAME DESCRIPTION?

 
65 Section 120(2)(a) of the 1995 Act provides that it is an infringement if a person uses as a trade mark a sign that is substantially identical with, or deceptively similar to, the trade mark " in relation to goods of the same description ".
66 Again there is no dispute between the parties as to the meaning of the phrase " goods of the same description ".
67 It is again accepted that it is a question of fact and impression whether goods are " of the same description ": Rowntree plc v Rollbits Pty Ltd (1988) 10 IPR 539 at 545 per Needham J.
68 In resolving this question, the fact that goods serve different purposes is not conclusive; nor is any one particular consideration conclusive.
Assistance, however, has been provided as to those matters which may be taken into account: Southern Cross Refrigerating Co v Toowoomba Foundry Pty Ltd (1954) 91 CLR 592.
Dixon CJ, McTiernan, Webb, Fullagar and Taylor JJ there, at 606---7, gave content to the task to be undertaken as follows:
 The fact that examination of the nature of the applicant's goods may, by itself, induce an observer to conclude that they are different in character from those of an opponent, and designed to serve different purposes, is by no means conclusive.
Nor is the fact that the applicant's goods are not specified by the regulations as being within the same class of goods...
There may be many matters to be considered apart from the inherent character of the goods in respect of which the application is made and some indication of what matters are relevant to this inquiry was given by Romer J. in In re Jellinek's Application [(1946) 63 RPC 59].
Romer J. thought it necessary to look beyond the nature of the goods in question and to compare not only their respective uses but also to examine the trade channels through which the commodities in question were bought and sold.
Shortly after the decision in Jellinek's Case the Assistant-Comptroller elaborated on the observations of Romer J. in the following manner: "In arriving at a decision upon this issue the reported cases show that I have to take account of a number of factors, including in particular the nature and characteristics of the goods, their origin, their purpose, whether they are usually produced by one and the same manufacturer or distributed by the same wholesale houses, whether they are sold in the same shops over the same counters during the same seasons and to the same class or classes of customers, and whether by those engaged in their manufacture and distribution they are regarded as belonging to the same trade.
In the case of Jellinek's Application [(1946) 63 RPC 59] , Romer J. classified these various factors under three heads, viz., the nature of the goods, the uses thereof, and the trade channels through which they are bought and sold.
No single consideration is conclusive in itself, and it has further been emphasized that the classifications contained in the schedules to the Trade Marks Rules are not a decisive criterion as to whether or not two sets of goods are 'of the same description'": In re an Application by John Crowther  Sons (Milnsbridge) Ltd. [(1948) 65 RPC 369 at 372].
Much the same considerations are evident in the observation of Dixon J.
(as he then was) in Reckitt  Colman (Australia) Ltd. v. Boden [1945] HCA 12 ; [(1945) 70 CLR 84 at 94] when he said: "What forms the same description of goods must be discovered from a consideration of the course of trade or business.
One factor is the use to which the two sets of goods are put.
Another is whether they are commonly dealt with in the same course of trade or business.
In the present case, the goods are quite different, their uses are widely separated and they are not commonly sold in the same kinds of shops or departments".
69 In McCormick  Co Inc v McCormick [2000] FCA 1335 , 51 IPR 102 , Kenny J also identified some of the factors to be taken into account when determining whether goods were of the same description.
Her Honour there observed:
 [18] The authorities establish that there are three principal factors to be considered in this regard.
They are: (1) the nature of the goods, including their origin and characteristics; (2) the uses made of them, including their purpose; and (3) the trade channels through which the goods are bought and sold.
70 The Applicant accepts that other cases which have resolved whether the goods there in issue were " goods of the same description " are not determinative.
But it does contend that some guidance may be gleaned from decisions which have held or suggested that the following are " goods of the same description ": namely, " rum and a rum cocktail or a Daiquiri " (" Daiquiri Rum " Trade Mark [1969] RPC 600 at 609 per Lord Reid, at 613 per Lord Morris, at 615 per Lord Pearce); wines and spirits ( In re Australian Wine Importers' Trade Mark (1889) 6 RPC 311) ; and beer and rum ( In re Turney and Sons' Trade Mark (1893) 11 RPC 37 at 44---5).
Of these decisions, it is of significance to note that in the Australian Wine Importers case the Court of Appeal dismissed an appeal from a decision of Kay J.
Cotton LJ held at 316:
 ... Well, it is not confined to the same goods, but it is "the same goods or description of goods ;" and if it were necessary to decide it absolutely on that point, my opinion would be that there was an application for registration with respect to the same description of goods ; because although wine and whiskey, and wine and spirits are in a great many ways considered as different goods, yet we are not considering here how chemists would describe them, but whether manufacturers would describe them as being the same description of goods or not.
We find that they are goods which are generally sold by the same persons, and for the purposes of trade may, in some respects, be considered as the same description of goods; for they are both alcoholic, and although there may be differences in them, they may fairly be considered as coming within the same description of goods, though they are not the same goods.
... 
Lindley LJ similarly concluded at 318---19:
 Of course one has to look at the trade.
One must look at it from a business point of view.
They are alcoholic and spirituous.
They are sold in this country constantly by the same people.
Wine and spirit dealers are common enough in this country, and I am not sure that they are not the same description of goods ; but whether they are or not, it seems to me that they are so uncommonly near the line that we ought not to depart from the view taken by Mr. Justice Kay, and say to the Comptroller, "You must register in favour of these wine merchants a mark which is already on the Register in favour of a spirit merchant who is also a wine merchant.
" It appears to me that Mr. Justice Kay has taken the right view of the case, and that we ought not to interfere with his Order.
These observations disclose, at the very least, that questions of fine judgment may be involved.
71 Overall, the matter is to be determined from a business point of view: San Remo Macaroni Co Pty Ltd v San Remo Gourmet Coffee Pty Ltd [2000] FCA 1842 at [35] , 50 IPR 321 at 330 per Goldberg J.
72 The fact that both types of goods may be consumed does not, of itself, make them goods of the same description: Re J Lyons  Co Ltd's Application [1959] RPC 120 at 127---8 per Lord Evershed MR (Romer and Ormerod LJJ agreeing).
(Applied: San Remo Macaroni [2000] FCA 1842 at [35] ---[36], 50 IPR 321 at 330 per Goldberg J).
73 It is not considered, however, that the Lion Nathan radler beers are " goods of the same description " as wine.
74 It may be accepted that a number of considerations support a contrary conclusion.
Thus, for example:
 
(i) both the BAREFOOT RADLER beer and the Gallo Winery wine, obviously enough, are types of alcoholic beverage.
And they are generally distributed by the same major wholesale distributors such as Australian Liquor Marketers, Independent Liquor Group and National Independent Liquor Wholesalers Association;
 
(ii) to a considerable extent, the BAREFOOT RADLER beer was intended to appeal to what Lion Nathan regarded as both its " core " beer drinkers and to " marginal beer drinkers " and was intended to be an appealing alternative to wine.
Indeed, when developing its new beer product, Lion Nathan deliberately set out to attract people who did not drink beer.
To many people, it was recognised, beer had a " bitter taste " and it was to overcome this " hurdle " that the lemon flavouring was added.
Later in the development of the product, lime was also added.
The product developed by Lion Nathan was developed with the deliberate objective of enticing consumers who previously drank wine but not beer.
Extracts from Lion Nathan's website set forth photographs of the BAREFOOT RADLER beer and sought to promote that beer by stating:
 
 
 ... And if beer has never been your first choice of beverage, chances are you'll be pleasantly surprised by Barefoot Radler's smooth, refreshing taste.

 

A " Business Plan " dated November 2007 provided as follows a " RECAP " in its " Executive summary ":
 
 
 RECAP: Barefoot Radler is a 'phenomenally' refreshing beer infused with lemon and lime.
Inspired by the German 'Radler' tradition but adapted for the Australian climate, the brand is designed to appeal to bring marginal beer drinkers more into the beer category.

 

In developing the " Business Plan " it was recognised that " the types of alcohol with the greatest increases in consumer spending are the lighter, less bitter, easier drinking styles --- such as Vodka and Sauvignon Blanc ".
The way in which the " Business Plan " developed was to recognise that there was a " significant --- and as yet untargeted --- group of consumers ".
This " marginal group " was estimated as comprising approximately 2.5 million drinkers.
The " Business Plan " continued:
 
 
 In terms of the source of volume for this product, research has indicated that this will be drawn from both beer and non beer products.
Approximately 2/3 of the projected volume will be sourced from beer, with 22% from wine and 14% from spirits/RTDs.

 

A " media strategy " developed for 2007/2008 also expressly recognised that the radler beer was also competing with other alcoholic beverages, including wine.
In addressing the " Competitive context --- who are we competing with on premise?
