
 
 Introduction 

 
1 The appellant is a citizen of the People's Republic of China ("the PRC") who seeks refugee status in Australia.
He claims to have a well-founded fear of persecution on Convention grounds by reason of events which commenced in 1992 when his farmland was confiscated by a local government authority for the benefit of developers.
2 The Refugee Review Tribunal ("the Tribunal") found that the appellant was offered inadequate compensation for his land and that, as a result, he had participated in a protest demonstration with a group of 400 farmers from his region.
The Tribunal accepted that the appellant's:
 
 10 day detention and mistreatment following the demonstration was serious enough to amount to persecution for the reason of a political opinion imputed to him.


3 Nevertheless, the Tribunal was satisfied that the appellant's fear of persecution in China is not well-founded.
4 On 4 July 2007, Scarlett FM dismissed the appellant's application for judicial review of the Tribunal's decision.
His Honour found no jurisdictional error on the part of the Tribunal.
5 The appellant appeals from the decision of the Federal Magistrate.
The appellant seeks to raise five grounds of appeal that were not agitated before Scarlett FM.
Each of the proposed grounds relies upon a contention of jurisdictional error by the Tribunal.
The Tribunal's decision 
 
6 The Tribunal was not satisfied that the appellant suffered serious harm, including serious economic harm, as a consequence of the confiscation of his land.
This was because, after the confiscation of his land in the Fuqing Economic Zone, he continued to farm on other land owned by him.
7 The Tribunal also found that the act of confiscation was not carried out for a Convention reason.
Rather, the confiscation:
 
 was an opportunistic, if not criminal, act by the local government and the developers.

 

8 The Tribunal referred to country information reports about unrest and conflict in China over land issues, particularly over compensation for land expropriated by local governments on behalf of developers.
The Tribunal considered that these reports suggested that expropriation and the conflicts over these issues were commonplace, as was "the police's quick and violent reaction".
It therefore accepted that the appellant was detained and mistreated as a result of his participation in the demonstrations.
9 However, the Tribunal's decision discloses five reasons why it was not satisfied that the appellant's fear of persecution was well-founded.
10 First, it rejected a claim made by the appellant that his house was demolished and his belongings confiscated.
11 Second, the appellant was released from detention in 2003 without charge and did not claim to have experienced adverse attention in the remaining eighteen months before his departure for Australia.
12 Third, the appellant did not claim to have participated in any protest action after his release from detention and did not claim to have avoided those activities because he feared harm.
13 Fourth, the Tribunal considered that the appellant's failure to make these claims suggested that he did not have any ongoing interest in pursuing the compensation claim.
14 Fifth, the Tribunal was not satisfied that the appellant's risk of being investigated was exacerbated as a consequence of a fresh appeal in relation to his compensation lodged by his relatives in China.
This was because the appellant did not claim that any of his relatives had been arrested, or had experienced harm, for lodging the appeal.
15 Accordingly, the Tribunal affirmed the decision of a delegate of the Minister, dated 23 February 2005, refusing to grant the appellant a protection visa.
Excerpts of transcript of hearing in the Tribunal 
 
16 Counsel for the Minister relies upon two excerpts of the transcript of the hearing in the Tribunal in relation to the first proposed ground of appeal referred to below.
17 It was an agreed fact between the parties that words to the following effect were exchanged between the Tribunal member and the appellant in the following chronological sequence:
 
 Excerpt 1 
 " Tribunal: So why are you afraid to go back to China?

 Appellant: Because I am a member of the 
 Tribunal: You are a member of what?

 Appellant: An ordinary member.
Or a [major] member.

 Tribunal: Ordinary member of what?

 Appellant: The land depart --- part of the --- owner --- of the --- holder of the land.

 Tribunal: You mean you are an ordinary member of the group of farmers who owned land?

 Appellant: No, no.
It's like --- 
 Tribunal: What do you mean?
I don't know you are a member --- what you are talking about?
What --- you said you were a member of --- something.
I don't understand.
You were a member of what?

 All right.
Let me tell you what I understand you to be telling me.
Tell me if this is correct or not.

 You and some other farmers you owned land in 1992.

 A developer comes and without your consent they take over the farm land.

 Appellant: Yes.

 Tribunal: So we understand each other so far.

 What I don't understand is that: how is that --- how is what happened in 1992 relevant to you coming to Australia in 2004?

 Appellant: The land was taken by the government.

 Tribunal: OK.
The land was taken by the government.
So why don't you want to go back to China?

 Appellant: Um.
The land was taken by the --- we farmers had to protect our rights.
So we joined --- er --- kind of organisation of the farmers to protect our rights.
And I was a member.

 Tribunal: OK.
So.
I still don't understand why you don't want to go back to China.

 Appellant: The government.
If I go to --- go back to China, the government, I mean --- arrest.

 Tribunal: And why will you be arrested?

 Appellant: The --- my relatives in China appeal, and --- to the [Fu Chin] people's government.
So if I return to China, I'll be arrested.

 Tribunal: Why will you be arrested?

 Appellant: Land.
Together the land.

 Tribunal: OK. Let me repeat the question again.
Why will you be arrested if you go back to China?

 Appellant: Land.
Land's taken.

 [That's a sale and a] land.
By force.
By the government.

 Tribunal: Yes.
But what's got --- that --- what's that got to do with you being arrested?
I don't understand.

 Appellant: Several of us, we are --- we were shareholders, or stakeholders, of the land.
We are --- we were related to each other.
"
 Excerpt 2 
 " Tribunal: Why were you released?

 Appellant: I told them my story about the land and then I was temporarily released.

 Tribunal: Just because you told them your story they temporarily released you?

 Appellant: Yes, yes.

 Tribunal: After this - did anything else happen to you?
