
 
1 Dr Warren Saint, the applicant, has practised as a general practitioner in Western Australia for more than 20 years.
2 Medicare Australia, of whom the fifth respondent is its chief executive officer, is the successor to the Health Insurance Commission (the Commission).
In 2000 the Commission administered the Medicare Benefits Scheme.
Like other medical practitioners, Dr Saint, in the course of his practice, claimed monies under Medicare Benefits Scheme in respect of services he provided to his patients.
The Commission kept statistics of the claims made to Medicare made by medical practitioners in respect of the services provided by them and the nature of those services.
In 2000, by reason of the high number of daily services provided by Dr Saint, the Commission became concerned that Dr Saint may have engaged in "inappropriate practice" as defined by the Health Insurance Act 1973 (Cth) (the Act), by failing to provide his patients with an adequate clinical input.
3 The Commission's concern about Dr Saint ultimately led to an enquiry being conducted under the Act by a committee comprised of the second, third and fourth respondents - all medical practitioners, with the third and fourth respondents being general practitioners.
The committee was known as the Professional Services Review Committee 204 (the Committee).
4 In its final report issued on 7 July 2004, the Committee found that Dr Saint had, in the manner in which he had rendered some services to his patients, namely, services described as Medicare Benefit Schedule item 36 services, engaged in conduct which in the Committee's opinion was inappropriate practice.
The Act states that a general practitioner engages in "inappropriate practice" as a general practitioner in relation to the rendering of services, if the conduct is such that a Committee could reasonably conclude that the conduct would be unacceptable to the general body of general practitioners.
5 Medicare Benefit Schedule item 36 services comprise the professional attendance of a general practitioner on a patient which involves taking a detailed history, an examination of multiple systems, arranging any necessary investigations and implementing a management plan in relation to one or more problems and lasting at least 20 minutes.
6 In summary, the Committee's finding was that Dr Saint had in rendering some of these MBS item 36 services engaged in inappropriate practice because he had failed to provide "adequate clinical input into the services" and/or he had "kept records that were deficient in essential clinical information".
7 The making of this final report by the Committee was the culmination of a statutory process which involved a number of prescribed stages.
First, there was a referral of Dr Saint's conduct by a delegate of the Commission, Dr Mould, to the first respondent (the Director), called an investigative referral.
Then there was the establishment of the Committee by the Director and a referral of Dr Saint's conduct, called an adjudicative referral, from the Director to the Committee.
Thereafter, there was a hearing by the Committee and the issue of a draft report of its findings by the Committee.
Finally, the Committee issued its final report.
8 By this proceeding, Dr Saint challenged the constitutional validity of statutory process referred to above.
Further, Dr Saint also sought judicial review of the decisions made by the decision-makers at each of the steps in the statutory process referred to above; and the processes leading to the making of the decisions.
Dr Saint sought the remedies under the Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth) (the ADJR Act) and s 39B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) .

 Background 
 
9 In June 1995, the Commission published a newsletter explaining the operation of the statutory professional services review scheme affecting medical practitioners.
The newsletter was entitled "Inappropriate Practice and Counselling".
The newsletter outlined a process which provided for a medical practitioner to be counselled in respect of his or her pattern of servicing and to be given an opportunity to change that pattern, before the Commission would take further action in respect of that pattern of servicing under the Act.
Dr Saint said in evidence that he became aware of this newsletter in 1996.
10 On 14 February 1996, an officer of the Commission, Dr Patrick Hertnon, interviewed Dr Saint in relation to his practice statistics for the period 1 July 1994 to 30 June 1995.
Dr Hertnon informed Dr Saint that based on his statistics the Commission had concerns that the high volume of patients seen by Dr Saint may indicate that he had engaged in inappropriate practice.
Prior to that meeting, Dr Hertnon had written to Dr Saint providing him with his provider statistics.
11 On 29 October 1996, Dr Peter Laundy, another officer of the Commission, interviewed Dr Saint about the high level of services revealed by his practice statistics.
Dr Laundy expressed to Dr Saint the high degree of concern which the Commission held that by reason of his high level of services, Dr Saint may be engaging in inappropriate practice.
Dr Laundy told Dr Saint that the failure by him to alleviate the concerns of the Commission may result in a referral being made to the Director.
Dr Saint told Dr Laundy that one of the problems was that one of the doctors in the practice who had formerly worked full-time was now working part-time.
He said that he expected that the doctor would return to work full-time and that he was also expecting to engage a woman doctor to work part-time.
12 On 4 June 1997, the Acting Manager Professional Review Branch Western Australia sent Dr Saint a letter noting a change in his practice statistics and advising him that no further action would be taken at that time.
13 On 18 January 2000, Dr Saint was again interviewed by Dr Laundy.
Dr Laundy prepared a report of the meeting.
By a letter dated 25 January 2000, Dr Laundy forwarded a copy of that report to Dr Saint and invited comment on the report within 14 days.
The report stated that Dr Laundy had advised Dr Saint of the Commission's concerns regarding his high level of services and that this many may lead to the making by the Commission of an investigative referral.
It also said that Dr Saint had explained that the practice was very busy, he had difficulty in employing other doctors to work in the practice, there was a shortage of doctors in the area and that he liked working long hours.
The meeting is referred to further below.
14 By letter dated 5 February 2000, Dr Saint responded to Dr Laundy's letter.
Dr Saint stated that the record of interview failed to mention the fact that the surgery was open on Sundays and public holidays.
Dr Saint also mentioned that one of the doctors at the practice, Dr Rae, who had been working "very part-time" would from February 2000 be working two days a week and that he expected that that would take some workload off himself.
He also asked for the Commission to supply him with further statistics to ensure that Dr Rae worked "at a time when the practice had its greater workload.
" Further statistics were subsequently provided to Dr Saint.
15 Dr Saint received a letter dated 23 March 2000 from Mr Neville Garrity, Manager of the Professional Services Review Branch WA, of the Commission.
It stated:
 Further to your discussion with Dr Peter Laundy of 18 January 2000 regarding your high number of total annual services rendered and also high daily servicing.
The Health Insurance Commission (HIC) notes with some concern that Dr Laundy and Dr Hertnon had already spoken to you of these issues several years ago and that a temporary decrease in servicing was followed by a gradual increase.
The HIC will review your Provider Summary Statistics in approximately three months time looking for changes to your servicing levels, I will communicate further with you at that time.
If significant changes do not occur, the papers may be forwarded to the Director, Professional Services Review Scheme.
16 By a letter dated 3 July 2000 to Dr Saint, Mr Garrity stated:
 As advised to you in my letter of 23 March 2000, the proposed review of your Provider Summary Statistics has occurred.
The Health Insurance Commission's concerns of possible inappropriate practice still remain.
Your case is being referred to the Medical Director, Professional Review Division for further opinion.
A referral of the case to the Director, Professional Services Review may follow.
Further correspondence will be sent to you advising whether or not your case is proceeding to the Director, Professional Services Review.
17 On 3 July 2000, Mr Garrity wrote to Dr Janet Mould, of the Professional Services Branch of the Commission in the following terms:
 The CMC meeting No.
194 of 7 June 2000 noted that Dr Warren Saint has been repeatedly counselled by Health Insurance Commission Medical Advisers particularly regarding high daily and high annual servicing of his patients.
The CMC was of the view that Dr Warrant Saint's practice may still be considered as possibly inappropriate and is referring the matter to you with a view to onforwarding to the Director, Professional Services Review.
18 Dr Saint received a letter dated 19 July 2000 from Dr Janet Mould, Manager Professional Services Branch of the Commission.
The letter stated:
 I refer to correspondence forwarded to you on 3 July 2000 by Mr Neville Garrity, Manager Professional Review Branch, WA, in which you were advised that your practice profile has been forwarded to me for my consideration of whether to refer your conduct in relation to inappropriate practice to the Director of Professional Services Review.
I have allowed a suitable period of time for your statistics to reflect any changes in your practice profile.
A review of your practice statistics reveals that the HIC concerns remain.
Subsequently, I wish to advise that I have decided to refer your practice to the Director of Professional Services Review for his consideration on whether you have engaged in inappropriate practice under the Professional Services Review Scheme.
19 On 21 August 2000, Dr Mould as a delegate of the Commission made an investigative referral to the Director, pursuant to s 86 of the Act, of Dr Saint's conduct in connection with rendering and initiation of services.
20 The referred services were described in the investigative referral as services rendered during the period 1 January to 31 December 1999 from his practice location in Bassendean.
21 The investigative referral together with its annexures was a lengthy document.
It comprised two books and exceeded 220 pages and included a print out of a number of computer records recording the services rendered by Dr Saint.
The referral also recorded the delegate's reasons for the referral.
The reasons stated:
 A REASONS FOR THE INVESTIGATIVE REFERRAL The Health Insurance Commission is concerned with certain aspects of Dr Saint's practice, namely, his rendered services and daily servicing.
