
 
 THE COURT: 
 
1 The applicant Tenderwatch Pty Ltd carries on a business which includes conducting training seminars on tender responses, that is to say the preparation of documents in response to invitations to submit tenders.
For the purpose of such seminars it has developed over the years a detailed manual called the "Original Manual".
2 In early 2006 the second respondent Mr Hans Wallz approached Tenderwatch and offered his services.
The parties entered into a retainer agreement dated 29 August 2006 which included provisions that Mr Wallz would keep certain information confidential to Tenderwatch and that copyright in works would vest in that company.
Mr Wallz was given access to the Original Manual and used it to conduct three seminars on behalf of Tenderwatch in September and October 2006.
3 In December 2007 Mr Arthur Thompson, the sole director of Tenderwatch, came across a brochure published by a competitor, the first respondent Reed Business Information Pty Ltd, promoting a one day tender response workshop.
Reed's brochure stated that it had "teamed up with TBF (Tendering and Business Facilitation) to provide a workshop".
TBF was, to Mr Thompson's knowledge, a business name used by Mr Wallz and indeed he was identified in the brochure as a "director" of TBF and as an experienced person in the industry.
4 On Mr Thompson's instructions an employee of Tenderwatch, Ms Shelley Ryder, attended Reed's workshop as a registered participant.
It was held on 13 March 2008 at the North Sydney Harbourview Hotel.
Ms Ryder and other participants were handed a bound manual entitled "Responding to Tenders Workshop" (the Reed Manual) which appeared to be substantially the same as the Original Manual.
5 As a result of Ms Ryder's report of proceedings at the Reed workshop, Tenderwatch commenced the present proceeding against Reed and Mr Wallz alleging copyright infringement, misleading and deceptive conduct and misuse of confidential information.
Only the copyright claim is relevant for present purposes.
6 Tenderwatch has settled with Reed.
On 18 April 2008 Mr Wallz consented to various orders including an injunction against reproduction or publishing of the Reed Manual, delivery up of infringing copies and the provision of affidavits and discovery as to profits.
7 Tenderwatch has elected for an account of profits.
The application was heard on 27 May 2008.
Tenderwatch was represented by Mr Trichardt of counsel.
Mr Wallz represented himself.
8 Mr Wallz deposed that 21 copies of the Reed Manual were produced, and 17 people attended the Reed workshop.
Each participant received a copy of the document.
The remaining copies, and all electronic and paper material relating thereto, have been destroyed.
9 Mr Wallz invoiced Reed, and was duly paid, the sum of $2,711.71 for conducting the workshop.
Mr Wallz stated that his minimum daily fee is $500 per day, and that he had "spent twenty one days compiling the (Reed Manual) at a cost of $10,500 ($500 x 21)" and "fourteen days preparing the delivery and presentation of the workshop at a cost of $7000 ($500 x 14)".
He also stated he had spent $153.50 on printing copies of the Reed Manual.
As a result of these costs, Mr Wallz claimed to have made a loss of $14,942.39.
Mr Wallz also stated that $246.52 of the sum received from Reed in payment for his services in presenting the workshop represented GST, which he is obliged to pay to the Australian Tax Office.
10 Tenderwatch claims the whole sum of $2711.71 as profit for which Mr Wallz must account.
Mr Wallz disputes this on the basis that the printing costs, and the "cost" of his own time in compiling the Reed Manual and preparing for the workshop, should be deducted from that sum, as well as the GST component.
