
 
1 The applicant, Mr Darren Thompson, has been employed by the respondent, IGT (Australia) Pty Limited, since 5 March 2001 as a graphic artist and animator.
The respondent is part of the IGT Group whose parent company is International Game Technology Inc, a company with headquarters in the United States.
The respondent is one of its wholly-owned subsidiaries.
2 On 20 May 2008 the applicant filed an application in the Court claiming compensation and other relief under ss 5 , 6 and 15 of the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 (Cth).
There are issues raised in that application in relation to bullying and other treatment alleged by the applicant which did not arise for consideration on the interlocutory application which was argued before me today.
3 In the application the applicant claimed the following interlocutory relief: 
 
 
 "1.
That the Court order the respondent to withdraw its request/demand for the applicant to undertake a psychiatric assessment with Dr Lester Walton on 17 June 2008 at 9:00am as specified in their letter to the applicant dated 14 May 2008; 
 
 
 
 2.
That the Court order that the Respondent by its servants or agents or otherwise does not demand/request that the applicant undertake any other psychiatric assessment; 
 
 
 
 3.
That the Court order that the Respondent by its servants or agents or otherwise not take disciplinary action (including, but not limited to, termination of employment) against the applicant for failure to attend the psychiatric assessment mentioned in [paragraph] (1) as specified in clause 5.2 of their letter to the applicant dated 14 May 2008.

 
 
 
 4.
The Court make an interim order that the Respondent per its servants or agents or otherwise be restrained from disciplining the Applicant for failure to attend for psychiatric and/or psychological assessment.

 
 5.
Such further or other order as the Court deems appropriate.
6.
Costs.
" 
4 As this is an application for interlocutory relief I am not required to make a final determination of the issues which are argued before me.
The relevant test, well established by authority, is that I have to determine whether there is a serious question to be tried on the issues raised by the applicant and if I am satisfied that there is such a serious question to be tried then I have to consider the balance of convenience in favour of, or against, the grant of injunctive relief.
5 The circumstances giving rise to the application for interlocutory injunction arise out of a letter sent by the respondent to the applicant on 14 May 2008.
It was signed by Ms Louisa Baldo, the General Manager (Human Resources) of the respondent, and presented a direction that the applicant undergo a psychiatric assessment in the following terms:
 "Medical assessment, the requirement to provide detailed medical certificates and leave requests 1 Direction to attend medical appointment 
 
 
 1.1 We refer to previous correspondence relating to your absences from work, and particularly to IGT's requirement that you undergo a psychiatric assessment.

 
 1.2 We note that we first directed you to attend an appointment with an independent psychiatrist in correspondence dated 9 October 2007.
The appointment was originally scheduled for 11 December 2007 but you failed to attend.

 
 1.3 IGT continues to have concerns about your fitness for work.
Our concerns remain those that we have addressed in previous correspondence.

 
 1.4 IGT reconfirms its position and entitlement to make lawful and reasonable directions to its employees (under Common Law), including directing an employee to attend a medical appointment in circumstances where the employee's fitness for work is in question.

 
 1.5 Based on this and the continued frequency of unexplained medical/personal leave, we confirm IGT's direction that you attend the following appointment with the independent medical practitioner below: 
 
 Name: Dr Lester Walton 
 
 Speciality: Psychiatrist 
 Address: 1 st Floor, 443 Little Collins Street, 
 Melbourne VIC 3000 
 
 Date: Tuesday, 17 June 2008 
 
 Time: 9.00 am 
 
 1.6 IGT confirms that the above mentioned medical practitioner is not an employee of IGT and does not have an ongoing relationship with IGT.

 
 1.7 IGT also confirms that it will bear the costs associated with you attending this appointment, which will include the following: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (a) IGT will pay the practitioner's fees for conducting an assessment and producing a report.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (b) You will be reimbursed for any reasonable costs incurred in attending an appointment (eg.
Bus Fares, Taxi Fares etc).

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 (c) You will be paid your normal rate of pay to attend an appointment during work hours.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 1.8 Please let us know in writing by 5.00 pm on Friday, 23 May 2008 if you will have any difficulties attending this appointment at this particular time.

 
 
 
 
 2.
Consent to release of medical information 
 
 
 
 To facilitate the release of necessary information to assess your complete medical situation, IGT seeks the completion and return of the attached consent form by 5.00 pm on Friday, 23 May 2008.

 
 3.
Medical certificates and request for personal leave 
 
 
 3.1 We refer to various communications on this matter over the past months and particularly to our letter dated 8 November 2007 which states (at paragraph 5.3): 
 
 '... IGT are on notice of your ailment/s and medication, we will require a medical certificate to accompany each application of leave relating to illness or injury and these certificates are to provide specific details of your ailment/s.
Certificates provided with 'medical condition' are not satisfactory do not assist IGT in complying with its obligations under occupational health and safety laws and its duty of care at common law.
' 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.2 IGT reconfirms its requirement that you must provide details for each occurrence of leave and that specific details about the reason(s) for any absence on medical grounds are required on each and every medical certificate.
The medical certificate must include a statement as to the specific reason(s) why you will be unfit for work during the period covered by the certificate and provide specific details of the illness, injury or condition.
Any certificate provided by you which does not include this information will be deemed unsatisfactory.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 3.3 Additionally, we note that any sick leave taken can only be provided if you have accrued sufficient amounts of leave.
Should there be any shortfall or medical certificates which do not address our direction then this will be processed as 'leave without pay' or 'leave without pay --- without valid reason' respectively.

 
 
 4.
Request for Annual Leave 
 
 As per IGT's policy, applications for annual leave should be submitted in writing to your line manager at least two (2) weeks prior to its occurrence so as to ensure the smooth running of its business and business outputs.

 
 5.
Failure to comply with directions 
 
 
 5.1 We note that you have previously failed to comply with our reasonable and lawful directions (relating to your failure to attend a previously arranged medical examination and failing to provide the properly substantiated medical certificates).
We hope that this will not continue, but please note that we reserve our position in relation to those earlier breaches of your employment contract.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 5.2 We do hope that this will not be necessary, but please note in the event of you failing to attend the medical appointment arranged with Dr Lester Walton on 17 June 2008 or you failing to provide properly substantiated medical certificates in relation to any future absences, disciplinary action may be taken.
You should be aware that this could include termination of your employment.

 
 
 We look forward to progressing with the above matters.
" 
6 The applicant contends that the direction and requirement of the respondent that he attend the medical appointment discriminates against him on the ground of his disability, which I may describe generally as a back injury, and that accordingly, the direction and requirement constitutes a contravention of ss 5 , 6 and 15 of the Disability Discrimination Act 1992 (Cth) ("the Disability Discrimination Act ").
The applicant has sworn an affidavit in which he contends that over the past twelve months he has had increasing levels of difficulty with the respondent and that he believes that the respondent's treatment of him constitutes discrimination as "it is clear that the respondent's conduct has been by reason of my need to take time off due to my back problems.
" Some of the propositions advanced by the applicant are contested by the respondent.
7 The background to the applicant's complaint is as follows.
The applicant has had a history of back pain resulting in surgery and migraine headaches which date back to before his employment commenced with the respondent.
In March 2003, he had two discs removed from his neck which the surgeon did not relate to his previous back surgery.
In 2004, the applicant underwent open heart surgery to resolve a condition of cardiopulmonary fistula which was apparently congenital.
Both procedures required him to take time away from work.
At the beginning of 2006, the applicant began to experience further degenerative back symptoms much like those he had experienced prior to his employment with the respondent.
These symptoms required him to take further time away from work over the subsequent two years for treatment, including periods of hospitalisation.
8 Between March 2001 and May 2008, the applicant has been away from work on a number of occasions.
Some of those occasions related to personal leave which were either sick leave or carer's leave.
Some of that leave was compassionate leave, some was leave without pay, some was unspecified leave.
There was also special leave and there were a number of occasions when the sick leave which was taken by the applicant was amended to, and taken as, annual leave or leave without pay because of a lack of accrued sick leave entitlement available.
9 Ms Baldo has sworn an affidavit in which she sets out in some detail the periods of leave which the applicant has taken.
A number of those periods of leave have been leave without pay.
Not all of them are relevant to the proceeding before me for interlocutory relief, but I will refer to such as are particularly relevant in due course.
10 In May 2007, Ms Baldo was made aware of the applicant's absences from work which were considered to be excessive.
Ms Baldo became aware that the applicant had had a history of absences due to various medical and personal issues and she noted that the applicant had, on some occasions, used his annual leave accruals and leave without pay for periods of illness due to insufficient balances of accrued personal or sick leave.
Ms Baldo was concerned about the absences of the applicant from work.
Over the ensuing period after May 2007, Ms Baldo received information about the applicant's condition which was contradictory.
During the same period the applicant took amounts of leave, some of which were without pay, which were considered by the respondent to be excessive and some of which were unexplained.
I will come to these in due course.
11 On 17 September 2007, the applicant had a meeting with Ms Baldo and Mr David Slattery, his supervisor or line manager.
The applicant says that this meeting was very hostile to him.
Ms Baldo denies that the meeting was hostile.
Whether the meeting was hostile or not is not relevant for present purposes; what is relevant is a number of the matters which were raised and discussed in the meeting.
12 According to a file note of the meeting made by Ms Baldo, she and Mr Slattery told the applicant of the purpose of the meeting which is identified in the file note as follows: 
 "Based upon the longevity and continuation of this situation, the lack of definitive medical information or guidance and the continued over usage of leave, IGT is seeking to obtain information to better understand this situation, its duty of care responsibilities, its impact of his medical condition/s on the current and future delivery of his role and what can be expected to be delivered from him moving forward.
" Discuss request to obtain detailed medical report.
Discuss ongoing issue of leave usage.
" 

According to Ms Baldo's file note, the applicant advised that he had a degenerative back problem, was on Ketamine medication, and was undertaking some pain management therapy.
According to Ms Baldo's file note she said that:

 "... to date no definitive medical report had been received/requested hence current request.
" 

 
She said that:
 "From duty of care perspective, IGT needs to fully understand the situation, its impact on both parties to ensure we are working together.
" 

 
13 Ms Baldo said that with the request they would be seeking information regarding current medical conditions, medication and a therapeutic regime and any work restrictions which they needed to consider.
She said that she would write to the applicant after the meeting to confirm the details requested.
According to the file note, the applicant agreed at the meeting to work with the respondent to obtain and provide this information.
14 On 25 September 2007, Ms Baldo wrote to the applicant in relation to the meeting and said, relevantly: 
 "Further to this conversation and those previously held with your line manager regarding your regular absenteeism and your Performance Review, IGT would like to attain clarity as to your current medical situation and its impact on your ability to undertake your role of Video Artist/Animator on a full-time basis within the Product Development  Compliance department at our site in Mulgrave, Victoria.
...
In order for IGT to assess your situation against its duties and responsibilities to you, IGT requires you to provide a detailed medical report from your primary physician or specialist by Friday 26 October 2007 which details the following: 1. your current medical condition/s; 
 
 
 2. current and anticipated future medication and therapeutic regime including dosage, frequency and duration of treatment, and estimates of work time lost as a result; 
 
 
 
 3 any work restrictions which may apply to you undertaking your role currently or in the foreseeable future, and 
 
 4 an estimated time for recovery.
" 
 15 On 1 October 2007 the applicant wrote to Ms Baldo saying he would consider the respondent's request that he undergo a medical examination subject to a number of conditions which were set out in the letter.
Those conditions are not presently relevant.
16 On 9 October 2007, Ms Baldo sent a letter to the applicant headed "Medical Clarification".
She referred to the applicant's letter of 1 October 2007 and a subsequent email and said:
 "In light of your correspondence we thought you would find it helpful if we set out the process that IGT follows in circumstances where an employee is suffering from an illness or injury and there are concerns about that employee's fitness for work.

 
 1.
IGT will ordinarily approach the employee to discuss the injury/illness and concerns about capacity.

 
 
 
 2.
The employee may be invited to provide information about their capacity and matters that impact upon capacity (including medical information).
A report from your treating practitioner is not mandatory but in our view will assist.

 
 
 
 3.
IGT may refer the employee to an independent medical practitioner who is not an employee of IGT and is not part of an ongoing relationship with IGT.
..." 
 
...
In addition, if you also choose to obtain a medical report from your treating practitioner/s, then IGT will cover the reasonable costs of your treating practitioner/s for producing such a report.
" 

 
17 In the letter Ms Baldo set out appointments that had been made for the applicant to see two doctors, Dr Edward Schutz, a general surgeon, on 13 November 2007 and Dr Nigel Strauss, a psychiatrist, on 11 December 2007.
18 On 19 October 2007, the applicant sent an email to Ms Baldo referring to previous correspondence and stated: 
 "...
I acknowledge the meeting that I was called in to with you and David Slattery but given the content of your follow up letter I do not believe you took on board what I said.
I pointed out to both you and David (facts that David already knew), that my current health issues, as referred to by you, and David, were largely resolved.
All of the effort and expense I went to resolve this problem (of which David was kept completely up to date) appear to have come to fruition and I am now enjoying robust health and have been able to return happily and successfully to my work.
..." (emphasis in original) 

 
19 On 31 October 2007, the applicant sent an email to Mr Slattery saying that he would be attending a medical examination.
On the same day, he had a meeting with Mr John Duffy, the General Manger (Product Development  Compliance) of the respondent.
In the course of that meeting, according to a minute of the meeting prepared by the respondent, the applicant referred to medication he was taking.
The file note discloses that he said:
 "...
Requires 5 times over two years but for obvious reason cancelled latest appointment.
Hospital treatment is IV.
Once disconnected any effects dispate [sic] within half an hour, side effect is a severe headache for one day afterward and then completely normal.
Couple more of this treatment is required.
..." 

 
20 At that meeting, the applicant told Mr Duffy that he would attend the medical appointment.
His health matters were discussed.
The matters set out in the minute appear to be inconsistent with his statement on 19 October 2007 that he was in "robust health".
21 On 8 November 2007, Ms Baldo wrote again to the applicant in similar terms to her letter of 9 October 2007.
She confirmed the medical appointments with Dr Schutz and Dr Strauss, and said:
 "IGT is concerned about your fitness for work and your ability to perform the inherent requirements of your position.
IGTs concerns are not unfounded, and I note that, at the Meeting on 31 October 2007, you stated that: (a) You have a 'slightly prolapsed disk which triggers pain'.
(b) You take 'Anti-epileptic medication for neurogenic pain'.

 
 (c) You are given 'Ketamine injections, which are administered in hospital, intravenously over 1 week to 10 days'.

 
 (d) You attend hydrotherapy 3 times a week.
(e) You undertake exercises at home.

 
 (f) At least on one occasion, you lay on the floor several times during the day and this enabled you to get through a full week.

 
 (g) You have had operations: 
 
 (1) to block nerve responses to pain; 
 (2) to burn the nerves to stop pain; and 
 
 (3) a discectomy prior to your employment at IGT.

 
 In addition to this, you have consistently taken excessive amounts of leave.
This year so far, your total leave has been in excess of 50 days (or 10 weeks).
... Moving forward and for the foreseeable future, IGT is seeking specific details for future occurrences of leave where possible prior to it occurring especially in a case of annual leave.
Additionally, as IGT are on notice of your ailment/s and medication, we will require a medical certificate to accompany each application of leave relating to illness or injury and these certificates are to provide specific details of your ailment/s.
Certificates provided with 'medical condition' are not satisfactory do not assist IGT in complying with its obligations under occupational health and safety laws and its duty of care at common law.
" 

 
22 The applicant kept the appointment with Dr Schutz on 13 November 2007.
Dr Schutz sent a report to the respondent's solicitors on 22 November 2007 in which he set out the history that he had obtained from the applicant.
In the course of the letter, Dr Schutz wrote: 
 "Mr Thompson stated he last saw Dr McCarthy [an anaesthetist/pain management specialist] in June 2007.
Following the treatment to that point Dr McCarthy considered he would 'be right by September 2007' and according to Mr Thompson that has been the case.
Mr Thompson did have an appointment to see Dr McCarthy in September 2007 but that appointment was cancelled.
Mr Thompson made reference to this being in some way determined by 'how I was being treated ...(at IGT)' as his reason for cancelling that appointment.
Apparently it was planned that he have several more Ketamine or similar injections but this was not necessary because he recovered and he stated his result as being 'stunning' and he believes he is practically normal to all intents and purposes.
... Having had 35 days off work for reasons of his low back in 2007 he believes he has now concluded his course of medical treatment.
He is cautious about lifting.
He has bought himself an ergonomic chair which he finds very comfortable and supporting.
" 

Later in the letter, under the heading,
 "Please provide your diagnosis and your opinion on the following: 
 
 (a) Is Mr Thompson fit to perform the full range of duties as a full-time Video Artist?
" 
 


 
Dr Schutz wrote:
 "Yes.
On the current findings and on the history given of improvements/practical recovery from the back pain commencing in mid 2006, and the treated and resolved neck and cardiac conditions, it is considered he has recovered and is fit to perform the full range of duties.
" 

 
23 The applicant challenges a number of the observations made by Dr Schutz which are attributed to him.
He states in an affidavit: 
 "...
In a medical report, commissioned by the Respondent, Dr Schutz states that further appointments with Dr McCarthy were indicated for management.
Dr Schutz uses terms like 'near normal' but does not state cured.
I have never claimed that my condition was anything other than ongoing.
What I have said is that there are times of near normality and that with the Respondent's support I definitely have the ability to perform the inherent requirements of my job.
..." 

 
24 I do not need to resolve this factual issue at this stage of the proceeding.
It is sufficient for present purposes that there is an issue about the state of the applicant's health and his absences for work.
25 On 30 November 2007, the respondent's solicitors confirmed to the applicant's solicitors the appointment with the psychiatrist on 11 December 2007.
On 6 December 2007, the applicant's solicitors said the applicant would not be attending the appointment on 11 December 2007 and that intimation was repeated on 10 December 2007.
In the meantime, on 5 December 2007, the applicant took leave without pay for what were said to be "medical reasons".
The respondent was not given any details of what the medical reasons were and the certificate which was supplied to the respondent simply stated: "Medical condition.
" Subsequently, the respondent deducted money from the applicant's pay in respect of his absence that day.
26 On 14 December 2007, Ms Baldo wrote to the applicant under the heading "Recent absences and fitness for work" and said:
 "We refer to your medical examination with Dr Schutz on 13 November 2007 and enclose a copy of his report dated 22 November 2007 ('Report').
We note that the Report states that your recent extensive absences from work are attributable to receiving treatment for low back symptoms which presented in about mid 2006.
