
 INTRODUCTION 
 
1 In May 2001, with the consent of all the parties, District Registrar Robson ordered that the lands the subject of various native title applications in and around the city of Darwin in the Northern Territory be divided into two areas: areas A and B.
Area A essentially included the lands within the urban areas of Darwin and Area B essentially included the lands in areas surrounding Darwin.
Following that order, those parts of the various native title applications relating to the lands in Area A were consolidated into one set of proceedings: NTD6033 of 2001.
This native title application and a number of similar applications where Mr Quall was the authorised applicant on behalf of a native title claim group ('the Quall applicants') became part of the consolidated proceedings, along with a number of native title applications where Mr Risk was the authorised applicant on behalf of a different native title claim group ('the Risk applicants').
2 In Risk v Northern Territory of Australia [2006] FCA 404 (' Risk' ) Mansfield J dismissed the consolidated proceedings.
That dismissal affected this native title application and 18 other native title applications insofar as they related to areas of land within Area A.
However, those parts of this native title application and one other Quall native title application (NTD6026 of 1998) relating to areas of land in Area B were not dismissed.
3 The Northern Territory was the main respondent to the 19 native title applications in Risk and remains so in relation to this native title application.
It has now applied to strike out this native title application.
To avoid confusion with the primary native title application, in these reasons, I will refer to the Northern Territory's application as the, or this, "strike out application" and the primary native title application as the, or this, "native title application".
4 The Northern Territory relies on three grounds for this strike out application.
First, it claims that all of the critical issues in this native title application were determined in Risk and therefore an issue estoppel arises to prevent those same issues being raised again for determination in this native title application.
Secondly, it claims that in such circumstances, it is an abuse of process to raise the same issues again for determination in this native title application.
Finally, it claims that in such circumstances, this native title application has no reasonable prospects of success.
The Northern Territory's strike out application therefore requires an identification of the critical issues that were determined in Risk , the critical issues that are raised for determination in this native title application and a comparison between the two sets of issues to determine whether the issue estoppel arises, or whether the abuse of process exists, or whether the issues raised for determination have no reasonable prospects of success.
I will consider these matters hereunder beginning with a consideration of the procedural history of this native title application.
PROCEDURAL HISTORY 
 Original native title application on behalf of the Dangalaba Clan 
 
5 This native title application has a lengthy and complex procedural history and it is set against an even more lengthy and complex background of native title applications under the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth) ('the NT Act') and proceedings under the Aboriginal Land Rights (Northern Territory) Act 1976 (Cth) ('the ALR Act').
This native title application was originally lodged with the National Native Title Tribunal by Mr Kevin Lance ("Tibby") Quall on 21 October 1996.
At that time, the printed application form was completed so as to state that it was being made by the applicant, Mr Quall, and others, as claimants on behalf of the Dangalaba clan.
Apart from annexing a three page statement of the native title rights and interests claimed, it contained no detail of what the Dangalaba clan was.
It described the lands that were the subject of the native title application, or the claim area, as: "all vacant Crown (sic land) within the "Hundred of Ayers", "Shire of Litchfield.
" Also all mangrove habitat, the waters and tributaries of "Hancock Reach" and "Middle Arm" lying within the "Hundred of Ayers" excluding freehold.
" The lands in question are located south-east of Darwin and south of Palmerston in the Northern Territory.
I interpolate that in 1994, before this native title application was lodged, the Northern Territory Government compulsorily acquired an area of land immediately to the north of the claim area for the purposes of constructing the East Arm Port, which subsequently became the new port facility for Darwin.
Some details of this acquisition process are recorded in Quall v Risk [2001] FCA 378 ( 'Quall' ) at [16]-[17].
May 2000 amendments to the native tile application 
 
6 Following the amendments to the NT Act in 1998, this native title application became an application in this Court, where it was given the file number NTD 6013 of 1998.
On 3 May 2000, it was substantially amended following leave given by O'Loughlin J.
No doubt these amendments were prompted by the 1998 amendments to the NT Act.
The amended form of this native title application was a much more elaborate document.
Mr Quall was named as the authorised applicant, again on behalf of the members of the Dangalaba clan.
In Part A, Section 2, Mr Quall's authorisation as the applicant was stated to have been given at a meeting that was held at 6 Hack Court, Malak, Northern Territory on 4 August 1999.
In Schedule A, the Dangalaba clan (now spelt Danggalaba, which spelling I will adopt henceforth in these reasons) was said to comprise of:
 
1.
Kevin Lance (Tibby) Quall (also the applicant)
 
2.
Ronald Keith Quall
 
3.
Diana Deeja Quall
 
4.
Phillip Rupert Quall
 
5.
Kevin Andrew Quall
 
6.
Natasha Anne Quall
 
7.
Sarah Audrey Quall
 
8.
Linda Muriel Quall
 
7 The amended application related to the same areas of land but they were described somewhat more precisely in Schedule B, as follows: "all vacant Crown land within the Hundred of Ayers and Shire of Litchfield, including all vacant crown land to the low water mark, all mangrove habitat, the waters and tributaries of Haycock Reach and Middle Arm lying within the Hundred of Ayers, excepting the area of water subject to the Paspaley Pearl Farm lease which is situated within the claim area.
"
 
8 The basis of the application was described in Schedule F and Attachment S. Schedule F, among other things, stated that:
 (a) Association with the area A description of the Native Title Rights and Interests claimed is attached as Attachment S (factual basis).
The attachment also describes the native claim group's Ancestors and the Descendents of those persons who are the predecessors of those who had an association with the subject area.
(b) Traditional laws and customs Danggalaba Traditional Laws and Customs are still continuing up until the present, as there is the existence of Sacred Sites in the subject area.
Traditional Laws and Customs are observed by the claimants through their spiritual and ceremonial affiliation which shows clearly their association with the area.
(c) Continuing to hold native title Ownership is described in accordance with the on-going traditional rights and interests in the subject area.
The native title claim group continues to hold native title with Traditional Laws and Customs taught by our Elders who have passed on, and by those who are present.
The transmission of knowledge is so important to the Rights of the claimants that they establish ownership and have to mean our legal rights are recognised.
Our Traditional Laws and Customs have been continued throughout time by the Danggalaba Ancestors exclusively and is continued by the Descendents who are members of the native title claim group and members of the Danggalaba clan.
Further description of our native title rights and interests are contained in Attachment S. 
9 Attachment S --- an attachment of some significance, as will appear later in these reasons --- was a ten page document.
It began with the following statement:
 Factual basis for the native title rights and interests claimed 1.
The following description of the history and structure, native title rights and interests, spiritual affiliation, association with the area, and activities undertaken, has been prepared in relation to the Danggalaba clan.
2.
The information covers the land and waters subject to this application.
The members of the native title claim group are all members of the Danggalaba clan, however, the applicant acknowledges that the information contained in Attachment S applies to a broader group than the native title claim group.
3.
The native title claim group is therefore not claiming association with the area in accordance with traditional laws and customs, nor native title rights and interests to the exclusion of other members of the Danggalaba clan who are not members of this native title claim group.
10 Then, in paragraph 4 of Attachment S, the Danggalaba clan's identity vis--vis the Kulumbiringin Larrakia tribe was described as follows: 
 The Danggalaba members, traditionally of the Kulumbiringin Larrakia tribe are of the Danggalaba clan.
It was during the Kenbi Land Claim that all aboriginal claimants were borne out by the context of the evidence that all claimants were Larrakia, those who are claimants within the whole traditional boundary are within the Larrakia language.
It is at this point that our group did not agree and that we did not adopt Professor Peter Sutton's new tribe and fought very hard for many years to be recognised separately and to be represented legally.
Finally Justice Gray ordered that we were to be separated from the Larrakia group and that is the way it remains legally today and that is why we are arguing for the same reason.
And later at paragraph 14, as follows:
 Despite disease, Chief Protectors, Native Welfare, Aboriginal Policy, Colonisation, Reserves, Missions, Settlements, Homes, ignorance and racism, the Danggalaba, the only remaining Kulumbiringin (Larrakia) tribal clan to survive, are active today trying, against all odds to seek an equality of life and justice.
The Kenbi Land Claim, the Danggalaba clan and disputes with the Risk applicants 
 
11 At this point, it is convenient to digress to say something about The Kenbi (Cox Peninsula) Land Claim No.
37 ('the Kenbi Land Claim') that is mentioned in the paragraphs immediately above.
The Kenbi Land Claim was made under the ALR Act.
The land claimed in it is located on the Cox Peninsula which lies across the harbour from the city of Darwin and includes land surrounding the West and Middle Arms of Port Darwin: see Risk at [22].
The land within the city of Darwin could not be claimed under the ALR Act because "unalienated Crown land" is the only land claimable under that Act and land within a town is expressly excluded from the definition of that expression in the ALR Act: see s 3.
12 Some details of the long history of the Kenbi Land Claim, the litigation associated with it and the competing claimant groups that emerged during it, are set out in the introductory paragraphs to the Kenbi Land Claim Report delivered by Gray J on 12 December 2000 ('the Kenbi Report'), as follows:
 History of the claim The application in the present claim was received on 20 March 1979 by Mr Justice Toohey, the first Aboriginal Land Commissioner under the Land Rights Act.
Even before that, in the first report of the Royal Commission which led to the introduction of the Land Rights Act, Mr Justice Woodward referred to the dispossession of the Larrakia people and their desire to acquire title to land in and around Darwin for community living purposes.
A claim was made to the Interim Land Commissioner in 1975 for part of the Cox Peninsula.
When the Land Rights Act came into operation, the part of the Cox Peninsula now known as the Belyuen community became Aboriginal land.
The long history of the land claim is largely the result of litigation associated with it.
Before it was lodged, the Northern Territory Government promulgated regulations which had the effect of rendering the Cox Peninsula unclaimable, by classifying it as land in a town.
The High Court of Australia held that the first Commissioner, Mr Justice Toohey, was obliged to decide whether these regulations were invalid.
The fourth Commissioner, Justice Olney, held that the regulations were invalid, because they were made for the purpose of preventing a claim to the Cox Peninsula under the Land Rights Act, not for the purpose of town planning.
That decision was upheld by the Federal Court of Australia and the High Court refused special leave to appeal.
In the meantime, there were legal proceedings involving the second Commissioner, Mr Justice Kearney, the High Court and the Federal Court, on the question whether the Northern Territory Government was obliged to disclose certain documents in its possession, relating to the validity of the regulations.
The third Commissioner, Mr Justice Maurice, was also disqualified from hearing the claim by the Federal Court on the ground of reasonable apprehension of bias, as a result of some remarks he made during the hearing of another land claim.
In 1989 and 1990, Justice Olney conducted a lengthy inquiry into the land claim.
His Honour produced a report, in which he concluded that there were no traditional Aboriginal owners of the land claimed.
That finding was set aside by the Federal Court and the matter came to me, the fifth Commissioner.
The claim has undergone changes over the years as to the manner in which it has been put.
Even during my inquiry, between 1995 and 1999, a group of people who were not claimants at the outset asked me to treat them as claimants, and some people who were part of one claimant group asked that they be treated as a separate claimant group.
These changes required the preparation and dissemination of material and the hearing of evidence not contemplated when the inquiry began.
By the end of my inquiry, four groups of claimants were attempting to establish that their members are traditional Aboriginal owners of the land claimed.
For convenience, these groups are called the Tommy Lyons group, the Larrakia group, the Belyuen group and the Danggalaba group.
13 To put these statements in context, the Larrakia group referred to above, is the same group in the Risk applicants: see [429] at Risk.
The Northern Land Council represented the Risk applicants in both Risk and in the Kenbi Land Claim proceedings.
Some of the people identified as the Danggalaba group members in the Kenbi Land Claim were among the Quall applicants in Risk : see Risk at [429].
In the Kenbi Report, Gray J summarised his conclusions that the Larrakia group was a local descent group under the ALR Act and that the Danggalaba group was not, as follows:
 The Larrakia group consists of 1 293 people and is based on a single principle of descent, namely descent from a recognised ancestor of the Larrakia language group.
The group is bound together by its linguistic affiliation.
Although I have doubts as to whether it is properly described as 'local', I am bound by authority to hold that the Larrakia group is a local descent group.
The Danggalaba group consists of an indeterminate number of people said to be descended from a member of the Danggalaba clan.
Those who contend for the existence of this group sought to be represented separately from other members of the Larrakia group and to make a claim to the exclusion of all other groups.
They contended, but did not establish, that an error had been made in the genealogies of the Larrakia group and that a man shown on those genealogies as the son of a key ancestor had been the husband of that ancestor, and the adoptive father of her children.
The Danggalaba group is not a group.
Not all of the putative members of the Danggalaba group accept the principle of a descent on which the group is said to be based.
Some do not accept that they are members of such a group.
The Danggalaba group is not a local descent group.
14 However, it must be emphasised that the ALR Act sets out substantially different criteria for a successful land claim to that set out in the NT Act for a successful native title application.
The differences between the two pieces of legislation in these respects are mentioned by Mansfield J in Risk at [437] and are aptly summarised in Griffiths v Northern Territory of Australia (2006) 165 FCR 300 at [71] --- [74] per Weinberg J.
It follows that these findings of Gray J in the Kenbi Report cannot be transposed to either this native title application, or the Risk native title applications.
Nonetheless, they did provide some forewarning of the difficulties Mr Quall might face in the future in attempting to assert the claims of the Danggalaba Clan.
Competing native title applications lodged by Larrakia/Risk applicants and Danggalaba/Quall applicants 
 
15 Not surprisingly, these disputes between the Larrakia/Risk applicants and the Danggalaba/Quall applicants in the Kenbi Land Claim have also emerged in the form of competing native title applications under the NT Act over the same areas of lands and waters in and around Darwin.
In Quall , O'Loughlin J described a part of those disputes as follows:
 It is now necessary to recount some of the troubled history of the Larrakia native title claims and Mr Quall's involvement in them.
It will be sufficient, for the moment, to say that, through Mr Risk, the Larrakia people have made several claims for determinations of native title over land and waters in the Darwin area.
It is also sufficient to say that Mr Quall has also made many like claims on behalf of the Danggalaba Clan.
However, whereas the Larrakia claims are over relatively larges areas, Mr Quall's claims have been over smaller areas.
