
 The plaintiffs are the joint and several liquidators of Emu Brewery Mezzanine Limited (EBM).
They applied in April 2008 for an order that they proceed to make the distribution of funds to EBM's unsecured creditors in accordance with a Notice of Intention to Declare a Second Dividend (Notice) dated 4 March 2008.
The Notice had been given to EBM's Members, Creditors and Noteholders.
The application was supported originally by the affidavit of Martin Bruce Jones, one of EBM's joint liquidators, sworn 18 April 2008 and most recently by his further affidavit sworn 14 October 2009.
From the date of issue of the Notice the only person who has objected to the declaration and distribution of the intended second dividend has been the defendant, Emu Brewery Developments Pty Ltd (EBD).
EBD claims that EBM is not entitled to make a distribution to its creditors, as proposed, because EBD is entitled to the money which is to be distributed.
The total amount of EBD's claim is $12,492,370.
This slightly exceeds the funds held by EBM.
However a settlement has been agreed between EBM and EBD.
The terms of settlement are set out in a Deed of Settlement and Release (Settlement Deed) entered into between the parties dated 13 October 2009 by which EBM has agreed to pay EBD $1.5 million in compromise of its claim.
A significant part of this will go to payment of EBD's legal and other costs.
The defendant earlier made an application for an order that its reasonable costs and expenses be paid from the fund from which the joint liquidators propose to make a distribution to creditors.
If that application were to have proceeded and an order was made in those terms, the legal costs incurred by both parties would, it seems, be significant and possibly in the order of hundreds of thousands of dollars.
Additionally, the continuation of the proceedings would extend even further the already lengthy delay in making the distribution to creditors.
The delay has caused, and is continuing to cause, considerable economic hardship and emotional distress for creditors.
A significant number of the creditors are "mums and dads" investors, many of whom are retired.
Mr Jones and his staff have received many telephone calls from creditors advising that they are desperate for the second dividend to be distributed as a matter of urgency.
Sandhurst Trustees Limited, the trustee for the Mezzanine Note Holders appointed under the Mezzanine Note Trust Deed, has received telephone calls and letters from Mezzanine Note Holders concerning the distress and financial hardship being endured by those callers and writers.
The plaintiffs do not consider that the defendant has a strong case.
However the prospect of it succeeding cannot be dismissed.
The plaintiffs have been advised by senior counsel that the settlement is, in all the circumstances, reasonable.
The effect of the Settlement Deed is that, upon the distribution of the second dividend, the creditors of EBM will have received an overall dividend of 95.3 cents in the dollar in respect of their principal investment, inclusive of the interim dividend, which represents 59 cents in the dollar in respect of their principal investment, already paid to creditors on 15 November 2007.
In the event that the proceedings continue and the defendant succeeds in its claim, there will be no further funds available for the liquidators to distribute, and the creditors will therefore not receive any further dividend.
Accordingly, the joint liquidators believe that it is in the best interests of EBM to settle the claim made by EBD on the terms set out in the Settlement Deed which will enable them to proceed without delay to distribute a second dividend to unsecured creditors.
I am satisfied that, in these circumstances, the requirement imposed on the plaintiffs by Regulation 5.6.69 of the Corporations Regulations 2001 (Cth) to publish a further notice of intention to make a distribution ought be dispensed with.
The requirement to publish a further notice of such intention to distribute a second dividend would delay the distribution by at least a further 28 days.
There will be orders as sought.
I certify that the preceding thirteen (13) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Gilmour.
Associate:
 
 
Dated: 27 October 2009
 
 Counsel for the Plaintiff: Mr J A Thomson 
 
 Solicitor for the Plaintiff: Mallesons Stephen Jaques 
 
 Counsel for the Defendant: Ms W Gillan 
 
 Solicitor for the Defendant: DLA Phillips Fox 
 Date of Hearing: 15 October 2009 
 
 Date of Judgment: 27 October 2009 
 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2009/1213.html 
 
 
