
 
1 There can be no reasonable doubt in this matter that the respondent, Peter Chadley Bunn, failed to observe the restraint placed on him by an injunctive order of this Court of 9 March 2006.
He has thus acted in contempt of the Court.
Though the contempt has not been conceded by Mr Bunn and he denies that he intended to disobey the Court's order, the substantial issue I need determine is whether Mr Bunn's disobedience was itself conscious and deliberate, this being of no little relevance to the penalties appropriate to the contempt established.
THE COURT'S ORDER 
 
2 On 24 February 2006, the applicant companies (which I will describe collectively as "the Metcash companies") commenced proceedings against Mr Bunn.
Interlocutory relief was sought to restrain publications by Mr Bunn relating to companies and their businesses which they claimed were objectionable.
At a contested interlocutory hearing on 9 March 2006 at which Mr Bunn appeared without legal representation, Lander J of this Court was satisfied that there were serious questions to be tried in relation to alleged breaches of the companies' trademarks, inducements to third parties to breach their contracts with the Metcash companies and contraventions of s 52 and s 53 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth): Metcash Trading Limited v Bunn [2006] FCA 322.
Being satisfied that the balance of convenience favoured the applicants, his Honour made interlocutory orders which included the following:
 
 
 3.2 Until further order, the Respondent, his servants or agents be restrained from publishing or republishing the allegations contained in the "Open Letter" dated 17 December 2005 being exhibit "PAC 11" to the affidavit of Peter Andrew Campbell sworn 23 February 2006.
...
 
 3.5 Until further order, the Respondent, his servants or agents be restrained from publishing, whether on the internet or by any other means of communication to the public, any allegation to the effect that:
 
 
 
 
 
 a. the Respondent or the Respondent's former company, Chadmar Enterprises Pty Ltd (In Liquidation) is currently pursuing recovery proceedings against any of the Applicants or their related entities;
 
 b. the Applicants actively and deliberately operated in a manner calculated to destroy the Respondent's business;
 
 c. the Applicants actively and deliberately operate in a manner calculated to prejudice, damage or destroy the business of independent retailers with whom they deal ;
 
 d. the Applicants have deliberately and improperly concealed the existence of substantial actions commenced by suppliers and customers and thereby caused Metcash Limited to breach its disclosure requirements'.
(Emphasis added.
) 
 
 

3 Though the contempt charged relates only to instances of disobedience to Order 3.5(c), the other orders above are of some significance, as will later become apparent.
4 The first version of the applicants' Statement of Claim post-dated the 9 March 2006 orders.
It was filed on 26 May 2006 and, in addition to the causes of action identified by Lander J, it contained as well claims for threatened disclosure of confidential information, defamation and injurious falsehood.
I simply note in passing that the allegations pleaded in the current version of the statement of claim in relation to defamation, injurious falsehood and contravention of s 52 and s 53(d) of the Trade Practices Act reflect that referred to in Order 3.5(c): see Second Amended Statement of Claim paras 46.1.5, 47, 52, 57 and 61.
5 At a later interlocutory hearing before Lander J on 28 February 2007, the scope and meaning of aspects of the above orders was raised in discussion between Lander J and Mr Bunn.
The genesis of this discussion related in part to Mr Bunn's claimed inability to work out what it was in his 17 December 2005 "Open Letter" to which the Metcash companies objected.
The contents of that letter are described below.
The following exchanges extended across seven pages of the Transcript: see pp 51-57.
MR BUNN: I first of all started off trying to work out exactly what they were referring to in my open letter of 17 December.
... MR BUNN: The order against me was --- I was restrained from publishing and republishing the allegations contained in the open letter of 17 December.
See, from my perspective, I am not seeing allegations.
I know them to be facts so that is where all my confusion comes in.
So I actually went and I broke down that open letter of 17 December into numbered paragraphs and sub-numbered sentences, asking them: please tell me which is which?
All I got was - - - HIS HONOUR: Sorry, what do you ask?
MR BUNN: In the letter I asked them: could they please identify by paragraph and sentence number the allegations to which you are claiming in regard to the injunction that was placed on it.
HIS HONOUR: Where do you write that?
MR BUNN: The third-last paragraph.
HIS HONOUR: Of what?
MR BUNN: The 5 October letter, which is 130 --- PCV130.
HIS HONOUR: Yes.
MR BUNN: Asked the name so that we can actually deal in words.
Maybe I was wrong in doing that, I don't know.
The only reply I got was annexure 131 from Mr Mauritz, who basically said: we have clearly identified the issues in dispute, and he names the statement of claim and the categories of documents.
He does state prior to that: we are not your legal advisers, a fact that you have identified.
Once again, another twist of what has been said before, but I understand that they are not, that they are bringing the claim against me and I just wanted to know, what were the allegations in that 17 December letter.
After getting that reply I then wrote to them on 9 October.
This time I went to the great time and effort to list, or enclose all open letters which were referred to in this Court into numbered paragraphs and sub-sentences --- I am pretty proud of my job, if I may say so, it took a long time --- once again, to identify which allegations --- or what they are calling an allegation --- including the page of the Metcash Info site.
HIS HONOUR: Mr Bunn, in that letter you wrote sending the open letter, to which - - - MR BUNN: Is that the 17th, or all of the open letters, your Honour?
HIS HONOUR: Well, as the order presently stands you are not entitled to publish any of the allegations which are assertions of fact contained in the open letter of 17 December.
MR BUNN: But what are they calling an allegation in that letter?
HIS HONOUR: An assertion of fact.
MR BUNN: An assertion of fact is something that is not backed by evidence, is it not?
HIS HONOUR: No, no.
At this stage anything assertion of fact which is made is an allegation.
MR BUNN: Even if it has got factual evidence?
HIS HONOUR: Yes.
Until such time as it is established to be a fact by the Court.
MR BUNN: Okay.
All right, my understanding.
I didn't think I was being stopped talking about truth and fact.
HIS HONOUR: There might be something to be said to varying the order because it is probably too wide.
MR BUNN: I read the order all the time and I didn't understand it as saying, I couldn't even talk about fact.
It says: Any allegation to the effect that.
HIS HONOUR: Yes.
MR BUNN: An allegation is unbased with evidence, is it not?
HIS HONOUR: Well, yes.
MR BUNN: Have I got it upside down?
HIS HONOUR: I think you have.
I think the intent of the order is to prevent you making the claims previously published in that letter.
Whether the order ought to continue to stand is another thing.
... MR BUNN: This is where I get tripped up.
A lot of what is in that 17 December letter is fact.
Some of the stuff they haven't even raised in it.
Some of the stuff they have raised but it has got blaring evidence that even they have produced to this Court ... HIS HONOUR: Can I answer some of your questions that you raised rhetorically, I think --- and this is not to sound critically of you --- you have got an ongoing campaign directed against Metcash.
MR BUNN: It is not a campaign, your Honour.
It is not directed at Metcash.
Can I explain?
HIS HONOUR: Yes.
MR BUNN: I had six supermarkets turning over a substantial amount of money and I had operated in the industry for 18 years and I had a lot all my life, everything invested in it.
Under a contract that was what I believed was what I could base that business on.
The contract was either not honoured or was manipulated by the applicants and of course the company got into trouble, and since then I have lost the company, I have lost everything in life, I have gone into bankruptcy.
It has all been a 5 big joke to Metcash.
But my greatest fear is, above everything else that has happened to me, is that what I have gone through doesn't happen to anyone else, and it doesn't happen to anyone else through them knowing what and how it occurred, what is occurring and what is going on.
Now, I have at all times, if you go through these open letters, I have said to Metcash: you place in the public forum the evidence to prove me wrong and I will not only withdraw what I have said, I will make a public apology --- and I mean that --- I have no malice towards anybody in particular at Metcash and I have said in numerous open letters: yes, I want them to review their conduct in regard to Chadmar and its supply agreement.
I am not in the position as Franklins are to take them to the Supreme Court and run through there for three and a half years but, yes, I do --- so it is not an agenda to pull down Metcash.
HIS HONOUR: I didn't say that.
MR BUNN: But, I tell you what, it is in to make sure that no other independent wholesaler falls into the hole that I fell into.
HIS HONOUR: Yes.
I think - - - MR BUNN: And, this is all based on fact and truth.
I mean, it is not - - - HIS HONOUR: That may be so.
I don t think anything you have said actually causes me to alter what I said.
I think you are running a campaign, and this is not said critically, you are a constant critic of Metcash, and it is directed against Metcash and the ALM.
Now, whilst you do that, you can assume that Metcash will react because - - - MR BUNN: Certainly.
... MR BUNN: ...
In regard to the affidavit of Peter Andrew Campbell, 5 February, under contempt, and I understand that contempt is now off the table, and has taken another format.
But, still, he quotes that the orders at number 38, he quotes the orders: 
 
 The applicants actively and deliberately operate in a manner calculated prejudice, damage, or destroy the business of the independent retailer.

 
 
Without going through every sentence, and every paragraph I understand what that says in that order.
I'm very aware of what it says in that order but in nothing that they have brought before this Court have I said that they actively do it, or deliberately do it.
What I have always said --- and I have said right from the start --- is that their actions create a problem.
Their actions are having these impacts.
Whether it be naively or anything else, I have never made a judgment on it.
What I have made a judgment on has been the resulting effect of what Metcash do and what Metcash say.
So I have never said they don t have the - - - HIS HONOUR: That is a different thing.
The order doesn't address motive; the order addresses actions.
It might be that they have done it for the right motives or for the wrong motives, but the question is: if you write something in which you say that Metcash has intentionally done something, in a manner calculated to produce damage or destroy the business of a retailer, then you will breach the order.
MR BUNN: But I haven t said that they have actively or deliberately done it; calculated it to do such.
HIS HONOUR: You don't have to use the words of the order to breach it.
You can breach the order if what you write is contrary to the terms of the order.
I'm not saying you have - - - MR BUNN: With all due respect, your Honour --- and this is no criticism of the Court, because I understand; you explained it to me in March when the injunction was put on me the reasons why the Court had to --- but the basis on their applications and the issues ordered would really, if you allow their interpretations to rest on everything that has been written --- and, mind you, there is a mile of other stuff that has been printed that I have made no issue with --- but if you take what they have brought up to this Court and having issue with on their interpretation of my words, well then I would get sunk on every sentence in every paragraph of every media release and every open letter.
HIS HONOUR: Maybe, but that is not the issue today.
As I said, if you want to apply to discharge or vary the order, make your application and I will hear it as soon as I can.
6 I refer to this exchange despite its length, as it bears directly both on the way in which the Metcash companies seek to characterise the contempt alleged and on Mr Bunn's defence of the charges against him.
What I would presently emphasise is that, while the first two passages I have emphasised clearly relate to Order 3.2, the latter two equally clearly relate to Order 3.5(c).
The two orders, as his Honour indicated, were quite different in the restraints they respectively imposed.
7 By notice of motion of 27 March 2007, Mr Bunn sought, amongst other things, the deletion of Order 3.5(c).
Argument on that motion was heard on 17 December 2007.
Mr Bunn indicated then that he no longer wished to prosecute the Order 3.5(c) part of his motion, having been advised against it by pro-bono solicitors appointed by this Court to advise him in relation to that and other motions.
8 The first of the three publications said to constitute the contempt was published in July 2007.
THE APPLICABLE LEGAL PRINCIPLES 
 
9 These are not in issue and can be stated shortly.
First, the order alleged to be breached must be clear and unambiguous: see Australian Consolidated Press Ltd v Morgan [1965] HCA 21 ; (1965) 112 CLR 483 at 515-516; and be capable of being complied with: see Australian Prudential Regulation Authority v Siminton (No 7) [2007] FCA 1609 at [40] .
Secondly, the proper construction of an order is not a matter of fact but a question of law: Universal Music Australia Pty Ltd v Sharman Networks Ltd [2006] FCAFC 41 ; (2006) 150 FCR 110 at [19] .
Thirdly, it is not necessary for an applicant to prove that an alleged contemnor intended to disobey the order: ibid, at [17]; nor is it necessary to prove that the alleged contemnor understood the true meaning of the terms of an order or that he or she was aware that his or her conduct constituted a breach of the order: Microsoft Corporation v Marks (No 1) (1996) 69 FCR 117 at 143.
Nonetheless it may be highly relevant to the question of penalty that the alleged contemnor disobeyed an order because he or she placed a construction on it that was not its true construction: Universal Music Australia Pty Ltd at [38].
Fourthly, deliberate conduct which is in breach of a court order will constitute wilful disobedience of the order, and therefore a civil contempt, unless the conduct be casual, accidental or unintentional: Louis Vuitton Malletier SA v Design Elegance Pty Ltd [2006] FCA 83 ; (2006) 149 FCR 494 at [6] .
Fifthly, the facts in issue in a contempt charge must be proved beyond reasonable doubt: Witham v Holloway [1995] HCA 3 ; (1995) 183 CLR 525 at 534.
THE STATEMENT OF CHARGE 
 
10 After referring to Order 3.5(c), the Statement referred individually to allegations made by Mr Bunn in three editions of a publication entitled "The Independent Grocers [sic] Advocate" ("TIGA").
This was published periodically, the individual editions of which were differentiated by reference (usually) to month, publication number and year (eg 07/1 2007).
To put the allegations in their respective contexts, I will quote extracts from each of the editions in question highlighting the various allegations made in each respectively.
11 (i) The first publication.
This was dated from in or about July 2007 and stated in part: 
 The anger and frustration against Metcash, by its independent grocery and liquor retailer customers, would appear, to be at an all time high.
Following Metcash's announcement of its 105% increase in net profit (FY 2007) retailers are saying that Metcash's profit increase proves that Metcash's agenda is aimed at Metcash's bottom line regardless of the detrimental impact to the independent retailer.
One Metcash customer, from W.A.
stated that "... Metcash, under the control of Mr. Andrew Reitzer CEO (one of Metcash's largest private shareholders), drags ever increasing profits out of the pockets of every independent retailer, and, such action is only killing off the small independent retailer ..." Another Metcash customer, from Qld.
Stated that "... whilst Metcash states they are the 'Champion of the Independent Retailer', the fact of the matter is that Metcash is slowly but surely taking a shareholding in a large number of multi site independent retailers, and thus having a significant detrimental influence over those retailers, as Metcash is not only a shareholder, but also the major supplier to those retailers".
He went on to say that "whilst this is promoted by Mr. Reitzer as Metcash's defence against the 'creeping acquisitions' by the majors, it has a far darker side in that Metcash are now becoming the retailer, and thus the competitor to all other truly independent retailers ...
Many retailers have also complained that Metcash is financially killing them with ever increasing fees and costs, which in turn are making them uncompetitive, and they all cite the latest report by Choice Magazine, which received a lot of discussion in the press stating that IGA supermarkets are the most expensive.
... A Metcash customer from Vic.
Stated that at one IGA retailer conference, the theme was 'Gangsters' and he claimed that it was not just a theme, but he believed it was the mantra of the Metcash management team, lead by Andrew Reitzer, in the way they treat the independent retailers!!
12 (ii) The second publication.
This was dated October 2007.
It stated in part: 
 It is strongly rumoured that Metcash/ALM now have the 300+ members of a very successful, independently owned, marketing group that ALM supplies, Independent Liquor Retailers (ILR), whose privately owned banners are "Local Liquor" and "Countrywide", in its sights.
As the ILR group is independently owned, this means that Metcash/ALM loose the control, and benefit, of large amounts of co-operative/promotional funds that liquor manufacturers pay for the marketing of their products, not to mention the embarrassing situation for Metcash in having independent retailers who have their stores bannered as IGA, yet they market their liquor under a non-Metcash/ALM banner --- doesn't say much for the independent retailers opinion of the Metcash/ALM banners, or of the "IGA plus LIQUOR" banner which is what Metcash want, and need, IGA bannered stores that sell liquor to be trading under!
Metcash executives have been reported as saying that the supply agreement that ALM has with ILR is not profitable enough for Metcash anymore, and that Metcash need to get rid of the ILR supply agreement, either by, taking over, or somehow terminating/varying, the ILR supply agreement, to gain control of all the independent retailers who belong to, and trade under, ILR's banners, so they (Metcash/ALM) are able to merge those ILR members into one of the Metcash owned IBA banner groups.
By doing this Metcash would be able to accomplish the following benefits, to the detriment of the independent liquor retailers: 
 
 1.
Metcash would be able to get control of the co-operative/promotional funds that ILR currently collect for its members from manufacturers, and redirect those funds from the ILR group, to the ALM balance sheet.
2.
Metcash would be able to claim another 300+ members for its ALM/IBA banner groups, so Metcash/ALM could publicly claim greater numbers of retailers joining the Metcash/ALM controlled banner groups, although such does not equate to any direct increase in sales, or actual customer numbers for ALM.
3.
Metcash/ALM would have a tighter control over its customers.
The retailers who currently belong to the ILR group, and obtain stock under the terms of the ILR supply agreement with ALM, would then be required to deal individually with Metcash/ALM, thus losing the financial and commercial benefit of being able to negotiate as a member of a large independently owned banner group.
4.
Metcash would be released from a supply agreement that is not as profitable for ALM as is the supply agreements that ALM requires its IBA banner members sign, thus ILR members would be forced into having to accept higher costs, and lower benefits in trading with Metcash/ALM.

 
Given that it has appeared over the last 12-18 months that Metcash is struggling to keep profitability in ALM, it has been rumoured that the Metcash Executive team fears that ALM's dropping profitability could eventually start impacting the profitability of Metcash's other wholesaling divisions, and hence the Metcash Executive team are looking at every conceivable way of dragging even further profits out of the independent retailer's pockets and onto the Metcash balance sheet ... how much more can the independent retailer, who deals with Metcash, withstand before he, the independent retailer, finds he is unprofitable?
The big question is that of the future for the independent liquor retailers who deal with Metcash's ALM, as to Metcash/ALM's actual plans, not to mention the abovementioned rumoured plans by Metcash/ALM, all, which raise many worrying questions for all independent liquor retailers.
13 (iii) The third publication.
This was dated December 2007.
It stated in part:
 Mr. Andrew Reitzer [the Metcash CEO] has been able to announce a 30% profit increase, before abnormals (*), for the Metcash first half 2007-08 financial year.
