
 The Registrar of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Corporations (the Registrar) has, by a delegate, Mr Armstrong, sought the winding up of the Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Corporation for Welfare Services (the Corporation).
Today was the day appointed for the hearing of the winding up application.
It seems that the imminence of the hearing has, in ways that have not, unfortunately, hitherto occurred, focussed the minds of those in control of the Corporation on the need to order the affairs of the Corporation in a way that meets with compliance with the governing legislation: namely, the Corporations (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander) Act 2006 (Cth) (Corporations (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander) Act).
It is apparent, though, from the affidavits read, that there has been, albeit, with respect, belatedly, a focus on the need for the Corporation either to put its affairs in order or be placed in liquidation.
It is also apparent from the affidavit material that the Corporation is, prima facie, asset rich.
There is an interrogative note in respect of whether the Mt Isa Town Council will or will not waive or grant exemption to the Corporation in respect of general rates.
It is not impossible to see, from the affidavit material and the role of the Corporation, to which I will advert shortly, how a view might be reached that it was engaged in charitable pursuits.
That, though, is a question which is not for me to decide.
The Corporation has been at pains to endeavour to secure an answer from the Mt Isa Council in relation to its rating exemption application.
It is apparent, that in this regard, the Corporation has, for the present, done everything that it could to secure a decision from the Council.
The Council, though, has not yet made a decision.
It is desirable, to say the least, that the Council make a decision in respect of the exemption application as soon as reasonably possible.
There is also an even more interrogative note in relation to whether the Corporation owes money to the Commonwealth of Australia by way of Pay As You Go remittance amounts.
The Corporation discharges a role in and about Mt Isa in relation to the housing of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander members of the community.
It does so by way of the rental of premises at rents which are less than commercial rents.
In so doing, it provides a housing resource for the community.
That particular activity is continuing.
It seems that for reasons associated with the unfortunate ill health and then death of a governing member of the Corporation's board, that the affairs of the Corporation in the last two or three years have not received the attention which should be expected of a board of a corporation, be it under the Corporations (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander) Act or, for that matter, the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) itself.
That has manifested itself, inter alia, in, prima facie, a series of events of non-compliance with statutory obligations under the Corporations (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander) Act and its predecessor, as well as, more generally, in a lack of due attention to the collection of amounts owing in the Corporation's rent book.
Were the Corporation to be wound up, the assets of the Corporation could not pass to its members.
It seems likely that a sequel to the winding up would be the disposal in the course of the liquidation of the considerable housing assets, either to the State or to the Commonwealth.
That would remove the control of the housing resource from the members of the local Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community.
In that sense, it would be antithetical to the very reason why the Corporation was set up in the first place, which was to give a measure of local control in respect of that useful community asset to those whose interests were served by it.
Upon the application coming on, the Corporation sought the adjournment of the hearing for a period of sixty (60) days.
That particular application was not opposed by the Registrar, although it must be said that the Registrar is guarded and watchful in respect of the continued viability of the Corporation.
Nonetheless, it seems that the Registrar has taken into account the efforts that are presently being made, either to regularise the affairs of the Corporation and demonstrate its solvency, or to meet the inevitable and, perhaps, unpalatable situation where it is not solvent and ought to be wound up, either on that ground, or a more general just and equitable basis, or on the basis of repeated non-compliance with statutory obligation, or some combination thereof.
The Corporation has put forward a proposal which has come to be evidenced by an affidavit from its solicitor, whereby a qualified accountant will become a member of its board.
It is envisaged that that gentleman will furnish, during the proposed adjournment period, a report within fourteen (14) days of the end of each month as to the financial performance of the Corporation in the preceding month to the Registrar.
I have evidence before me that the gentleman concerned, Mr Ericson, has been appointed by the board today.
It is something of a calculated risk, notwithstanding the Registrar's disposition, to adjourn the application in the way sought.
There is obviously a public interest in corporations that are not solvent being placed in liquidation.
Equally, and I think, on balance, more persuasively, there is also a public interest in this particular resource, if at all possible, remaining under local control of local Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islanders.
Albeit with some hesitation, I propose to adjourn the application to 17 December 2009.
I also make the following directions: That until further order: 
(a) The Corporation report to the Registrar as follows:
 
(i) Within 14 days of the holding of any meeting required by law to be held, provide to the Registrar minutes of such meeting.
(ii) Within 14 days of the change of any director or resignation of any director, report such a change or resignation to the Registrar.
(b) The non-member director Mr Ericson, appointed on 20 October 2009, provide a report to the Registrar within 14 days of the end of each month as to the financial performance of the Corporation in the preceding month.
(c) I grant liberty to apply on three days notice in writing.
I envisage that in the event that there is a basis for apprehension concerning the solvency of the Corporation, such as would ordinarily give rise to a basis for the appointment of a provisional liquidator, that the liberty to apply will be utilised for that purpose.
I further envisage that if there is some other basis disclosed in reporting, as provided for, upon which a provisional liquidator might be appointed, that again, the liberty to apply will be used for that purpose.
There remains a question of costs.
As mentioned, the case is one which was due for hearing today, and the adjournment proposal has emerged but late.
That has had the necessary consequence that the Registrar has incurred costs which will be thrown away in respect of today's proceeding.
Those costs include the attendance on notice of Mr Birch, who provided a report to the Registrar concerning the affairs of the Corporation earlier this year.
The further order I make, therefore, is that the Corporation pay the Registrar's costs thrown away by the adjournment, to be taxed.
I certify that the preceding thirteen (13) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Logan.
Associate:
 
 
Dated: 28 October 2009
 
 Counsel for the Plaintiff: Mr D de Jersey 
 
 Solicitor for the Plaintiff: Minter Ellison 
 
 Counsel for the Defendant: Mr CD Coulsen 
 
 Solicitor for the Defendant: Corney  Lind 
 Date of Hearing: 20 October 2009 
 
 Date of Judgment: 20 October 2009 
 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2009/1215.html 
 
 
