
 This proceeding arises out of an application for determination of native title made by Lorraine Muckan and Len Royee on their own behalf and on behalf of the Combined Dulabed Malanbarra Yidinji People.
The Respondents are the State of Queensland, the Cairns Regional Council, the Tablelands Regional Council, Ergon Energy Corporation Limited and Mrs Jacqueline Spokes.
The claim area comprises approximately 166.6 square kilometres of land and waters and lies within the upper Mulgrave River basin approximately 40 kilometres south-west of Cairns in the Wet Tropics World Heritage region of far north Queensland.
The area is commonly known as the Goldsborough Valley and is comprehensively defined as the "Determination Area" in Schedule 1 of the agreement filed on 30 November 2009.
Background of the Application
 This application, which is the combination of two earlier overlapped applications, has a long and chequered history.
The original Malanbarra Yidinji People's application was lodged with the National Native Title Tribunal (the Tribunal) on 21 August 1994 and an application by George Davis on behalf of the descendants of Jimmy Longdon, members of the Dulabed Aboriginal Corporation, was lodged with the Tribunal on 23 February 1995.
On 12 June 1996 the Malanbarra Clan of Yidinji People lodged an application with the Tribunal but discontinued that application on 7 February 2000.
On 30 September 1998, by force of amendments to the Native Title Act 1993 (Cth) (the Act), all applications lodged with the Tribunal became proceedings filed in the Court.
On 23 March 2001, by order of Justice Drummond, the Dulabed and Malanbarra Yidinji applications were combined and became proceeding QUD 6012/01 as the Combined Dulabed Malanbarra Yidinji People's application for a determination of native title.
The application has been amended on four separate occasions, the last being on 16 November 2009.
The combined application was notified by the Tribunal pursuant to, and in accordance with, s 66 of the Act and a number of parties became respondents to the proceeding.
The State of Queensland, Cairns Regional Council (formerly City of Cairns Council), Tablelands Regional Council (formerly Eacham Shire Council), Ergon Energy Corporation Limited and Jacqueline Spokes remain parties.
The combined application was referred to mediation with the Tribunal on 11 May 2004.
The Act encourages the parties to resolve applications through mediation without the necessity for contested adversarial hearings.
With the assistance of the Tribunal, the parties have reached agreement as to the terms of the determination for the purposes of s 87 and s 94A of the Act that native title exists in respect to the Determination Area as described in the s 87 Agreement that was filed on 30 November 2009.
The Native Title Claim Group
 The amended application names Lorraine Muckan and Len Royee as the Applicant.
The Dulabed claim group is made up of the persons descended from their apical ancestor, Jimmy Longdon or Langdon, and the Malanbarra Yidinji claim group is made up of persons who are descended from Jimmy Longdon (also known as Jimmy Langdon); Tommy Longdon (also known as Tommy Langdon); Alec Morgan, Jack Stewart; Dolly Abbo; Paddy Bailey; Annie; or recruited by adoption in accordance with traditional laws and customs of the Dulabed and Malanbarra Yidinji People.
Power of the Court
 Pursuant to s 13 of the Act, applications for the determination of native title may be made to the Federal Court in relation to areas for which there is no approved determination of native title.
Part 3 of the Act sets out the rules for making such applications to the Court.
Part 4 Division 1C of the Act provides that some or all of the parties involved in native title proceedings may negotiate an agreement for the application or part of the application.
Section 87 of the Act allows the Court, if it is satisfied that such an order is within power, to make an order in, or consistent with, the terms of the parties written agreement without holding a hearing.
I am satisfied that the proposed orders that have been freely agreed to by all of the parties on an informed basis are appropriate.
There are now a number of decisions of this Court that have considered the requirements of this section of the Act that promotes a resolution of native title applications by way of negotiated agreement.
Justice Greenwood, in Deborah Hobson and Ors on behalf of the Kuuku Ya'u People v State of Queensland [2009] FCA 679 at [12] referred to the observations made by Chief Justice French in his paper, Lifting the Burden of Native Title --- Some Modest proposals for Improvement , that the Court will not lightly second-guess the agreement the parties have reached by requiring formal proof of the content of the subject matter of each proposition contained in the proposed orders which in turn must necessarily address the elements of ss 223 and 225 of the Act.
Otherwise the Applicant would be burdened with, in effect, a subset of a trial in establishing the appropriateness of consensual orders.
Consideration of Agreement and Draft Determination
 In considering whether it is appropriate to make the order that the parties seek, I have had the benefit of reading Dr Sandra Pannell's excellent summary of three reports, Evidence for the Continuous Traditional Connection to the Claim Area in the Matter of Yidinji/Malanbarra Native Title Claim by Averil Ginn, the Anthropological Report for the Dulabed Aboriginal Corporation by Petronella Vaarzon-Morel, and the Anthropological Report of the Upper Yidinji Attachments to Land in the Atherton-Goldsborough Valley Region by Athol Chase and Marcus Lane.
These three reports were prepared prior to the High Court decisions in Western Australia v Ward [2002] HCA 28 ; (2002) 191 ALR 1 and Members of the Yorta Yorta Aboriginal Community v Victoria (2002) 194 ALR 538.
I have also considered the Executive Summary on the Dulabed/Malanbarra Yidinji Genealogies prepared by Jennifer Gabriel.
Dr Pannell's Summary of Connection Material (dated November 2006 and amended October 2009) clearly explores the available evidence on the identification of the claim group, continuity of connection and the normative system of traditional law and custom of the claim group.
The reports examine the society at the time of European intrusions into the Determination Area, the normative laws and customs acknowledged and observed by that society at and subsequent to European settlement and the genealogical record.
I have found the wealth of personal information in the affidavits of senior members of the claim group, exhibited to the affidavit of Martin Edwin Ellis Dor, the Principal Legal Officer employed by the North Queensland Land Council, and filed on 30 November 2009, to be very informative and helpful in respect to the current society.
In order to establish that there are today native title holders, it must first be established that, at the time of sovereignty, a society of persons bound together by observance of traditional laws and customs existed.
Petronella Vaarzon-Morel in her anthropological report refers to the first recorded sighting of Aborigines in the claim area as occurring in October 1873 when George Elphinstone Dalrymple led the north-east coast expedition up the North Johnstone to the Mulgrave River in an attempt to ascend Bellenden Ker Range.
She refers to Dalrymple's journal where he noted Aboriginal camps and bora grounds in the area and that "Mount Bellenden Ker was shrouded in dense clouds of smoke of blacks fires".
At the junction of Tighes Creek and the Mulgrave River he observed Aboriginal encampments and saw them daily crossing the river or fishing in their canoes.
At a point 15 miles further up the Mulgrave he noted numerous outrigger canoes, rafts and that the canoes were all well furnished with fish spears, lines hand nets, etc. Dalrymple recorded that: 
 
 Blacks were seen crossing the reaches ahead of us on our way up but hid themselves on our approach.

 
 
 Continuing upstream to the foothills of Walsh's Pyramid, Dalrymple noted that: 
 
 Numerous round topped palm leaf gunyahs occupied picturesque sites on the banks at the bends of the river, generally commanding a view along both reaches.
Returning downstream in the dark, we pass numerous large fires of a black's camp.
Visiting the camp, then deserted, a few days later, we found that they had been feasting on a large crocodile.

 

 There were subsequent expeditions into the area by, amongst others, Archibald Meston who made extensive notes of his scientific expeditions within the north Queensland rainforest region.
Reference is made in the report to Meston meeting the same aborigines encountered by Dalrymple thirty one years earlier.
The Vaarzon-Morel report refers to the first white settlement in the area in 1877 when the Alley family took up 640 acres of land at Riverstone (now Gordonvale).
The report contains the following extract from an 1878 report by Police Commissioner Seymour: 
 
 The whole coast from the Mulgrave to the Mossman is studded with timber-getters and settlers, by whom the blacks are disturbed and prevented from obtaining their natural food while on the other side of the range the country is all occupied by small cattle stations which again cut them off from their hunting and fishing grounds.
The intervening scrub is small, affording but a scanty supply of fruits in their season, and the natives are literally starving, and take advantage of the cover afforded by the scrub to make sudden raids on the cattle and huts (cited in Glass 1997).

 

 In 1879, Fanning Town, otherwise known as Goldsborough, was established approximately 20 kilometres from Gordonvale on the Mulgrave River at a point just below the junction of the Mulgrave River with Toohey Creek.
Fanning Town was within the traditional country of the Dulabed Malanbarra Yidinji People.
Mining activity was focused within the claim area between Toohey Creek and Butcher Creek.
There were approximately 140 miners working in the field and police records note that "the blacks are numerous" and that although they had not yet caused problems their presence in the area urgently warranted "a native police detachment to keep the blacks in check".
A detachment of native police was subsequently sent to the area and a period of conflict followed.
Ms Vaarzon---Morel says that it was during this period that Jimmy Longdon, the father of the original Dulabed Applicant, the late George Davis, first encountered Europeans.
The Combined Dulabed Malanbarra Yidinji People's traditional entitlement to ownership of the ancestral lands and waters derives from their physical, cultural and spiritual connection to the claim area.
I am satisfied that I can infer from the well documented historical and anthropological material that at the time of sovereignty, a society of persons bound together by observance of traditional laws and customs existed.
I have been greatly assisted by the personal information contained in the affidavits referred to above.
The deponents provide a clear picture of the contemporary society that demonstrates its connection to the Determination Area.
These include activities such as: 
(i) occupying the remnant forests or otherwise utilising them to gather food and medicinal plants;
 
(ii) hunting and fishing within the determination area;
 
(iii) conducting ceremonies and storytelling;
 
(iv) working on local farms whilst occupying traditional dwellings; 
 
(v) engaging in occupations carried on out on country, such as timber cutting or fossicking, and in some cases returning to their country upon release from government missions.
The Terms of the Proposed Order
 Where the Court makes an order in which a determination of native title is made, section 94A of the Act requires the Court to set out details of the matters mentioned in section 225.
It is necessary to consider whether the terms of the proposed determination satisfy the requirements of s 225 of the Act which provides: 
 
 A determination of native title is a determination whether or not native title exists in relation to a particular area (the determination area ) of land or waters and, if it does exist, a determination of: 
 

 
 
 (a) who the persons, or each group of persons, holding the common or group rights comprising the native title are; and 
 

 
 
 (b) the nature and extent of the native title rights and interests in relation to the determination area; and 
 

 
 
 (c) the nature and extent of any other interests in relation to the determination area; and 
 

 
 
 (d) the relationship between the rights and interests in paragraphs (b) and (c) (taking into account the effect of this Act); and 
 

 
 
 (e) to the extent that the land or waters in the determination area are not covered by a non-exclusive agricultural lease or a non-exclusive pastoral lease---whether the native title rights and interests confer possession, occupation, use and enjoyment of that land or waters on the native title holders to the exclusion of all others.

 

 Paragraph 225(a) deals with the identification of the persons holding the common or group rights comprising the native title.
This is set out Schedule 1 to the determination.
Paragraph 225(b) deals with the nature and extent of the native title rights and interests in relation to the Determination Area.
This is set out in orders 3 to 8.
Paragraph 225(c) deals with the nature and extent of any other interests in relation to the Determination Area.
This is dealt with in order 8 and Schedule 5.
Paragraph 225(d) deals with the relationship between the rights and interests in par 225(b) and (c), taking into account the effect of the Act.
This is dealt with in order 9.
Paragraph 225(e) deals with the question of exclusion of others.
The proposed determination properly distinguishes between those areas where rights are recognised to the exclusion of all others (Schedule 3) and those areas where rights and interests are non-exclusive (Schedule 4).
In my judgment, the requirements of the sub-section have been met in the proposed determination.
Having regard to the material I have considered to support the application, the terms of the proposed determination and the submissions of the Applicant, I am satisfied that all of the matters in s 225 of the Act have been properly addressed.
The proposed order, which is consistent with the terms agreed by the parties, recognises that the Combined Dulabed Malanbarra Yidinji People, as the holders of the native title in the Determination Area, are entitled to the exclusive and non-exclusive use and enjoyment of the land and waters in accordance with their traditional laws and customs.
The proposed orders further recognise other interests in the Determination Area and the relationship of those interests with the native title interests.
The proposed order contains other provisions, required by the Act which are unnecessary for me to set out here.
Section 55 of the Act requires the Court either to make a determination where native title is held on trust as contemplated by s 56 or a determination under s 57 of the Act.
The parties have agreed that the native title is not to be held in trust.
Section 57(2) of the Act provides: 
 
 57 Determination of prescribed body corporate etc. 
 

 
 
 ... 
 

 
 
 Where not trustee 
 

 
 
 (2) If the determination under section 56 is not as mentioned in subsection (1) of this section, the Federal Court must take the following steps in determining which prescribed body corporate is, after becoming a registered native title body corporate, to perform the functions mentioned in subsection (3): 
 

 
 
 
 (a) first, it must request a representative of the common law holders to: 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 (i) nominate, in writing given to the Federal Court within a specified period, a prescribed body corporate for the purpose; and 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 (ii) include with the nomination the written consent of the body corporate; 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 (b) secondly, if a prescribed body corporate is nominated in accordance with the request, the Federal Court must determine that the body is to perform the functions; 
 
 

 
 
 
 (c) thirdly, if no prescribed body corporate is nominated in accordance with the request, the Federal Court must, in accordance with the regulations, determine which prescribed body corporate is to perform the functions.

 
 

 Ms Lorraine Muckan, in her affidavit filed on 27 November 2009, says that the Applicant has nominated the Dulabed Malanbarra and Yidinji Aboriginal Corporation (incorporated under the Corporations (Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander) Act 2006 (Cth)) (the Corporation) as the prescribed body corporate for the purposes of s 57 (2) of the Act to act for the common law holders, to perform the functions set out in the Act and the Native Title (Prescribed Bodies Corporate) Regulations 1999 (Cth) and for the other objects and purposes set out in the Rules of the Corporation.
The Corporation was registered on 5 November 2009.
Order 12 reflects the agreement of the parties and I am satisfied that the proposed determination meets the requirements of ss 55 and 57 of the Act.
I congratulate the Combined Dulabed Malanbarra Yidinji People, the State of Queensland and the other respondent parties who have, in the spirit of this beneficial legislation, reached an agreement that is reflected in the orders that I make today.
I am saddened that so many of the senior elders have died before seeing their native title recognised by Australia and its laws.
I wish to acknowledge the contribution that those persons made to the transmission of the law and custom to the younger generations of Dulabed and Malanbarra Yidinji People.
I am satisfied that the Court has power to make a determination in the terms proposed by the parties by agreement and that these orders can give effect to the agreement of all the parties.
Such orders determine under the laws of Australia that native title exists in the Determination Area according to the traditional laws and customs of the Combined Dulabed Malanbarra Yidinji People.
This is recognition of what the people have always understood the position to be.

 
 
 
 For the above reasons I have concluded that it is proper to make the orders sought by the parties to give effect to their agreement, and I now so order.
I certify that the preceding thirty-six (36) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Spender.
Associate:
 
 
Dated: 17 December 2009
 
 Solicitor for the Applicant: North Queensland Land Council Native Title Representative Body Aboriginal Corporation 
 
 Solicitor for the State of Queensland Crown Law 
 
 Solicitor for the Cairns Regional Council Preston Law 
 
 Solicitor for the Tablelands Regional Council MacDonnells Law 
 
 Solicitor for the Ergon Energy Corporation Limited MacDonnells Law 
 
 Ms J Spokes appeared in person 
 
 Date of Hearing: 17 December 2009 
 
 Date of Judgment: 17 December 2009 
 
 
 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2009/1498.html 
 
 
