
 This is an application which is brought by Mr Bryan Kevin Hughes, as Liquidator of Firepower Operations Pty Ltd (In Liquidation) under s 596A of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) for the issue of an examination summons to Mr Timothy Francis Johnston.
Section 596A of the Corporations Act provides as follows: 
 
 The Court is to summon a person for examination about a corporation's examinable affairs if: 
 

 
 (a) an eligible applicant applies for the summons; and
 
 (b) the Court is satisfied that the person is an officer or provisional liquidator of the corporation or was such an officer or provisional liquidator during or after the 2 years ending:
 (i) if the corporation is under administration --- on the section 513C day in relation to the administration; or
 (ii) if the corporation has executed a deed of company arrangement that has not yet terminated --- on the section 513C day in relation to the administration that ended when the deed was executed; or
 (iii) if the corporation is being, or has been, wound up --- when the winding up began; or
 (iv) otherwise --- when the application is made.

 The provisions of s 596A require that the Court issues an examination summons if the conditions referred to therein, are fulfilled.
Unlike s 596B of the Corporations Act , the Court does not have a discretion as to whether to order that an examination summons should issue.
The distinction is of some importance because the range of persons who are eligible to be examined pursuant to an application made under s 596B is considerably wider than those who may be examined pursuant to an application made under s 596A.
In support of the application made under s 596A , the applicant relies upon an affidavit of Ms Kazi Mai Lyn Klopper which annexes a company search of Firepower Operations Pty Ltd. The liquidator of a company in liquidation is an "eligible applicant" for the purposes of s 596A.
The company search discloses that Mr Bryan Kevin Hughes was appointed the Liquidator of Firepower Operations Pty Ltd on 4 August 2008, and continues to act in that capacity.
I am satisfied that he is an eligible applicant under s 596A.
I am also satisfied on the basis of the information in the company search that Mr Johnston was a director, and therefore, an officer, of the company at the time its winding up began.
He is, therefore, a person to whom s 596A(b)(iii) applies.
In those circumstances, I am prepared to make the orders for the issue of an examination summons to Mr Johnston.
In my view, however, the examination summons should be returnable as soon as practicable.
On that basis, I will order that the examination summons be returnable before a Registrar of this Court at 10:15 am on 26 November 2009.
I certify that the preceding seven (7) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Siopis.
Associate:
Dated: 17 November 2009
 
 Counsel for the Plaintiff: Mr Stephen Penrose 
 
 Solicitor for the Plaintiff: Tottle Partners 
 Date of Hearing: 5 November 2009 
 
 Date of Judgment: 5 November 2009 
 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2009/1331.html 
 
 
