
 The applicant was employed by Centrelink at its Gosford Call Centre for a period of some years commencing in 2000.
Not long after his employment commenced, he began to be stressed at work.
The difficulties which he was experiencing at work came to a head in March 2003 when he was involved in a verbal altercation with a co-worker.
The applicant has claimed compensation from the respondent under the Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act 1988 (Cth) ( the Act ).
He made two claims, both of which were rejected by the respondent.
The first claim made by the applicant was a claim for Workers' Compensation made pursuant to s 14 of the Act.
That claim was dated 25 January 2006.
That claim was rejected on 3 July 2006.
In the letter rejecting the claim, the claim was described as: 
 
 ... aggravation of major depressive disorder, recurrent episode.

 

 The initial rejection by the respondent of the applicant's claim under s 14 of the Act was reviewed by an Independent Review Officer.
In a decision made on 27 September 2006, that officer confirmed the initial determination.
The applicant then sought a review of that decision in the Administrative Appeals Tribunal ( the Tribunal ) (Application N2006/1488).
In mid 2006, lawyers representing the applicant forwarded a Compensation Claim for Permanent Injury to the respondent.
At the same time, those lawyers requested: These additional claims were rejected by the respondent on 20 December 2006.
That decision was also reviewed and confirmed by a further decision given on 2 May 2007.
The applicant then applied to the Tribunal for a review of the decision made by the respondent on 2 May 2007 to the effect that he was not entitled to compensation pursuant to ss 16 , 19 , 20 , 21 and 21A of the Act in respect of his claimed " aggravation of major depressive disorder, recurrent episode ".
On 19 March 2008, the Tribunal affirmed the two decisions made by the respondent dated 27 September 2006 and 2 May 2007 ( Nelson v Comcare [2008] AATA 214).
The applicant appeals to this Court from that decision of the Tribunal pursuant to s 44 of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (Cth).
An appeal under that section must be on a question of law.
The applicant's Notice of Appeal raises four questions of law and advances several grounds in support of his contentions in respect of those questions of law.
Despite the length of the Notice of Appeal, the applicant's appeal raises only one issue, namely, whether the Tribunal failed to address and make a determination concerning the applicant's contention that his underlying psychiatric condition was " aggravated " within the meaning of the definition of " disease " in s 4(1) of the Act by his employment with Centrelink.
The applicant accepted that the above formulation of the matters which the applicant seeks to raise on appeal from the Tribunal captures the essence of the applicant's case on appeal.
THE RELEVANT LEGISLATIVE PROVISIONS 
 Section 14 of the Act provides that Comcare is liable to pay compensation in respect of an injury suffered by an employee if the injury results in death, incapacity for work or impairment.
At all relevant times, the terms injury , disease , aggravation , impairment and ailment were defined in s 4 of the Act as follows: 
 
 injury means:
 (a) a disease suffered by an employee; or
 (b) an injury (other than a disease) suffered by an employee, being a physical or mental injury arising out of, or in the course of, the employee's employment; or
 (c) an aggravation of a physical or mental injury (other than a disease) suffered by an employee (whether or not that injury arose out of, or in the course of, the employee's employment), being an aggravation that arose out of, or in the course of, that employment:
 but does not include any such disease, injury or aggravation suffered by an employee as a result of reasonable disciplinary action taken against the employee or failure by the employee to obtain a promotion, transfer or benefit in connection with his or her employment.
disease means:
 (a) any ailment suffered by an employee; or
 (b) the aggravation of any such ailment;
 being an ailment or an aggravation that was contributed to in a material degree by the employee's employment by the Commonwealth or a licensed corporation.
aggravation includes acceleration or recurrence.
impairment means the loss, the loss of the use, or the damage or malfunction, of any part of the body or of any bodily system or function or part of such system or function.
ailment means any physical or mental ailment, disorder, defect or morbid condition (whether of sudden onset or gradual development).

 

 It follows from the above definitions that: (a) When the expression injury is used in s 14(1) of the Act, it is intended to be used with the meaning accorded to it by the definition in s 4 ; (b) That definition includes "... a disease suffered by an employee "; (c) Disease means any ailment suffered by an employee or the aggravation of any such ailment being an ailment or an aggravation that was contributed to in a material degree by the employee's employment by the Commonwealth or a licensed corporation; and (d) Aggravation is defined to include acceleration or recurrence.
THE TRIBUNAL DECISION 
 The Tribunal affirmed the decisions made by Comcare on 27 September 2006 and 2 May 2007.
The Tribunal said (at [1] of its Reasons): 
 
 Mr Nelson ("The Applicant") was employed by Centrelink at its Gosford Call Centre.
He has complained of a psychological condition, contending it was sustained because of his employment.
