
 "Pecaform" is a mark used in reference to a building product, consisting of steel arc mesh covered in shrink wrap plastic, which is used to reinforce concrete in the construction of concrete structures.
In these reasons, such products so marked are referred to as Pecaform products.
I am presently concerned with an application for interlocutory injunctive relief.
Danley Construction Products Pty Ltd (Danley) seeks, in its application, interlocutory injunctions: An order pursuant to section 80 of the [ Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) (the TPA)], pending final determination of these proceedings or further earlier order, restraining the Respondents by themselves or their directors or officers, employees, servants, agents or otherwise howsoever from contravening section 52 of the TPA by the publication of misleading and deceptive documents and representations, such representations being to the effect that the Applicant is not able and/or entitled to sell in Australia and New Zealand products under the name "Pecaform" and/or that the Applicant is not able to sell or supply to the market in Australia or New Zealand products that the Applicant has been selling and supplying to the market in Australia and New Zealand under the name "Pecaform".
An order pending the trial of these proceedings or further earlier order restraining the Respondents by themselves, their directors, officers, employees, servants, agents or otherwise from manufacturing, distributing, promoting, offering for sale or selling in Australia or causing or permitting (directly or indirectly) to be manufactured, distributed, promoted, offered for sale or sold in Australia the Infringing Products.
An order pending the trial of these proceedings or further earlier order, restraining the Respondents by themselves, their directors, or officers, employees, servants, agents or otherwise from making threats of trade mark infringement by any means including, but not limited to, verbal statements, letters, e-mails or otherwise to the Applicant or any other person.
It is to be noted that the representations sought to be enjoined in the first order are expressed to be cumulative or alternative, by the double use of "and/or".
"Infringing Products", referred to in the second order sought, is defined in the application as "building materials used in concrete construction within Australia which bear the sign Pecaform ... " The controversy has to be seen in the commercial context of sales by the respondents in many overseas countries of Pecaform products; the importation of Pecaform products by the applicant from a Malaysian Company, ICT Pecaform (ICT), (which the respondents say is a breach by ICT of its contractual arrangements with the respondents); sales over the last ten years in Australia by Danley of Pecaform products; the registration of the Trade Mark "Pecaform" by the second respondent in July 2007, and the intention of the respondents to sell Pecaform products directly to the Australian market.
The history of the Trade Mark "Pecaform" and its use in Australia, as well as the sequence of facts leading to the second respondent's application for registration of the Trade Mark, informs the principal part of the dispute between the parties.
The commercial response of the parties to that registration is relevant to the grant of interlocutory relief.
For reasons which follow, I have concluded that interlocutory relief should not be granted.
LEGAL PRINCIPLES 
 There is no dispute between the parties as to the relevant principles to be applied on the application for interlocutory relief.
The principal authority is the decision of the High Court in Australian Broadcasting Corporation v O'Neill [2006] HCA 46 ; (2006) 227 CLR 57 ( O'Neill ).
In that case, Gummow and Hayne JJ held (Gleeson CJ and Crennan J agreeing) that (at [65]): 
 The relevant principles in Australia are those explained in Beecham Group Ltd v Bristol Laboratories Pty Ltd [1968] HCA 1 ; [(1968) 118 CLR 618].
This Court (Kitto, Taylor, Menzies and Owen JJ) said that on such applications the court addresses itself to two main inquiries and continued [1968] HCA 1 ; [(1968) 118 CLR 618 at 622-623]: 

 
"The first is whether the plaintiff has made out a prima facie case, in the sense that if the evidence remains as it is there is a probability that at the trial of the action the plaintiff will be held entitled to relief ...
The second inquiry is ... whether the inconvenience or injury which the plaintiff would be likely to suffer if an injunction were refused outweighs or is outweighed by the injury which the defendant would suffer if an injunction were granted.
"
 
 
 By using the phrase "prima facie case", their Honours did not mean that the plaintiff must show that it is more probable than not that at trial the plaintiff will succeed; it is sufficient that the plaintiff show a sufficient likelihood of success to justify in the circumstances the preservation of the status quo pending the trial.


 The respondents also referred the Court to comments made by Stone J (prior to the High Court's decision above) in Hexal Australia Pty Ltd v Roche Therapeutics Inc (2005) 66 IPR 325.
In that case, her Honour stated, at [17]: 
 This court has power to grant interlocutory relief pursuant s 23 of the Federal Court of Australia Act 1976 (Cth).
The relevant principles governing the exercise of the court's discretion to grant interlocutory relief are well established.
In order to secure the relief it seeks Roche must demonstrate: 

 
 (1) that there is a serious question to be tried or a prima facie case such that if the evidence remains the same there is a probability that at a final hearing it would be entitled to relief;
 (2) that it will suffer irreparable harm for which damages will not be adequate compensation, unless an injunction is granted; and
 (3) that the balance of convenience favours the granting of an injunction.


 The second and third points referred to by Stone J are interrelated.
Where damages can be adequate compensation, the balance of convenience will almost certainly be in favour of not granting relief; where, in the absence of an injunction, the harm will be irreparable, then the balance of convenience almost certainly favours the grant of interlocutory relief.
BACKGROUND TO THE PROCEEDINGS 
 Both of the respondents are related companies within the "Max Frank Group".
The first respondent, Max Frank Pte Ltd, is the majority shareholder of the second respondent, Peca Verbundtechnik GmbH, which was established in Germany in 1981.
The second respondent, in 1982, registered the marks "Pecaform" and "Peca" in Germany.
Mr Christopher Baron, a director of the first respondent, deposes that the mark "Pecaform" was registered as a Trade Mark in various European countries in the mid to late 1980s and early 1990s.
The steel mesh construction product that was labelled "Pecaform" has also been marketed and sold under the Trade Mark "Pecafil" in various countries.
Although Pecaform and Pecafil are marked differently, they are in fact identical products.
On 10 August 1989, the second respondent sold a product labelled "Pecafil" to a company Smorgon in Australia.
This sale pre-dated the registration on 11 June 1991 of the mark "Pecaform" in Germany.
Mr Daniel Underwood, a director of the applicant, deposes that in early 1990 he saw the Pecafil product at Smorgon in Australia, and in 1993 he saw the Pecafil product in Germany.
On 12 October 1995, a licence agreement was executed between the second respondent and Coldform, a Malaysian company which later became ICT Pecaform (ICT), concerning a Pecafil machine and material.
The applicant has been carrying on the business of the manufacture, procurement and sale to the construction industry of products associated with construction, particularly concrete construction, since about 1989.
The annual turnover of the applicant, dated 30 June 2007 was approximately $16,000,000, and to the six months ending 31 January 2008, exceeded $11,000,000.
Mr Underwood deposes that the capital value of the applicant's business exceeds $6.5 million.
Up until approximately the end of 1997, the applicant was not involved in any Pecaform products.
At a trade show in Singapore in March 1997, Mr Underwood, of the applicant, was shown by a Mr Joseph Chong of the Malaysian company ICT samples of the Pecaform product.
During 1997, Mr Underwood had negotiations with Mr Chong and in the latter part of 1997 or in 1998, the applicants first purchased Pecaform products from ICT and imported them into Australia.
Mr Underwood says that, at that time, Danley caused its trade mark attorneys to conduct inquiries and searches, which did not reveal any Trade Marks in the name Pecaform registered in Australia.
Mr Underwood says that he was not aware of any previous use of the mark "Pecaform" in Australia, and had not heard of the Trade Mark before his discussions with Mr Chong.
From at least early 1998, Danley has promoted, marketed and sold in Australia products under the name "Pecaform".
Advertising and promotional materials have included brochures and pamphlets, the inclusion of Pecaform products in the applicant's product lists and product summary brochures, advertising in trade magazines and trade publications in the building and construction industry, exhibiting and displaying of Pecaform products at various trade shows in Australia, and the advertising and promotion of Pecaform products on the applicant's website.
The sales figures of Pecaform products by Danley for the financial years from 2003 and the six months to 31 January 2008 are as follows: 2002 --- 2003 $404,465.04 2003 --- 2004 $346,082.00 2004 --- 2005 $862,484.82 2005-2006 $432,149.69 2006-2007 $467,074.60 Six months to 31 Jan 2008 $467,334.77 Interrupting the historical narrative of events, I note of the above table that in the submissions by the applicant for interlocutory relief these figures are said to be "sales figures of Pecaform products for financial years from 2002-2003 to date".
That description illustrates a lack of candour in the applicant's case for interlocutory relief because the internal sales figures exhibited to the affidavit of Mr Danny Underwood, one of the three directors of Danley, show the amount of those sales to the precise cent for 2002--- 2003 to be in respect of Pecaform products; similarly for 2003-2004 for Pecaform products.
However, for the 2004-2005 year, while the figure is precisely the same, $862,484.82, and while the category is said to be Pecaform, the component parts do not, as they did previously, refer to Pecaform labelled products.
The same position applies in relation to the exhibited sales figures for the period 2005-2006 and for 2006-2007.
For the six months to 31 January 2008, the internal sales documents refer to component sales of Footi-Form products only, totalling $464,334.77, which is not identical with, but very similar to the tabular figure of $467,334.77.
Mr Gray SC, counsel for the respondents, said of these documents: 
 The documents are mute witnesses and they stand unchallenged, they are sales of Footi-Form for the last three years, roughly two or three years.


 "Footi-Form" is a Trade Mark registered by Danley on 3 October 2007.
I find that Danley has "re-badged" what was Pecaform product as Footi-Form, as is apparent from the current product summary.
The applicant's case as presented appeared to me to be predicated on a continued use by Danley of Pecaform in relation to its relevant products and an intention vigorously to justify the legitimacy of that use.
Mr Underwood in [6] of his affidavit filed 3 March 2008 says: 
 Annexed hereto and marked " DCU-2 " is a true copy of the Applicant's current Product Summary brochure that illustrates the type of products that the Applicant supplies and which, in numerous instances, are products that the Applicant has developed or assisted in developing.


 DCU-2 is a product summary for 2006-07.
