
 INTRODUCTION 
 It is convenient, because these two proceedings have common plaintiffs and, more particularly, the applications under consideration raise common issues, to give the one set of reasons.
These reasons should be read in conjunction with the reasons given today in action number NSD 584 of 2008 in which the defendants to these proceedings are the plaintiffs and the plaintiffs in these proceedings are the defendants: Hardel Investments Pty Ltd (ACN 083 276 000) v Consolidated Byrnes Holdings Limited (ACN 111 052 585) [2009] FCA 400.
This is an application by the defendants for the costs of these proceedings.
It is necessary to trace the history of the proceedings before identifying against whom the defendants seek orders for costs and the particular orders sought.
THE PROCEEDINGS
 Both these proceedings were commenced in the New South Wales Registry of this Court on 28 March 2008 by the plaintiffs seeking the winding up of the two defendants in the separate proceedings in insolvency pursuant to s 459P of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (the Corporations Act ).
In both proceedings the plaintiffs claimed to be creditors of the defendants and relied upon the defendant's failure to comply with two statutory demands.
They claimed that debts had been assigned to them.
The relationship of the parties to each other will be explained later, but it should be noted in passing that Mrs Catherine Byrnes is the sole director of the first plaintiff, Consolidated Byrnes Holdings Limited (CBH) and Dr Low and Mrs Low are the directors of the second plaintiff, Alpha Asset Group Pty Ltd (Alpha).
The plaintiffs asserted in these proceedings that they have been assigned two debts from companies controlled by Dr and Mrs Low, Contor Developmennts Pty Ltd (Contor) and Cobra Property Services Pty Ltd (Cobra).
Mr James Byrnes is the husband of Mrs Catherine Byrnes and claims to be a consultant of the plaintiffs.
The originating processes which commenced these two proceedings attached a copy of an unsigned creditors' statutory demand which was dated 18 December 2007 and which was a copy of the document which was said to have been served upon the defendants together with an affidavit of Mr James Byrnes who deposed that in his belief there was no genuine bona fide dispute to the amount claimed by the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs also filed an affidavit in support of the originating process, again sworn by Mr James Byrnes who deposed that the statutory demands were posted to the defendants at 5.45pm on 18 December 2007.
He asserted that at that time and date, and at the date of his affidavit, the amounts claimed in the statutory demand, in the case of the defendant, Hardel Investments Pty Limited (Hardel) ($1,791,032.50) and in the case of Avpri Pty Limited (Avpri) ($2,100,000), were still unpaid and due and owing.
On 26 April 2008 the defendants filed their notices of appearance to which was annexed their Grounds of Opposition to Winding Up (grounds of opposition): rule 2.9 of the Federal Court (Corporations) Rules 2000 (Cth); s 465C of the Corporations Act .
The defendants raised a number of grounds of opposition to the applications for winding up, the principal ground being that the statutory demands had never been served upon the defendants and, in those circumstances, did not comply with s 459E of the Corporations Act .
Moreover, the defendants claimed that the statutory demands were defective for the purpose of s 459E in that Mr Byrnes was not authorised to make the demands and that the affidavits which purportedly accompanied the demands did not comply with the requirements of s 459E(3) in that they did not properly verify the debts or give proper notice to the defendants of the basis of the alleged indebtedness.
A further ground in opposition was that at the time that the statutory demands were purportedly served on the defendants there was no valid assignment of the alleged debts to the plaintiffs.
It was claimed, in opposition to the winding up, that neither of the plaintiffs were creditors of the defendants.
Lastly, it was claimed that the defendants were solvent.
The defendants asserted in their grounds of opposition that if the plaintiffs claimed that the statutory demands had been served by reason of them having been attached to the originating process which was issued on 28 March 2008 and which had been served on the defendants on 7 April 2008, then the period within which the defendants had to comply with the statutory demands had not expired at the time the originating process was issued, and there was a genuine dispute as to the existence and amount of the alleged debts to which the statutory demands related.
On the same day that the defendants filed their notices of appearance and grounds of opposition to the applications for winding up they commenced a proceeding against the plaintiffs in NSD 584 of 2008 to set aside the statutory demands pursuant to s 459G of the Corporations Act .
The grounds upon which the orders for the setting aside of the statutory demands were based were stated to be: That the Statutory Demands purported to be served by the Respondents on each of the Applicants on 7 April 2008 be set aside pursuant to s 459H of the Corporations Act .
In the alternative to paragraph 1 herein, that the statutory demand purported to be served on the Applicants by the Respondents on 7 April 2008 be set aside pursuant to s 459J of the Corporations Act .
That the Respondents pay the Applicant's costs of this application.
That this application be made specifically returnable before the Court at 9.15am on 2 May 2008.
The significance of the last date was to have that proceeding returned before the same judge at the same time as these proceedings for winding up.
It can be seen that the defendants commenced their proceeding against the plaintiff in NSD 584 of 2008 in case it be found that the service of the originating processes in the winding up proceedings was held to be service of the statutory demands which were attached to those originating processes.
On 4 June 2008 Gyles J ordered that the proceedings be transferred to the South Australian Registry.
All three proceedings came before me for directions on 27 June 2008.
The plaintiffs who were represented by counsel appeared by video conference.
The defendants were represented by senior and junior counsel.
I made various directions as to the filing of evidence and written submissions, and listed the proceedings for hearing on 25 August 2008.
Mr Byrnes was in the habit of emailing his and the plaintiffs' solicitors and copying in the defendants' solicitor.
His correspondence is particularly aggressive.
A sample was an email sent on 20 August 2008: 
 Grant, [referring to his solicitor, Mr McCartney] based on a conversation between the first Mortgagees representative and myself today it would seem that our action is somewhat hopeless from a recovery point of view.


 
 The first mortgage is 14.8m
 The second mortgage is 1.45 

 
 Leaving aside the questions of a third there are 60 blocks in stage one.
Settlements start this week.
The first advises there are only 42 sold.
The first expects 9 million from the 42 sales
 The first is taking 100% from sales over agent's commission and rates and land tax.
By next week the borrower will have an unfunded GST liability approaching 1 million as well.


 
 This new information once presented to the court would mean that the court should wind up the companies on a just and equitable basis.


 
 They are so far from Solvent it's not funny.


 
 As I have been saying this for over 6 months the director would be wise to have his personal affairs in order as he will be bankrupted sooner or latter.


 
 I have agreed to disciss purchasing the first mortgage at full value next week or the week after.
I can buy the second if I want it at a discount.


 
 The Hardel agreement requires him to provide us a second ranking mortgage.


 
 If this guy had any brains he would get on a plane this week with lawyer in hand and try and cut a deal ...
I can get money the easy way or the hard way ... the hard way means I ensure he gets a liquidator to pursue him for insolvent trading, bankrupt him and start examining everyone he has given money to in his family in the past 5 years.
Wife, Kids, Who ever ... look at any donations to the church in the past year as they are on notice of the insolvency ... this guy is a candidate for a fully tax paid vacation in a government facility for 2 to 3 years.


 
 I am a disgruntled person who knows how to ensure disingenuous errant debtors do not get away with there ill gotten gains without great shame and discomfort.


 
 In stead of going to church on Sunday morning, he will wake up next to some guy named bubber who will teach him some new sexual acts.


 
 (Grammatical and spelling errors as per original document.
) 

 On 22 August 2008 the plaintiffs' solicitors (Simmons and McCartney) wrote to the defendants' solicitors advising that they thought the matter ought to be adjourned because they were aware that the defendants were settling approximately $9 million in property sales over the next two weeks.
They wrote to my Chambers on the same day attaching a copy of the letter to the plaintiffs' solicitors advising they would be seeking an adjournment of the hearing on Monday, 25 August 2008.
In that letter they wrote: 
 We refer to the above matter that is scheduled to be heard in the Federal Court on Monday 25 August 2008.


 
 Our client is of the understanding that your clients' (sic) are in the process of settling approximately $9.0million in property sales over the next 2 weeks.


 
 This may assist in the resolution of this matter and we are therefore of the view that Monday's hearing should be adjourned to enable this to take place.


 
 We have been instructed by our client to request an adjournment on Monday for a period of 8 weeks to enable your clients' settlements to be completed without the involvement of any external parties.


 
 In that regard any costs associated with the adjournment are to be reserved at this stage.


 
 Please contact my office to discuss this matter further.


 They also sought to appear on 25 August 2008 by video conference.
On the same day the defendants' solicitors wrote to the plaintiffs' solicitors advising that the defendants would not consent to any adjournment of the matter.
However, they offered to settle the matter on the basis that the plaintiffs discontinue the winding up proceedings; the plaintiffs acknowledge that there had been no effective service of the statutory demands; the plaintiffs pay the defendants' costs fixed at $50,000; and the plaintiffs undertake not to issue or attempt to issue any other winding up proceedings in respect of the alleged debts.
The defendants wrote that if the plaintiffs did not accept the offer they should be prepared to proceed and Mr Byrnes and Mrs Low should be present and available for cross-examination.
The defendants also filed an outline of argument addressing the grounds of opposition in the notice of appearance.
The grounds identified were: (a) non-service of demands; (b) no fair notice of the demands; (c) defective demands; and (d) no valid assignment of the debts.
Dr Low said in an affidavit subsequently relied upon by his counsel that neither he nor his wife were made aware of that offer.
The plaintiffs' solicitors' request gave rise to an exchange of correspondence between the plaintiffs' solicitors and the defendants' solicitors in relation to whether there had been compliance with the directions which I had made on 27 June 2008.
On the same day as they made their request (22 August 2008), the plaintiffs' solicitors were advised that I would not allow the plaintiffs' counsel to appear by video conference on 25 August 2008.
On 25 August 2008 the plaintiffs' solicitors wrote to my chambers claiming that the defendants were in default in relation to various directions I had given on 27 June 2008.
They wrote: 
 I am the solicitor for the Applicant's (sic) in this matter.
Unfortunately I was interstate on business last Friday and therefore did not have a direct hand in the various communications that took place.


 
 I am taking the liberty of writing to you to foreshadow the Applicant's intention to seek a reasonable adjournment for the scheduled preliminary hearing.


 
 You have already heard from my office regarding the property sales that the Respondents' (sic) are in the process of completing in Queensland.
It is our clients' view that an appointment of a liquidator to the Respondent companies will have a seriously deleterious effect on the standing of the unsecured creditors.


 
 That in itself is a valid reason to seek an adjournment today, however there are other matters that have had a serious impact on our position.


 
 What is of serious concern to myself and my clients is that the Respondents' (sic) were extremely late in filing their further evidence and Outline of Argument.


 
 The Outline of Argument (unsigned and unstamped) was received in my office by email at 5:57pm on Friday the 22 nd of August 2008.


 
 This outline was to have been served on us by the 20 th August 2008.


 
 By a further email received by my office at 5:21pm, also on Friday 22 nd August 2008 was an affidavit containing the evidence of Ken Pridmore, a person who we had not previously intended to call.


 
 In that email I was advised that this affidavit was to be filed in Court today.


 
 This affidavit should have been in our hands on the 8 th August 2008.


 
 Toni Vozzo, the solicitor having charge of this matter at Johnson Winter  Slattery served an affidavit on us by email at 3:42pm on 21 st August 2008.
That affidavit was required by 8 th August as well.


 
 Apart from the lateness of receipt of that material, it is my view that neither of those affidavits addressed the further evidence put on by Mr Byrnes in his affidavit sworn and filed on 12 th August 2008 but rather addressed the more substantial issues raised in his previous affidavit of 30 th May 2008.


 
 In addition to the above we received four Notices to Produce under cover of the email of 22 nd August 2008, received at 5:57pm.


 
 It is my view that we were not given proper time to respond to those notices, the affidavits, or to give proper and reasonable consideration to the Respondents' Outline of Argument.


 
 My office had already put a request to the Respondents' lawyers seeking to adjourn proceedings to allow the property settlements to take place.
Last night, on returning to my office and seeing the emails, I put a further request to Johnson Winter and Slattery advising them that we were unable to respond to their material in the limited time left to us and that as a consequence we were embarrassed.


 
 My office did request a Video teleconference this morning to make the foreshadowed adjournment application.


 
 As our clients' (sic) took the decision on Friday night not to incur considerable expenditure in travelling to Adelaide I would like the opportunity to be heard in relation to matters raised herein.


 
 I make that request accordingly and look forward to hearing from you.


 
 For my part I apologise to the Court for the confusion that this is causing.


 As the letter shows, they repeated their request to be heard by video but I again refused, because to accede to that request would have meant that the proceedings had to be adjourned in circumstances where the defendants were opposing an adjournment.
THE PROCEEDINGS ARE DISMISSED 
 On 25 August 2008 when the matter was called on the plaintiffs were represented by Adelaide counsel, Mr Michael Burnett, who applied for an adjournment of the proceedings on the ground that the defendants had failed to comply with the directions which I had made on 27 June 2008.
I was advised that counsel was only retained to make the application for the adjournment and not in the proceedings.
The plaintiffs' solicitors' letter of 22 August 2008 spoke of an adjournment of eight weeks.
Their letter of 25 August 2008 spoke of a reasonable adjournment.
Counsel asked for a short adjournment.
The defendants opposed the application.
I was not satisfied that the reasons put for the adjournment were bona fide.
First, because the defendants' obligations were to file affidavits and their written submissions in response to any affidavits and written submissions filed by the plaintiffs.
The plaintiffs failed to comply with the directions which bound them in relation to the time within which they were to file their affidavits and submissions.
In those circumstances, the plaintiffs were not entitled to rely upon the defendants' failure to comply with the time limits which applied to them.
Secondly, I had been advised, as already indicated, that on 22 August 2008 the plaintiffs indicated that the reason why they sought an adjournment was not because of the fault on the part of the defendants but because they were aware that the defendants were settling approximately $9 million in property sales over the next two weeks.
In considering the application, I asked counsel to inquire as to whether his instructors and counsel who were retained in the proceedings were available to attend the next day.
He obtained instructions in relation to that request, and advised me that whilst the solicitors and counsel would be available, Mr Byrnes, who was required for cross-examination, could not attend until Wednesday.
Further inquiries were made and counsel then sought an adjournment of the matter until Wednesday so that Mr Byrnes could attend for cross-examination and the matters could proceed.
I refused the application for an adjournment for other than a very short period and adjourned the matter to Wednesday, 27 August 2008 to allow the plaintiffs to consider the defendants' evidence and submissions, and to arrange for Mr Byrnes to be present in Adelaide for cross-examination as requested by the defendants.
As already indicated, the defendants also wished to cross-examine Mrs Low.
I indicated at that stage that I would allow the defendants to have their costs thrown away by reason of the adjournment on an indemnity basis but left open the party who would be responsible for those costs.
On Tuesday, 26 August 2008 the plaintiffs purported to discontinue both proceedings by filing a notice of discontinuance.
However, the notice was incompetent because O 22 r 2(3) of the Federal Court Rules provides that an application for winding up order under s 459P may not be discontinued without leave of the Court and no leave had been sought or given.
The plaintiffs' solicitors were advised that the proceedings would be heard on Wednesday, 27 August 2008.
Dr Low said he was not told of the implication of this action.
On the morning of 27 August 2008 the plaintiffs' solicitors wrote to the defendants' solicitors advising that they were "agreeable to dismissal of the proceedings and costs as agreed or assessed".
In correspondence to my Chambers, the plaintiffs' solicitors advised that the costs of Monday and Tuesday ought to be on an indemnity basis and the remainder of the costs on a party and party basis.
They said in their letter that the costs should be paid by the applicants (the plaintiffs).
They wrote: 
 As lawyers and Counsel we unfortunately do not control our client's (sic) decisions and act on instructions.


 
 I renew and repeat my apologies to the Court for the inconvenience.
I have just been informed by Mr Burnett that he is not available today.


 My chambers responded advising the plaintiffs' solicitors that if Mr Burnett was not to appear, and no alternative counsel were available, then the plaintiffs would be unrepresented.
It was pointed out to the plaintiffs' solicitors that it was not acceptable for them to make submissions to the Court via email.
They were advised that if the plaintiffs were to be unrepresented the plaintiffs may need to reach an agreement with their opponents as to costs.
Five minutes before the hearing was due to commence my Associate was advised by email by the plaintiffs' solicitors: 
 That is exactly what I want to do.


 
 I need Eve Thomson to agree or we need to have an alternative date to appear in front of his honour and make submissions as per my email.


 
Ms Thomson is a solicitor employed by the defendants' solicitors.
The plaintiffs did not appear at the hearing on 27 August 2008 and, as a consequence, I dismissed the proceedings: Consolidated Byrnes Holdings Ltd v Hardel Investments Pty Ltd [2008] FCA 1337.
Mr Whitington QC, senior counsel for the defendants, sought an order for the costs of the proceedings and for the costs awarded on Monday to be reserved so that the defendants could give notice to non-parties to the proceedings that an order for costs would be sought against them.
He contended that orders for costs ought to be made against non-parties because the plaintiffs in the proceedings were bare trustees and any order for costs against them might not be able to be enforced.
I reserved the question of costs and adjourned further consideration of that question until 26 September 2008.
I directed each defendant in the two proceedings to give notice to any non-parties against whom they sought an order for costs advising (1) the orders sought; and (2) the basis upon which the orders were sought by identifying the material facts upon which the defendants would rely for those orders.
The proceeding NSD 584 of 2008 in which the defendants are plaintiffs was not listed for hearing on either 25 August 2008 or 27 August 2008.
In those circumstances, I indicated that I would list that proceeding for hearing on the return of any application for costs in these proceedings.
