
 INTRODUCTION 
 The applicant, Pauline Fegan, brings this proceeding as President of Victoria No.
1 Branch of the Health Services Union, and a member of the Union.
The first respondent, Mr Jeff Jackson, is the Branch Secretary of Victoria No.
1 Branch.
Ms Fegan seeks interim orders pursuant to ss 163 and/or 164 of Schedule 1 to the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) requiring Mr Jackson to cancel the special general meeting called by him for 8 April 2009 and to give notice of such cancellation to all members of Victoria No.
1 Branch.
Alternatively, Ms Fegan seeks an order adjourning the proposed special general meeting to a later date, to allow the issues in the proceeding to be determined by the Court.
In support of her application, Ms Fegan contends: 
 (1) Mr Jackson has invalidly called the proposed special general meeting for 8 April 2009;
 (2) Certain rules of the Union are contrary to the Workplace Relations Act in that they fail to make provision for the control of the Branch committee by the members and/or they are oppressive, unreasonable or unjust; and/or
 (3) The rules of the Union as a whole fail to make provision for the control of the Branch committee by the members and/or they operate in a way that is oppressive, unreasonable or unjust in that a special general meeting of branch members with a quorum as low as 25 can alter the rules of the Branch.

 Counsel for the Union, which was the second respondent, and counsel for Mr Jackson defended the rules of the Union and opposed the grant of the relief that Ms Fegan sought.
The applicant relied on her own two affidavits affirmed on 26 March 2009 and 31 March 2009.
The respondents relied on three affidavits of Katherine Jackson, who is the National Secretary of the Union, one affirmed on 30 March 2009 and two on 31 March 2009.
BACKGROUND 
 For present purposes, the facts can be taken to be as follows: 
 (1) The Branch has approximately 15,500 members across Victoria.
Approximately 40% of these members work in rural and regional areas at a significant distance from Melbourne.
Many members work in the outer suburbs of Melbourne.
Many members also work shift work.

 (2) There is a dispute within the Branch at Branch Management level.
The parties disagree about the origins of the dispute and the precise identity of all the disputants.
(3) In her first affidavit, Ms Jackson states: 

I am informed by Jeff Jackson ... that around 4 and 5 March 2008 a petition was circulated to members of the Victoria No 1 Branch of the [Union] seeking that a meeting of members be held to overturn certain decisions of the Branch Committee of Management and to consider other matters.
On or about 5 March 2009, the petition was presented to Mr Jackson, in his capacity as Branch Secretary of the [Branch], requesting that a Special General Meeting of the [Branch] be called.

 (4) On or around 5 March 2009 Mr Jackson, as Branch Secretary, sent a notice to all members of the Branch that a special general meeting was to be held on 8 April 2009 at Dallas Brooks Hall in East Melbourne at 6.30 pm.
(5) In her first affidavit, Ms Jackson said: 

The SGM Notice was mailed to all delegates (some 800 members) by Express Post and to all other members of the [Branch] by ordinary mail.

 ... 

 
 I am informed by Sam Kelly, an employee of the [Union], that the costs involved in distributing the SGM Notice include the cost of postage to the 15,449 members of the branch of approximately $11,300.
A deposit of $2,500, which I understand to be non-refundable, has been paid for the use of the Dallas Brooks Hall on 8 April 2009.


 
In her second affidavit, Ms Fegan stated that, as a Branch member, she had not received the notice and that she had been informed by some delegates that they too had not received the notice.
(The rules of the Union required that notice be given to delegates: rule 62(c).
) 
 
 (6) At a meeting on 13 March 2009, the Branch Committee passed a resolution to the following effect:
 The Branch Committee notes that the Branch Secretary has called a special general meeting of the Branch on Wednesday, 8 April 2009 at 6.30 pm.
So that the Branch Committee can satisfy itself that the petition to hold a special general meeting that the Branch Secretary has relied on is valid, the Branch Committee directs the Branch Secretary to produce to all members of the Branch Committee by 5.00 pm Tuesday, 17 March 2009: 

 
 (a) the petition containing the signatures that he relied on to call the special general meeting on 8 April 2009; and 

 
 (b) a list of all financial members of the Victoria No.
1 Branch as at 16 March 2009 including their full name and work place.


 
 This resolution was passed unanimously.


 
 (7) Mr Jackson did not provide a copy of the petition and list of members until 23 March 2009.

 In their affidavits, Ms Fegan and Ms Jackson disagreed as to whether, or to what extent, the timing of the proposed meeting would prevent or deter Branch members from attending.
