
 INTRODUCTION 
 This is an application, filed on 22 April 2008, pursuant to subs 21(1) of the Extradition Act 1988 (Cth) ('the Act') for review of an order, made on 8 April 2008 under subs 19(9) of the Act, determining that the applicant ('Mr Mehl') was eligible for surrender to the Federal Republic of Germany.
There is no issue that the learned magistrate who made the determination subsequently complied with the requirements of paras (a) --- (c) inclusive of subs 19(9).
Subsection 21(1) relevantly provides that within 15 days of the magistrate's determination of eligibility under subs 19(9) of the Act, a person may apply to this Court 'for a review of the order'.
The review is by way of rehearing, rather than the more restricted function the Court exercises when engaging in judicial review in the strict sense: see Brock v United States of America [2007] FCAFC 3 ; (2007) 157 FCR 121 per Black CJ at [20] --- [31], Jacobson J at [45] --- [47] and Rares J at [73] --- [90].
Subsection 21(2) relevantly provides that the Court may, by order, either confirm the order of the magistrate, or quash the order and direct a magistrate to order the release of the person.
Pursuant to subs 21(6)(d), the court to which the application is made shall have regard only to the material that was before the magistrate.
THE PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE MAGISTRATE 
 As these review proceedings are a rehearing of the proceedings before the magistrate, it is relevant to set out the provisions of the Act relating to those proceedings.
Subsection 19(1) of the Act stipulates four conditions precedent or jurisdictional facts, the existence or satisfaction of which obliges the magistrate to conduct the proceedings.
No issue is taken that all of these conditions were met.
Subsection 19(2) of the Act stipulates four conditions precedent or jurisdictional facts, the existence or satisfaction of which must be met before a person is eligible for surrender in relation to an extradition offence for which surrender of the person is sought by the extradition country.
No issue was taken that the conditions in (a) (production of 'supporting documents') and (b) (production of any other documents) were met; nor that the condition in (d) (lack of satisfaction as to substantial grounds for believing there is an extradition objection in relation to the offence) was met.
The only live issue before the magistrate, and on review of the magistrate's determination before this Court, was whether the magistrate could be satisfied as to the dual criminality requirement in subs 19(2)(c) of the Act.
That condition is in the following terms: 
 (a) ... 

 
 (b) ... 

 
 (c) the magistrate is satisfied that, if the conduct of the person constituting the offence in relation to the extradition country, or equivalent conduct, had taken place in the part of Australia where the proceedings are being conducted and at the time at which the extradition request in relation to the person was received, that conduct or that equivalent conduct would have constituted an extradition offence in relation to that part of Australia; and 

 
 (d) ... 

 The term 'extradition offence' is relevantly defined in s 5 of the Act to mean: 
 (a) ... 

 
 (b) in relation to Australia or a part of Australia---an offence against a law of Australia, or a law in force in the part of Australia, for which the maximum penalty is death or imprisonment, or other deprivation of liberty, for a period of not less than 12 months.


 THE DUAL CRIMINALITY REQUIREMENT 
 It was common ground that what is required is not complete identicality of offences, but in substance, duality of criminality: Harris v Attorney-General (Cth) (1994) 52 FCR 386 at 411; Holt v Hogan (No 2) [1993] FCA 543 ; (1993) 46 FCR 145 at 149 --- 151 per Lee J.
The issue is whether the conduct or the equivalent conduct referred to in the subs 19(3)(c)(ii) authenticated statement, if committed in New South Wales, would be a criminal offence with a maximum sentence of imprisonment of at least 12 months: United States v Holt [1994] FCA 1115 ; (1994) 49 FCR 501 at 504; Zoeller v Republic of Germany (1989) 23 FCR 282 at 297 and 299 --- 300.
THE RELEVANT CONDUCT 
 As to the conduct constituting the offences in relation to Germany, the respondent, in a schedule to its written submissions, set out a summary of the conduct taken from the Arrest Warrant issued by the Regional Court in Dsseldorf.
No issue was taken with the accuracy of this summary, and it is set out verbatim in [12] and [13] below.
Mr Mehl is charged with 10 offences, which fall into two categories.
Category One Offences
 The first category comprises nine offences that involved, in summary, the following conduct: In or before June 2004, Mr Mehl agreed with Chaykh-El-Najarin ('El-Najarin') to fraudulently acquire commission payments and other pecuniary profits from mobile phone service providers by using a network of companies to sell mobile phones, and mobile phone pre-paid card contracts.
With the intention of implementing this agreement, Mr Mehl, El-Najarin and two others, caused a company ('Pluscall') operated by the four of them and of which Mr Mehl was Managing Director, to enter into a contract with a service provider ('Mobilcom').
Under the contract with Mobilcom: 
(a) Pluscall promised to sell mobile phones and phone cards together as a bundle and promised not to sell them separately, in return for which Pluscall was to receive a discount of 20 euros per phone; and
 
(b) Pluscall promised to act as agent for Mobilcom and to represent its interests and to prevent abuse of the network activating system.
At the time of entering into this contract Mr Mehl intended to separate the phones and the cards and sell them separately contrary to the promise made to Mobilcom in return for the discount; Mr Mehl and El-Najarin then received nine deliveries of pre-paid bundles from Mobilcom and sold the mobile phones separately from and without the cards to a third party or his company ('Telesonic') for resale in Eastern Europe; In order to conceal the fact that the bundles had not been sold to paying customers, and thereby avoiding the obligation of paying back advance commission received at an average of 15 euros per bundle, Mr Mehl and others misrepresented to Mobilcom that they had sold the bundles to paying end customers in regular business transactions by: registering the bundles in the names of persons selected at random from telephone books by Mr Mehl and others; and registering and activating several hundred bundles with a company called 'Titanid' that was not in truth, a paying end customer of any bundle.
Category Two Offence
 The second category comprises one offence which involved the following conduct: Mr Mehl and two others in or about November 2003, agreed to continuously make profits by committing fraud offences to the disadvantage of telephone network operators.
Pursuant to this agreement, a company ('Star.Way.Com') purchased telephone minutes from 'MCI', being a global telecommunications services provider.
Mr Mehl and the two others intended in the initial phase to pay the invoices issued by MCI for the telephone minutes provided to Star.Way.Com, but at a later stage they intended to receive further minutes but to stop paying the invoices and to leave the charged sums unpaid.
Some time after November 2004, in accordance with the agreement between Mr Mehl and the two others, and in accordance with the intention they had formed to do this, Star.Way.Com stopped paying the amounts charged for the telephone minutes they used.
In order to conceal who the actual receiver was of these telephone minutes (namely a German company ('Mowatel')) Mr Mehl hired some racks (or electronic modules) in Paris to transfer the telephone minutes to Mowatel.
Soon after November 2004, Star.Way.Com considerably increased its network time with MCI.
MCI, on realising the increase, asked for increased security.
Mr Mehl and the two others provided as security a forged bond in the sum of 200,000 euros dated 22 April 2005 and a further forged bond in the sum of 600,000 euros dated 6 May 2005.
MCI continued to supply Star.Way.Com in the belief that supply was secured by these bonds.
MCI is owed over 2.3 million euros by Star.Way.Com.
THE RESPONDENT'S CASE 
 The respondent's case was that the dual criminality requirement of subs 19(2)(c) was satisfied.
Its case was principally predicated on the applicability of the provisions of s 178BA of the Crimes Act 1900 (NSW) ('the Crimes Act ') to the relevant conduct, but in the alternative, it relied on ss 176A , 178A and 179 of the Crimes Act with respect to the relevant conduct constituting the Category One Offences and s 474.2(1) of the Schedule to the Criminal Code Act 1995 (Cth) ('the Criminal Code ') with respect to the relevant conduct constituting the Category Two Offence.
For conduct contravening them, all these provisions provide maximum penalties by way of terms of imprisonment of between five and ten years.
THE RELEVANT LAWS OF NEW SOUTH WALES AND AUSTRALIA 
 Section 178BA of the Crimes Act provides: 
 178BA Obtaining money etc by deception 

 
 (1) Whosoever by any deception dishonestly obtains for himself or herself or another person any money or valuable thing or any financial advantage of any kind whatsoever shall be liable to imprisonment for 5 years.


 
 (2) In subsection (1): 

 
 "deception" means deception (whether deliberate or reckless) by words or conduct as to fact or as to law, including: 

 
 (a) a deception as to the present intentions of the person using the deception or of any other person, and 

 
 (b) an act or thing done or omitted to be done with the intention of causing: 

 
 (i) a computer system, or 

 
 (ii) a machine that is designed to operate by means of payment or identification, 

 
 to make a response that the person doing or omitting to do the act or thing is not authorised to cause the computer system or machine to make.


 
 (3) For the purposes of and without limiting Part 1A , the necessary geographical nexus exists between the State and an offence against this section if the offence is committed by a public official (within the meaning of the Independent Commission Against Corruption Act 1988 ) and involves public money of the State or other property held by the public official for or on behalf of the State.


 Section 176A of the Crimes Act provides: 
 176A Directors etc cheating or defrauding 

 
 Whosoever, being a director, officer, or member, of any body corporate or public company, cheats or defrauds, or does or omits to do any act with intent to cheat or defraud, the body corporate or company or any person in his or her dealings with the body corporate or company shall be liable to imprisonment for 10 years.


 Section 178A of the Crimes Act provides: 
 178A Fraudulent misappropriation of moneys collected or received 

 
 Whosoever having collected or received any money or valuable security upon terms requiring him or her to deliver or account for or pay to any person the whole or any part of: 

 
 (a) such money or valuable security or the proceeds thereof, or 

 
 (b) any balance of such money, valuable security, or proceeds thereof after any authorised deductions or payments have been made thereout, 

 
 fraudulently misappropriates to his or her own use or the use of any other person, or fraudulently omits to account for or pay the whole or any part of such money, valuable security, or proceeds, or the whole or any part of such balance in violation of the terms on which he or she collected or received such money or valuable security, shall be liable to imprisonment for seven years.


 
 For the purposes of this section any such money, valuable security, or proceeds thereof, or any balance thereout shall be deemed to be the property of the person who authorised the collection or receipt of the money or valuable security or from whom the money or valuable security was received notwithstanding that the accused may have been authorised to make any deduction thereout on his or her own behalf, or any payment thereout to another person, or to mix such money, valuable security, or proceeds thereof, or such balance with his or her own moneys.


 Section 179 of the Crimes Act provides: 
 179 False pretences etc 

 
 Whosoever, by any false pretence or by any wilfully false promise, or partly by a false pretence and partly by a wilfully false promise, obtains from any person any property, with intent to defraud, shall be liable to imprisonment for five years.


 Division 474 of the Schedule to the Criminal Code (Cth) relevantly provides: 
 Division 474 -- Telecommunications offences 

 
 Subdivision A--Dishonesty with respect to carriage services 

 
 474.1 Dishonesty 

 
 (1) For the purposes of this Subdivision, dishonest means: 

 
 (a) dishonest according to the standards of ordinary people; and 

 
 (b) known by the defendant to be dishonest according to the standards of ordinary people.


 
 (2) In a prosecution for an offence against this Subdivision, the determination of dishonesty is a matter for the trier of fact.


 
 474.2 General dishonesty with respect to a carriage service provider 

 
 Obtaining a gain 

 
 (1) A person is guilty of an offence if the person does anything with the intention of dishonestly obtaining a gain from a carriage service provider by way of the supply of a carriage service.


 
 Penalty: Imprisonment for 5 years.
