
 INTRODUCTION 
 These reasons for judgment relate to nine proceedings for damages for defamation and negligence that were heard together.
The first respondent, Veda Advantage Information Services and Solutions Limited (Veda), was at all material times a "credit reporting agency" and carried on a "credit reporting business" within the meaning of the Privacy Act 1988 (Cth) (Privacy Act).
(Veda has had different names in the past, namely, Credit Reference Association of New South Wales Limited, then Credit Reference Association of Australia Limited, then Credit Reference Limited, then Credit Advantage Limited, then Baycorp Advantage Business Information Services Limited.
However, I will refer to it as "Veda" regardless of the point in time in question.
) Section 11A of the Privacy Act defines a "credit reporting agency" as a corporation that carries on a credit reporting business.
Section 6 defines a "corporation" as, relevantly, a trading or financial corporation formed within the limits of Australia.
The definition of "credit reporting business" appears at [18] below.
In its defence (see [114] below) Veda raised a constitutional issue, as a result of which notices under s 78B of the Judiciary Act 1903 (Cth) were given to the Attorneys-General of the Commonwealth and the States and Territories.
Only the Attorney-General for New South Wales sought to intervene.
On 13 June 2007 I ordered that he be added as second respondent.
Veda's business centred on its operation of a computerised database.
That database recorded information concerning the creditworthiness of individuals.
Veda's customers were credit providers.
Credit providers have an obvious interest in obtaining information touching the creditworthiness of persons who seek credit from them.
As subscribers to Veda's system, they: electronically entered creditworthiness data concerning individuals to whom they had provided credit, directly into Veda's database for the benefit of other subscribers; and extracted electronically directly from Veda's database for their own benefit creditworthiness data that had been entered into it by other subscribers concerning individuals to whom the latter had provided credit.

I discuss the modus operandi of Veda's business in more detail below.
On the negligence claim, each applicant complains, in substance, that Veda supplied to one or more of its subscribers inaccurate information concerning the creditworthiness of that applicant, as a result of which he or she suffered loss or damage by being refused credit or losing the opportunity of obtaining credit on more favourable terms.
On the defamation claim, the complaint is that Veda published to one or more of its subscribers material, whether accurate or inaccurate, that conveyed imputations defamatory of the applicant.
The nine proceedings involved some common issues, but the detailed facts were unique to each case.
The hearing was limited to the issue of liability, and consequently so are these reasons.
The nine applicants and their respective proceedings are: 
 
 Applicant 
 
 Proceeding 
 (1) 
 
 Cindy Adams 
 
 NSD 2006 of 2006 
 (2) 
 
 Shane Dale 
 
 NSD 1994 of 2006 
 (3) 
 
 Eddie Fisher 
 
 NSD 2003 of 2006 
 (4) 
 
 Jye Marker 
 
 NSD 1996 of 2006 
 (5) 
 
 Tim McGary 
 
 NSD 2007 of 2006 
 (6) 
 
 Dianne Shields 
 
 NSD 2001 of 2006 
 (7) 
 
 Robert Strange 
 
 NSD 2000 of 2006 
 (8) 
 
 Trevor Taylor 
 
 NSD 2002 of 2006 
 (9) 
 
 Aaron Tyndall 
 
 NSD 2004 of 2006 
 
 The proceedings were commenced in the District Court of New South Wales and were later transferred to the Supreme Court of New South Wales and thence to this Court.
This Court's jurisdiction was attracted by reason of the presence of claims under s 52 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) (TP Act).
The claims in defamation and negligence were within the "accrued" jurisdiction of the Court.
They have continued to be within the Court's jurisdiction notwithstanding that the claims under s 52 are no longer pressed: see s 65A of the TP Act and my judgment in Bailey v Veda Advantage Information Services and Solutions Ltd (No.
2) [2008] FCA 730.
THE PRIVACY ACT 
 Veda's credit reporting business is heavily regulated by the Privacy Act .
Both the applicants and Veda relied on provisions of that Act as relevant to the claims in defamation and negligence.
However, the applicants did not sue Veda on a cause of action on the statute, that is to say, for breach of an actionable statutory duty said to be owed to them by Veda.
The parties agreed that Reprint 6 of that Act (reprinted on 20 January 2005) was the applicable version.
The Privacy Amendment Act 1990 (No 116 1990), which commenced on 24 September 1991, inserted new ss 18A and 18B into Pt III , and a new Pt IIIA (ss 18C to 18V ) headed "Credit Reporting".
The Privacy Amendment (Private Sector) Act 2000 (No 155 of 2000) inserted the heading "Division 5 --- Credit Information" before ss 18A and 18B.
Section 3 of the Privacy Act provides: 
 It is the intention of the Parliament that this Act is not to affect the operation of a law of a State or of a Territory that makes provision with respect to the collection, holding, use, correction, disclosure or transfer of personal information (including such a law relating to credit reporting or the use of information held in connection with credit reporting) and is capable of operating concurrently with this Act.


 
The applicants rely on this provision as showing an intention that the Privacy Act was not to exclude the operation of the laws of the States and Territories under which the causes of action in defamation and negligence exist.
The expression "personal information" is defined in s 6 to mean: 
 information or an opinion (including information or an opinion forming part of a database) whether true or not, and whether recorded in a material form or not, about an individual whose identity is apparent, or can reasonably be ascertained, from the information or opinion.


 Section 18A(1) referred to above provides: 
 The Commissioner must, by notice published in the Gazette , issue a Code of Conduct concerning:
 (a) the collection of personal information for inclusion in individuals' credit information files; and
 (b) the storage of, security of, access to, correction of, use of and disclosure of personal information included in individuals' credit information files or in credit reports; and
 (c) the manner in which credit reporting agencies and credit providers are to handle disputes relating to credit reporting; and
 (d) any other activities, engaged in by credit reporting agencies or credit providers, that are connected with credit reporting.


 
 Section 6 states that the Commissioner is the Privacy Commissioner.
The office of Privacy Commissioner is established by Pt IV of the Privacy Act .
Subsection (3) of s 18A requires the Commissioner, in preparing the code of conduct, to have regard to: the "Information Privacy Principles" and the provisions of Part IIIA ; the "National Privacy Principles" and the provisions of Part IIIAA ; and "the likely costs" to credit reporting agencies and credit providers of complying with the Code of Conduct.

The Information Privacy Principles are discussed at [61] below and the National Privacy Principles at [62] below.
Pursuant to s 18A , the Commissioner issued a Credit Reporting Code of Conduct in 1991 (Code).
It became fully operational in February 1992.
The Code supplements the provisions of Pt IIIA.
Part 1 of the Code deals with "Credit reporting agencies" and Pt 2 with "Credit providers".
Section 18B provides that a credit reporting agency or credit provider must not do an act, or engage in a practice, that breaches the Code.
Accordingly, a breach of the Code is a contravention of s 18B.
It is convenient now to address the definitions of some of the expressions used in ss 18A and 18B.
They are also used throughout Pt IIIA discussed below.
Sections 6(1) and 11A of the Privacy Act define "credit reporting agency" for the purposes of that Act as a "corporation that carries on a credit reporting business".
Section 6(1) defines "credit reporting business" to mean, relevantly: 
 a business or undertaking ... that involves the preparation or maintenance of records containing personal information relating to individuals (other than records in which the only personal information relating to individuals is publicly available information), for the purpose of, or for purposes that include as the dominant purpose the purpose of, providing to other persons (whether for profit or reward or otherwise) information on an individual's:
 (a) eligibility to be provided with credit; or
 (b) history in relation to credit; or
 (c) capacity to repay credit;
 whether or not the information is provided or intended to be provided for the purposes of assessing applications for credit.


 The word "record" is defined in s 6(1) to mean, inter alia, "a database (however kept)".
The term therefore encompasses a computerised database of the kind that is maintained by Veda.
It is not in dispute that at all material times Veda was a corporation that carried on a credit reporting business and was therefore a credit reporting agency.
It will be noted that the definition of "credit reporting business" is not limited by reference to the form in which the credit information is to be provided to other persons.
It therefore embraces the provision of that information by the granting of access to a database containing the information.
The granting by Veda of access to its database to credit providers who subscribe to its system forms the basis of the claims made in these proceedings.
The expression "credit", which occurs four times in the definition of "credit reporting business" set out at [18] above, is defined in s 6(1) to mean: 
 a loan sought or obtained by an individual from a credit provider in the course of the credit provider carrying on a business or undertaking as a credit provider, being a loan that is intended to be used wholly or primarily for domestic, family or household purposes.


 
Accordingly, the word "credit" may be conceived of as limited to consumer credit.
Similarly, s 6 (5A) of the Privacy Act provides: 
 For the purposes of the definition of credit reporting business in subsection (1), information concerning commercial transactions engaged in by or on behalf of an individual is not to be taken to be information relating to an individual's:
 (a) eligibility to be provided with credit; or
 (b) history in relation to credit; or
 (c) capacity to repay credit.


 Section 6(1) defines "commercial credit" to mean a loan other than a loan of a kind referred to in the definition of "credit".
The Privacy Act therefore distinguishes between "credit" and "commercial credit", the former being a loan for consumer purposes and the latter being a loan of any other kind.
It therefore seems appropriate to refer to an individual to whom "credit" has been provided as a "consumer", although the Privacy Act does not use that term.
It follows from the definition of "credit" that credit does not mean a loan sought or obtained by a corporation, or a loan sought or obtained by an individual from an entity other than a credit provider, or a loan sought or obtained by an individual (a natural person) from a credit provider but for commercial purposes.
Although the Privacy Act is concerned with consumer credit, this does not mean that the provision of commercial credit is irrelevant to these proceedings.
In particular, some of the defaults that were entered in Veda's database in respect of some of the applicants were defaults under commercial credit arrangements (see [70] ff below).
The expression "loan" is defined in s 6(1) to mean a contract, arrangement or understanding under which a person is permitted to defer payment of a debt, or to incur a debt and defer its payment.
The definition also identifies particular forms of transaction that are included within the term "loan".
Sections 6(1) and 11B define "credit provider".
Relevantly, a "credit provider" includes (s 11B): 
 (a) a bank; or
 (b) a corporation (other than an agency): 

(iii) a substantial part of whose business or undertaking is the provision of loans (including the provision of loans by issuing credit cards); or
 
(iv) that carries on a retail business in the course of which it issues credit cards to members of the public in connection with the sale of goods, or the supply of services, by the corporation; or
 
(v) that:
 
(A) carries on a business or undertaking involving the provision of loans (including the provision of loans by issuing credit cards); and
 
(B) is included in a class of corporations determined by the Commissioner to be credit providers for the purposes of this Act; ...
 
 I turn now to Part IIIA (ss 18C-18V) "Credit reporting" Section 18E(1) provides that a credit reporting agency must not include personal information in an individual's credit information file unless at least one of the conditions set out in the various paragraphs of that subsection is satisfied.
Those conditions that are of immediate relevance are the following: 
 (b) the information is a record of:
 (i) both
 (A) a credit provider having sought a credit report in relation to an individual in connection with an application for credit or commercial credit made by the individual to the credit provider; and
 (B) the amount of credit or commercial credit sought in the application; or
 ...
 (vi) credit provided by a credit provider to an individual, being credit in respect of which:
 (A) the individual is at least 60 days overdue in making a payment, including a payment that is wholly or partly a payment of interest; and
 (B) the credit provider has taken steps to recover the whole or any part of the amount of credit (including any amounts of interest) outstanding; or
 (vii) a cheque, for an amount not less than $100, that:
 (A) has been drawn by the individual; and
 (B) has twice been presented and dishonoured; or
 (viii) court judgments made against the individual; or
 (ix) bankruptcy orders made against the individual; or
 (x) the opinion of a credit provider that the individual has, in the circumstances specified, committed a serious credit infringement; or
 (ba) the information is a record of an overdue payment by the individual as guarantor under a guarantee given against default by a person (the borrower ) in repaying all or any [sic --- any part] of an amount of credit obtained by the borrower from a credit provider, and the following subparagraphs apply:
 (i) the credit provider is not prevented under any law of the Commonwealth, a State or a Territory from bringing proceedings against the individual to recover the amount of the overdue payment; 
 (ii) the credit provider has given the individual notice of the borrower's default that gave rise to the individual's obligation to make the payment; 
 (iii) 60 days have elapsed since the day on which the notice was given; 
 (iv) the credit provider has, separately from and in addition to the giving of the notice referred to in subparagraph (ii), taken steps to recover the amount of the overdue payment from the individual.


 
Of the nine applicants, Mr McGary and Ms Shields were guarantors, and therefore persons to whom para (ba) was relevant.
Paragraph (b) was relevant to the remaining seven applicants.
The Code elaborates on subpara (b)(i) of s 18E(1) by stating that a credit reporting agency recording an enquiry made by a credit provider in connection with an application for credit may include, within the record of the enquiry, a general indication of the nature of the credit being sought.
Veda's database recorded enquiries made by credit providers in connection with applications to them for consumer credit or commercial credit by the applicants.
The expression "credit information file" is defined in s 6(1) to mean: 
 In relation to an individual, ... any record that contains information relating to the individual and is kept by a credit reporting agency in the course of carrying on a credit reporting business (whether or not the record is a copy of the whole or part of, or was prepared using, a record kept by another credit reporting agency or any other person).


 
I referred to the definitions of "record" at [19] above and "credit reporting agency" at [18] above.
The expression "serious credit infringement" is defined in s 6(1) to mean: 
 "... an act done by a person: 

 (a) that involves fraudulently obtaining credit, or attempting fraudulently to obtain credit; or
 
 (b) that involves fraudulently evading the person's obligations in relation to credit, or attempting fraudulently to evade those obligations; or
 
 (c) that a reasonable person would consider indicates an intention, on the part of the first-mentioned person, no longer to comply with the first-mentioned person's obligations in relation to credit.
"
 
 
Paragraph (c) assumed importance because Veda, and therefore its subscribing credit providers, characterised the act of any individual who had left his or her last known address and could not, after reasonable efforts, be located by the credit provider, as falling within that paragraph.
Section 18E(2) provides that a credit reporting agency must not include in an individual's credit information file personal information relating to, relevantly at para (f), the individual's lifestyle, character or reputation.
Section 18E(8) provides: 
 A credit provider must not give to a credit reporting agency personal information relating to an individual if: 

(a) a credit reporting agency is prohibited, under subsection (1), from including the information in the individual's credit information file; or
 
(b) the credit provider does not have reasonable grounds for believing that the information is correct; or
 
(c) the credit provider did not, at the time of, or before, acquiring the information, inform the individual that the information might be disclosed to a credit reporting agency.
Certain aspects of the effect of the provisions of s 18E in the circumstances of the present cases are noteworthy.
First, the obligation that s 18E(1) imposes on the credit reporting agency is absolute, even though the credit reporting agency will not ordinarily know the facts of the dealings between the credit provider and the consumer (hence, the "primary" obligation imposed on the credit provider by s 18E(8)).
Second, under s 18E(1) the relevant time is the time when the credit provider enters the personal information in Veda's database.
Under subpara (b)(vi), for example, at that time the personal information must be information that is a record of (consumer) credit that was provided by the credit provider to the individual in respect of which, as at that time, the individual is at least sixty days overdue in making a payment and the credit provider has taken "steps" to recover the whole or any part of the amount of the credit.
In the ordinary course, the credit reporting agency will have no way of knowing whether these conditions are satisfied.
Third, under subpara (b)(x), at the time of listing, the information must be a record of an opinion then held by the credit provider who entered the information in Veda's database that the individual has, in the circumstances specified in the information entered, committed a "serious credit infringement" as defined in s 6(1) (see the definition of "serious credit infringement" set out at [31] above).
In the ordinary course, the credit reporting agency will have no way of knowing whether the credit provider did hold the opinion described in s 18E(1)(b)(x).
Fourth, under para (ba), at the time of listing, the personal information must be a record of an overdue payment by the individual as guarantor under a guarantee given against a default by a borrower in repaying all or any part of an amount of consumer credit obtained by the borrower from a credit provider, and all four of the circumstances identified in subparas (i)-(iv) of para (ba) must be satisfied.
These include the lapse of sixty days since the day on which the credit provider gave the guarantor notice of the consumer's default and the taking by the credit provider of other steps to recover the amount of the overdue payment from the guarantor.
Again, in the ordinary course the credit reporting agency will have no way of knowing if these conditions are satisfied.
It is important to recall s 6(1)'s definition of "personal information" (see [12] above).
It refers to information whether true or not.
The reference to the "information" in the opening words of paras (b) and (ba) of s 18E(1) is a reference back to the "personal information" mentioned in the chapeau to that subsection.
The word "record" in paras (b) and (ba) does not, therefore, imply correctness.
Accordingly, what paras (b) and (ba) except from the general prohibition in s 18E(1) is information, true or false, that satisfies a description in those paragraphs.
That is to say, paras (b) and (ba) are directed to kinds, classes or categories of information, whether the actual information is true or false.
Section 18E(1) prohibited Veda from including in its database kinds of information falling outside the kinds described in, relevantly, subpara (b)(vi) and (b)(x) and para (ba) of that subsection.
If information, even information that proved to be false, was of those kinds, s 18E(1) did not prohibit Veda from including it in its database.
This construction of s 18E(1) is consistent with Veda's lack of means of knowledge of the true facts and with the more extensive obligation imposed on credit providers by s 18E(8) referred to above.
It is also consistent with the nature of the obligations respectively imposed on credit reporting agencies and credit providers by ss 18F, 18G and 18J referred to below.
The Code provides in cl 1.3 as follows: 
 To ensure that only permitted information is included in a credit information file, a credit reporting agency must take the following steps:
 (a) Where a credit reporting agency receives information from a credit provider for creation of, or inclusion in, a credit information file, and it appears to the credit reporting agency that the information being supplied by the credit provider may not be permitted to be included in a credit information file, the credit reporting agency must:
 (i) refuse to accept the information; and
 (ii) notify the credit provider, in writing, that the inclusion of the information may be in breach of the Act.
(b) Where a credit reporting agency becomes aware that information supplied by a credit provider and included in a credit information file appears to be of a type not permitted to be included in the file, the credit reporting agency must:
 (i) remove the information from the credit information file;
 (ii) notify the credit provider in writing that the information may not be permitted to be included in the file; and
 (iii) make a written record of its actions in relation to (i) and (ii) above.


 
Clause 1.3(a) would be enlivened if, for example, it appeared to a credit reporting agency that the information supplied to it by the credit provider may not be of a permitted kind (cf s 18E(1) set out at [28] above).
It is an interesting question whether cl 1.3(a) would also be enlivened if it appeared to a credit reporting agency that the credit provider may be prohibited from giving it the information by s 18E(8)(b) or (c).
Clause 1.3(b) is concerned with information already included in a credit information file that appears to the credit reporting agency not to be of a kind permitted to be included, and is therefore referable to the obligation imposed directly on the credit reporting agency by s 18E(1) (see [28]---[40] above).
Clause 1.4 (discussed at [58] below) expressly addresses the inaccuracy of information in the special circumstances described in that clause.
Section 18F(1) provides that a credit reporting agency must delete from an individual's credit information file maintained by the agency any personal information of a kind referred to in, relevantly, s 18E(1)(b), within one month after the end of the maximum permissible period for the keeping of personal information of that kind.
Subsection (2) of s 18F defines the "maximum permissible period".
For s 18E(1)(b)(vi) information, the period is five years, for s 18E(1)(b)(x) information it is seven years, and for s 18E(1)(ba) information it is five years.
The commencement date varies according to the category.
Subsection (3) of s 18F obliges a credit provider who has given information to a credit reporting agency that an individual is overdue in making a payment in respect of credit provided by the credit provider, "as soon as practicable" to inform the agency once the individual has ceased to be overdue in making the payment or contends that he or she is not overdue in making it.
On being so informed, the credit reporting agency must include in the individual's credit information file a note to that effect: subs (4).
Subsection (5) of s 18F provides that where a credit provider ceases to be a current credit provider in relation to an individual, the credit provider must, as soon as practicable, give notice of that cessation to any credit reporting agency that was previously informed that the credit provider was a current credit provider in relation to the individual.
Section 18G provides: 
 A credit reporting agency in possession or control of a credit information file, or a credit provider or credit reporting agency in possession or control of a credit report, must: 

(a) take reasonable steps to ensure that personal information contained in the file or report is accurate, up-to-date, complete and not misleading; and
 
(b) ensure that the file or report is protected, by such security safeguards as are reasonable in the circumstances, against loss, against unauthorised access, use, modification or disclosure, and against other misuse; and
 
(c) if it is necessary for the file or report to be given to a person in connection with the provision of a service to the credit reporting agency or credit provider, ensure that everything reasonably within the power of the credit reporting agency or credit provider is done to prevent unauthorised use or disclosure of personal information contained in the file or report.
Clearly, what are "reasonable steps" of the kind referred to in para (a) will depend on all the circumstances, including the respective roles played by credit provider and credit reporting agency.
The expression "credit report" is defined in s 6(1) of the Privacy Act to mean: 
 any record or information, whether in a written, oral or other form, that: 

(a) is being or has been prepared by a credit reporting agency; and
 
(b) has any bearing on an individual's:
 
(i) eligibility to be provided with credit; or
 
(ii) history in relation to credit; or
 
(iii) capacity to repay credit; and
 
(c) is used, has been used or has the capacity to be used for the purpose of serving as a factor in establishing an individual's eligibility for credit.
It is not necessary that Veda send a record or information to its subscribing credit providers before it can be said to have supplied them with a credit report.
By reference to the definition of "record" as being, inter alia, a database, if Veda "prepares" its database or information and grants access to it to its subscribers, it is in control or possession of a "credit report".
Veda does "prepare" the record (database) or information in question.
The record or information that an accessing credit provider obtains is not simply that which another credit provider fed into the database.
It is a body of data supplied by credit providers (virtually always in the plural) which Veda's computer system has combined and arranged in a composite report.
The data will have been entered by subscribers, but Veda, through its computer system, will have composed the data into a new form.
Section 18H is directed to ensuring that an individual can obtain access to a credit information file or a credit report concerning him or her.
A credit reporting agency in possession or control of such a file must take reasonable steps to ensure that the individual can obtain access to it (s 18H(1)).
Similarly, s 18H(2) requires a credit provider or a credit reporting agency that is in possession or control of such a credit report containing personal information concerning an individual to take all reasonable steps to ensure that the individual can obtain access to the report.
Finally, subs (3) provides that an individual's rights of access under subs (1) and subs (2) may also be exercised by a person (other than a credit provider, mortgage insurer or trade insurer) authorised in writing by the individual to exercise those rights on his or her behalf in connection with: 
 (a) an application, or a proposed application, by the individual for a loan; or 
 (b) the individual having sought advice in relation to a loan.


 
A company named DR Capital Pty Ltd (DR Capital), which carried on a business of representing persons in their dealings with credit reporting agencies and credit providers, was so authorised by the nine applicants.
Richard George Symes, a director of DR Capital, gave evidence in support of the applicants' claims.
Section 18J is directed to ensuring that credit information files and credit reports are amended to reflect the true position as known.
Subsection (1) of s 18J provides: 
 A credit reporting agency in possession or control of a credit information file, or a credit provider or credit reporting agency in possession or control of a credit report, must take reasonable steps, by way of making appropriate corrections, deletions and additions, to ensure that the personal information contained in the file or report is accurate, up-to-date, complete and not misleading.


 
Subsection (2) of s 18J provides that where an individual requests a credit reporting agency or credit provider to make a correction, deletion or addition to personal information contained in a credit information file or credit report but the credit reporting agency or credit provider does not do so, and the individual requests the credit reporting agency or credit provider to include in the file or report a statement provided by the individual of a correction, deletion or addition sought by him or her, the credit reporting agency or credit provider must take reasonable steps to include the statement that has been provided by the individual in the file or report within 30 days after being requested to do so.
Section 18K imposes limits on disclosure of personal information by credit reporting agencies.
Relevantly, s 18K(1) provides that a credit reporting agency that is in possession or control of an individual's credit information file must not disclose personal information contained in the file (disclosure to the individual is excepted) unless: 
 (a) the information is contained in a credit report given to a credit provider who requested the report for the purpose of assessing an application for credit made by the individual to the credit provider; or
 (ab) ... ;or
 (ac) ...; or
 (b) the information is contained in a credit report given to a credit provider who requested the report for the purpose of assessing an application for commercial credit made by a person to the credit provider, and the individual to whom the report relates has specifically agreed to the report being given to the credit provider for that purpose; or
 ...
 (my emphasis) 

 
As indicated earlier, by allowing its subscribers access to its database, Veda did, in my view, give "credit reports" to them for the purposes of the Privacy Act .
Paragraph (a) refers to an application for consumer credit.
In that case the prior consent of the individual to disclosure is not required.
Paragraph (b) refers to an application for commercial credit.
In that case the individual's prior consent to disclosure is required, and subs (1A) of s 18K provides that the individual's consent must be in writing unless a certain exception applies.
To be distinguished from s 18K(1) is s 18E(8)(c) referred to at [33] above.
One effect of s 18E(8) is that a credit provider must not list a default, whether a consumer default or a commercial default, unless the conditions set out in that subsection are met.
One of these is that the credit provider informed the individual, before obtaining information from him or her that, relevantly, a default might be listed with a credit reporting agency.
No doubt a desirable precaution would be to obtain the individual's signed acknowledgment and consent.
Apparently this practice is followed by some credit providers.
Section 18K(1) , on the other hand, is concerned with disclosure by credit reporting agencies, and requires, as one alternative, the individual's specific consent to a disclosure to a credit provider to whom the individual has applied for commercial credit.
Subsection (2) of s 18K prohibits a credit reference agency from disclosing personal information where, generally speaking, the credit reporting agency would be prohibited by s 18E from including the information in the individual's credit information file, or would be required by s 18F to delete it from that file.
Subsection (4) of s 18K provides that a credit reporting agency that intentionally contravenes, relevantly, subs (1) or (2) of s 18K , is guilty of an offence punishable, on conviction, by a fine not exceeding $150,000.
Section 18M provides that if a credit provider refuses an application by an individual for credit and the refusal is based wholly or partly on information derived from a credit report relating to that individual that a credit reporting agency has supplied, the credit provider must give the individual a written notice stating that the application has been refused; that the refusal was so based; the name and address of the credit reporting agency; and that the individual has a right under the Privacy Act to obtain access to his or her credit information file maintained by the credit reporting agency.
Section 18R of the Privacy Act provides: 
 (1) A credit reporting agency or credit provider must not give to any other person or body (whether or not the other person or body is a credit reporting agency or credit provider) a credit report that contains false or misleading information.
(2) A credit reporting agency or credit provider that intentionally contravenes subsection (1) is guilty of an offence punishable, on conviction, by a fine not exceeding $75,000.


 
 Section 18R(1) imposes an absolute obligation on Veda not to make available to its enquiring credit providers information contained in its database that is "false or misleading".
On its face, this provision is to be contrasted with the qualified obligations imposed on the credit reporting agencies by ss 18E(1) and 18G discussed above.
However, the provision raises a question of whether information contained in an extract from Veda's database is false or misleading where the enquiring credit provider, being also a subscriber to Veda's system, understands the information to be, and it is in fact, an accurate reproduction of information that had been fed into that database by other subscribing credit providers.
Contravention of s 18R(1) is an offence only if that subsection is contravened intentionally.
Clause 1.4 of the Code provides: 
 Where a credit reporting agency:
 (a) becomes aware that information supplied by a credit provider relating to an overdue payment or a serious credit infringement may be inaccurate; and
 (b) reasonably believes that other credit information files may contain similar inaccurate listings, the credit reporting agency must, as soon as practicable:
 (i) notify the credit provider concerned, in writing, that it may have listed an inaccurate overdue payment or serious credit infringement against the individual concerned;
 (ii) request the credit provider to ascertain whether other individuals' credit information files may be similarly affected, and to investigate the accuracy of any overdue payment or serious credit infringement listing in those other individuals' files; and 
 (iii) advise the Privacy Commissioner in writing of the above actions.


 
Clause 1.4 may be compared with cl 1.3 of the Code discussed at [41]---[42] above.
In the present cases, Veda became aware that listed particulars of defaults may have been inaccurate as a result of challenges made to their accuracy by the individuals concerned or by DR Capital on their behalf.
The gravamen of the applicants' complaint is not that Veda did not respond appropriately or with sufficient speed to the challenges.
Their complaint is in respect of the listing of the defaults at all.
In any event, any tardiness on the part of Veda would assume relevance only in relation to an inaccurate listing.
It remains to refer to the "Information Privacy Principles" and the "National Privacy Principles".
The Information Privacy Principles are the privacy principles numbered 1 to 11 set out in s 14 of the Privacy Act .
I will not set them out here.
Section 13 provides, relevantly, that for the purposes of the Privacy Act , an act or practice is an interference with the privacy of an individual if the act or practice, in the case of an act or practice engaged in by, relevantly a credit reporting agency or credit provider, breaches an Information Privacy Principle in relation to personal information that relates to the individual.
The National Privacy Principles are set out in Schedule 3 to the Privacy Act .
They impose obligations on "organisations".
Section 6C of the Privacy Act defines an "organisation" to mean relevantly, a body corporate that is not a small business operator, a registered political party, an agency, a State or Territory authority or a prescribed instrumentality of a State or Territory.
The expression "agency" is defined in s 6 and does not include either a credit reporting agency or a credit provider.
The National Privacy Principles therefore apply to Veda: it is an organisation and is not within the exclusion.
I will not set out the National Privacy Principles here.
Part V (ss 36 --- 70B ) of the Privacy Act is headed "Investigations".
Section 36 , the first section in Div 1 (ss 36 --- 51 ) in Pt V , provides, relevantly, that, subject to exceptions, an individual may complain to the Commissioner about an act or practice that may be an interference with the privacy of the individual.
Clause 3.2 of the Code provides that where a credit reporting agency is unable to resolve a dispute, it must immediately inform the individual concerned of this fact and of the fact that the individual may complain to the Commissioner.
Section 40(1) provides that subject to subs (1A), the Commissioner must investigate an act or practice if: 
 (a) the act or practice may be an interference with the privacy of an individual; and
 (b) a complaint about the act or practice has been made under section 36.


 
Subsection (1A), however, provides that the Commissioner must not so investigate a complaint if the complainant did not first complain to the respondent, unless the Commissioner decides that it was not appropriate for the complainant to complain to the respondent first.
Section 41(1) provides, relevantly, that the Commissioner may decide not to investigate, or not to investigate further, an act or practice about which complaint has been made under s 36 if the Commissioner is satisfied that: 
 (a) ... ;
 [there is no (b)]
 (c) ... ;
 (d) ... ;
 (e) the act or practice is the subject of an application under another Commonwealth law, or a State or Territory law, and the subject-matter of the complaint has been, or is being, dealt with adequately under that law; or
 (f) another Commonwealth law, or a State or Territory law, provides a more appropriate remedy for the act or practice that is the subject of the complaint.


 The first section in Div 2 (ss 52 --- 53B ) of Pt V , s 52 provides, relevantly, as follows: 
 (1) After investigating a complaint, the Commissioner may: 

(a) make a determination dismissing the complaint; or
 
(b) find the complaint substantiated and make a determination that includes one or more of the following:
 
(i) a declaration:
 
(A) ...
 
(B) ... --- that the respondent has engaged in conduct constituting an interference with the privacy of an individual and should not repeat or continue such conduct;
 
(ii) a declaration that the respondent should perform any reasonable act or course of conduct to redress any loss or damage suffered by the complainant;
 
(iii) a declaration that the complainant is entitled to a specified amount by way of compensation for any loss or damage suffered by reason of the act or practice the subject of the complaint;
 
(iv) a declaration that it would be inappropriate for any further action to be taken in the matter.

 (1A) The loss or damage referred to in paragraph (1)(b) includes injury to the complainant's feelings or humiliation suffered by the complainant.
(1B) A determination of the Commissioner under subsection (1) is not binding or conclusive between any of the parties to the determination.
(2) ...
 (3) ...
 (3A) ...
 (3B) A determination may include an order that: 

(a) an agency or respondent make an appropriate correction, deletion or addition to a record, or to a credit information file or credit report, as the case may be; or
 
(b) ...
 
 Division 3 (ss 54 - 55B ) of Pt V provides for enforcement of determinations made under s 52.
Section 55 provides: 
 Determination under section 52 

 
 (1) An organisation that is the respondent to a determination made under section 52: 

(a) must not repeat or continue conduct that is covered by a declaration that is included in the determination under sub-subparagraph 52(1)(b)(i)(B); and
 
(b) must perform the act or course of conduct that is covered by a declaration that is included in the determination under subparagraph 52(1)(b)(ii).

 Determination under approved privacy code 

 
 (2) An organisation that is the respondent to a determination made under an approved privacy code: 

(a) must not repeat or continue conduct that is covered by a declaration that is included in the determination and that corresponds to a declaration mentioned in paragraph (1)(a); and
 
(b) must perform the act or course of conduct that is covered by a declaration that is included in the determination and that corresponds to a declaration mentioned in paragraph (1)(b).
Section 55A provides for proceedings in this Court or the Federal Magistrates Court of Australia to enforce a determination.
The section provides in subs (1) for the persons who may commence proceedings for an order to enforce a determination.
They include the complainant and, if the determination was made under s 52 , the Commissioner.
Section 55A provides in subss (2)-(5) as follows: 
 (2) If the court is satisfied that the respondent has engaged in conduct that constitutes an interference with the privacy of the complainant, the court may make such orders (including a declaration of right) as it thinks fit.
(3) The court may, if it thinks fit, grant an interim injunction pending the determination of the proceedings.
(4) The court is not to require a person, as a condition of granting an interim injunction, to give an undertaking as to damages.
(5) The court is to deal by way of a hearing de novo with the question whether the respondent has engaged in conduct that constitutes an interference with the privacy of the complainant.


 As appears at [90] ff below, I do not find it necessary to address the question whether the provisions in Pt V of the Privacy Act noted above are inconsistent with the continued subsistence of causes of action in defamation and negligence.
The provisions are relevant, however, to Veda's contention that the common law did not impose on Veda a duty of care in respect of the accuracy of default listings (see [374] ff below).
"CONSUMER DEFAULTS" AND "COMMERCIAL DEFAULTS" 
 The expressions "consumer default" and "commercial default" were much used in submissions.
They are not used in the Privacy Act .
They refer to a default in relation to the provision of (consumer) credit on the one hand and commercial credit on the other (see [23] above).
For convenience, I will also use the expressions "consumer default" and "commercial default".
Veda frequently submitted in relation to a listed commercial default that the Privacy Act had no application.
Veda was pleased to draw attention to the fact that the listed defaults in relation to Dale, McGary and Shields were not consumer defaults but were commercial defaults, with the consequence, so Veda submitted, that the Privacy Act , and, in particular, s 18E(1)(b)(vi) and (x) and (ba) had no application.
With respect, this way of describing the position was apt to mislead.
I gave a detailed account of s 18E at [28]ff.
It was not disputed that Veda was a credit reporting agency to which that section applied.
I set out the definition of "personal information" at [12] above.
The expression is not defined by reference to "credit", the definition of which (as consumer credit) I set out at [21] above.
I set out the definition of "credit information file" at [30] above and the definition of "credit reporting business" at [18] above.
The notion of a "credit information file" is central to the operation of s 18E.
I will return to that concept below.
Section 18E(1) prohibits a credit reporting agency, such as Veda, from including personal information in an individual's credit information file unless the information satisfies para (a), (b), (ba), (c) or (d) of s 18E(1).
Subparagraphs (vi) and (x) of para (b) of s 18E(1) and para (ba) of that subsection are all dependent, in various ways, on the notion of "credit".
As noted at [20] above, the word "credit" standing alone in the Privacy Act means consumer credit.
This is why, by way of reminder, I have sometimes written "(consumer) credit" in these Reasons.
Section 18E(1) prohibits a credit reporting agency from including particulars of commercial defaults in an individual's "credit information file", not because of any failure to give a notice or to take recovery steps, but because commercial defaults do not fall within any of the classes of (consumer) credit information referred to in s 18E(1) at all.
In a sense it is true that a default in relation to commercial credit does not have to "satisfy" the constraints referred to in subparas (vi) and (x) of para (b) or in para (ba) of s 18E(1) because those provisions refer only to (consumer) credit.
However, those provisions identify information which a credit reporting agency is permitted to include in an individual's credit information file, and commercial defaults lie entirely outside the scope of such information.
Thus, while it is beside the point for the applicants to complain that the "requirements" of those provisions are not met in relation to a commercial default, it is also wrong to assume that this means that commercial defaults may be recorded in a credit information file regardless of those requirements.
It would be possible for me to spend some time discussing what is the "credit information file" of each of the applicants in the context of Veda's electronic database, and the question whether, in contravention of s 18E , Veda included commercial defaults in that credit information file (as distinct from in any "commercial credit information file" that may have existed relating to the same applicant).
But on the assumption that Veda contravened s 18E , the question arises where that leads.
The applicants do not sue for breach of statutory duty.
The gravamen of their defamation claims is that the listed default conveyed the defamatory imputations concerning them that are identified in their respective TFASCs.
The gravamen of their claims in negligence is that the listed default was inaccurate.
Moreover, even if Veda contravened s 18E by including commercial defaults in the applicant's (consumer) credit information files, I do not know that the applicants would be any worse off than they would have been if Veda had included the identical commercial defaults in "commercial credit information files" that were accessed by enquiring credit providers at the same time as they accessed the (consumer) credit information files.
For the above reasons, I do not find it necessary to explore the question whether Veda contravened s 18E by including commercial defaults in (consumer) credit information files that it maintained in respect of the applicants.
That is not the pleaded case and it is doubtful that a different pleading of the case would have improved the position of the applicants in the present respect.
Before moving from the present issue, I should note, in fairness to Veda, that business records of Veda that are in evidence demonstrate that Veda is well aware of the present distinction.
For example, the "Veda Advantage Default Information Guide" states: 
 The foundation of our services is our database: The largest single source of credit information in Australia.
Our database contains more than 14 million consumer and 2.8 million commercial credit files.
It includes records on the credit activity of Australian individuals, companies and businesses.
[my emphasis] 

 
The document continues by informing readers of constraints imposed by the Privacy Act on dealings with "an individuals' consumer credit file" (emphasis in original).
SAMPLE PLEADING IN THE CASE OF SHANE DALE 
 In all but one of the nine proceedings the final pleading is a third further amended statement of claim (TFASC).
The exception is Mr Taylor's proceeding in which it is a second further amended statement of claim.
The purist would object, but I will use TFASC to include a reference to Mr Taylor's final pleading also.
The TFASCs exhibit a common structure of which that in Mr Dale's proceeding will serve as an example.
The following account of Mr Dale's TFASC is of its allegations, not of facts found by me.
Numerals in square brackets in bold below are the numbers of paragraphs in Mr Dale's TFASC.
Veda is a trading corporation incorporated under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) and carries on a credit reporting business within the meaning of the Privacy Act [ 2 ].
Veda published of and concerning Mr Dale information in certain credit reports, which included the words and figures or, in the alternative, the information set out in Schedule A to the TFASC, [3] .
Schedule A was as follows: SCHEDULE A 

 
 Consumer [sic --- should be Commercial] Defaults 

 
 Account No: 
 
 0724019 
 
 
 
 Account Type: 
 
 Credit Card 
 
 
 
 Association Code: 
 
 Principal's Account 
 
 
 
 Latest Subscriber: 
 
 BARTERCARD LTD QLD 
 
 
 
 Latest Date: 
 
 20/03/2000 
 
 Latest Amount: 
 
 $1174 
 
 Latest Reason: 
 
 Clearout (Watched) 
 
 
 
 Original Subscriber: 
 
 BARTERCARD LTD QLD 
 
 
 
 Original Date: 
 
 20/03/2000 
 
 Original Amount: 
 
 $1174 
 
 Original Reason: 
 
 Clearout (Watched) 
 
 
 
 
Schedule A set out verbatim certain information that was recorded in the credit information file maintained by Veda in respect of Mr Dale.
It showed that Bartercard Ltd Qld (Bartercard) listed a "Clearout (Watched)" default on 20 March 2000, showing an "amount" of $1174.
Since the "Latest Date" is also 20 March 2000, we know that Bartercard did not update the listed default.
In the case of Dale, Fisher, Marker, Shields and Strange, there was also a Schedule B to the TFASC.
In the cases of Adams, McGary, Taylor and Tyndall, there was only a Schedule A.
As will be seen below, the Schedules B were also extracts of information recorded in the relevant credit information files.
Each Schedule B was identical to the Schedule A annexed to the same TFASC but for one difference: the Schedule B had an additional final line which recorded that the debt in question had a "Status" of "Paid" or "Settled" as at a specified "Status Date".
As appears at [96] below, in Mr Dale's case the additional line gave a Status of Paid as at a Status Date of 20 June 2003.
Where a TFASC had both Schedules A and B annexed, the TFASC alleged that the material complained of in Schedule A had been published to one or more enquiring credit providers prior to the recording of the payment and that the material complained of in Schedule B had been published to one or more credit providers after the recording of the payment or settlement.
The meanings of expressions that were used in the credit information files were to be found in an "Internet User Guide" that Veda provided to its subscribers (Guide).
The Guide instructed subscribing credit providers as to the "codes" by which various types of defaults were to be listed and, it follows, by which the listed defaults were to be understood.
The expression "Clearout (Watched)" was listed in the Guide under the heading "Commercial Credit Default Report Types".
In relation to this expression, the Guide stated: 
 The account must be a confirmed missing debtor e.g.
skip or clearout.
There must be reasonable efforts made to contact the debtor in person or in writing.
You can list a clearout immediately, you do not have to wait the 60 days as long as efforts have been made to prove the debtor is a confirmed missing debtor.


 The reference to "the 60 days" is explained by the definition of "Payment Default", which was another Commercial Credit Default Report Type that was defined on the same page of the Guide as follows: 
 The account must be 60 days or more overdue and the debtor or debtors must have been sent a written notice advising of the overdue payment, and requesting payment of the amount outstanding.


 
The expression "Repossession Loss (after sale)" was defined on the same page of the Guide as "The amount outstanding after sales of goods".
It is convenient to note that the expression "Payment Default" was also listed under the heading "Individual Consumer Credit Default Report Types" in the Guide and was defined there in the same way.
The Individual Consumer Credit Default Type that was comparable to "Clearout (Watched)" was "Serious Credit Infringement (Confirmed Clearouts only)".
This was defined as follows: 
 Must be a confirmed missing debtor e.g.
a skip or clearout.
There must be reasonable efforts made to contact the debtor in person or in writing.
You can list a SCI [Serious Credit Infringement] immediately, you do not have to wait 60 days as long as efforts have been to prove the debtor is a confirmed missing debtor.


 
No doubt the reason why there is no reference to "serious credit infringement" in the case of the Commercial Credit Default Report Type "Clearout (Watched)" is that the Privacy Act 's definition of "serious credit infringement" in s 6(1)(set out at [31] above) relates only to consumer credit.
Apparently the author of the Guide considered that in all circumstances, the inability, after efforts, of a credit provider to contact a consumer after he or she had left his or her last address known to the credit provider, would satisfy that definition of "serious credit infringement".
There was no Indivdual Consumer Credit Default Type comparable to "Repossession Loss (after sale)".
The terms "Paid" and "Settled" are defined in the Guide under the heading "Default Status Types" as follows: Paid A defaulted account, which has been paid in full and is now closed.
Settled A defaulted account, which was in default, and a lesser amount has been agreed upon by both parties to be paid as full and final payment.
According to Mr Dale's TFASC, the words and figures or information in Schedule A concerning Mr Dale were published to the following entities on the following dates: 
 (a) 19 October 2000 Direct Mortgage Solutions;
 (b) 24 November 2000 American Exp New Accts NSW;
 (c) 25 November 2000 Citibank Limited;
 (d) 27 November 2000 American Exp New Accounts NSW;
 (e) 2 January 2001 Citibank Limited;
 (f) 19 June 2003 S E Rentals Pty Ltd. [ 3 ] 

 
These particulars are records in Mr Dale's credit information file of occasions on which credit providers, to whom Mr Dale had applied for consumer or commercial credit, accessed his file.
I will use the term "enquiring credit providers" to refer to subscribing credit providers who recorded an applicant's application for consumer or commercial credit in that applicant's credit information file.
Of course, all six alleged publications of the matter complained of in Schedule A post-dated the date of the listing of "Clearout (Watched)" by Bartercard on 20 March 2000.
I will use the expression "listing credit provider" to refer to a subscribing credit provider, such as Bartercard in Mr Dale's case, that listed a default.
The matter referred to in Schedule A conveyed the following imputations each of which was defamatory of Mr Dale: That the applicant refused to pay to a creditor a debt of $1,174.00 which he was legally obliged to pay before 20 March 2000.
That the applicant had since before 20 March 2000 been unable to pay his debts.
The applicant is a credit risk by reason of his continuing failure since 2004 to pay a creditor a debt of $1,174.00 which he is legally obliged to pay despite being sent a written notice by the creditor requesting payment.
The applicant had engaged in fraudulently evading his obligations to pay his debts.
The applicant is reasonable [sic --- reasonably] suspected by a creditor of fraudulently evading his obligation to pay his debts.
The applicant is a serious credit risk.
That the applicant has taken advantage of his change of address in order to evade his obligations to pay his debts.
That the applicant is reasonably suspected by a creditor of taking advantage of his change of address to evade his obligations to pay his debts.
[4] 
 Imputations (a)-(c) were conveyed by the natural and ordinary meaning of the matter complained of or with the aid of extrinsic facts known to the persons to whom that matter was published, while imputations (d)-(h) were conveyed with the aid of extrinsic facts known to those persons.
The following particulars of extrinsic facts are given: 
 (a) The persons to whom the matter was published were employees or agents of the companies to whom the matters complained of were published.
(b) The companies were subscribers of the respondent enabling the companies to have access to its " Business Information Services" products and services including its internet data base.
(c) The respondent published to its subscribers an " internet user guide" to enable users to access credit information files including credit information files concerning the applicant.
The respondent also conducted training seminars using its internet user guides to train subscribers and users, inter alia, how to access and use credit information files and how to interpret the information on these files and how to provide information to be recorded on those files.
(d) Persons accessing the information were required to use operator identification codes, which would be provided to them by the respondent.
(e) In the respondent's "internet user guide" the following appears in relation to individual consumer credit default type reports:
 "Serious credit infringement (confirmed clear outs only)" 
 [The definition from the Guide is set out --- see [89] above] 

 
 "Payment Default" 
 [The definition from the Guide is set out --- see [88], [89] above] 

 
 A default is an account that is usually 60 days or more overdue, where $100 or more is owed for which you have commenced collection action.
Once listed with Baycorp Advantage - Business Information Services, the default will remain in file for five years.
(p 53) 

 
 (f) In the respondent's "internet user guide" the following appears in relation to commercial credit default reports: 

 
 "Clearout (Watched)" 
 [The definition from the Guide is set out --- see [87] above] 

 
 "Payment Default" 
 [The definition from the Guide is set out --- see [88] above] 

 
 A default is an account that is usually 60 days or more overdue, where $100 or more is owed and for which you have commenced collection action.
Once listed with Baycorp Advantage- Business Information Services, the default will remain in file for five years.
(p 37) 

 
 (g) The persons to whom the matter was published knew each of the facts referred to in (c) and (f) and were aware [of] and understood the "internet user guide" as a whole.


 
 (h) Section 18E(1) of the Privacy Act 1988 provides that a credit reporting agency must not include personal information in an individual creditors [sic --- individual's credit] information file unless it comes within the circumstances set out in s.18E(1).
The only subsection to which the personal information "clearout (watched)" could be authorised is under s.18E(1)(b)(x) which is that the information is a record of "the opinion of a credit provider that the individual has in the circumstances specified, committed a serious credit infringement".
Under s 6(1) of the Privacy Act "serious credit infringement" is defined to mean: 

 
 "an act done by a person:
 (a) that involves fraudulently obtaining credit, or attempting fraudulently to obtain credit; or
 (b) that involves fraudulently evading the person's obligations in relation to credit, or attempting fraudulently to evade those obligations; or
 (c) that a reasonable person would consider indicates an intention, on the part of the first-mentioned person, no longer to comply with the first-mentioned person's obligations in relation to credit.
" 

 
 (i) Even if the persons to whom the matter complained of was published was [sic --- were] not aware of the precise terms of sections 18E or 6 they knew that "clearout (watched)" meant that the debtor was either engaged in fraudulently evading or attempting to evade his/her obligations to pay her [sic --- his/her] debts to the credit provider or that the credit provider had formed that opinion.


 
 (j) The persons to whom the matter complained of [was published] knew that a clearout is a default which remains listed on a credit report for seven years, whereas a payment default is removed five years after listing.


 
 (k) The persons to whom the matter complained of [was published] knew the New South Wales Consumer Credit Act 1995 which adopts the Consumer Credit Queensland Act states inter alia a credit provider must not begin enforcement proceedings against a debtor in relation to a credit contract unless the debtor is [in] default under the credit contract and the credit provider has given the debtor or any guarantor, a default notice, complying with the section, in turn allowing the debtor a period of thirty days from the date of the notice to remedy the default.


 Veda further published of and concerning Mr Dale the information in certain credit reports which included the words and figures or, alternatively, the information set out in Schedule B to the TFASC [5] .
The following particulars of publication are given: 
 (a) 24 June 2003 Optus Commun Aust NSW;
 (b) 10 November 2003 CBFC Rentals Pty Limited ...
.


 Schedule B was as follows: SCHEDULE B 

 
 Account No: 
 
 0724019 
 
 
 
 Account Type: 
 
 Credit Card 
 
 
 
 Association Code: 
 
 Principal's Account 
 
 
 
 Latest Subscriber: 
 
 BARTERCARD LTD QLD 
 
 
 
 Latest Date: 
 
 20/03/2000 
 
 Latest Amount: 
 
 $1174 
 
 Latest Reason: 
 
 Clearout (Watched) 
 
 
 
 Original Subscriber: 
 
 BARTERCARD LTD QLD 
 
 
 
 Original Date: 
 
 20/03/2000 
 
 Latest Amount: 
 
 $1174 
 
 Original Reason: 
 
 Clearout (Watched) 
 
 
 
 Status: 
 
 Paid 
 
 Status Date: 
 
 20/06/2003 
 
 
Of course, both of the alleged publications of the matter complained of in Schedule B post-dated the Status Date of 20 June 2003.
The matter referred to in Schedule B contained the following imputations each of which was defamatory of Mr Dale: 
 (a) That the applicant had for more than three years refused to pay a creditor a debt of $1,174.00 which he was legally obliged to pay.
(b) That the applicant only paid to a creditor the debt of $1,174.00 on or about 20 June 2003 which he had been legally obliged to pay since before 20 March 2000 when the non payment of the debt was made the subject of a credit report about the applicant.
(c) That between March and June 2003 the applicant had been unable to pay his debts.
(d) That the applicant is a credit risk by reason of the circumstance of his failure to pay a creditor until or about 20 June 2003 a debt of $1,174.00 which he was legally obliged to pay to the creditor before 20 March 2000.
(e) The applicant had engaged in fraudulently evading his obligations to pay his debts.
(f) The applicant is reasonable [sic --- reasonably] suspected by a creditor of fraudulently evading his obligation to pay his debts; and
 (g) The applicant is a serious credit risk.
(h) That the applicant has taken advantage of his change of address in order to evade his obligations to pay his debts.
(i) That the applicant is reasonably suspected by a creditor of taking advantage of his change of address to evade his obligations to pay his debts.
[6] 

 Imputations (a)---(d) were conveyed by the natural and ordinary meaning of the matter complained of, or alternatively, with the aid of extrinsic facts known to the persons to whom the matter was published.
Imputations (e)---(i) were conveyed with the aid of extrinsic facts known to those persons.
Mr Dale repeats the particulars of extrinsic facts in para 4 of the TFASC set out at [94] above.
Paragraphs 7 and 7A are referable to the way in which information was entered in Veda's database and extracted from it.
In all cases it was entered electronically directly by subscribers and extracted electronically directly by them.
In some cases, however, it was extracted by the credit provider's computer and not viewed on a screen or otherwise by a human being, but immediately acted upon by reason of a program in the credit provider's own computer.
In his affidavit, Adam John Champion, a Solutions Consultant employed by Veda, used the term "System-to-System" to refer to this process.
In such cases, where the credit report was adverse, depending on the enquiring subscriber's computer program, the individual's application for credit was automatically rejected, and the rejection letter automatically produced and sent to him or her.
Veda's argument was that in these circumstances there was no publication to a human mind and that for this reason one of the essential aspects of the element of publication in the cause of action in defamation was absent.
The applicants accept that communication to a human mind is necessary but submit that it should be inferred from all the evidence that such communication took place (I address the present issue in relation to the respective applicants at [154] ff below).
Paragraph 7 of the TFASC addresses the System-to-System situation.
In other cases, while an operator employed by the enquiring subscriber viewed on the computer screen information extracted from Veda's database, it might be that only a "File Summary" rather than the entirety of the information referred to in Schedules A and B was read.
Paragraph 7A of the TFASC addresses this possibility.
Paragraphs 7 and 7A of Mr Dale's TFASC are as follows: To the extent, which is not admitted, that it may be found that notwithstanding the information published to the recipients referred [to] in paragraph 3 and 5 it was not read or not read in its entirety by an individual on behalf of the recipients but was interpreted or assessed by a computer which computer recommended any application for credit be declined, the information referred [to] in Schedules A and B conveyed the following imputations.

 (a) The applicant was a credit risk because of his failure for more than 60 days to pay a debt or debts which he was legally obliged to pay despite being sent a written notice by the creditor advising of the overdue payment and requesting payment of the amount outstanding.


 
 (b) The applicant was a credit risk because he drew a cheque for more than $100.00 which was twice presented and dishonoured.


 
 (c) The applicant was a credit risk because he was the subject of a court judgement against him.


 
 (d) The applicant was a credit risk because he was the subject of a bankruptcy order.


 
 (e) The applicant was a credit risk because he was reasonably suspected by a creditor of fraudulently evading his obligations to pay his debts.


 
 (f) That the applicant was a credit risk for one or more of the following reasons:
 (i) His failure for more than 60 days to pay a debt or debts which he was legally obliged to pay despite being sent a written notice by the creditor of the overdue payment and requesting payment of the amount outstanding.
(ii) He drew a cheque for more then $100 which was twice presented and dishonoured.
(iii) He was the subject of a court judgment against him.
(iv) He was the subject of a bankruptcy order.
(v) He was reasonably suspected by a creditor of fraudulently evading his obligations to pay his debts.


 
 Particulars of Extrinsic Facts 
 The imputations were conveyed with aid of the following extrinsic facts known to the person or persons who knew that the applicant's application had been declined.


 
 (a) The only information in the information published wholly or partly based upon which would cause a recommendation [sic] the applicant's application be declined was information that 

 
 (i) That the applicant had committed a default, namely that the applicant was at least 60 days overdue in making payment to creditor or as a guarantor 60 days had elapsed since notice ... was given to him of a borrower's default that gave rise to his obligation to make a payment to the creditor provider [sic --- credit provider] under a guarantee and that the credit provider had taken steps to recover the overdue payments; or 

 
 (ii) That a cheque for an amount not less than $100.00 had been drawn by the applicant and had twice been presented and dishonoured; or 

 
 (iii) That there was a court judgement against the applicant; or 

 
 (iv) The bankruptcy orders had been made against the applicant; or 

 
 (v) That in the opinion of a credit provider the applicant had in the circumstances committed a serious credit infringement namely had ... fraudulently evaded his obligations to pay his debts; or 

 
 (vi) One of [sic] more of the above.


 
 7A.
If, which is not admitted, the information published to the recipients of and concerning the applicant referred to in paragraph[s] 3 and 5 above was not read in its entirety by an individual on behalf of the recipients and that individual or individuals on behalf of the recipients only read the applicant's name and address, the word 'defaults' and the number next to it in the 'File Summary' as part of the 'Risk OnLine Individual Display', the information so read conveyed the following imputation which was defamatory of the applicant: 

 
 (a) The applicant was a credit risk because of his failure for more than 60 days to pay a debt or debts which he was legally obliged to pay despite being sent a written notice by the creditor advising of the overdue payments and requesting payment of the amount outstanding.


 
 Particulars 
 (a) The File Summary first referred to is the File Summary described in the respondent's "Internet User Guide", and which in version 5.2 dated August 2005 is at page 50.
The File Summary secondly referred to as being part of the "Risk OnLine Individual Display" is the File Summary described in the respondent's "Internet User Guide" and which in version 5.2 dated August 2005 is at page 30.


 
 (b) The imputation was conveyed by the natural and ordinary meaning of the information or alternatively was conveyed with the aid of extrinsic facts known to the individuals who on behalf of the recipients read the said information.


 
 Particulars of Extrinsic Facts 
 Default or payment default means an account which is 60 days or more overdue and the debt or debtors have been sent a written notice advising of the overdue payment and requesting payment of the amount outstanding and where the debt is $100.00 or more collection action has been commenced against the debtor or debtors.


 By reason of the publication of the matters complained of, Mr Dale was greatly injured in his character, credit and reputation and has suffered and will continue to suffer loss and damage [8] .
Mr Dale gives the following particulars of special damages and aggravated damages: 
 Particulars of Special Damages 
 The credit reports were published to credit providers, financiers and/or lenders to whom the applicant had applied for credit, finance or loans and which in reliance upon the credit reports either declined the applicant's application or approved the application at increased financial cost.
The applicant claims damages being the additional financial cost incurred by him in obtaining credit, financial loans as a result of the publication, the cost and damage sustained as a result of delays in obtaining credit, finance and loans as a result of the publication of the credit reports.


 
 Particulars of Aggravated Damages 
 (a) The applicant's knowledge of the falsity of the imputations.
(b) The failure of the respondent to correct the credit report in the matter complained of when requested to do so.
[8] 

 Mr Dale's claim in negligence is pleaded in paras 9-11 of his TFASC.
Veda owed Mr Dale a "duty of care" in publishing the matter in Schedules A and B to the persons referred to in paras 3 and 5, arising from the following: 
 (a) Sections 18E , 18G , 18J , 18K 18R of the Privacy Act 1988 (Commonwealth) provides that a credit reporting agency (which includes the respondent) must not give to any other person or body a credit report that contains false or misleading information.


 
 (aa) The national privacy principles inserted into the Privacy Act 1988 (Commonwealth) with effect from 21 December 2001.


 
 (b) The respondent knew or ought reasonably [to] have known that the persons to whom the matter in Schedules A and B was published would rely upon that information in deciding whether to provide credit, finance or loans to the applicant, and, if so, on what terms.


 
 (c) The respondent knew or ought ... reasonably [to] have known that if the information published was false or misleading it may: 

 
 (i) Cause the applicant financial loss.
(ii) Lead to the refusal of an application by the applicant for finance or a loan which, had the information been accurate, may have been approved.
(iii) Lead to an application for finance or a loan by the applicant ... being approved at additional financial cost to the applicant than would have been the case if the information had been accurate.


 
 (d) Part of the Credit Reporting Code of Conduct issued under s.18A of the Privacy Act requires a credit reporting agency, such as the respondent (pursuant to s. 18B) , to take steps to ensure that personal information included in the credit information files and credit reports is accurate, up to date, complete and not misleading: the applicant relies upon Part 1 of the Code of Conduct, especially paragraph 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4 thereof.


 
 (e) The applicant was vulnerable to economic loss if the respondent's reports to the respondent's subscribers (who were themselves credit providers) contained inaccurate negative information prejudicial to the applicant's credit worthiness.


 
 (f) The respondent controlled the databases that were used by the respondent to compile the respondent's credit reports to the respondent's subscribers (who were themselves credit providers) in relation to the applicant's credit worthiness.
[9] 

 
The TFASC does not spell out the nature of the duty of care alleged, such as whether it was a duty to exercise reasonable care to ensure that particulars of listed defaults were factually correct, or merely to ensure that the database accurately recorded and disclosed to enquiring credit providers the information that listing credit providers had entered.
Negligently and in breach of its duty, Veda included in the credit reports it published about Mr Dale inaccurate material that was likely to damage him [10] .
According to the particulars provided, it was erroneous to show him as "Clearout (Watched)" or to record that he had defaulted in paying a debt of $1,175 [sic --- $1,174] to a creditor.
Veda failed to take any steps or any reasonable steps to check the accuracy of the matter in Schedules A and B or whether that matter as contained in the credit reports concerning Mr Dale or the credit information file concerning him held by Veda was in accordance with or in contravention of the Privacy Act .
Veda should have implemented a pre-acceptance checklist to be completed by each subscriber before it was permitted to add an alleged default to Veda's database, which checklist should have required the subscriber to indicate that each of the required steps had been taken necessary to show that the requirements of the Privacy Act and the Internet User Guide had been met.
Further, Veda did not have any or any adequate measures in place to ensure that every person (principal, servant or agent) who was authorised or permitted to add, update or amend information relating to a person's creditworthiness in Veda's database had been adequately trained in and was competent to apply the correct criteria that had to be satisfied before negative default information could properly be included in Veda's database for future inclusion in its credit reports.
Finally, by reason of Veda's negligence and breach of duty, Mr Dale suffered loss and damage "and/or lost the chance of obtaining credit on more favourable terms" [11] .
Mr Dale repeats the particulars of Special and Aggravated Damages set out at [106] above.
VEDA'S DEFENCES 
 Veda's defence to Mr Dale's TFASC proceeds along the following lines.
(Letters in square brackets in bold again refer to paragraphs of the defence.
) Veda carries on a credit reporting business within the meaning of the Privacy Act and is, by reason of that fact, a credit reporting agency within the meaning of that Act by reason of s 11A of that Act [ (a) ].
Veda admits that the words set out in Schedules A and B to the TFASC appear in electronic form (as part of a larger body of material referring to Mr Dale) on a computer database maintained by Veda.
Veda says that to its knowledge its subscribers, being credit providers within the meaning of the Privacy Act , commonly access such material electronically by computer in such a way that the material, including the matter complained of in paras 3 and 5 of the TFASC, may never be read by or conveyed to the attention of any person.
Veda does not admit that it "published" the matter complained of [ (b) ].
Veda raises a number of defences under s 14 and s 14B of the Limitation Act 1969 (NSW) (Limitation Act).
For example, in answer to para 4 of the TFASC, Veda says that imputations (c), (g) and (h) having first been pleaded on 24 March 2006, are statute barred by s 14 of that Act in relation to the publications pleaded in paras 3(a) --- (d) of the TFASC [ (c) ].
Other Limitation Act defences are raised in answer to the following paragraphs of the TFASC: Para No.

 of TFASC 
 Limitation Act defence 5 Claim on each alleged publication barred by s 14B [ (e)(v) ] 6 Imputations (h) and (i) first pleaded on 24 March 2006 barred by s 14B in relation to publications pleaded in paras 5(a) and (b) [ (f) ] 7 Claims on the imputations alleged in [sic --- there is a blank in the original] are barred by s 14 in relation to publications pleaded in paras 3(a) --- (e) [ (h)(iii) ] 7 Claim on publications alleged in paras 3(f) and 5 barred by s 14B [ (h)(iv) ] 7A Claim on publications alleged in paras 3(a) --- (e) barred by s 14 [ (i)(iii) ] 7A Claim on imputation alleged in para 7A(a) barred by s 14B in relation to publications pleaded in paras 3(f) and 5 [ (i)(iv) ].
The defence denies that any of the matters complained of are capable of conveying the imputations alleged or that any of the imputations alleged are capable of being defamatory of Mr Dale.
Both of these defences are pleaded in relation to the matter complained of in paras 3, 5, 7 and 7A of the TFASC [ (d), (g), (h), (i) ].
The defence pleads a substantial defence based on provisions of the Privacy Act .
I have summarised the provisions of that Act above and will discuss them further below.
First, the defence says that by reason of the provisions of the Privacy Act and the Code, the State and Territory laws, in so far as they purport to provide or create a cause of action in defamation or negligence against Veda, are inconsistent with the Privacy Act and the Code, and are invalid to the extent of that inconsistency by reason of s 109 of the Constitution [ (v)(i) ].
In so far as Mr Dale relies on any cause of action or matter of defence arising from the common law, that common law is modified by and subject to the provisions of the Privacy Act and the Code [ (v)(ii)] .
By reason of those matters, Mr Dale has no valid action at law in damages for defamation or negligent breach of duty of care or breach of a statutory duty [ w ].
Veda has complied with the provisions of the Privacy Act and the Code and is therefore not liable to Mr Dale on any of the causes of action pleaded in his TFASC [( x) ].
In so far as it is found (which is denied) that the matter complained of was published in New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia, Western Australia or the territories of the Australian Capital Territory or the Northern Territory, the matter complained of was published on an occasion of qualified privilege [ (y) ].
In so far as it is found (which is denied) that the matter complained of was published in Queensland or Tasmania, the publication was made in good faith for the protection of the interests of Veda or of some other person, or, alternatively, the publication was made in good faith in answer to an enquiry made of Veda relating to a subject as to which the enquirer had or was believed on reasonable grounds by Veda to have an interest in knowing the truth or, alternatively, the publication was made in good faith for the purpose of giving information to the enquirer with respect to some subject as to which the enquirer had or was believed on reasonable grounds by the person making the publication to have such an interest in knowing the truth as to make Veda's conduct in making the publication reasonable under the circumstances [( z) ].
As particulars, Veda states that it relies upon qualified privilege at common law and under s 22 of the Defamation Act 1974 (NSW) (Defamation Act) in so far as it is found that publication took place in New South Wales.
Veda elaborates on these particulars in the following seven paragraphs: at or about the time of each of the publications the Applicant was an applicant for credit from a credit provider; 
 (ii) at the time of the publications the Respondent was a credit reporting agency within the meaning of the Privacy Act; 
 (iii) the matter complained of related to the credit worthiness of the Applicant;
 (iv) the matter complained of was published only to credit providers to whom the Applicant had applied for credit and who were subscribers to the services provided by the Respondent and in the course of the Respondent providing to them services for which they subscribed;
 (v) at the time of the publications alleged: 

(A) the Respondent had a social, moral and/or legal duty and interest in receiving the information concerning the Applicant's creditworthiness from credit providers, and in permitting credit providers who were subscribers access to that information;
 
(B) the credit providers who accessed the Respondent's data system and to whom the matters complained of were published had a reciprocal duty and interest in receiving the information concerning the Applicant accessible on the Respondent's data system;
 
 (vi) in receiving, storing and making accessible to the credit providers to whom the matters complained of were published, the Respondent complied, where it was applicable, with the provisions of the Privacy Act and Privacy Code of Conduct;
 (vii) the conduct of the Respondent in publishing the matters complained of was reasonable.


 In so far as it is found that the matter complained of was published in Queensland, Tasmania, New South Wales or the Australian Capital Territory, publication was made in circumstances in which Mr Dale was not likely to suffer harm as a result [ (aa) ].
Finally, Veda did not know that the publication in question contained the defamatory material alleged by Mr Dale, or that that material was likely to be defamatory of him, such lack of knowledge was not due to negligence on Veda's part, and as a result Veda is not liable to Mr Dale [ (bb) ].
THE PLEADINGS IN THE OTHER EIGHT PROCEEDINGS 
 The pleadings in the other eight proceedings are generally similar to those in Mr Dale's proceeding.
As noted at [85] above, as in Mr Dale's proceeding, there were Schedules A and B to the TFASC in the proceedings brought by Fisher, Marker, Shields and Strange, but only a Schedule A in those brought by Adams, McGary, Taylor and Tyndall.
Each of the TFASCs alleges that Veda published particulars of a listed default concerning the relevant applicant, being the words and figures that are set out in the Schedule or Schedules to the TFASC.
Particulars of publication to enquiring credit providers are given and defamatory imputations are pleaded with accompanying particulars of extrinsic facts relied on.
As in Mr Dale's TFASC, special damages are alleged in general terms in the form of a refusal of an application for credit or approval of such an application at increased financial cost to the applicant.
Unfortunately, as in the case of Mr Dale's TFASC, Schedule A to the TFASC of Mr McGary and Ms Shields also erroneously headed the material complained of "Consumer Default" rather than "Commercial Default" as recorded in their credit information files.
Each TFASC contains two paragraphs generally similar to paras 7 and 7A in the Dale proceeding (see [102] ff above).
Veda's defence in each of the other eight proceedings raises defences generally similar to those summarised at [107]---[121] above in respect of the Dale proceeding.
GENERAL NATURE OF THE EVIDENCE AND OF THE SIZE AND MODUS OPERANDI OF VEDA'S BUSINESS 
 Underlying many of the issues raised in the case is the size of Veda's business.
The evidence shows that it is by far the largest consumer credit reporting agency in Australia.
Its only real competitor, Dun and Bradstreet, is very small by comparison.
Veda holds approximately 14.5 million credit information files in respect of individuals, and it holds these files in respect of approximately 98 percent of the "individual credit active population".
Approximately 1.2 million credit information files are accessed per month or, expressed in another way, 40,000 per day during a 30 day month, 40,000 per day.
For the year ended 30 June 2005, Veda's "Business Information Services" revenue was $122,456,000.
No practicable method was suggested by which Veda could itself verify the correctness of the information before it is fed into its database by credit providers.
Veda has to rely on its subscribers for the correctness of the listing of defaults.
However, the evidence shows: The applicants suggest further steps that they say Veda could and should have taken in order to reduce the risk of error by listing credit providers.
I discuss those suggested further steps when dealing with the claims in negligence at [420] ff below.
Each applicant, pursuant s 18H of the Privacy Act , authorised DR Capital in writing to exercise the applicant's statutory right of access under that section.
As noted earlier, DR Capital was itself a subscriber to Veda's system.
By accessing Veda's database, it obtained a printout of an "Individual Consumer and Commercial Report" (ICCR) in respect of each applicant.
The ICCRs relating to all applicants were similarly structured and contained the same kinds of data.
The headings in the ICCRs included "Summary Information" under which was listed, inter alia, the number of defaults listed in the ICCR; "Commercial Defaults", "Consumer Defaults"; "Consumer Credit Applications", "Commercial Credit Enquiries", and "Consumer Authorised Agent Enquiries".
The ICCRs had a "current date" which was the date of the most recent "Consumer Authorised Agent Enquiry" made by DR Capital.
By way of example, the ICCR relating to Mr Dale shows that he made a total of eight applications for credit or commercial credit, all of which were dated after the entry of "Clearout (Watched)" by Bartercard on 20 March 2000.
The first six were recorded under the heading "Consumer Credit Applications".
The remaining two were recorded under the heading "Commercial Credit Enquiries".
In chronological sequence the eight were: 19/10/2000 DIRECT MORTGAGE SOLUTIONS Real Estate Mortgage Amount $124,000.00 24/11/2000 AMERICAN EXP NEW ACCTS NSW Terms Amount $0.00 25/11/2000 CITIBANK LIMITED Continuing Credit Contract Amount $0.00 27/11/2000 AMERICAN EXP NEW ACCTS NSW Terms Amount $0.00 02/01/2001 CITIBANK LIMITED Continuing Credit Contract Amount $0.00 24/06/2003 OPTUS COMUNE AUST NSW Telecommunications Services Amount $0.00 19/06/2003 SE RENTALS PTY LTD Leasing Amount $0.00 10/11/2003 CBFC LTD SYDNEY NSW Director's access Amount $0.00 
These records of applications made by Mr Dale say nothing as to the results of the applications.
Mr Dale's testimony showed that some were successful and others not.
Each applicant administered an interrogatory asking Veda in relation to an attached ICCR relevant to that applicant: 
 Is this an individual consumer and commercial report about [name of applicant] obtained by accessing Baycorp Advantage Business Information Services online credit reporting database?


 
In each case, Veda answered:
 
 The report is an individual consumer and commercial report referring to a person named [name of applicant].
The defendant has no knowledge about how the report was actually obtained or by whom.
The defendant believes that of several methods of access used by subscribers, the report was obtained by the method accessing the Baycorp Advantage Business Information Services online database by an individual using the internet.


 With one exception, the evidence in each proceeding comprised an affidavit by the particular applicant and affidavit evidence of: 
 Ross Duncan of Solicitors Litigation Consultancy Services Pty Ltd;
 
 Jeremy Douglas-Stewart, Principal Consultant with Privacy Law Consulting Australia;
 Kosta Patsan;
 Richard George Symes, a director of DR Capital
 
The evidence of Messrs Duncan, Douglas-Stewart and Patsan was relied on as expert testimony.
The evidence of Mr Symes was of his dealings with credit providers and with Veda pursuant to the authorities given to DR Capital by the applicants.
The exceptional applicant was Mr Fisher.
He did not attend the hearing, and neither his affidavit nor that of Mr Symes filed in his proceeding was read.
Veda relied on affidavit evidence given by the following employees or former employees of Veda: 
 Rebecca Ann Barbour, Head of Veda's Call Centres;
 Matthew John Allison, Veda's Head of Data Management;
 Eric Janssens, Veda's Head of IT and Data Strategy;
 Adam John Champion, Solutions Consultant employed by Veda.
One aspect of Ms Barbour's evidence is noteworthy.
She stated in her affidavit (para 14): 
 All requests and complaints are recorded on Veda's Public Access System ( PAS ) where Call Centre team members record information.
Consumers are advised by Call Centre staff to put any request that Veda investigate an entry on their credit file in writing.
Such requests are received by the Call Centre by facsimile transmission, mail and email.
Once such a request is received a File Amendment Request record is created on PAS.
This involves Call Centre personnel recording on PAS a summary of the request from the consumer and steps taken to investigate the request.
The original hard copy of the request from the consumer is retained by Veda for 12 months.
After 12 months the hard copy of the request is disposed by Veda utilising security shredding bins.


 
Ms Barbour explained that if the credit provider does not agree with the consumer's version of events, the version tbhat it gives will be recorded by Veda employee in the PAS (paras 20, 21).
She said that the PAS records consumers' requests for amendment of their credit information file, and the sending of a copy of their credit information file to them.
The PAS was the source of much of the evidence to which I will have occasion to refer on the issue of the accuracy of the information concerning the applicants that Veda made available to enquiring credit providers.
SOME PERVASIVE ISSUES 
 The evidence showed that the effect of a particular listed default in a particular case depended on the procedures and formulas used by the particular credit provider for assessing creditworthiness.
However, I accept the obvious: a listed default might well cause, or contribute to causing, a credit provider who read that information to assess the individual as a poor credit risk and to refuse him or her credit or to offer him or her credit on more onerous terms than would otherwise have been the case.
The facts throw up the following questions affecting both the claims in defamation and in negligence: Since subscribing credit providers enter information directly by electronic means into Veda's database on the basis that, as the fact is, other subscribing credit providers extract the information directly and by electronic means from the database, can it be said that for the purposes of the law of defamation and of negligence, it is Veda who is supplying to the latter credit providers the information that they obtain?
For the purposes of the claim in defamation, the question is whether it is Veda that is "publishing" the matter complained of.
For the purposes of the claim in negligence the question is whether it is Veda that is making the representations complained of.
It does not necessarily answer these questions that within the terms and for the purposes of Privacy Act , Veda is giving a credit report to enquiring credit provider (see [48] above).
As noted earlier, in the case of credit providers that are large organisations, the data that is extracted by the credit provider directly and by electronic means is dealt with according to a computer program with the result that the application for credit is rejected by the operation of that program and not by the intervention of any human mind.
Even the letter from the credit provider to the applicant informing him or her of the rejection is electronically generated.
In these circumstances, the question arises whether there is independent evidence that any defamatory imputation reached a human mind within the office of the enquiring credit provider.
Having regard to the fact that Veda provides its database into which, as is known to its subscribing credit providers, they can enter and extract data directly and by electronic means, and the Privacy Act 's allocation of responsibilities as between credit providers and credit reference agencies, does Veda owe a duty of care to applicants for credit in relation to the accuracy of the data?
On the assumption that information in an adverse credit report has been taken into account by an enquiring credit provider which in fact refused the individual's application for credit, does this, without more, establish that the adverse report caused loss or damage to the individual?
For example, questions arise as to the interest rates and other terms available from the particular credit provider and from other credit providers at the time, the individual's capacity to pay, and so on.

The present hearing related to liability only, and therefore I was not called upon to address the fourth question.
SYSTEM-TO-SYSTEM ACCESS AND OPERATOR REQUESTED ACCESS 
 Mr Champion made an affidavit explaining the way in which subscribers are able to access Veda's database.
He was not required for cross-examination.
The following account is based on his affidavit.
Automated or "System-to-System" access involves the computer system of a credit provider (a) obtaining data from Veda's credit information files by the use of a particular "channel" and (b) using "decisioning software" to analyse the data obtained with other data already held on the credit provider's computer relating to the individual, to generate a decision on the individual's application for credit.
The evidence is that large organisations such as banks use System-to-System access.
By "Operator Requested" access, on the other hand, Mr Champion referred to a process by which an operator within the enquiring credit provider's office manually requests a copy of a credit information file from Veda's database.
He explained that the request may be made and met via a website enquiry (the website being accessible only to Veda's subscribers) or via certain methods of access using "DataLink Mainframe" and "DataLink PC".
He said that Operator Requested access will usually result in the operator viewing the credit information file, whereas System-to-System access does not do so.
On the basis of this evidence of the "usual", I find that in all cases of Operator Requested access, on the balance of probabilities and in the absence of evidence to the contrary, there was a reading of the matter complained of within the office of the enquiring credit provider.
Mr Champion said that in relation to the System-to-System method, it was up to the subscriber how information obtained from the Veda database and sitting in the enquiring credit provider's computer system was accessed, and, in particular, whether it was ever viewed by a human being.
Even though no-one may view the information at the outset, that is, when it is first downloaded onto the enquiring credit provider's computer system, someone employed by the enquiring credit provider may do so later, but Veda has no way of knowing whether or not this ever happens.
In his affidavit Mr Champion described the different automated System-to-System access channels used by subscribing credit providers in the period between 1999 and 2005.
I need not discuss the detail of these channels.
I infer that in all cases of System-to-System access, on the balance of probabilities and in the absence to the contrary, the matter complained of was not read within the office of the enquiring credit provider.
Mr Champion reviewed the methods of access used by the enquiring credit providers in accessing the credit information files of the nine applicants.
In the result, he prepared a table which was annexed to his affidavit.
A copy is annexed to these Reasons for Judgment.
I will refer to this document as "Mr Champion's Annexure".
As can be seen, Mr Champion's Annexure discloses in relation to each applicant which accessings of the database by enquiring credit providers were "System-to-System" and which were "Operator Requested".
The cases of Mr Dale and Ms Shields call for special comment.
In the case of Mr Dale, the default listing lodged by Bartercard on 20 March 2000 resulted in the creation of a new credit information file.
On 2 January 2001, that new file was combined with the earlier one.
The accessings by Direct Mortgage Solutions on 19 October 2000, "American Exp New Accts NSW" on 24 November 2000 and 27 November 2000, and Citibank Limited on 25 November 2000 all occurred prior to the merger and related to the earlier file.
In those cases the file accessed did not contain the default listed by Bartercard on 20 March 2000 that marked the creation of the second file.
Also in relation to Mr Dale, Mr Champion has not been able to locate any record of accesses by Westpac Card Services on 1 July 2004 or by Optus Communications on 1 October 2004 referred to in Mr Dale's TFASC.
In relation to Ms Shields, Mr Champion states that he has not been able to locate any record of accesses by Liberty Financial on 16 November 2004, Community First Credit Union on 8 December 2004, or Mortgage House Penrith on 10 March 2005, as referred to in Ms Shields's TFASC.
The applicants did not dispute, in relation to all System-to-System accesses referred to in Mr Champion's Annexure, that it is necessary for them to prove, for the purposes of their claims in defamation, that the matter complained of came to a human mind within the office of the enquiring credit provider referred to in the instances of publication identified in the TFASC, and that this is not established by the mere record of the System-to-System access itself.
Accordingly, for this purpose the applicants call upon aspects of their own testimony and documents that were produced on subpoena by enquiring credit providers.
THE DEFAMATION CLAIM 
 1.
Publication
 (a) Publication by whom?
Veda submits that it was not the publisher of the matter complained of.
It submits that it was in the situation of an internet service provider which permits a third party to post information using its server about which it has no knowledge at the times of posting and disclosure.
Veda emphasises it did not itself review or edit the defaults listed on its database.
Veda relied upon subscribing credit providers to comply with the Privacy Act .
Ms Barbour described Veda's role as "reactive" not proactive, that is to say, Veda becomes active only after a complaint has been made.
Similarly, Mr Janssens said that the extent of Veda's pre-reporting role related to: the training of subscribers; the provision of the Guide to them on the internet; the terms of the subscription agreement that they enter into with Veda; and some face to face discussion between them and staff of Veda.
He explained that if it came to the notice of Veda staff that a bank or other credit provider was not abiding by the conditions, the staff would follow that up to see if there was a flaw in the particular subscriber's processes or systems.
The applicants, however, contend that Veda is liable independently of any such awareness and independently of the making of any complaint relating to the listing of a default.
Veda relies on a series of authorities that were concerned with internet service providers: Bunt v Tilley [2006] EWHC 407 ; [2006] 3 All ER 336 ; Godfrey v Demon Internet Ltd [2001] QB 201; Cubby, Inc v CompuServe Inc 776 F. Supp.
135 (1991); Urbanchich v Drummoyne Municipal Council (1991) Aust Torts Reports p81-127.
I do not accept Veda's submission for reasons which can be stated briefly.
Veda knew that particulars of defaults were being listed in its database and were being included in credit reports in terms that Veda had devised and promoted to its subscribers.
While Veda did not know that the matter complained of in any particular case was being listed and was later included in a credit report, it knew that matter of that kind was constantly being entered into its database by listing credit providers and supplied from the database in credit reports to enquiring credit providers.
The very purpose of the database was to record information of the kind referred to in the Guide.
The Guide invited subscribers to enter such types of default as "Payment Default", "Clearout (Watched)", "Dishonoured Cheque", "Judgment Debt Outstanding", "Repossession Loss (after sale)" and "Scheme of Arrangement".
Accompanied by their meanings given in the Guide, the terms told against the individual's being a good credit risk.
Veda invited its subscribers to list and to extract matters of precisely the kind of which the applicants complain, and Veda acquiesced in their doing so.
By its conduct it published to enquiring subscribers such information as they extracted from the database.
It "published" that information for the purposes of the defamation claim.
In reaching this conclusion I have not found it necessary to embark on a consideration of the question of whether the listed defaults were in fact defamatory.
(b) Publication to whom?
As noted earlier, Mr Champion's Annexure sets out his analysis of the means by which various credit providers to whom the applicants applied for credit accessed the database.
As can be seen, the vast majority were "System-to-System".
This is consistent with the evidence of Mr Patsan who estimated that about 90% of enquiries of the database were System-to-System.
He said that the banks and large corporations would make thousands of enquiries a day whereas hundreds of small finance companies or small businesses offering commercial credit would access the database only, say, once a week.
Numerically only 10% of enquiring credit providers, in Mr Patsan's estimation, were responsible for well over 90% of all System-to-System enquiries.
The applicants concede that in their defamation claims they must prove that the relevant credit report was read by an individual, ie, that it reached a human mind, at the office of the enquiring credit provider.
Where Veda's database was accessed System-to-System, the applicants ask me to infer from evidence given by themselves and documents produced by enquiring credit providers on subpoena, that some individual within the enquiring credit provider's office read the particulars of the default.
Veda, on the other hand, submits that it is only in the cases marked "Operator Requested" in Mr Champion's Annexure that there was publication to an individual.
In these cases, Mr Champion said that access "would normally involve the full credit information file being displayed on the screen and able to be viewed by the operator".
In their submissions the applicants accept that in a case where the enquiring credit provider's operator looked only at the " file summary " [original emphasis], he or she would see only the word " default " [original emphasis].
The word "default" alone is not in any case the matter complained of.
However, in all Operator Requested accesses, I infer that the full credit information file was displayed in the absence of evidence to the contrary.
The only accesses that were "Operator Requested" in accordance with Mr Champion's Annexure are the following: 
 Dale 19.6.2003 S. E. Rentals Pty Ltd
 (Veda submits part statute-barred)
 Fisher 10.12.2003 AAPT Ltd
 Marker 1.3.2003 Loans by Phone
 Marker 16.5.2003 Radio Rentals Tamworth
 Marker 17.9.2003 Loans by Phone
 Marker 21.9.2004 Heritage B/S Infocentre Qld
 Marker 14.10.2004 Flying Horse Credit Union
 (Veda submits part statute-barred)
 Marker 29.10.2004 Flying Horse CU
 (Veda submits statute-barred)
 Marker 30.12.2004 Flying Horse CU
 Shields 19.8.2002 Cumberland Newspapers NSW
 Shields 28.4.2005 CMS Asset Solutions
 Shields 17.5.2005 QPF Finance 
 Shields 19.5.2005 Technology Leasing Ltd NSW
 Strange 16.3.2005 Bill Rescue 
 (Veda submits part statute-barred) 

 Some of the applicants gave evidence that they were told by someone, such as an officer of an enquiring credit provider, or a broker who had applied for credit on their behalf, in substance, that their application was refused because of an adverse listing in their credit information file maintained by Veda.
Veda objected to that evidence.
I admitted it, subject to relevance, only as evidence of the fact of the conversations having taken place and of the communication of a refusal, and not as evidence of the facts asserted in the conversation as to the credit provider's reason for refusal: see Evidence Act 1995 (Cth) s 59(1).
Senior counsel for the applicants also made it clear that he was relying upon such conversations as evidence only of the making of the applications for credit and of their being declined.
The objection, my ruling and senior counsel's acknowledgment were not necessarily repeated every time evidence of the kind mentioned was led, but they were understood to apply in each case.
In the accounts of the individual cases given below, I shall refer to the objection, the ruling and the acknowledgment compendiously as the "Hearsay Ruling".
I turn now to the nine individual proceedings.
In each case there was admitted into evidence an ICCR relating to the particular applicant obtained from the Veda database by his or her authorised agent, DR Capital.
In each case, the matter complained of, as pleaded in Schedule A or Schedule B, as the case may be, to the TFASC, accorded verbatim with the ICCR.
Accordingly, the various accounts I give below of the matters complained of in the Schedules are also accounts of information recorded in the credit information files concerning the respective applicants.
(1) Adams
 Ms Adams's TFASC had only one Schedule, Schedule A.
Schedule A reflected a "Consumer Default" in the ICCR relating to Ms Adams.
This was that Ms Adams and a co-borrower had entered into a loan contract with "Trendwest South Pacific Fin" (Trendwest) and had made a "Payment Default".
Trendwest had recorded this in her credit information file on 30 June 2004.
The "Original Amount" was $12,733.00 which was paid by 1 October 2004.
The evidence reveals the names "Trendwest Resorts South Pacific Ltd" and "Trendwest South Pacific Finance Pty Ltd".
I will use "Trendwest" to refer to either one and to both companies.
Trendwest was Australia's largest time share provider.
Its business was that of selling holiday credits at or arising out of promotional seminars.
The two pleaded publications are as follows: 
(a) 21 March 2005 ANZ Banking Group PFS OP Sand Tech (ANZ)
 
(b) 4 May 2005 Macquarie Securitized Lending (Macquarie).
Both are, of course, after 1 October 2004, and a person reading the full credit information file on either of those dates would have read that Trendwest had been paid by that date.
According to Mr Champion's Annexure, both ANZ and Macquarie accessed Ms Adams's credit information by the System-to-System method.
Accordingly, publication of the matter complained of to a human mind is not proved unless there is other evidence of it.
In her oral evidence Ms Adams said that the ANZ entry of 21 March 2005 represented an application that she made to the ANZ Bank at Coolum for a loan of $10,000 to $15,000 for home renovations.
She already had a loan or mortgage to the ANZ Bank.
She said that someone from ANZ Bank, Coolum Branch, whose name she could not remember, advised her by telephone that her application was unsuccessful.
She was not given a reason.
Ms Adams said in her affidavit that subsequently she applied over the telephone to ANZ for finance and Ms Melissa Stroller of ANZ said to her words to the following effect: 
 Are you aware that there is a default listed by Trendwest on your credit report and also there seems to be issues with late payment.


 
It is unclear whether this application was a resumption or continuation of the application of 21 March 2005, or an unrelated application.
Ms Adams submits that because there was no additional credit enquiry or application recorded by ANZ, this suggests that the information Ms Stroller gave Ms Adams was information which had been manually recorded into the ANZ system or documentation after Ms Adams made her enquiry to ANZ on 21 March 2005, implying that this must have been read.
Veda submits that there is no basis for drawing such an inference.
The ICCR in evidence was dated 2 June 2005, and it is unclear when the alleged conversation occurred --- indeed, it might have been after that date.
Be this as it may, the Hearsay Ruling applies.
If Ms Adams wished to prove that Ms Stroller read the default as listed, she should have called Ms Stroller as a witness.
In relation to Ms Adams's application to Macquarie, Ms Adams gave no admitted evidence in her affidavit.
In oral evidence, she said that she thought that her broker, Stephen Andrews, said that an application that he had made on her behalf had proved unsuccessful because "there was a default on [her] credit" with Trendwest.
Assuming that Ms Adams's evidence related to the Macquarie application, the Hearsay Ruling applies.
Indeed, Ms Adams's testimony in relation to Macquarie is second-hand hearsay.
A difficulty has arisen.
Senior counsel for Veda said: 
 We accept that publication is likely to be found in relation to some of the publications.
For example, where there is a copy of the credit report in the subpoenaed party's file.


 
Senior counsel want to say, however, that in all cases of System-to-System access, there is "clearly no publication".
In fact Macquarie produced documents on subpoena relating to Ms Adams.
These included an ICCR dated 4 May 2005 showing the Trendwest default and a copy of a letter dated the next day, 5 May 2005, from Macquarie to Ms Adams advising her that her application had been declined as it did not meet Macquarie's "current credit criteria".
As if this were not enough, there is also a file note dated 5 May 2005 linking the ICCR and the rejection letter by referring to the Trendwest default and recording an officer's recommendation of "Decline".
The inference seems irresistible that the officer read the listed default.
The problem is that neither party referred to this particular evidence in their submissions.
If Ms Adams's defamation claim were to go further, I would have given the parties the opportunity to make submissions in relation to this evidence.
In the result, but subject always to what is said in the preceding paragraph, there would be no admissible evidence before the Court that the matter complained of by Ms Adams in Schedule A to her TFASC was published to any human mind, and for this reason alone her claim in defamation could not succeed.
(2) Dale
 I summarised Mr Dale's TFASC at [82]---[106] above.
The relevant adverse entry was a "Commercial Default" entered by Bartercard on 20 March 2000, "Clearout (Watched)".
The entry recorded Bartercard as having been paid on or by 20 June 2003.
The first six enquiries involved in the publications pleaded in Mr Dale's TFASC were dated from 19 October 2000 to 19 June 2003 and therefore pre-dated Veda's record of payment, whereas the last two enquiries post-dated this record.
Mr Champion's Annexure shows that all except two of the accesses were System-to-System.
The exceptions are Direct Mortgage Solutions on 19 October 2000 which Mr Champion classified "No Record of Access Found", and SE Rentals Pty Ltd (SE Rentals) on 19 June 2003 which he designated "Operator Requested".
As noted at [146], in his affidavit Mr Champion explained why the listing by Bartercard on 20 March 2000 would not have been disclosed in response to the enquiries made by Direct Mortgage Solutions on 19 October 2000, American Express on 24 and 27 November 2000, and Citibank on 25 November 2000.
Even if, as Mr Dale submits, Direct Mortgage Solutions was not one of the larger organisations that have computer systems that reject applications automatically, so that the likelihood is that its access was Operator Requested, nonetheless Mr Champion's uncontradicted evidence referred to at [146] above, shows that no one at Direct Mortgage Solutions would have seen the "Clearout (Watched)" annotation.
This is supported by an Individual Consumer Report and an Individual Credit Report, both printed on 19 October 2000 and produced on subpoena by Direct Mortgage Solutions, both of which show zero defaults.
In relation to the matter complained of in Schedule A and in light of Mr Champion's evidence, I need concern myself only with the enquiries made by S.E.
Rentals on 19 June 2003 and Citibank on 2 January 2001.
Mr Dale gave no (admitted) affidavit evidence concerning his applications for credit or their rejection.
I turn now to the enquiry of the database made by SE Rentals on 19 June 2003.
Mr Dale said that he believed that the SE Rentals loan appears to have been approved.
He said that he thought it related to the lease of a photocopier.
Mr Patsan gave evidence of how the SE Rentals loan "would" have proceeded.
He explained that SE Rentals "would be a loan broker or loan originator", and that BankWest was the credit provider.
He said that SE Rentals "would" have made the enquiry of the database.
Documents in evidence, signed on 8 July 2003, a date shortly after Bartercard was paid, show that the applicant for the credit was Sareena Enterprises Pty Ltd (Sareena) and that Mr Dale was a guarantor.
Mr Dale signed on behalf of Sareena (as a director) and also as guarantor.
The documents show that the finance was in respect of the leasing by Sareena of a Minolta CF 3102 colour printer and an electronic guillotine from Bank of Western Australia Ltd (BankWest) as owner.
Mr Patsan speculated as to steps that BankWest "would" have followed.
For example, he suggested that the high interest charged by BankWest to Mr Dale could have been attributable to the "Clearout (Watched)" notification.
But he also said "I'm just assuming from here", apparently in reference to documents shown to him in relation to a loan application made to SE Rentals.
I do not give any weight to any of Mr Patsan's evidence of what would have happened within SE Rentals or BankWest.
We simply do not know the processes followed by them in relation to this particular application because no one from them was called.
In oral evidence Mr Dale said that he could not say exactly how he found out about the Bartercard adverse listing but thought that "the salesmen" of photocopiers said to him: 
 look, you know, if we can sort this out we might be able to push it through and I've gone and checked it out so that's when I became aware of it and I had to seek some explanation of what a clearout meant because I didn't understand it.


 
It may be that some unidentified salesman or salesmen of photocopiers read the "Clearout (Watched)" listing but it is not proved that he was or they were an employee or employees of SE Rentals (or of BankWest).
Additionally, it is unclear exactly what Mr Dale was told --- he said that he made further investigations or "checked it out.
" In any event, Mr Dale's evidence is hearsay as evidence of the reading by the salesman or salesmen.
I should make it clear that I accept Mr Dale's testimony that it was in the course of the SE Rentals transaction that he learnt of the Bartercard listing and that he then promptly paid out Bartercard.
The SE Rentals enquiry was made on 19 June 2003 and he paid Bartercard the outstanding amount on or by 20 June 2003.
Notwithstanding the above, SE Rentals was an Operator Requested enquiry, and Mr Champion stated in his affidavit that in such a case "normally" the full credit file is displayed on the enquiring credit provider's screen.
I infer that there was a reading of the full credit information file by an operator at SE Rentals, who read the "Clearout (Watched)" listing by Bartercard.
Mr Dale made no submission on the Citibank Limited enquiry of 2 January 2001, beyond stating that Mr Champion's annexure stated "System-to-System", and gave no oral evidence directed to showing that the "Clearout (Watched)" listing had been read at Citibank.
I turn now to the matter complained of in Schedule B that was allegedly published to "Optus Commun Aust NSW" on 24 June 2003 and to "CBFC Rentals Pty Limited" on 10 November 2003.
According to Mr Champion's Annexure, both accesses were System-to-System.
Mr Dale said that he applied to Optus "to get a phone and pay it off over 24 months" and that he applied to CBFC in connection with the lease of a car.
Beyond saying that the Optus application was declined and the CBFC application was successful, Mr Dale's evidence did not advance his case on the question of publication to a human mind.
Indeed, in relation to the Optus application, he stated that he was not given a reason for the rejection of his application.
Mr Dale made no submissions on the CBFC enquiry.
In the result, I find that the only alleged publication which was a communication to a human mind in an enquiring credit provider's office was that relating to SE Rentals.
Otherwise, Mr Dale's claim in defamation cannot succeed.
(3) Fisher
 Mr Fisher's TFASC has both Schedules A and B.
Schedule A refers to a "Loan Contract" with "ST GEORGE BK AUTOMOTIVE FIN" which listed "Clearout (Watched)" on 5 October 2001 in respect of an amount of $28,942.
The same credit provider was referred to as having originally made the same listing, "Clearout (Watched)", on 15 September 2001 in an amount of only $2,539.
Schedule B was the same as Schedule A but for the addition of a line recording a "Status" of "Paid" as at a "Status Date" of 24 June 2004.
That is, the amount of the account was paid and the account closed on or by 24 June 2004.
The TFASC alleged six publications of the matter complained of in Schedule A and three of the matter complained of in Schedule B, that is to say six publications prior to 24 June 2004 and three after that date, as follows: Schedule A 
 5 October 2001 St George BK Automotive Fin 8 December 2001 GE Automotive Fin SVCS NSW 17 December 2001 Optus CMM 12 January 2002 American Exp New Accts NSW 10 December 2003 AAPT Ltd 16 April 2004 Cwlth Bk New Accounts NSW 
 Schedule B 
 4 August 2004 Telstra consumer NSW 2 May 2005 Westpac Card Services 30 August 2005 Optus CMM 
 According to Mr Champion's Annexure, all except one of the accesses in Mr Fisher's case were System-to-System.
The exception was the access by AAPT Ltd on 10 December 2003 which was Operator Requested.
Mr Fisher did not give evidence and Mr Symes's affidavit relating to him was not read.
There is therefore no evidence other than documentary evidence relating to applications for credit made by Mr Fisher.
Pursuant to subpoena, Optus produced a series of computer screen printouts.
They were all headed "Consumer Application 8986-FISHER EDDIE Mr (Declined) 107".
It is apparent from the screen printouts that this application consisted of a vertical menu on the left-hand side and a main form area on the right-hand side.
A series of tabbed controls, or tabs, appeared across the top of the main form area.
In its submission, Veda referred to these tabs as "subject bars.
" They had the following headings: "General", "Personal", "Address", ""Employment", ""Action Log", "Bureau File" and "Notes".
Optus produced computer screen printouts of the information appearing under each tab.
Two text-boxes appear under the "Bureau File" tab.
The first is headed "Categories", and the second is headed "Category Details".
Each has a vertical scroll-bar on the right hand side.
The "Category" text box contains a list of items relating to the applicant, including among others "Summary", "Name", "Personal", "Address", "Employment" and "Default".
Selecting one of these items brings up corresponding information in the "Category Details" box.
Optus did not produce a printout of the information appearing in the Category Details box when the item "Default" is selected.
Relevantly, however, Optus produced two screen printouts of the Category Details for the "Summary" item.
The first of these lists "1 unpaid default(s)" and "1 unpaid default(s) in last 6 month".
The second shows three items in sequence: "1 total unpaid default(s)"; "2,539 dollars of total unpaid default(s)"; and "24 month(s) since last unpaid default".
I infer that what appeared on the computer screen referred to the entry in the database on 15 September 2001 by St George Bank which showed an original amount of $2,539.
On the question whether I should infer that someone at Optus read the screen, Veda submits that the page 36 screen (that is, the screen printout at page 36 of the exhibit) also shows that the software produced a final decision" of "declined", and submits on this basis (para 43): 
 These printouts confirm the access was automated as stated by Adam Champion.
It appears that the information quoted is read by clicking on a subject bar on the screen, so it is not clear that anyone at the time actually read the screens which have now been printed out for the purpose of producing documents in answer to a subpoena.


 The particular tab that would have had to be clicked on to expose the default was marked "Bureau File" but Mr Champion's uncontroverted evidence is that System-to-System access did not necessitate a reading by any human being of the data obtained by the credit provider's computer from Veda's database.
In the absence of any witness from Optus, I do not infer that some person there read the "Clearout (Watched)" listing in relation to Mr Fisher; or even the information listed on Optus's database as to Mr Fisher's defaults.
In the result, apart from the alleged publication of the matter complained of in Schedule A to AAPT Ltd on 10 December 2003, I am not satisfied that either the matter complained of in Schedule A or the matter complained of in Schedule B was published to any human mind at the office of any of the enquiring credit providers.
I infer that the material complained of in Schedule A was read by some employee of AAPT Ltd as part of the full credit information file displayed on the computer screen there, on or about 10 December 2003.
(4) Marker
 Mr Marker's TFASC has both Schedules A and B.
Schedule A refers to a "Consumer Default", being a "Payment Default" listed on 19 December 2002.
The "Original Amount" is $186.00 and the "Original Subscriber" is "AAPT Credit".
The "Latest Amount" (as at 29 July 2004) is $166.00 and the "Latest Subscriber" is "AAPT Ltd".
Schedule B is the same as Schedule A except for a notation of "Paid" as at a Status Date of 30 September 2004.
Mr Marker pleads twenty six publications of which twelve relate to Schedule A and fourteen to Schedule B.
Mr Champion's Annexure omits Schedule A's Ford Credit Australia NSW of 12 April 2003.
This was added to the pleading after Mr Champion made his affidavit, as is acknowledged in Mr Marker's submissions.
Mr Champion's Annexure lists eighteen accesses as System-to-System and seven as Operator Requested.
The publications that Mr Marker submits I should find as established by the evidence and Mr Champion's classification of them are as follows: 
 Schedule A 
 1 March 2003 Loans by Phone --- Operator Requested
 16 May 2003 Radio Rentals Tamworth --- Operator Requested
 17 September 2003 Loans by Phone --- Operator Requested
 21 September 2004 Heritage B/S Infocentre Queensland --- Operator Requested 

 
 Schedule B 
 14 October 2004 Flying Horse Credit Union --- Operator Requested
 29 October 2004 Flying Horse Credit Union --- Operator Requested
 10 December 2004 Capital Motor Dealer NSW --- System-to-System
 10 December 2004 Toyota Financial Services --- System-to-System
 30 December 2004 Flying Horse Credit Union --- Operator Requested
 10 January 2005 Citifinancial --- System-to-System 

 The only affidavit evidence of Mr Marker relevant to publication was the statement in para 26 of his affidavit that on or around June 2004, during one of his unsuccessful applications for finance, he was told that he had a default with AAPT.
The Hearsay Ruling applies.
Moreover, the ICCR in Mr Marker's case does not disclose any enquiry of the database in June 2004.
The enquiries on either side of June 2004 are enquiries made in April and September 2004.
In relation to some of the alleged publications, Mr Marker had no recollection, and in relation to others he said only that his application for credit was granted or refused.
Asked if he could remember the Loans by Phone application of 17 September 2003, Mr Marker replied: 
 I think the Loans by Phone were, from memory, they come around and have a look at your phone and all that sort of stuff, see, in case you don't pay them they take it and I don't think I went ahead with that, no.


 Asked about the Loans by Phone application of 1 March 2003, Mr Marker replied: 
 I know what they're about.
That's the only way that I do remember it.
I don't remember the --- you know --- until I see it, the date and what I actually went for the loan for.


 In relation to the application to Flying Horse Credit Union on 14 October 2004 Mr Marker said that he obtained the loan sought.
He said that he had a conversation with "Joanne" (he could not remember her second name), the manager of the Flying Horse Credit Union at St Kilda Road Melbourne.
He said: 
 I explained and she said that any defaults or anything on there, and I said, Yes, and I showed her what I was doing through DR Capital and Gerard Malouf and that was the only source that I could get that loan at the time because the credit file didn't rectify who I was.


 
This rather confused evidence does not assist Mr Marker to prove that Veda published the matter complained of to Joanne.
Apparently Mr Marker did so himself.
Mr Marker also gave evidence touching on his applications to Radio Rentals, Heritage BS Info Centre, Flying Horse Credit Union on 29 October 2004, Flying Horse Credit Union on 30 December 2004 and Capital Motor Dealer, Toyota Financial Services and Citi Finance, of which I need discuss only the last three.
Mr Marker's evidence in relation to the others does not advance his case on communication to an employee within the credit provider's office.
I turn next to the documents that various credit providers produced on subpoena.
Mr Marker served a subpoena on Capital Finance Australia Ltd trading as "Capital Motor Dealer NSW".
This related to the recorded access by Capital Motor Dealer NSW on 10 December 2004.
In response, the addressee produced an internal credit report relating to Mr Marker.
It was not entirely in the form of the ICCR that DR Capital obtained relating to Mr Marker, however substantial parts of it were identical to the comparable parts of the ICCR in evidence.
I infer that those parts of the internal credit report came from Veda's database.
The ICCR in evidence and the internal credit report produced on subpoena both show that "Capital Motor Dealer NSW" accessed the database on 10 December 2004 in connection with a proposed "Chattel Mortgage" for $10,292.
The internal credit report sets out the Consumer Default listed by AAPT relating to Mr Marker in the same form as in the ICCR.
Importantly, however, it does not record the notation on 30 September 2004 stating "Paid".
It also sets out particulars of "Consumer Credit Applications" in the same form as in the ICCR, the latest one in the internal credit report being that made by Mr Marker to Capital Motor Dealer NSW itself on 10 December 2004.
The internal credit report contained under the heading "Bureau Score Result" the following: 
 Bureau Score Result
 -------------------
 Relative Risk: 99+ times worse than Credit Advantage average.
Scorecard: Value Added Consumer 

 
 Recommended Action: 

 
 This application has been scored using the Value Added Consumer bureau scorecard and is compared with the Credit Advantage sub-population.
The odds of recording an adverse with Credit Advantage within 12-24 months of a Credit Advantage enquiry is 19:1.


 
 Credit Advantage's scores are based on samples of historical information in Credit Advantage's database.
Credit Advantage uses reasonable efforts to ensure that samples are statistically valid, and that proven methods are used to develop scores.
However, a score is only additional information on which to base a decision.
A score is not a replacement for any other information, or for your decision making policies and procedures.
Accordingly, Credit Advantage does not accept liability for any lending decision you make using a score.


 
 Bureau Score Details
 --------------------
 Bureau Scorecards utilise all available data to calculate a risk estimate.
This is based on analysis of the association of all data with future adverse outcomes.


 
 The key contributing facts to this score are: Impact on Risk
 Default recorded Greatly Increases
 Individual shopping pattern Greatly Increases
 Enquiries from particular member group Greatly Increases 

 The documents produced by Capital Motors also include a file note, apparently entered manually, which states "Declined --- slow credit with TFA, unpaid default".
The use of the word "unpaid" confirms that what was read did not include the "Paid" notation referred to at [196] above.
I infer that in December 2004 an employee of Capital Motor Dealer NSW read the ICCR Consumer Default listing that had been effected by AAPT Credit on 19 December 2002 for $186 and updated on 29 July 2004 for $166.
I do not infer that any employee read the notation of "Paid" that had been entered on 30 September 2004.
Therefore it is not established that any employee of Capital Motor Dealer read the matter complained of in Schedule B.
The ICCR in evidence shows that on 10 December 2004 Toyota Financial Services accessed the database, entering into it the fact that Mr Marker had applied for credit of $17,277 in respect of an "Account Type" called "Terms".
Mr Champion classified this access as System-to-System.
Mr Marker served a subpoena on "Toyota Financial Services" relating to its enquiry of his credit information file.
A series of computer screen printouts was produced in response.
Of particular relevance are the printouts of a window entitled "Bureau Data".
Within this window, one of the printouts sets out the AAPT "Consumer Default" in the same terms as in the ICCR.
Further screen printouts relating to this window also set out "Consumer Credit Applications", that is to say, accesses or enquiries made by credit providers to which Mr Marker had applied for credit.
These entries also accorded with those in the ICCR.
A separate entry in a different window under a heading "Application Bureau Results" showed Mr Marker as having one unpaid default.
Veda submits: 
 The screens are headed with boxes reporting "result status" as "application declined" which made the decisioning result available to the operator without the need to enquire further.


 
I am not persuaded by this submission.
I have no doubt that an employee of Toyota Financial Services read the particulars of the AAPT "Payment Default" on the screen.
On one of the screen printouts there is a box with a note typed into it by somebody in relation to the default "To AAPT original date 19/12/02 for $186, latest amount is $166 as of 29/7/04".
Clearly, an employee of Toyota Financial Services typed this from Mr Marker's credit information file.
Mr Marker served a subpoena on "City Group Pty Ltd" trading as "Citi Financial Services".
This related to the access on 10 January 2005 which Mr Champion classified as System-to-System.
The addressee produced, relevantly, a single page which contained a summary of the "Original" and "Latest" AAPT listed default of $186 and $166 respectively.
The single page is dated 11 January 2005.
There is handwriting on it stating "CM states paid off.
Was double billed".
I infer that "CM" means "customer" or otherwise refers to Mr Marker.
I also infer from this note that an employee of Citi Financial in January 2005 read the AAPT listed Consumer Default in the data extracted by Citi Financial from Mr Marker's credit information file.
I also infer in the case of all other Operator Requested accesses that some employee of the enquiring credit provider read the matter complained of in Schedule A or Schedule B, as the case may be, by viewing it on the computer screen.
In the result, it is proved that the matters complained of in Schedules A and B respectively were communicated to human minds at all of the respective enquiring credit providers as pleaded, with the exception of the alleged publication of the matter complained of in Schedule B to Capital Motor Dealer on 10 December 2004.
(5) McGary
 Mr McGary's TFASC has only Annexure A.
It particularises a "Repossession Loss (After sale of the item)" entered by "GECOMM DF QLD DF 1040" on 30 July 2004.
The amount specified was $16,582.
It gives a "Status" of "Settled" as at a "Status Date" of 1 October 2004.
Schedule A lists as the original subscriber GECOMM DF QLD DF 1040; but as the latest subscribed GECOMM DJ QLD DF 1040.
From the ICCR, I think that the former is correct.
I will refer to the listing credit provider as "GE".
Although Schedule A to the TFASC is headed "Consumer Default", in the ICCR in evidence, the default was recorded as a "Commercial Default".
Mr McGary's TFASC pleads six publications of the matters complained of in Schedule A as follows: 
 (a) 10 May 2005 to the National Australia Bank;
 (b) 10 May 2005 to the Commonwealth Bank
 (c) 16 May 2005 to Westpac Card Services 
 (d) 30 May 2005 to the Bank of Queensland;
 (e) 4 March 2005 to Balmain NB Melbourne
 (f) 26 April 2005 to Toyota Financial Services 

 Mr Champion's Annexure refers only to the first four of these, no doubt because the last two were added by way of amendment to the pleading after Mr Champion had performed his analysis.
According to Mr Champion's Annexure, the first four were all System-to-System accesses.
Mr McGary makes submissions in support of only the first four publications and I will ignore the last two.
There is no admitted affidavit evidence of Mr McGary relevant to the present issue.
DR Capital obtained an ICCR relating to Mr McGary on 6 September 2005 which is in evidence.
DR Capital had previously obtained an ICCR relating to Mr McGary on 6 April 2005.
Under the heading "Consumer Credit Applications", the ICCR recorded that on 10 May 2005 "NAB New Business" (NAB) entered the fact that Mr McGary was applying for credit under a "Continuing Credit Contract" to the extent of $5,000.
In oral evidence Mr McGary said that this related to a written application he made for a credit card.
There is in evidence a letter dated 11 May 2005 from NAB to Mr McGary advising him that his then recent application for a credit card had been declined and that the decision had been based wholly or in part on the information contained in a report from Baycorp Advantage Business Information Services.
The letter advised how Mr McGary might follow up the matter with Baycorp if he wished to obtain access to his credit information file.
Having regard to Mr Champion's evidence in relation to the nature of System-to-System access, I do not infer that any human being at NAB read the particulars of the recorded Consumer Default.
The evidence is that it is common for banks and other large organisations to use System-to-System access, according to which their computer system decides the fate of the application for credit, as a result of which a letter is generated to the applicant advising him or her of the result.
No relevant evidence was led in relation to the other alleged publications.
I do not accept the applicant's submission that an approval indicates that a credit information file was viewed.
An "Accept" result like a "Decline" result was automated in the case of banks and large organisations.
The evidence does not establish that the data obtained by any of the four enquiring credit providers relating to Mr McGary was communicated to a human mind.
Mr McGary's claim in defamation therefore cannot succeed.
(6) Shields
 Ms Shields's TFASC has Schedules A and B.
Schedule A is wrongly headed "Consumer Defaults".
I say "wrongly" because in the ICCRs in evidence the default is listed as a "Commercial Default".
DR Capital obtained an ICCR (the "primary ICCR" --- see below for other ICCRs in evidence relating to Ms Shields under the name "Dianne Malloch") on 31 August 2005, having earlier obtained one on 17 March 2005.
The primary ICCR, and therefore Schedule A, particularised the default as a "Payment Default" recorded by FORD CREDIT NSW on 9 March 2001.
The amount shown was $16,598.
The "Account Type" was shown as "Leasing" and the "Association Code" as "Guarantor".
Schedule B is the same as Schedule A but for the addition of the details: 
Status: Settled Status Date: 19/07/2004
 
The Guide defines the "Default Status Type" "Settled" as referring to a "defaulted account" where a "lesser amount has been agreed upon by both parties to be paid as full and final payment".
The TFASC gives the following particulars of publication of the matter complained of in Schedule A: 
 (a) 24 December 2001 --- National Australia Bank;
 (b) 22 January 2002 --- St George Bank Mort Orig Parramatta;
 (c) 19 August 2002 --- Cumberland Newspapers NSW;
 (d) 7 April 2004 --- GE Capital;
 (e) 13 April 2004 --- GE Capital.


 
The primary ICCR showed that each of these was a consumer credit enquiry except that of Cumberland Newspapers, which was a commercial credit enquiry.
The TFASC gives the following particulars of publication of the matter complained of in Schedule B: 
 (a) 28 April 2005 CMS Asset Solutions;
 (b) 17 May 2005 QPF Finance;
 (c) 19 May 2005 Technology Leasing Ltd NSW 

 
The primary ICCR showed that each of these was a commercial credit enquiry.
According to Mr Champion's Annexure, there were two accesses to the database by Technology Leasing Ltd NSW on 19 May 2005, one System-to-System and the other Operator Requested.
According to Mr Champion's Annexure, of the remaining accesses, those by Cumberland Newspapers NSW, CMS Asset Solutions and QPF Finance were Operator Requested, whereas those by National Australia Bank, St George Bank and GE Capital (on 7 and 13 April 2004) were System-to-System.
There is no admitted affidavit evidence of Ms Shields relevant to the reading of the Payment Default listing by any employee of any of the credit providers.
In relation to the National Australia Bank, the primary ICCR showed that on 24 December 2001 National Australia Bank accessed the database in connection with an application for credit on a real estate mortgage to the extent of $200,000.
In her oral evidence Ms Shields explained that she had borrowed money from a solicitor over a period of time and that the solicitor had put her into contact with a man named "Richard" at Eagle Finance who assisted her to make an application to National Australia Bank.
She said that Richard told her that her application had been refused because of a default notified by Ford Credit.
The Hearsay Ruling applies.
The primary ICCR showed that on 22 January 2002 St George Bank accessed the database in connection with an application by Ms Shields for credit to the extent of $300,000 on a real estate mortgage.
Ms Shields gave evidence that Richard of Eagle Finance made the application on her behalf and told her that it was declined "because of a default by Ford".
The Hearsay Ruling applies.
In relation to GE Capital, the primary ICCR showed an access on 7 April 2004 and a second access six days later on 13 April 2004, both in respect of an application for finance of $203,000 on the security of a real estate mortgage.
Ms Shields said that she applied to GE Capital through a finance broker named Paul Mylotis to whom she was recommended by her accountant.
She said that the earlier application was for a refinancing of the mortgage over her house as the solicitor had not yet been repaid.
She said that Mr Mylotis told her that because of the Ford Credit default, she would have to pay a certain, higher, interest rate.
The Hearsay Ruling applies.
As evidence of the reason that moved GE Capital and of GE Capital's imposition of a certain interest rate, Ms Shields's evidence of what Mr Mylotis told her was second-hand hearsay.
She said that a couple of weeks later GE Capital approved her application.
In relation to the GE Capital application of 13 April 2004, Ms Shields said that that application was for a loan to enable her to acquire equipment for her business, and that she applied for the finance by way of her "home loan".
She said that this application, also arranged by Mr Mylotis, was also approved.
Ms Shields said that she used the funds obtained from GE Capital to pay out her indebtedness to Ford Credit.
Ms Shields submits that because her application to GE Capital was approved, I should infer that someone at GE Capital read her credit information file including the Payment Default that had been listed by Ford Credit.
Ms Shields said that in fact she used the funds provided by GE Capital (I assume the $203,000 for which she said she applied), inter alia, to pay out the sum (approximately $16,598) that she owed to Ford Credit.
But did she inform GE Capital this was a purpose of her borrowing?
If she had done so, this would have interested GE Capital in ascertaining if Ford Credit had listed a default on her credit information file.
The admitted evidence does not reveal an answer to the question.
Apparently her disclosed purpose was simply to pay off the loan from the solicitor.
I do not infer, from the mere fact of approval of the loan, that someone at GE Capital read the particulars of the default listed by Ford Credit.
As in the case of all applicants, Ms Shields did not call any witness from any credit provider.
The primary ICCR showed that on 19 August 2002 Cumberland Newspapers made a "Commercial Credit Enquiry" of the database in connection with a 30 day account.
It will be recalled that this was an "Operator Requested" access.
Ms Shields testified that she wanted to do some advertising in the local newspaper of which, apparently, Cumberland Newspapers was the publisher, and it insisted that she pay up front.
She said that she was told that the reason was her "Credit Record" or "Credit History".
The Hearsay Ruling applies.
Cumberland Newspapers was subpoenaed but did not produce a credit report.
The primary ICCR also recorded that on 28 April 2005 "CMS Asset Solutions" accessed the database in connection with an application by Ms Shields for credit relating to "Leasing".
In oral evidence Ms Shields said that the application to CMS Asset Solutions was for the financing or leasing of a piece of equipment for her business.
She said that her application was refused and that someone called "Jim" at CMS Asset Solutions told her that it was refused "because of Baycorp".
The Hearsay Ruling applies.
The primary ICCR showed that on 17 May 2005 "QPF Finance" accessed the database in connection with an application for commercial credit in connection with a lease.
The "Association Code" is shown as "Guarantor".
In oral evidence Ms Shields again said that she was looked after by "Jim" who told her that her application to QPF Finance failed "because of Baycorp".
The Hearsay Ruling applies.
Subpoenas to produce documents were issued on behalf of Ms Shields to both CMS Solutions and QPF Finance.
In cross examination, Ms Shields was confronted with documentary evidence that both CMS Asset Solutions and QPF Finance had in fact approved of her applications to them, contrary to evidence she gave in her examination in chief.
The documents produced by CMS Asset Solutions also suggest that Ms Shields's application to CMS Asset Solutions was not made through a "Jim" at CMS, but through a broker, "Patrick Graves" of TCBS Finance Pty Ltd. Mr Graves, writing on behalf of Ms Shields to Tim Malafouris of CMS Asset Solutions, informed Mr Malafouris: 
 Please be aware that firstly upon a CRAA check default may be noted upon explanation has been attached.


 
In fact, at that time (28 April 2005) Ms Shields had a default listed by "RSL Com", although it is not shown on all of the ICCRs in evidence (see below) and publication of it is not the subject of the complaint made by Ms Shields in her present proceeding.
There are in evidence several ICCRs relating to Ms Shields, some in the name of Dianne Malloch.
Mr Champion's affidavit mentions this and the fact that the two credit information files contained cross-references to one another.
In a Malloch ICCR of 17 May 2005 produced by QPF Finance in response to a subpoena, the "RSL Com" default is mentioned, but it is not mentioned in the Shields ICCR of 17 May 2005 or in the primary ICCR (of 31 August 2005).
CMS Asset Solutions produced no credit report.
A handwritten working sheet dated 23 May 2005 was produced on subpoena by QPF Finance.
That was six days after its accessing of Ms Shield's credit information file on 17 May 2005.
It related to an application by Baby Boomers Face  Body Clinic Pty Ltd and showed "Dianne Maureen Malloch" against "Directors/Guarantors".
The sheet noted that there were three defaults that were "Settled/Paid (explanation attached)".
The only other documents produced by QPF Finance were a number of ICCRs and Company Reports, all sourced from Veda.
These are a Company Report relating to Baby Boomers Face  Body Clinic Pty Ltd and two ICCRs relating to Ms Shields (one in the name of Malloch) dated 17 May 2005 and another such Company Report and two ICCRs dated 3 March 2006.
The three dated 3 March 2006 can be disregarded since they post-date the handwritten sheet and therefore could not have contained the "explanation attached".
The Company Report dated 17 May 2005 shows no defaults.
The Malloch ICCR dated 17 May 2005 shows one default and the Shields ICCR dated 17 May 2005 shows two defaults --- a total of three defaults.
The Ford Credit default is one of the two listed on the Shields ICCR of 17 May 2005.
I infer that the Company Report and the two ICCRs dated 17 May 2005 contained the "explanation attached" referred to in the handwritten working sheet dated 23 May 2005, and that the writer of the working sheet read the details of the listed Ford Credit default.
As it turns out, since the access by QPF Finance was Operator Requested, I would in any event have inferred that the credit information file relating to Ms Shields was viewed in full on the screen at QPF Finance.
Finally, the primary ICCR showed that on 19 May 2005 "Technology Leasing Ltd NSW" accessed the database in connection with an application by Ms Shields for finance for "Commercial Rental".
Against "Association Code" appeared the word "Guarantor".
Ms Shields gave oral evidence that that application was made by someone on her behalf and she thought that that person was "Jim".
She said that the person told her that her application was "refused because of Baycorp".
The Hearsay Ruling applies.
The result in the proceeding brought by Ms Shields is as follows: I infer that in the cases of the accesses by Cumberland Newspapers NSW, CMS Asset Solutions, QPF Finance, and one of the two accesses by Technology Leasing NSW on 19 May 2005, the matter complained of was read by an employee of the enquiring credit provider.
However, in the cases of the accesses by National Australia Bank, St George Bank, GE Capital (two) and the other (one) of the two accesses by Technology Leasing Ltd on 19 May 2005, it is not proved that the access involved a reading of the details of the default listed by Ford Credit by any one at the enquiring credit provider.
Accordingly, Ms Shields's claim in defamation cannot succeed in respect of the latter group.
(7) Strange
 Mr Strange's TFASC had both Schedules A and B.
Schedule A quoted a Consumer Default.
This was a "Clearout (Watched)" listing made by "CITY FIN LCS BRWNPLNS/SNYBNK" on 2 June 2003.
The amount shown was $573.
As at 11 February 2004 the amount shown was $445.
Schedule B was identical to Schedule A except for the addition of: 
Status: Settled Status Date: 06/04/2005
 According to the TFASC there were four publications of the matter complained of in Schedule A, as follows: 
 (a) 13 January 2005 --- Esanda Dealership;
 (b) 16 March 2005 --- Bill Rescue Pty Ltd;
 (c) 10 October 2003 --- Queensland Police c/u Ltd;
 (d) 3 March 2005 --- Loans by Phone.


 
Mr Strange's submissions do not address (c) above and I will say no more of it.
There were allegedly four publications of the matter complained of in Schedule B, namely: 
 (a) 9 May 2005 --- Bill Rescue Pty Ltd;
 (b) 2 June 2005 --- GEFCA Branch Channel;
 (c) 12 July 2005 --- ANZ Banking GRP OPS Tech;
 (d) 20 July 2005 --- International Acceptances.


 
Mr Strange's written submissions do not address (a) above.
Mr Champion's Annexure does not address the publication to Queensland Police c/u Ltd; Loans by Phone or the Bill Rescue entry of 9 May 2005, perhaps because they were introduced by way of amendment made to the pleading after he had performed his analysis.
According to Mr Champion's Annexure, all forms of access were System-to-System except that of Bill Rescue Pty Ltd on 16 March 2005, which was Operator Requested.
There is no admitted affidavit evidence of Mr Strange relevant to the issue of the reading of the matter complained of by any employee of any of the credit providers to whom publication was alleged.
Such oral evidence as Mr Strange gave that might be said to be relevant to the issue of publication to a human mind was the subject of the Hearsay Ruling.
Mr Strange relies on documents produced on subpoena by Esanda Finance Corporation Ltd (Esanda).
The subpoena referred to documents relevant to an application for finance made by Mr Strange in or about January 2005.
No doubt that date is attributable to the date of 13 January 2005 in para (a) in Schedule A (see [251] above).
One of the credit reports produced was dated 9 May 2005 and the other 23 October 2006.
There is no credit report on or around 13 January 2005.
Veda has suggested that the two credit reports may have been erroneously inserted among the documents produced by Esanda.
They are both dated after the Esanda enquiry of 13 January 2005.
There is also produced an Esanda 'Credit Application and Assessment Report' prepared on 20 April 2006.
Of particular interest is a manually entered note at the bottom, dated 13 January 2005, which states that there are "4 unpaid defaults with City Finance" and a "poor credit history" --- although there is no mention of a "Clearout (Watched)".
Mr Strange gave no oral evidence relating to the Esanda application.
I am not satisfied that the material complained of in Schedule A was published to Esanda Dealership on 13 January 2005 as pleaded.
I am therefore not satisfied that any one at Esanda Dealership read the "Clearout (Watched)" entry.
Bill Rescue Pty Ltd did not produce any credit report for 16 March 2005, although it produced other documents which were not admitted into evidence.
According to Mr Champion's Annexure, however, the access to the database by Bill Rescue Pty Ltd on 16 March 2005 was Operator Requested.
In the absence of evidence to the contrary, I infer that an operator at Bill Rescue Pty Ltd's office read the matter complained of on the computer screen.
Loans by Phone Pty Ltd produced documents in response to a wide ranging subpoena served by Mr Strange.
The documents contained a handwritten note "Client applied on the 2/3/2005.
This application was declined on 4/3/2005.
Please find attached relevant information.
Regards Natasha".
Under "Credit History" the document records "Defaults: Northpower 2000 --- Paid, Startover 2003 --- Paying Off.
" I infer that the "relevant information" is a document attached headed "Baycorp Advantage Individual Credit Enquiry.
" Although the words "serious credit infringement" appear, the words "Clearout (Watched)" do not.
In relation to the first two alleged publications of the matter complained of in Schedule B, namely, those to GEFCA Branch Channel and ANZ Banking Group GRP OPS Tech, there is no documentary evidence to be considered.
Both were System-to-System accesses.
I am not satisfied that the matter complained of in Schedule B was read by any person in the office of either one of those enquiring credit providers.
In relation to the alleged publication on 20 July 2005 of the matter complained of in Schedule B to "International Acceptances", International Acceptance Pty Limited produced documents pursuant to a subpoena served on it by Mr Strange.
They included a document dated 20 July 2005 headed "Consumer Report for International Acceptance interpreted with Lynx from data provided by Baycorp Advantage".
This included a reference to the $445 default in question, but no notation of "Clearout (Watched)".
Neither an "Australia Personal Loan Verification Form", nor a "Letter of Offer" provided by International Acceptance noted this.
Having regard to Mr Champion's evidence concerning System-to-System access, I do not infer that anyone at International Acceptance Pty Limited read the entry of "Clearout (Watched)" relating to Mr Strange.
The only publications to a human mind that are proved in Mr Strange's case are the publications to Loans by Phone Pty Ltd on or about 3 March 2005 and Bill Rescue on or about 16 March 2005.
Otherwise Mr Strange's claim in defamation cannot succeed.
(8) Taylor
 Mr Taylor's TFASC had only one Schedule, Schedule A, which related to an Account Type of "Overdraft".
Alliance Factoring was shown as the "Original Subscriber" on 27 May 2002.
The "Latest Subscriber", also of 27 May 2002 was shown as "BA Collections Factoring".
The Original Amount and the Latest Amount were both $795.00.
The "Original Reason" stated was "Clearout watched", but the "Latest Reason" listed simply a "Clear Out.
" Schedule A included the following notation: 
Status: Paid Status Date: 08/01/2003
 The TFASC alleged that publication took place as follows: 
 (a) 28 November 2002 St. George BK Credit Card; 
 (b) 14 January 2004 Telstra Consumer NSW;
 (c) 21 January 2004 Telstra Mobile NSW.


 According to Mr Champion's Annexure, St George BK Credit Card NSW accessed the database on 28 November 2002, "Telstra 2" accessed it on 14 January 2004, and "Telstra 51" accessed it on 21 January 2004, in all three instances System-to-System.
There is no admitted affidavit evidence by Mr Taylor relevant to the reading by a person employed by a credit provider of the matter complained of.
In oral evidence Mr Taylor said that the entry concerning St George Bank related to an over-the-phone application for a credit card.
He said that a lady at St George Bank, whose name he could not remember, told him over the telephone that his application for the credit card had been refused because he had a "default listing on [his] CRA".
The Hearsay Ruling applies.
Similarly, Mr Taylor gave evidence that he applied on 14 January 2004 to Telstra for a home phone and on 21 January 2004 for a mobile telephone.
He said in relation to the latter that he filled in an application form at the Rockdale office of Telstra where a sales representative made a telephone call and then told him that his application was declined because of a credit rating on his file.
The Hearsay Ruling applies.
Mr Taylor did not give any additional evidence in relation to the application on 14 January 2004.
In the result I am not satisfied that any person at any of the three credit providers referred to in the allegations of publication read the matter complained of in Schedule A.
Accordingly, for this reason alone Mr Taylor's claim in defamation cannot succeed.
(9) Tyndall
 Mr Tyndall's TFASC has only Schedule A.
The matter complained of in it was the listing by "ALLIANCE FACTORING 8" of a "Payment Default" on 13 September 2002 in respect of an amount of $316.
Schedule A included the following notation in the matter complained of: 
Status: Paid Status Date: 27/09/2002
 
This shows that the Payment Default appeared for only some 14 days without the "Paid" addition.
Mr Tyndall's TFASC alleges the following publications: 
 (a) 15 November 2002 Westpac Nat Telemark Vic;
 (b) 12 June 2003 WPAC /Challenge/Bank Melb PL;
 (c) 20 April 2005 --- ANZ Bankcards Aust.
Vic.
;
 (d) 20 April 2005 --- Nat Aust Bank NSW;
 (e) 25 July 2005 Citibank Unsecured Credit 

 
 In submissions Mr Tyndall did not press the pleaded publication to Citibank Unsecured Credit on 25 July 2005.
According to Mr Chapman's Annexure all of the remaining four accesses were System-to-System.
There is no admitted affidavit evidence relevant to anyone at any of the four credit providers having read the matter complained of in Schedule A.
Mr Tyndall's written submissions refer, in relation to (b) above, to certain oral evidence that Mr Tyndall gave but that oral evidence related to an application related to (d) above (National Australia Bank).
That evidence was no more than that his application had been declined.
Mr Tyndall gave oral evidence in relation to the 15 November 2002 "Westpac Nat Telemark Vic" enquiry and the 12 June 2003 "WPAC/Challenge/Bank Melb P/L" enquiry.
In relation to the former he said that he applied over the telephone for a personal loan at the Personal Loans Centre of the Westpac Banking Corporation, and after being "put on hold" was told that his application had been declined due to a "credit risk" or "credit default".
Mr Tyndall said that he asked the Bank's representative to reconsider but she said that there was a number on the screen that she could not override.
The Hearsay Ruling applies.
Similarly, Mr Tyndall gave evidence that he telephoned the Westpac Personal Loans Centre on or about 12 June 2003 thinking that since some "twelve months" had passed, the adverse entry may have lost its significance.
However, he said that he was again told that his application had been declined due to "credit risk" or "credit default", with a reference number that could not be overridden.
Again, the Hearsay Ruling applies.
Mr Tyndall gave no oral evidence pertinent to the issue whether the matter complained of came to the mind of an employee at ANZ Bankcards (his written submissions merely note that the access was System-to-System).
In the result, I am not satisfied that the matter complained of in Schedule A was published to any employee of any of the credit providers to whom the TFASC alleges it was published.
For this reason alone, Mr Tyndall's claim in defamation cannot succeed.
2.
Imputations
 It is unnecessary for me to address the question whether the pleaded imputations arise, because all of the claims in defamation fail on other grounds.
3.
Qualified privilege
 I referred to Veda's pleaded defence of qualified privilege at [116] above.
The applicants submit that publication by Veda was not made on an occasion of qualified privilege.
They rely on Macintosh v Dun [1908] UKPCHCA 3 ; (1908) 6 CLR 303 ; [1908] AC 390.
Veda submits that Macintosh v Dun was wrongly decided and should not be followed.
In Bashford v Information Australia (Newsletters) Pty Ltd [2004] HCA 5 ; (2004) 218 CLR 366 ( Bashford ), Gleeson CJ, Hayne and Heydon JJ said in a joint judgment that the principles to be applied in determining whether an occasion of publication was one of qualified privilege are well known.
Their Honours referred to Toogood v Spyring (1834) 1 Cr M  R 181 (149 ER 1044) and Adam v Ward [1917] AC 309.
They quoted (at [9]) the following oft cited statement made by Parke B in Toogood v Spyring (at 193) (ER 1049-1050): 
 In general, an action lies for the malicious publication of statements which are false in fact, and injurious to the character of another (within the well-known limits as to verbal slander), and the law considers such publication as malicious, unless it is fairly made by a person in the discharge of some public or private duty, whether legal or moral, or in the conduct of his own affairs, in matters where his interest is concerned.
In such cases, the occasion prevents the inference of malice, which the law draws from unauthorized communications, and affords a qualified defence depending upon the absence of actual malice.
If fairly warranted by any reasonable occasion or exigency, and honestly made, such communications are protected for the common convenience and welfare of society ; and the law has not restricted the right to make them within any narrow limits.
[my emphasis] 

 
Their Honours said (at [9]) that "[r]eciprocity of duty or interest is essential", citing Adam v Ward at 334 where the following statement appears:
 
 It was not disputed, in this case on either side, that a privileged occasion is, in reference to qualified privilege, an occasion where the person who makes a communication has an interest or a duty, legal, social, or moral, to make it to the person to whom it is made, and the person to whom it is so made has a corresponding interest or duty to receive it.
This reciprocity is essential.


 Their Honours referred (at [10]) to the "very high level of abstraction and generality" in which the principles relating to qualified privilege are stated, and emphasised the need to scrutinise closely the circumstances of each case, the situation of the parties, the relations of all concerned, and the events leading up to and surrounding the publication.
At the times of the publications in the present cases, subs (1), (2) and (3) of s 22 of the Defamation Act were as follows: 
 (1) Where, in respect of matter published to any person: 

(a) the recipient has an interest or apparent interest in having information on some subject,
 
(b) the matter is published to the recipient in the course of giving to the recipient information on that subject, and
 
(c) the conduct of the publisher in publishing that matter is reasonable in the circumstances,
 
 there is a defence of qualified privilege for that publication.


 
 (2) For the purposes of subsection (1), a person has an apparent interest in having information on some subject if, but only if, at the time of the publication in question, the publisher believes on reasonable grounds that that person has that interest.


 
 (3) Where matter is published for reward in circumstances in which there would be a qualified privilege under subsection (1) for the publication if it were not for reward, there is a defence of qualified privilege for that publication notwithstanding that it is for reward.

 To the extent that publication in Queensland is relevant, Veda relies on s 16 of the Defamation Act 1889 (Qld) which provides, relevantly: 
 (1) It is a lawful excuse for the publication of defamatory matter 
 ............................................................................................................ 

 
(d) if the publication is made in good faith in answer to an inquiry made of the person making the publication relating to some subject as to which the person by whom or on whose behalf the inquiry is made has, or is believed, on reasonable grounds, by the person making the publication to have, an interest in knowing the truth;
 
 
(e) if the publication is made in good faith for the purpose of giving information to the person to whom it is made with respect to some subject as to which that person has, or is believed, on reasonable grounds, by the person making the publication to have, such an interest in knowing the truth as to make the person's conduct in making the publication reasonable under the circumstances; ...
 
 Many of the circumstances touching upon publication have already been recounted.
There was in evidence a copy of Veda's standard application to become a subscriber, including the conditions of subscription.
If a firm or company applying to become a subscriber was a credit provider, it was required to identify the type of credit provided and the credit terms allowed.
If the applicant was not a credit provider, it was required to state its reasons for wishing to subscribe.
In the present case, it was not suggested that the pleaded publications were to any entities other than credit providers.
The conditions of subscription were, relevantly, as follows: 
 Conditions of subscription 
 In making an application to become a subscriber to Veda Advantage Business Information Services Ltd (Veda Advantage) I/we acknowledge and agree to be bound by the conditions of terms and conditions of trade as set out on this application form, as varied from time to time by Veda Advantage by notice in writing to me/us.
I/We acknowledge and agree: 
 1 To report default accounts for both business and consumer credit to Veda Advantage on a regular basis; 2 To pay the prescribed fees of Veda Advantage (including any GST payable), for enquiries made on my/our behalf and for various services applied to me/us such fees to be determined by Veda Advantage from time to time, with such payment to be made by the invoice due date and in a manner determined by Veda Advantage; 3 ... 4 To supply Veda Advantage as requested from time to time with the particulars of persons dealing with me/us in accordance with any applicable legislation and any requirements of Veda Advantage; 5 To respect the sensitive nature of the information that Veda Advantage provides and to comply with all legislation regarding the handling of that information; 6 Not to knowingly seek the disclosure from Veda Advantage of any personal information from any such credit information files kept by Veda Advantage where disclosure of such information would give rise to a contravention by Veda Advantage of the provisions of Section 18K or such other sections of the Privacy Act 1988 (as amended) as may apply; 7 That Veda Advantage obtains all information on its database from its customers or other third parties and relies on those suppliers to ensure that the information is accurate; 8 That Veda Advantage does not independently verify information supplied to it and hence does not guarantee the accuracy of any information supplied to me/us.
Veda Advantage is not liable for any claim, loss or damage suffered by me/us resulting from or arising out of any information supplied by Veda Advantage; 9 That Veda Advantage excludes all liability in any course of action whatsoever for loss or damage arising out of or in connection with any decision made using information supplied by Veda Advantage, including without limitation, loss of profits and damage suffered as a result of claims by any third person; To indemnify Veda Advantage in respect of all: 
(a) demands, claims, actions, proceedings, or suits brought against Veda Advantage, whether in law or equity;
 
(b) liabilities of Veda Advantage; and
 
(c) costs and expenses including legal costs and expenses (on a solicitor and own client basis) incurred by Veda Advantage
 
arising directly or indirectly out of the use or reliance on the information supplied by or through me/us to Veda Advantage which is inaccurate for any reason including because of error or omission;
 
 11 ... 
 To comply with all applicable legislation (including any of our obligations under the Privacy Act 1988 ) and all other regulatory requirements in using the services; 
 13 ...
 14 ...
 15 ...
 16 ... 

 Whenever a subscriber listed a default on Veda's database, it did so pursuant to an express contractual obligation (see conditions 1 and 4 listed above).
Whenever Veda supplied a credit report by permitting a subscriber to access the database, it did so pursuant to a contractual obligation implied from the terms of the subscription contract and the payment of fees by subscribers to Veda.
In the absence of authority constraining me, I would find that: Victor Edwards, Senior Lecturer in the School of Banking at the University of New South Wales provided a report purporting to lay a foundation for the second last finding, but I disallowed it for reasons (not relevance) that I gave at the time.
However, I have no hesitation in so finding and, as I indicated at the time, I did not understand senior counsel for the applicants to submit that I should not do so.
If Veda were omitted from the arrangement, it could easily be seen that the arrangement was one between a large number of credit providers who were mutually assisting each other's legitimate interests by exchanging information through a computer database.
The question arises why the position relating to qualified privilege should be any different from that which it would be if, without the interposition of Veda, the subscribing credit providers were constituted simply as a mutual society of credit providers which maintained the database under the control of an elected committee (see [313] below).
I turn now to Macintosh v Dun [1908] UKPCHCA 3 ; (1908) 6 CLR 303 ; [1908] AC 390.
In Macintosh v Dun the plaintiffs carried on business in Sydney as general hardware merchants.
The defendants were a firm that carried on the business of a trade protection society or mercantile agency under the name "R G Dun and Company".
The defendants' business was that of obtaining information with regard to the commercial and financial standing and position of persons, firms or companies trading in New South Wales or elsewhere, and communicating that information confidentially to its subscribers in response to specific and confidential enquiries made by them.
The form of the enquiry was a standard form of "Subscriber's Ticket" provided by the defendants to the subscribers, filled in by the subscribers and addressed to the defendants.
In response to an application in that form, the defendants supplied reports in relation to the plaintiffs, who sued them for damages as a result of alleged libel.
At trial, Cohen J held that the occasion was not privileged.
The judgment of the Full Court of the Supreme Court of New South Wales on appeal ((1905) 5 S.R.
(NSW) 708) was delivered by Pring J.
His Honour thought it obvious that it was for the common convenience and welfare of the trading community that a trader should be able to make enquiries with respect to the financial standing of another with whom he was dealing or about to deal, and that the answers to such enquiries, if given honestly and bona fide , should not subject the giver to an action for defamation (at 717).
His Honour added (at 717): 
 If the law were otherwise, the position of traders would be intolerable; their business would materially suffer, and the whole community would in its turn feel the effects of the check thus imposed on trade and commerce.
To say that an enquiry respecting the character of a servant is made on a privileged occasion, and that one respecting the character of a merchant with whom another is dealing is not, is to lose sight of a principle of law which regulates privileged occasions.
The principle is that the law on such occasions repels the inference of malice.


 Pring J observed (at 718) that in the ordinary case of enquiries concerning employees, there was "only a moral or social duty" on the part of the person to whom the enquiry was directed, but that in a case such as the one before the Court there was a legal duty on the defendants to afford such information as they possessed.
The reference is to the contract between the defendants and subscribers.
His Honour continued (at 718): 
 It was, indeed boldly argued that because [the defendants] are paid for their information there can be no privilege.
That argument comes to this, that the higher the duty the less the protection.


 On appeal to the High Court ( Dun v Macintosh [1906] HCA 24 ; (1906) 3 CLR 1134) the Supreme Court's decision on the question of privilege was affirmed.
In separate judgments, Griffith CJ, Barton J and O'Connor J expressed agreement with Pring J's judgment in the Supreme Court.
On appeal, the Privy Council ([1908] AC 390 at 400) referred to the facts that: Their Lordships identified "the real question" as being whether it was "in the interests of the community" and "for the welfare of society" that the protection that the law gave to communications made in legitimate self-defence or from a bona fide sense of duty "should be extended to communications made from motives of self-interest by persons who trade for profit in the characters of other people" (at 400).
Answering this question "no", they added: 
 But information such as that which [the defendants] offer for sale may be obtained in many ways, not all of them deserving of commendation.
It may be extorted from the person whose character is in question through fear of misrepresentation or misconstruction if he remains silent.
It may be gathered from gossip.
It may be picked up from discharged servants.
It may be betrayed by disloyal employees.
It is only right that those who engage in such a business, touching so closely very dangerous ground, should take the consequences if they overstep the law.


 The Privy Council's decision has been criticised.
In Watt v Longsdon [1930] 1 KB 130 at 148, Scrutton LJ said that the decision "must not be relied on too strongly" in the light of the decision of the House of Lords in London Association for Protection of Trade v Greenlands Ltd [1916] 2 AC 15 ( Greenlands ).
In Greenlands the House distinguished Macintosh v Dun .
The case concerned the London Association for the Protection of Trade (Association) which had over 6,000 members who paid an annual subscription.
A member (Kydd) applied to the Association on a form provided by it for information on the commercial standing of a trading company (Greenlands) with which Kydd proposed to deal.
The secretary to the Association (Hadwen) applied to a commercial agent and debt collector (Wilmshurst) at Hereford where Greenlands carried on business for such information.
Having obtained the information from Wilmshurst, Hadwen passed it onto Kydd.
Greenlands sued Wilmshurst, the Association and Hadwen for libel.
A jury returned verdicts against all three defendants, finding express malice against Wilmshurst.
The Association and Hadwen appealed.
The Court of Appeal ordered a new trial as against them.
On the further appeal to the House of Lords, Greenlands consented to have the judgment against the Association set aside because it transpired that it was an unincorporated association.
The House of Lords upheld Hadwen's defence of qualified privilege.
Their Lordships saw the circumstances as being in substance an enquiry made by Kydd of Wilmshurst through the agency of Hadwen.
Accordingly, just as such an enquiry by Kydd of Wilmshurst would have attracted qualified privilege, so did the enquiry through the agency of Hadwen.
Their Lordships distinguished Macintosh v Dun .
Various points of distinction were mentioned: The point of distinction that seems to be common to their Lordships' speeches is that in Greenlands the Association was an unincorporated not-for-profit association who business was carried on by a committee, which did not operate solely from motives of pecuniary gain, and Hadwen did not act as agent of the Association but as agent of Kydd.
Their Lordships emphasised that whether qualified privilege was attracted depended on a close scrutiny of all the circumstances of the individual case.
The present cases share some features with both Macintosh v Dun and Greenlands .
Like the defendants in Macintosh v Dun : Veda is motivated by the desire for pecuniary gain; Veda is not itself in the business of providing credit but is in the different business of collecting and providing, for reward to itself, creditworthiness information sought by credit providers.
