
 INTRODUCTION 
 Garnet is a mineral.
Most garnet mined in the world is alluvial.
Some other garnet is known as "hard rock" garnet.
Alluvial garnet is most commonly used as both an industrial abrasive in the preparation of surfaces and as an abrasive in water jet cutting.
It is also used in other applications including anti-slip coatings, denim blasting, water purification, glass preparation and electronic component surfacing.
Hard rock garnet is generally more angular and sharper than alluvial garnet and is sold for different applications at significantly higher prices.
Garnet International Resources Pty Ltd (GIRL), the second applicant in these proceedings, owns an alluvial garnet mine at Port Gregory, near Geraldton, Western Australia (the mine), which is operated by GMA Garnet Pty Ltd (GMA Garnet), the first applicant, of which GIRL is the parent corporation.
GMA Garnet and Indian producers of alluvial garnet are the largest producers of garnet in the world.
In early 2005, and at material times, Barton Mines Corporation was a corporation incorporated in the State of Pennsylvania, United States of America (USA), which traded, as it still trades today, under the name, The Barton Group.
Barton Mines Company LLC (BMC) is and was at material times a corporation incorporated in the USA and a wholly owned subsidiary of Barton Mines Corporation.
Barton International Inc (Barton International), the respondent in these proceedings, is and was at material times a corporation incorporated in the USA and registered in Australia as a foreign registered company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Barton Mines Corporation.
Barton International (Australia) Pty Ltd (BIA) is and was at material times a company incorporated in Australia and a wholly owned subsidiary of Barton International.
Barton Mines Corporation is a family owned company.
In 1878 it commenced the business of mining, processing, selling and distributing garnet for industrial abrasive uses.
From 1988, several wholly owned subsidiaries of Barton Mines Corporation (including Barton International and BMC) were established to conduct the various divisions of its business.
In particular: For some time, BMC has purchased garnet from various sources, including from GMA Garnet and from a supplier in India, V.V.
Mineral of India (VVM).
At material times, BMC maintained stocks of garnet at 19 warehouses in the USA.
Four of those warehouses were known as mega-centres and operated as import centres.
They are located at Reserve (Louisiana), Chesapeake (Virginia), San Diego (California) and Olympia (Washington State).
In early 2002, GIRL acquired the other 50% shareholding in GMA Garnet.
From that time, together with Barton International, it effectively owned and controlled GMA Garnet.
During 2003 and into 2004, significant differences arose between Barton International and GIRL and their respective representatives in relation to the operation of the mine at Port Gregory.
Attempts were made, unsuccessfully, to resolve those differences.
In the course of doing so, GIRL approached the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) and explained what it regarded as a contravention of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth).
The alleged contraventions related to an agreement known as the Perth Agreement, under which garnet was to be sold to the partners in the garnet mine at cost and the partners would sell that garnet for profit into defined territories.
On 23 August 2004, GIRL commenced proceedings in the Federal Court of Australia (the dissolution proceedings) against Barton International and GMA Garnet in which it claimed, amongst other things, an order dissolving the partnership in respect of the garnet mine and the winding up of GMA Garnet.
GIRL contended, amongst other things, that there were irreconcilable differences between it and Barton International in relation to the partnership and GMA Garnet, and the management of both were deadlocked.
Those proceedings were eventually set down for trial in February 2005.
In the result, the dissolution proceedings were compromised and settled without trial.
Negotiations that led to the compromise and settlement had a false start in October 2004, and were then recommenced in December 2004.
They were ultimately successfully concluded by the execution of a deed called the Principal Agreement, on 21 February 2005.
The Principal Agreement, which was the subject of a number of conditions that were subsequently satisfied, provided for the resolution of differences between the parties by GIRL purchasing all of the interests of Barton International in the mine and its shareholding in GMA Garnet.
The consideration for these transactions included a substantial cash payment and the execution of a long term supply agreement in respect of garnet from Port Gregory, as well as other aspects provided for in the deed.
The Principal Agreement provided that the parties to these proceedings should execute a Garnet Supply Agreement in the form annexed to the Principal Agreement.
On 31 March 2005, GMA Garnet, Barton International and GIRL executed the Garnet Supply Agreement (GSA).
The GSA provided for the supply by GMA Garnet (as Seller) to Barton International (as Buyer) of garnet from the mine and included responsibilities, which are now disputed, with respect to the branding (or labelling) and the distribution and sale of GMA garnet by Barton International.
Thereafter, Barton International had no interest in the mine or the garnet it produced, save that, under the GSA, Barton International had contractual rights to a supply of GMA garnet for a period of just over 12 years.
The GSA provided for Barton International to order a certain quantity per year of GMA garnet in either packaged or loose bulk form, on the terms set out in the GSA.
The GSA continues to govern the garnet supply arrangements between the parties.
Clause 4.2 of the GSA and cl 2.3 of the Principal Agreement record the acknowledgment of the parties to each Agreement that GMA Garnet "wishes to promote distribution" of GMA garnet within the USA and Canada (North America).
Clause 4.2 then goes on to note that, "Accordingly" (in the circumstances provided for by cl 4.2), Barton International is entitled to a "concessional rate" in respect of certain quantities of Product which it "ships and discharges" into North America.
By cl 2.5 of the GSA, the Buyer undertakes certain branding obligations with respect to the distribution and sale of the GMA garnet, "which is 100% Product", purchased under the GSA.
On the face of it, generally speaking the Buyer must ensure such garnet is labelled with the GMA Garnet name and logo (with no less prominence than that which applied during the 2004 calendar year); although it can also be co-branded with "the Buyer's own branding".
The Buyer must also ensure the GMA Garnet name and logo is not used in relation to product which is not 100% Product.
Following execution of the GSA, GMA Garnet filled orders lodged by Barton International under the GSA and shipped GMA garnet to Barton International in the United States, both in packaged form and (mostly) in loose bulk shipments, where it was discharged and taken delivery of by BMC.
The first bulk shipments of loose bulk garnet were made in about August 2005.
In the second half of 2005, Mr Aaron Williams who had been involved in the negotiation of the GSA on behalf of GIRL, and by then had become the Group General Manager within the GMA group of companies including GMA Garnet, made some reconnaissance trips to the USA.
In August 2005, Mr Williams visited a garnet distributor's warehouse in Houston, Texas where he inspected several pallets of paper bags which were labelled as "GMA Garnet 80 mesh".
On inspecting the contents of several of these bags he discovered the garnet in them was of a different appearance to GMA garnet, which is of a distinctively pink colour.
He then noticed that the words "80 mesh" had been struck out by ballpoint pen and the words "16A" substituted.
However, the GMA logo had not been altered or obscured in any way.
In the warehouse Mr Williams also discovered another bag not labelled as GMA Garnet, but located amongst a collection of GMA Garnet bags.
This led him to conclude that, while unlabelled, the bag in fact contained GMA garnet.
As a result of his warehouse inspection, Mr Williams was concerned that garnet supplied by GMA Garnet to Barton International pursuant to the GSA was being distributed or sold contrary to the branding obligations set out in cl 2.5 of the GSA.
As a result, on Friday 9 September 2005, Mr Williams, who was also GMA Garnet's authorised officer for the purposes of the GSA, emailed Mr Clifford (Cliff) Summers, who was Barton International's authorised officer for the purposes of the GSA, setting out what he had seen in the Houston warehouse, expressing his concerns and requesting an investigation and explanation from Barton International.
Mr Summers replied by email dated 15 September 2005---an email which had been settled by Barton International's lawyers---assuring Mr Williams of Barton International's adherence to its obligations and taking offence at the tone of the allegations made.
Mr Williams was quite unsatisfied with this response.
By further email dated Friday, 16 September 2005 he required that Barton International conduct an urgent investigation into both incidents, withdraw the offending bags and advise GMA Garnet of the measures that Barton International would put in place to avoid a repeat of such an occurrence.
Eventually, following a reminder, Mr Williams received a letter informing him that, due to Hurricane Katrina (in late August 2005), Barton had lost all records at their New Orleans warehouse and were unable to determine what had happened.
Mr Williams then let the matter drop.
A little later, in about February 2006, Mr Williams relocated to the United States when GMA Garnet (USA) Corp (GMA USA), a United States corporation of which GIRL is the parent, commenced operations in the United States.
By then he had also become President and a director of GMA USA.
Later in the year he began visiting customers, or potential customers, on behalf of GMA USA.
On two occasions in October/November 2006, he noticed bulk bags containing what appeared to be GMA garnet, on which the GMA Garnet logo was, he considered, smaller than the logo used prior to the GSA and less prominently displayed, contrary he believed to the requirements of cl 2.5 of the GSA.
These bags were also prominently marked "Barton".
During September 2006, at a water jet job shop in Florida, Mr Williams inspected bags of garnet that were not branded with GMA Garnet's name, but which appeared predominantly to contain the distinctive pink colour of GMA garnet.
Mr Williams took a sample of the garnet and arranged for it to be analysed.
(He was later advised that it contained a mixture of GMA garnet and Indian garnet.
) By written notice dated 3 November 2006, and sent by fax to Barton International, Torsten M H Ketelsen, director of GMA Garnet, purported to give notice of breach of cl 2.5 "for the purposes of clause 8.1(c) of the Supply Agreement", which was limited to the branding issue relating to bags, in the following terms: 
 Under clause 2.5 of the Supply Agreement, Barton must brand 100% GMA Garnet product with the GMA Garnet name and logo which is entitled to co-exist with Barton's own branding provided that the prominence of the GMA Garnet name and logo is not less than that which has applied during the 2004 calendar year.


 
 In breach of its obligations under clause 2.5, Barton is selling 100% GMA Garnet product in packaging where the prominence of the GMA Garnet name and logo co-existing with Barton's own branding is less than that which applied during the 2004 calendar year.


 
 Take notice that GMA Garnet requires Barton to remedy the above breach within a period of 30 days from the date of the giving of this notice.
This notice constitutes a notice in writing given for the purposes of clause 8.1 (c) of the Supply Agreement.

 By fax dated 10 November 2006, Mr Cliff Summers from Barton International responded to the notice expressing concern and seeking more information.
Mr Ketelsen provided further information to Mr Summers by letter dated 15 December 2006.
By letter dated 19 December 2006, sent by fax, Richard G Jenks, Jr, from Barton International responded substantively to the GMA Garnet notice advising that while Barton International did not agree that it had breached the GSA, Barton International had taken action and "implemented systems, designed to address any future concerns, and to give assurance to all parties of continuing contractual compliance".
Despite Barton International's assurance, it seems GMA Garnet remained concerned about the extent to which Barton International was meeting its obligations under the GSA.
In early March 2007, Mr Aaron Williams received information from a Barton customer to the effect that "Barton were now mixing GMA 30/60 mesh with Indian 30/40 mesh to extend the availability of blast grade material".
Soon after, on 23 April 2007, the applicants commenced these proceedings seeking clarification of their rights under the GSA, confirmation of their right to terminate the GSA for breach of material terms, and damages.
On 20 December 2007, during the pre-trial stage of these proceedings, GMA Garnet having regard to the re-amended defence filed by Barton International, considered that Barton International effectively admitted it had sold to BMC all bulk shipments of GMA garnet supplied under the GSA without branding it as GMA garnet.
It therefore issued the first breach notice.
GMA Garnet issued a second breach notice on 13 May 2008 and a third breach notice on 30 July 2008 in respect of subsequent bulk shipments it considered had been on-sold by Barton International to BMC without meeting the branding obligations in cl 2.5 of the GSA.
The issues of branding, or labelling, particularly in respect of loose bulk supplies and promotion of distribution, or marketing, of GMA garnet under the GSA and the Principal Agreement remain unresolved and in issue between the parties.
THE ISSUES 
 Having regard to the matters outlined above, the two principal issues arise for determination in these proceedings: Whether Barton International was obliged to brand discounted garnet supplied to it by GMA Garnet under the GSA, all of which it has onsold to BMC (primarily in loose bulk form), identifying it as GMA garnet.
Whether Barton International was obliged to do anything, or refrain from doing anything to assist in the promotion of the discounted garnet supplied to it under the GSA.
PRINCIPAL AGREEMENT 
 By the Principal Agreement executed on 21 February 2005 (in which Barton International is referred to most often as "Barton"), in particular the Introduction part of it, the parties note that at material times before the execution of the deed: The Principal Agreement then recites that, without admission of liability, the parties have agreed to settle all disputes and claims between them, including those arising from the proceedings on the terms set out.
The disputes the parties agreed to settle by the Principal Agreement are defined by the term "Disputes" in cl 1.1 as follows: 
 Disputes means all and any matters of dispute between the Parties and/or GMA Garnet (and including their respective Personnel and Related Entities) arising in any way in connection with: 

--- the Partnership or the operations and activities of the Partnership; and/or
 
--- GMA Garnet or the operations and activities of GMA Garnet; and/or
 
--- the documents and events summarised in the Schedule; and/or
 
--- otherwise howsoever;
 
 up to and as at Completion (other than arising out of a breach of the Settlement Documents), whether or not known to or suspected by either Party or GMA Garnet, and including all matters the subject of the Proceedings and any claim by either Party or GMA Garnet against the Partnership or by the Partnership against either Party or GMA Garnet.
(emphasis in original) 
 The term "Completion" is defined by the cl 1.1 of the Principal Agreement to mean: 
 the settlement of the sale and purchase of the Partnership Interest and the Sale Shares in accordance with accordance with this Deed, the Partnership, Interest Sale Deed and the GMA Garnet Share Sale Agreement.

 The expression Partnership Interest is defined by cl 1.1 as follows: 
 Partnership Interest means all of Barton's rights, title and interest in the Partnership.
(emphasis in original)
 
 The Partnership is defined by cl 1.1 as follows: 
 Partnership means the partnership between Barton and GIRL referred to in the Introduction and includes all assets, rights, liabilities and obligations of the Partnership.
(emphasis in original)
 The expression Partnership Interest Sale Deed is defined by cl 1.1 to mean: 
the Deed to be entered into between Barton and GIRL in the form set out in Annexure C.
 The expression Sale Shares is defined by cl 1.1 to mean: 
all the shares held by Barton in GMA Garnet being 1,593,784 fully paid ordinary shares.
The expression GMA Garnet Share Sale Agreement is defined by cl 1.1 to mean: 
the Agreement to be entered into between Barton International and GIRL in the form set out in Annexure B.
The Principal Agreement was subject to a number of conditions as set out in cl 3.1 as follows, all of which were satisfied at material times: 
 This Deed (other than clauses 1, 6.1, 6.2, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13), the Partnership Interest Sale Deed, the GMA Garnet Share Sale Agreement and the Product Supply Agreement are subject to and conditional upon:
 (a) the Parties:
 (i) receiving official communication or advice from the ACCC that it raises no objection, or that the ACCC proposes to take no action in respect of, any proposed transaction or dealing the subject of the Settlement Documents; or
 (ii) receiving ACCC approval of the proposed acquisitions and dealings between the Parties in the terms of the Settlement Documents (or such of them over which the ACCC claims relevant jurisdiction authority), such approval being either unconditional or subject to conditions acceptable to the Parties;
 (b) the granting of all necessary approvals and consents required at law to the execution of the Settlement Documents, and Completion of the GMA Garnet Share Sale Agreement and Partnership Share Sale Agreement, including written approval by the Minister or an officer of the Department of Industry and Resources responsible for the administration of the Mining Act 1978 (WA) to the transfer of the mining tenements specified in the Partnership Interest Sale Deed; 
 (c) the retirement or removal of the Receivers as receivers and managers of GMA Garnet at Completion; and 
 (d) the execution by GMA Garnet of a Deed of Covenant and the Supply Agreement at Completion.

 The "Supply Agreement" is defined by cl 1.1 to mean: 
 the Agreement to be entered into between Barton, GMA Garnet and GIRL at Completion in the form set out in Annexure D. 
 In the interpretation cl 1.2(c), the parties agree that in the interpretation of the GSA, unless there is something in the subject or context inconsistent therewith: 
Headings used in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not be used in the interpretation or construction of this Agreement.
The Schedule to the Principal Agreement, earlier referred to, provides as follows: The Partnership is governed by an agreement dated 4 June 1998 between Barton Joint Venture Corporation (BJVC), B-L (Australia), Inc (BLAI), Garnet Millers Australia Pty Ltd (GMAPL) and Garnet Producers NL ( GPNL).
( Partnership Agreement ).
The relationship of the shareholders of GMA Garnet is governed by its constitution and by an Agreement dated 24 February 1999 between BJVC, BLAI, GPNL and GMA Garnet ( Shareholders Agreement ).
By an Agreement dated 25 June 1998 between GMAPL, GPNL, BJVC and BLAI, GMAPL transferred its interest in the Partnership to GPNL.
By a Sale Deed dated 6 December 2001 between GMAPL, GPNL, GIRL and Messrs Ketelsen, Jebsen, Putzier and Jessen, GIRL acquired a 50% interest in the Partnership and 50% of the issued shares in GMA Garnet (2001 Sale Deed).
GIRL became bound by the terms of the Partnership Agreement by a Partnership Assumption Deed dated 26 March 2002 between GIRL, GMAPL, GPNL, BJVC and BLAI.
By a Shareholders Assumption Deed also dated 26 March 2002 and made between the same parties, GIRL became bound by the Shareholders Agreement.
Pursuant to an Exclusive Distributorship Agreement dated 24 February 1999 between BJVC, BLAI, GPNL and GMA Garnet, GMA Garnet was appointed the exclusive distributor of garnet for the Partnership.
Pursuant to a Mining and Processing Services Agreement dated 24 February 1999 between BJVC, BLAI, GPNL and GMA Garnet, GMA Garnet was appointed to provide various mining and processing services to the Partnership.
On 30 June 2002, as evidenced by Certificate of Ownership and Merger of that date, pursuant to Section 253 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, USA, BJVC merged with BLAI and BLAI assumed its present name of Barton (International) Inc. 
 (emphasis in original) 
 By cl 2.1, headed "Settlement Documents", the parties to the Principal Agreement undertook to one another, subject to the Conditions, the following: 
 (a) to execute and deliver to each other and to GMA Garnet on Completion each of the Settlement Documents to which they are a party;
 (b) to duly and punctually observe and perform all obligations on their part respectively contained or implied in each of the Settlement Documents to which they are a party;
 (c) to do all matters and things reasonably within its power or control to cause GMA Garnet at Completion to execute and deliver to the other the Deed of Covenant and Supply Agreement.

 Clause 2.2, headed "Interdependence", provides: 
 This Deed is interdependent with the Partnership Interest Sale Deed, the GMA Garnet Share Sale Agreement and the Supply Agreement.

 Clause 2.3, headed "Generally", provides: 
 The Parties acknowledge:
 (a) that it is the composite transaction evidenced by the Settlement Documents that reflects the consideration under the Settlement Documents; and
 (b) that as part thereof, GMA Garnet wishes to promote distribution of Product (as defined in the Supply Agreement) within the United States of America and Canada and, for that purpose, GMA Garnet is allowing Barton a concessional rate for product as provided for in cl 4.2 of the Supply Agreement.

 The action required at "Completion" by the parties to the Principal Agreement --- and which was performed at material times so that the Principal Agreement became unconditional - was set out in cl 4 and provides, in substance, as follows: the parties shall execute and effect the various deliveries and undertakings to each other required at Completion pursuant to the Partnership Interest Sale Deed and the GMA Garnet Share Sale Agreement; Barton shall endorse each of the Promissory Notes in favour of GIRL and deliver them to GIRL; GIRL shall deliver to Barton a bank cheque for the sum of $18 million; each party shall execute and do all matters and things reasonably within its power or control to procure GMA Garnet to execute the Supply Agreement and the Deed of Covenant; Barton must pay GMA Garnet in accordance with GMA Garnet's normal trading terms, for all GMA Garnet product taken by Barton and not paid for by Completion; and the Parties shall execute and file with the Court and shall do all matters and things within their power or control to procure GMA Garnet to execute and file with the Court, the Consent Orders B.
The Consent Orders B are defined by cl 1.1 to mean: 
the orders in the form attached as Annexure A2.
GARNET SUPPLY AGREEMENT 
 The GSA as executed by the parties to these proceedings on 31 March 2005, was in the same terms as the form attached to the Principal Agreement, as the Principal Agreement required it to be.
(Barton International is most often simply referred to in the GSA as the "Buyer" or "Barton") By cl 2.1, (in short) the Seller, GMA Garnet, agrees to sell and deliver to the Buyer (which, on the face of the GSA, is Barton), against orders for Product that may be placed by the Buyer with the Seller in accordance with the GSA, the following quantities: 
 (i) up to 50,000 x tonnes of Product during the initial Contract Year
 (where "A" = the number of months, (to one decimal place) from the Commencement Date to the expiry of the first Contract Year);
 (ii) up to 50,000 tonnes of Product during each other Contract Year during the Term on the terms and conditions of this Agreement.

 "Product" is defined by cl 1.1 to mean 30/60 Mesh or 80 Mesh as the context requires.
The expression 30/60 Mesh is further defined to mean 30/60 Mesh garnet or 60 Mesh garnet produced from the Mine.
80 Mesh is defined to mean 80 Mesh garnet or 100/120 Mesh garnet produced from the Mine.
(Mesh is a reference to the grade the garnet ore is crushed to following mining, 30 Mesh being the finest grade).
Clause 2.1(b) of the GSA expressly provides that the quantity of the Product to be sold and delivered in each "Contract Year" shall not comprise more than 50% of 30/60 Mesh unless the Seller agrees otherwise.
Clause 2.2 sets out a non accumulation limitation so that if the Buyer does not purchase and take delivery of its full entitlement of Product in any Contract Year the quantity not taken shall not be carried forward.
The "Term" of the GSA Agreement is defined by cl 1.1 to mean the period commencing on the "Commencement Date", namely 31 March 2005 when the GSA was executed, and ending on 30 June 2017, or such earlier date if the Agreement is terminated pursuant to cl 8.
In other words the GSA has an expected period of operation of just over 12 years.
By cl 2.4, headed "No Restriction", the parties provide that: 
This Agreement does not restrict the Buyer from acquiring any Product from sources other than the Seller nor does it restrict the Seller from selling any Product to parties other than the Buyer.
Clause 2.5 of the GSA ---which, together with cl 4.2 of the GSA, and cl 2.3 of the Principal Agreement, is at the heart of the dispute between the parties the subject of these proceedings --- is headed "GMA Branding" and provides as follows: 
All garnet purchased under this Agreement and distributed or sold by the Buyer which is 100% Product must be branded by the Buyer with the GMA Garnet name and logo (which may co-exist with the Buyer's own branding provided that the prominence of the GMA Garnet name and logo is not less than that which has applied during the 2004 calendar year) and the Seller grants to the Buyer a non exclusive licence to use the GMA Garnet name and logo on Product for this purpose.
The Buyer must not use the GMA Garnet name or logo on, or in connection with, the distribution or sale of any garnet which is not 100% Product or hold out in any way that garnet which is not 100% Product, is Product.
Clause 2.6 provides, in effect, that nothing in the GSA is intended to limit the quantity of Product, or prescribe the terms of supply of Product to which the Seller and the Buyer may agree from time to time in addition to the 50,000 tonnes of Product in effect guaranteed by cl 2.1.
Clause 4 deals with "Price".
Clause 4.1 sets out a price which applies generally and in effect has regard to the type, quantity and price that GMA Garnet usually offers to its "prime customers (other than related entities)".
However, this price does not apply where clauses 4.2 and 4.3 operate.
Clause 4.2 of the GSA in some respects reflects the terms of 2.3(b) of the Principal Agreement referred to above.
Clause 4.2 is headed "North American Market" and provides as follows: 
 The Parties acknowledge that the Seller wishes to promote distribution of Product within the United States of America and Canada and, for that purpose, the Seller shall allow to the Buyer a concessional rate for Product as provided in this Agreement.
Accordingly, if the territory into which the Buyer ships and discharges Product under clause 2.1 after taking delivery of the same is the United States of America or Canada, the price for Product to be sold pursuant to orders to be placed by the Buyer pursuant to clause 2.1 shall be:
 (a) during the first Contract Year:
 (i) for the first 35,000 x tonnes of Product: the prices specified in Annexure A; and
 (ii) for the next 15,000 x tonnes of Product taken: the prices specified in Annexure A plus 15%:
 ( Base Prices );
 where:
 A= the number of months (to one decimal place) from the Commencement Date to the expiry of the first Contract Year.
(b) during each subsequent Contract Year:
 (i) for the first 35,000 tonnes of Product: the Base Price in clause 4.2(a)(i) adjusted pursuant to clause 4.3;
 (ii) for the next 15,000 tonnes of Product: the Base Price in clause 4.2(a)(ii) adjusted pursuant to clause 4.3.


 What is evident from a careful reading of cl 4 of the GSA, as the parties to these proceedings agree, is that in respect of the product sold and delivered to the Buyer under cl 2.1 --- up to 50,000 tonnes each Contract Year --- the Buyer is entitled to "a concessional rate" under cl 4.2, but only "if the territory into which the Buyer ships and discharges Product under cl 2.1 after taking delivery of the same is the USA or Canada".
In this context, the expressions "sell and deliver" in cl 2.1(a) and "ships and discharges" in cl 4.2 are terms of art.
The point is that the concessional rate referred to in cl 4.2 of the GSA is not available to Barton International unless the Product it has purchased and takes delivery of under cl 2.1, is shipped and discharged into the territory of the USA or Canada.
How the GSA came to be in these terms and what the parties commonly understood at material times at and before the Principal Agreement and GSA were executed, is part of the contractual narrative that the parties contend, variously, helps to define the rights and obligations of the parties under the GSA as properly interpreted or construed and, so far as the applicants are concerned, helps to inform the representations they say were made to them.
OUTLINE OF THE PARTIES' CASES 
 GMA Garnet and GIRL say that, under the GSA, Barton International is not only obliged to ensure that all GMA garnet supplied under the GSA is branded according to the formula set out in cl 2.5 of the GSA, but also --- by virtue of a term they say should be included in the GSA upon its rectification to honour the common understanding of the parties --- that Barton International is obliged to ensure that BMC complies with the same branding obligation.
Further, the applicants say that Barton International is obliged by the GSA and Principal Agreement to encourage the marketing of GMA garnet in North America both by itself and through BMC, and must ensure that neither does anything that would diminish its distribution and reputation in North America.
The applicants claim that representations conveyed by the GSA when read with representations made by Barton International during the negotiations in early 2005, are to similar effect.
The applicants say that Barton International has failed to satisfy these obligations or representations.
So far as branding is concerned, the applicants say the acts of sale or distribution by Barton International to its related entity, BMC, of loose bulk 100% GMA garnet acquired from GMA Garnet under the GSA, without first branding the garnet, constitute breaches of cl 2.5 of the GSA.
They also point to acts of sale to BMC of packaged GMA garnet in the USA, which they say breached the name and logo branding requirement of cl 2.5.
Additionally, the applicants say the subsequent blending by BMC of the loose bulk 100% GMA garnet with garnet acquired from elsewhere, which occurred with the knowledge of Barton International, is in breach of both the branding and marketing obligations imposed on Barton International by the GSA.
This is because 100% GMA garnet was not branded when it went to consumers as GMA garnet, and because its distribution as GMA garnet was diminished.
Indeed, the applicants say that the evidence shows that Barton International always intended to blend GMA garnet from the time the agreements were negotiated and so ignore the branding obligations, and for similar reasons never had any intention to meet the distribution or marketing obligations imposed on it, or to satisfy the representations it made in that regard.
In consequence of the pleaded breaches of the contract and representations, the applicants claim they are entitled to a declaration that they may terminate the GSA for the identified contractual breaches, as well as to damages for breach of contract and by reason of loss and damage flowing from the dishonoured representations.
As to damages, the applicants contend the proper measure is equal to the whole of the amount of any loose bulk garnet sold by Barton International to BMC which BMC could potentially blend, an amount of $9,353,123.
Alternatively, the applicants say the measure is the amount of the discount received by Barton International for the quantity of loose bulk garnet which BMC has in fact blended, an amount of $4,869,433.
Barton International denies the applicants' claims; although it agrees some rectification of the GSA is required, but only in acknowledgement of the agreed role of BMC in sales and distribution of 100% GMA garnet to ultimate consumers.
Otherwise, Barton International says no obligations arise under the Principal Agreement or the GSA in respect of the marketing of GMA garnet, and so far as cl 2.5 of the GSA is concerned, Barton International and BMC are only obliged to brand GMA garnet which they sell or distribute to end consumers (customers) in a packaged form.
In effect, Barton International contends that nothing in the Principal Agreement or GSA constricts their right to market GMA garnet supplied under the GSA to customers in any form that they choose, for example, following blending - whether in packaging or in loose bulk.
Barton International says that nothing in the agreements prevents them from mixing or blending GMA garnet supplied under the GSA with garnet they source from other suppliers.
Barton International accepts, however, that if GMA garnet supplied under the GSA is distributed or sold to customers in a packaged, unblended form (ie "100% Product"), then it must be branded as provided for by cl 2.5 of the GSA.
As to the applicants' claim that Barton International always intended to blend GMA garnet supplied under the GSA to avoid its branding and marketing obligation, Barton International says this raises a false issue in the proceedings and, in any event, is false as a matter of fact.
Barton International contends that its position is vindicated on the proper interpretation or construction of the Principal Agreement and GSA, taking into account certain facts commonly known to the parties at the time of execution of the Principal Agreement and GSA.
In the alternative, Barton International claims that the position it contends for is made apparent if cl 2.5 of the GSA is rectified in the manner it proposes.
Barton International deny any representations were made that go beyond the terms of the Agreements.
As to the applicants' claim for damages, the respondent contends that because the concessional price has nothing to do with a breach of cl 2.5 dealing with branding, assuming the applicants make out their case, damages should not be assessed by reference to a difference between the concessional price and the prime customer price, or the benefit of the discount obtained.
The respondent says no facts are pleaded which are capable of supplying a causal connection between the absence of branding bulk product sold to BMC and the giving of concessional pricing to Barton International.
Accordingly, no damage has been proved as regards the first breach allegation.
As regards the other breach allegations, although these seek to relate the entitlement to concessional prices to an absence of blending and distribution in North America, both ignore the fact that concessional prices were readily made available by GIRL as part of the overall consideration for the settlement effected by the Principal Agreement.
As a result the benefits obtained by GIRL cannot be ignored in any calculation of damages.
The respondent says no attempt has been made to prove such losses or to quantify the value of these benefits for the purpose of assessing damages.
Finally, it should be noted that each of the applicants and Barton International rejects the rectification of the GSA proposed by the other.
THE COURT'S APPROACH TO ITS CONSTRUCTION TASK 
 In this case, each of the parties puts forward sophisticated and commercially justifiable sets of reasons for interpreting or construing the relevant clauses of the GSA in a way that favours their interpretation or construction.
This only serves to emphasise there are no obviously correct literal meanings of the contentious clauses under consideration.
The Court is now called upon to adjudicate and state, in effect, which meanings it prefers.
In Codelfa Construction Pty Ltd v State Rail Authority of New South Wales [1982] HCA 24 ; (1981) 149 CLR 337 at 352, Mason J said, in oft repeated words, that: 
Consequently when the issue is which of two or more possible meanings is to be given to a contractual provision we look, not to the actual intentions, aspirations or expectations of the parties before or at the time of the contract, except in so far as they are expressed in the contract, but to the objective framework of facts within which the contract came into existence, and to the parties' presumed intention in this setting.
A little later in Codelfa [1982] HCA 24 ; 149 CLR 337 at 352-253, Mason J added that there was perhaps one situation in which evidence of the actual intention should be allowed to prevail over their presumed intention, namely: 
 If it transpires that the parties have refused to include in the contract a provision which would give effect to the presumed intention of persons in their position it may be proper to receive evidence of that refusal.


 The exceptional position mentioned in the last quoted portion of Mason J's dicta in Codelfa at [1982] HCA 24 ; 149 CLR 337 , which is relied on by the respondent here, has been applied in a number of cases, some examples of which are: Esso Australia Limited v Australian Petroleum Agents'  Distributor's Association [1999] 3 VR 642 , 647 --- 8 [19] --- [20]; Wachmer v Jaksic [2007] WASC 313 [168] --- [187]; Sunset Vineyard Management Pty Ltd v Southcorp Wines Pty Ltd [2008] VSCA 96 [48] --- [49]; Horton Geoscience Consultants Pty Ltd v Energy Minerals Pty Ltd [2005] QCA 169.
In relation to the "objective framework of facts within which the contract came into existence", as Mason J put it in Codelfa [1982] HCA 24 ; 149 CLR 337 , it is commonly understood that the proper construction of a contract should reflect what reasonable people in the position of the contracting parties would have understood by the relevant clauses, considering not only their text, but also the surrounding the circumstances and the purpose and object of the entire transaction and its elements: Pacific Carriers Ltd v BNP Paribas [2004] HCA 35 ; (2004) 218 CLR 451 , 461 --- 462 [22]; Toll (FGCT) Pty Ltd v Alphapharm Pty Ltd [2004] HCA 52 ; (2004) 219 CLR 165 , 179 [40]; International Air Transport Association v Ansett Australia Holdings Ltd [2008] HCA 3 ; (2008) 234 CLR 151 , [8], [53].
In International Air Transport Association [2008] HCA 3 ; 234 CLR 151 at [53] , in the joint judgment of Gleeson CJ, Gummow, Kirby, Hayne, Heydon, Crennan and Kiefel JJ, their Honours confirmed that the task of construction is to be approached in the manner described as follows by Gleeson CJ, Gummow, Hayne, Callinan and Heydon JJ in Toll [2004] HCA 52 ; 219 CLR 165 at [40] : 
 This Court, in Pacific Carriers Ltd v BNP Paribas (footnote omitted), has recently reaffirmed the principle of objectivity by which the rights and liabilities of the parties to a contract are determined.
It is not the subjective beliefs or understandings of the parties about their rights and liabilities that govern their contractual relations.
What matters is what each party by words and conduct would have led a reasonable person in the position of the other party to believe.
References to the common intention of the parties to a contract are to be understood as referring to what a reasonable person would understand by the language in which the parties have expressed their agreement.
The meaning of the terms of a contractual document is to be determined by what a reasonable person would have understood them to mean.
That, normally, requires consideration not only of the text, but also of the surrounding circumstances known to the parties, and the purpose and object of the transaction (footnote omitted).

 It may be said that it is now generally accepted in Australia, particularly having regard to this recent dicta of the High Court of Australia which makes no mention of an ambiguity factor as a precondition to considering other factors, that there is no need for ambiguity to be demonstrated in a contractual provision before regard can be had to the surrounding circumstances known to the parties and the purpose and object of the transaction.
See also Seddon NC and Ellinghaus MP, Cheshire and Fifoot's Law of Contract (9 th Australian ed, Lexis Nexis Butterworths, 2008) at [10.12], and authorities there referred to.
In other words, as stated in Toll , the construction task to be undertaken by the Court requires consideration of the text, but also of the surrounding circumstances known to the parties, and the purpose and object of the transaction.
In a commercial setting, the business objectives should be accounted for and, as other authorities have suggested, the relevant provisions given a "business commonsense" or a "business-like" construction.
See, for example, Investors Compensation Scheme v West Bromich Building Society [1988] 1 WLR 896 , Lord Hoffman at 912 --- 913.
Nonetheless, this process of construction is not intended to be a "free-wheeling" exercise.
In the Court of Appeal of New South Wales in Ryledar Pty Ltd t/as Volume Plus and Anor v Euphoric Pty Ltd [2007] NSWCA 65 ; (2007) 69 NSWLR 603 at 626 [108] , the Court endorsed the observations of the trial judge (Palmer J) whose decision was under consideration, to the following effect: 
 [31] However, that does not mean that when the Court begins the task of construction it puts the words of the document aside and endeavours first to ascertain the commonly known factual context and purpose of the transaction, often only by resolving a strenuous contest between the parties.
The Court does not, once it has found the commonly known factual context and purpose, then look at the words of the contract and, if they do not readily accommodate the context and purpose so found, force them to do so by a process of interpretation.


 
 [32] When the Court is construing a commercial contract, it begins with the words of the document: there it often finds expressed the factual context known to both parties and the common purpose and object of the transaction.
But the Court is alive to the possibility that what seems clear by reference only to the words on the printed page may not be so clear when one takes into account as well what was known to both parties but does not appear in the document.
When that is taken into account, the words in the contract may legitimately have one or more of a number of possible meanings.
It is then the Court's task to identify which of the possible meanings represents the parties' contractual intention.


 
 [33] However, when a party to a contract argues that the known context and common purpose of the transaction gives the words of the contract a meaning which, by no stretch of language or syntax they will bear then, in truth, one has a rectification suit, not a construction suit.

 While the objective determination of what a particular contract means may require the adoption of a "business commonsense" or "business-like" approach, this does not necessarily mean those expressions are themselves unproblematic.
As Gleeson CJ, Gummow and Hayne JJ observed in Maggbury Pty Ltd v Hafele Australia Pty Ltd [2001] HCA 70 ; (2001) 210 CLR 181 at [43] what "business commonsense" is may itself be a topic upon which minds may differ and in respect of which an imputed consensus is impossible.
Writing extra-judicially, Chief Justice Spigelman has noted that, while the "business commonsense" constraint on contractual interpretation is acceptable, "The only difficulty is that, at least when the matter comes to the level of litigation, each party remains convinced that a 'businesslike' interpretation or 'business commonsense' happens to coincide with its own commercial interests.
This is not always easy to resolve": Spigelman JJ, "From text to context: Contemporary contractual interpretation" (2007) 81 ALJ 322 at 330.
To similar effect, one commentator, writing with commendable academic freedom has recently commented (footnotes omitted): 
 Issues of interpretation occupy a good deal of the time of busy commercial practitioners and judges.
Such issues 'are the very lifeblood of commercial law'.
Nevertheless, on the basis of the countless decided cases that I read, they also tend to be the most intractable.
The outcome of interpretation litigation is notoriously difficult to predict.
This is partly because questions of interpretation are often seen as 'matters of impression' or intuition, and inevitably the way in which judges mentally process language and apply it to the facts will vary according to their background and experience.
Even so, the division of opinion that one finds in the cases is remarkable.
Time and again judges will disagree on such elementary questions as whether particular words have a plain meaning and what is the 'commonsense' or 'commercially realistic' interpretation.


: McLauchlan D, "Contract Interpretation: What Is It About?
" (2009) 31 Syd LR 5.
With that guidance and those admonitions in mind I turn to the tasks at hand.
SURROUNDING CIRCUMSTANCES, PURPOSES AND OBJECTS OF TRANSACTION 
 As suggested above, the Principal Agreement and the GSA were products of the settlement of what plainly was an acrimonious dispute between Barton International and GIRL in relation to the operation of the garnet mine at Port Gregory.
Of that there is no doubt on the evidence and the Court so finds.
At the time the dispute broke out, GIRL and Barton International as partners owned the mine and were equal shareholders in GMA Garnet, which company conducted, and still conducts, garnet mining at the mine and garnet distribution operations.
In the dissolution proceedings in the Federal Court of Australia --- which were due to go to trial in February 2005 --- GIRL wanted the partnership dissolved and GMA Garnet wound up because of the breakdown of the relationship between the parties.
The breakdown of the relationship between the Barton International and related companies and GIRL was no doubt contributed to or exacerbated by GIRL's conduct in complaining to the ACCC about the Perth Agreement, by which Barton International and GMA Garnet had an arrangement concerning the marketing of GMA garnet in Australia (and elsewhere), as a result of which the ACCC commenced an investigation into the circumstances of the Perth Agreement.
In general terms, in settling the litigation, the parties agreed that Barton International would sell all its various interests to GIRL for a consideration which comprised cash and a long term supply contract enabling Barton International to buy from GMA Garnet 35,000 tonnes of garnet per annum at prices which effectively represented cost of production and a further 15,000 tonnes per annum at those prices plus 15%.
The matter of the Perth Agreement investigation was later resolved by consent order of The Federal Court of Australia on the application of the ACCC in September 2006, by which Barton Mines Corporation and Barton International were declared to have engaged in conduct contrary to the Trade Practices Act 1974 and pecuniary penalties were imposed: see Australian Competition and Consumer Commission v Barton Mines Corporation  Ors [2006] FCA 1264.
In this overall context, the GSA was a supply agreement made in circumstances to be contrasted with those where the seller is more or less free, having regard to the market conditions, to impose such terms as it desires on the sale of its product.
Rather, it represents part of a total consideration provided to the former joint owner of the mine and mining distribution operations for selling its interests to the other joint owner and otherwise resolving their differences.
This much is made clear by cl 2.3(a) of the Principal Agreement.
Having regard to the ACCC investigation, competition law issues also loomed large for the parties when the Agreements were struck.
One essential term of the Principal Agreement insisted on by GIRL from the outset of negotiations was that the Agreement had to pass ACCC scrutiny.
The parties were very aware, and took advice during the negotiations of the Principal Agreement and the GSA to ensure there would be no settlement under which: 
(a) The market for distribution and sale of garnet was "carved up" by the parties (for example, by way of a provision which could preclude Barton International from selling in Australia), which would contravene s 45(2) and s 4D of the Trade Practices Act 1974 ;
 
(b) GMA Garnet's monopoly position in Australia was used to curtail competition in Australia, which might infringe s 46 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 ; nor
 
(c) Barton International was offered a discount for garnet on terms that prevented it from distributing the garnet in a particular place, if the purpose or effect of the arrangement was to lessen the competition substantially in Australia, which might contravene s 47(2)(c) and s 42(f)(ii) , s 47(10) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 .
For example, an agreement which positively required discounted product only to be sold in North America, which would have the effect of preventing Barton International from selling product in Australia in competition with GIRL/GMA Garnet, might well have offended s 47 of the Trade Practices Act 1974 , given the selling position in the Australian garnet market.
In the negotiations leading up to the execution of the GSA, as explained below in more detail, GIRL proposed that Barton International's related entity BMC should act as GMA Garnet's exclusive distributor, and failing that, for Barton International to become GMA Garnet's non-exclusive distributor in the North American market.
GIRL was obviously concerned to ensure that, with the changed arrangements, GMA garnet would still be appropriately marketed in the USA and Canadian markets.
However, Barton International---or BMC---was unwilling to accept these proposals, or to undertake the achievement of key performance indicators (KPIs) and negotiated for an open supply agreement between it and GMA Garnet.
Ultimately, the agreement that was reached was that a concessional, or discounted rate for GMA garnet would apply to garnet which Barton International "ships and discharges" into North America, as provided for by cl 4.2 of the GSA.
This produces a commercial disincentive for Barton International --- because of the double freight charges that would be involved --- to consider reshipping GMA garnet out of North America once it had been discharged there.
But the GSA does not go so far as to impose an express obligation on Barton International to distribute or sell such GMA garnet only in North America.
It is not so limited by the GSA.
However, cl 4.2 of the GSA, in the first sentence, states that the "purpose" for the concessional rate in respect of garnet shipped and discharged into North America is the wish of GMA Garnet, acknowledged by the parties, "to promote distribution of Product" in North America.
It is also important to note, at this point, that in the negotiations leading up to the GSA, GIRL specifically proposed that all GMA garnet purchased by Barton International should be labelled with the GMA Garnet name and logo.
Clause 2.5 is the final outcome of the negotiations in relation to this proposal.
How cl 2.5 came to be in this form is discussed in detail below.
Accordingly, on the one hand, at material times following the execution of the GSA, the applicants appear to have held the belief that, under the GSA, Barton International had assumed the obligation to brand, as GMA garnet, all GMA garnet supplied under the GSA and to promote, and not to diminish, distribution of discounted Product in North America.
As a consequence they later formed the view, when they discovered loose bulk GMA garnet was being blended by BMC with other non-GMA garnet, to the knowledge of Barton International, that such conduct contravened the branding and marketing obligations imposed on Barton International.
What, if anything, the applicants knew of the practices of Barton International or Barton International interests in relation to the blending of GMA garnet with other garnet at times leading up to the conclusion of the GSA, or of Barton International's future plans for blending in that regard, is the subject of dispute between the parties and is the subject of findings below.
On the other hand, it appears that Barton International and related entities believed, that under the GSA, there was no impediment to them mixing or blending GMA garnet with garnet sourced from elsewhere, if they so chose --- something they say was brought to the applicants' attention during the negotiations leading up to the conclusion of the agreements - and that the obligation to brand garnet in accordance with cl 2.5 of the GSA only arose when garnet, that was in fact 100% GMA garnet, was sold in packaging to an end consumer.
Against this background, for the purposes of their claims of breach of the pleaded terms of the Principal Agreement and GSA, the applicants plead (in para 12A of the substituted further re-amended statement of claim --- hereafter simply referred to as the "statement of claim") a number of surrounding facts and circumstances they say were mutually known to the parties over the period that the GSA and the Principal Agreement were being negotiated and then concluded in late 2004 and early 2005, as set out in the following summary.
Barton International accepts a number of these in its substituted defence (hereafter simply referred to as the "defence"), but adds others of its own or qualifies those pleaded by the applicants.
In summary: 
(1) The applicants say (para 12A.1 statement of claim) that up to the time of conclusion of the GSA, 100% GMA garnet had been sold or distributed by BMC in North America to ultimate consumers of garnet either directly or through an established distribution network.
Barton International agrees (para 15 (b) defence);
 
(1A) The applicants say (para 12A.1A statement of claim) that up to that time of the conclusion of the GSA, BMC or related companies were the sole supplier of GMA garnet to ultimate consumers in North America.
Barton International agree, but say that in fact only BMC was the supplier of GMA garnet (para 15 (c) defence);
 
(1B) The applicants say (para 12A.1B statement of claim) that 100% GMA garnet sold or distributed by BMC to ultimate consumers of garnet within North America had always, or alternatively usually, been packed and labelled in a fashion that identified the garnet product as GMA garnet (and on occasions with a BMC label of equal prominence).
Barton International agrees that BMC usually sold GMA garnet in bags labelled with the Barton International logo and the GMA Garnet name and logo in late 2004 and early 2005, when the GSA was being negotiated, save when BMC blended GMA garnet with garnet from BMC's North Creek Mine and when BMC sold GMA garnet in bulk (para 15(d) defence);
 
(1C) The applicants say (para 12A.1C statement of claim) that up to the time of conclusion of the GSA, BMC did not sell and distribute GMA garnet within North America that was mixed with garnet from other sources, whether in bags or in bulk.
Barton International agrees, save when BMC blended GMA garnet with garnet mined from the North Creek Mine (para 15(e) defence);
 
(1D) The applicants say (para 12A.1D statement of claim) that there was a potential problem in that 100% GMA garnet supplied under the GSA, which had been warehoused and stockpiled in North America, might be inadvertently mingled with other stored garnet which was not 100% GMA garnet.
Barton International says, (i) that at an early point in the negotiations the possibility of GMA garnet being co-mingled with other garnet that was in BMC's warehouses in the USA, in circumstances where GIRL and GMA Garnet wanted all GMA garnet that was to be purchased under the proposed GSA to be marketed and sold in the USA, was identified as a possible issue; but (ii) that possible issue later ceased to be an issue because the parties agreed that Barton International only had to ship and discharge GMA garnet into North America to obtain the concessional price for GMA garnet (para 15(f) defence);
 
(1E) The applicants say (para 12A.1E statement of claim) that Barton Mines Corporation, GMA Garnet and GIRL were then under investigation by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) for alleged breaches of s 45(2) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 concerning arrangements by which GMA Garnet agreed to exclusively supply GMA garnet to certain territorial regions within Australia and BMC agreed to exclusively supply GMA garnet to other territorial regions in Australia (the Perth Agreement).
Barton International agree and say that Barton International, Barton Mines Corporation and BIA were under investigation as a consequence of a complaint made by either, or both of, GIRL and GMA Garnet (para 15(g) defence); 
 
(1F) The applicants say (para 12A.1F statement of claim) that in the circumstances referred to in the preceding point, Barton International, Barton Mines Corporation, GMA Garnet and GIRL all wished to avoid the proposed GSA being regarded adversely by competition regulators in Australia or in North America, and for that reason Barton International and GMA Garnet commonly considered that the proposed GSA should be an open product supply agreement rather than an exclusive territorial distribution contract.
Barton International say, (i) that for reasons that include those circumstances, Barton International, GMA Garnet and GIRL commonly intended that the proposed GSA should be an open supply contract rather than a contract that imposed any territorial restrictions whatsoever and should provide that Barton International would be entitled to a discount on the purchase of the GMA garnet if it shipped and discharged the garnet into North America; (ii) when the GSA was negotiated and executed it was mutually known by Barton International, GMA Garnet and GIRL that Barton International and its related entities, on the one hand, and GIRL, on the other, were adversaries, were hostile to each other and did not have any trust or confidence in each other; (iii) accordingly when the GSA was negotiated and executed, it was mutually known by the parties that Barton International wished to have an open supply agreement and did not wish to have any obligation to market or promote GMA garnet purchased under the GSA (para 15(h) defence);
 
(2) The applicants say (para 12A.2 statement of claim) that by reason of its superior qualities over garnet sourced from other places in the world, 100% GMA garnet sold or distributed by BMC had acquired, in North America, an established product reputation as a superior garnet; and that (para 12A.3 statement of claim) the established product reputation of GMA Garnet in North America could be lost, jeopardised or diminished if:
 
(a) GMA garnet was not in future labelled so as to be identifiable as such when sold or distributed in North America;
 
(b) GMA garnet so labelled was to be mixed with other garnets of lesser quality and sold or distributed in North America; and
 
(c) GMA garnet so labelled was not available for purchase in significant quantities as an identifiable product in North America.
Barton International admits GMA garnet sold by BMC prior to February 2005 had been of good quality, but otherwise denies these allegations (para 15(i) and (j) defence).
For the purpose of pleading the proper interpretation or construction of the agreements, Barton International pleads (para 5 defence) that, when negotiating, concluding and executing the Principal Agreement and GSA, each of the parties knew a number of things at all material times before the GSA and Principal Agreement were made, as set out in the following summary.
The applicants in their substituted reply (hereafter simply referred to as the "reply") accept some of these facts but deny or do not admit others.
In summary: 
(a) Barton International says (para 5(a) defence) that garnet produced in Australia, which Barton International had acquired during Barton International's participation in a partnership with GIRL and which were shipped to North America had been on-sold to BMC, a related company of Barton International and BIA.
The applicants do not admit that they knew that garnet produced in Australia, which BIA had acquired during Barton International's participation in a partnership with GIRL and which was shipped to Canada and the USA, had been on-sold to BMC, but otherwise admit the facts alleged (para 1(a) reply);
 
(b) Barton International says (para 5(b) defence) that Barton International, BIA and BMC were members of a group of companies.
The applicants admit this fact (para 1(b) reply);
 
(c) Barton International says (para 5(c) defence) that within that group of companies BMC:
 
(i) used warehouses in the United States of America;
 
(ii) sold garnet to third-party customers in Canada, the United States of America and elsewhere under its own name or co-branded, including that it sold 100% GMA garnet in bags with branding that prominently contained the logo "Barton" (and usually the words "Barton Mines Company LLC" along with BMC's address) as well as the GMA Garnet name and logo.
The applicants admit these facts, save to say that:
 
(1) the applicants knew, as was the case, that before the GSA was made BMC sold or distributed under its own name into Canada, the USA or elsewhere, 100% GMA garnet in bags - which were co-branded with the GMA Garnet name and logo;
 
(2) the applicants knew, as was the case, that before the GSA was made, 100% GMA garnet sold and distributed by BMC into Canada, the USA and elsewhere, was sold and distributed in bags with co-branding that included the GMA garnet name and logo, and in bags that had been bagged and co-branded (with branding that included the GMA garnet name and logo) in the USA and Canada by BMC or the Barton group, from the 100% GMA garnet acquired by BIA in bulk during and under the partnership relationship between GIRL and Barton International;
 
(3) the applicants say that before the GSA was completed the applicants thought that BMC did not sell and distribute GMA garnet that was mixed with garnet from other sources, in bags or in bulk (para 1(c) reply).
(d) Barton International says (para 5(d) defence) that Barton International did not itself carry on business as a seller or distributor of garnet other than to BMC.
The applicants do not admit this fact and deny that GMA Garnet knew the matters pleaded (para 1(d)) reply;
 
(e) Barton International says (para 5(e) defence) that Barton International did not intend to sell GMA garnet within USA and Canada, other than by selling GMA garnet to BMC.
The applicants accept that Barton International now admits that it did not intend to distribute or sell GMA garnet within the USA or Canada, other than by selling GMA garnet to BMC, but deny that GMA Garnet and GIRL knew that (para 1(e) reply);
 
(f) Barton International says (para 5(f) defence) that GMA garnet was purchased by BIA in bags or in bulk and sold to BMC.
The applicants say that whilst they assumed that some GMA garnet purchased by BIA in bags or in bulk may have been on-sold to BMC, they deny that the applicants knew that to be so, or that it was invariably the case (para 1(f) reply);
 
(g) Barton International says (para 5(g) defence) that when GMA garnet was purchased by BIA in bags, the bags were usually already branded by GMA Garnet prominently with the logo "Barton" (and usually the words "Barton Mines Company, LLC" along with the address of BMC) as well as the GMA Garnet name and logo.
The applicants repeat what they said in subpara (2) and subpara (3) of para 1(c) of the reply above, and otherwise admit they knew, as was the fact, the matters pleaded by Barton International in subpara 5(g) and subpara 5(h) of the defence (para 1(g) reply);
 
(h) Barton International says (para 5(h) defence) that when BMC on-sold the GMA garnet to a third-party customer in bags without being mixed with other garnet, the bags were branded prominently with the logo "Barton" (and usually the words "Barton Mines Company, LLC" along with the address of BMC), as well as the GMA Garnet name and logo.
The applicants agree (para (g) reply);
 
(i) Barton International says (para 5(i)) that when BMC on-sold the GMA garnet to a third-party customer in bulk, there was no branding of the GMA garnet.
The applicants deny it to be the case that Barton International on-sold 100% GMA garnet to third-party customers in bulk without co-branding of the GMA garnet, but say that, if it be the case, the applicants never knew of such matters (para 1(h) reply);
 
(j) Barton International says (para 5(j) defence) that Barton International intended that GMA garnet purchased from GMA Garnet under the GSA would be shipped and discharged into North America and on sold to BMC, but Barton International did not otherwise intend to promote the distribution of GMA garnet within North America.
Barton International pleads that the knowledge of GMA Garnet and GIRL in this respect is to be inferred from the following:
 at all material times before the GSA was made GMA Garnet sold bagged garnet to BIA including with branding that prominently contained the logo "Barton" (and usually the words "Barton Mines Company LLC" along with the address of BMC) on the basis that BMC was the company which sold garnet in Canada, the USA and elsewhere; the document entitled "Without Prejudice Discussion Paper" which was tabled by Steven Cole at a meeting with David Williams on 10 December 2004 and in letters and other documents passing between David Williams and Steven Cole between 10 January 2005 and 19 February 2005 (as set out in the particulars to para 5 of the defence); the Principal Agreement and the GSA executed by the parties; BMC had long been, at all material times, the member of the Barton group of companies which sold garnet under its own name or co-branded in Canada or the USA as was published by BMC on its website and in the garnet market.
The applicants:
 accept that Barton International now admits it intended to ship and discharge into the USA or Canada, and to on-sell to BMC, the GMA garnet purchased from GMA Garnet under the GSA, and that Barton International did not otherwise intend to promote the distribution of GMA Garnet within those countries, but deny that GMA Garnet and GIRL knew that (para 1(i) reply); add (in para 1(j) reply) that pursuant to the Perth Agreement of 13 March 2002 made between Barton Mines Corporation trading as The Barton Group and Barton Joint Venture Corporation and B-L (Australia) Inc (which two entities later merged to become Barton International) and GIRL, Barton International was obliged to purchase garnet from GMA Garnet, but that another Barton group entity, BIA, in fact purchased all GMA garnet from GMA Garnet prior to the date of the GSA; admit (in para 2A reply) they knew at all material times that BMC owned and operated a hard rock garnet mine (North Creek Mine) at North River, New York, USA.
However, the applicants (para 2B reply) do not admit that BMC blended garnet with garnet from the North Creek Mine and deny in any event that they had any knowledge of such blending occurring either before or at the time when the Principal Agreement or the GSA were executed; say (para 2(d) reply) that the dominant reasons why Barton International rejected a proposal that BMC be appointed as an exclusive distributor of GMA garnet and why the applicants did not thereafter persist with a proposal to appoint BMC as an exclusive distributor of GMA garnet purchased from GMA Garnet, were: 
(1) the concern of each of these parties that any agreement or arrangement which appointed BMC as such an exclusive distributor would at the time be viewed as anticompetitive, contrary to Australian law; and
 
(2) the concern of Barton International and BMC, which the applicants acknowledged, that an agreement or arrangement which appointed BMC as an exclusive distributor would impose objective performance goals;
 It goes without saying that the representatives of Barton International at material times had a complete understanding of the structure of the various entities owned or controlled by Barton Mines Corporation --- The Barton Group --- as outlined above.
Mr Steven Cole, the lawyer who acted as the agent for Barton International in the negotiations leading up to the conclusion of the Principal Agreement and GSA, had acted for some years as solicitor for Barton International and related companies and appears to have become well acquainted with the corporate structure and familiar, at least to an extent, with the nature and organisation of the business.
In evidence at the trial, Mr Charles (Chuck) Bracken Jnr, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Barton Mines Corporation, Barton International, BIA and BMC, and other executives from Barton entities outlined in some detail the corporate structure.
However, the applicants deny that they were fully conversant with, and had a strict legal and operational understanding of, that corporate structure.
Mr David Williams, who was the solicitor appointed by the applicants to negotiate the compromise and settlement with Mr Cole, had not had a long involvement, it appears, with the operations of the applicants and certainly not with the operations of Barton International or related companies.
In his evidence he said he did not recall having any real understanding of the entities within The Barton Group.
As far as he was concerned he was acting for GIRL and Mr Cole was acting for "the other side".
He accepted that from the correspondence that passed between him and Mr Cole, and from information he received from his instructors, particularly Mr Ketelsen, he knew there was more than "one Barton" corporate entity.
But he was not told by Mr Cole and was not instructed about what role each Barton entity played within the Barton group of companies.
Nonetheless, he acknowledged that in the letter to Mr Cole he wrote dated 10 January 2005, he expressly referred to Barton Mines Company LLC (BMC).
Nonetheless, he does not recall being informed by Mr Cole or ever being instructed about the role BMC performed, or how it differed from the role performed by Barton International.
Mr Ketelsen, a director of GIRL, had had a much longer involvement in the Port Gregory mine as a representative of the interests of GIRL.
He plainly was aware of the existence of BMC.
He was also aware of BIA, as it purchased Barton International's share of the GMA garnet produced from the mine.
As he explained in his testimony at trial, he knew this because from time to time he saw invoices issued by GMA Garnet to BIA for Barton International's proportion of the GMA garnet produced at the mine.
As far as Mr Ketelsen was concerned, no Barton entity appeared to distinguish its own separate business from the core Barton business.
Instead every Barton entity appeared to be pursuing the one core Barton business seamlessly.
Mr Ketelsen says that, accordingly, he knew that Barton International, BIA and BMC were part of the Barton group.
Mr Ketelsen assumed during the negotiations that in order for BMC to distribute GMA garnet in the USA, warehouses were used; although he did not profess any knowledge as to which entity in the Barton group was responsible for those warehouses.
Mr Ketelsen also knew that BMC sold garnet to third party customers in the USA.
He assumed that all GMA garnet sold by BMC was sold in bags and was branded with the "Barton" logo as well as the "GMA Garnet" name and logo.
Mr Ketelsen also said in evidence that he assumed at the time of the negotiations that GMA garnet sold by the Barton group other than in the USA was sold by either Barton International or BIA.
He assumed this simply on the basis that the names of the companies suggested this to be the case.
He also thought that Barton International and/or BIA sold GMA garnet in Australia and in Asia.
Mr Ketelsen also says he knew at material times that GMA garnet was purchased by BIA from GMA Garnet and sent in bags or in bulk shipments to the USA, but says he did not know what internal transactions were then undertaken within The Barton Group to enable BMC to distribute that garnet in the USA.
Mr Aaron Williams also gave evidence on the extent of his knowledge of the Barton company arrangements.
He is qualified as an accountant and was engaged as General Manager of GMA Garnet in June 2002.
In early 2004 he resigned from that position.
Since September 2004, he has been the Company Secretary of GIRL.
Since October 2005, he has been a director of GMA Garnet (amongst other GMA Garnet positions he now holds).
Mr Aaron Williams says that in late 2004 and early 2005, he knew that Barton International was a member of a group of companies known as The Barton Group, sometimes referred to by Jim Nash, a Barton representative, and Mr Bracken, as "TBG" --- that is "The Barton Group", but he had very little knowledge of the actual corporate structure of The Barton Group or the roles played by each entity within it.
He had assumed, although he did not know, that TBG somehow referenced the entire Barton group of companies including BIA, Barton International and BMC.
He made this assumption because in his experience one would normally refer to a group of companies that share common ownership as a group and it was his understanding that the entities were all 100% owned by the Barton Mines Corporation parent.
Mr Williams was plainly aware of Barton International, BIA and of the existence of BMC, because that was the name which he knew GMA Garnet affixed on some of the bags of GMA garnet sold to BIA.
He assumed BMC was a Barton group entity which sold GMA garnet in the USA.
He also understood The Barton Group to be the largest distributor of garnet in the USA and Canada, as he was told this by Mr Robert Brand of BIA, Mr Bracken and/or Mr Jim Nash on various occasions after he joined GMA Garnet as General Manager.
Nonetheless, Mr Aaron Williams says he did not know that: On the pleadings, as supplemented by the evidence, there is much that the parties agree they commonly knew or understood.
Accordingly, having regard to the whole of the evidence before the Court and the agreement of the parties on the pleadings --- but presently leaving to one side what the applicants did not know of certain matters relating to the structure and operation of the entities related to Barton International - the Court finds the following facts were commonly known by the parties in the period of the negotiations leading up to the conclusion of the Principal Agreement and GSA: Having regard to the evidence of Mr David Williams, Mr Ketelsen and Mr Aaron Williams, I find that the applicants did not have a detailed legal or accounting understanding of all the entities that may have been within the Barton group, or the roles they played.
However, Mr Ketelsen and Aaron Williams were in a position to make certain assumptions about that, and did so.
Mr Ketelsen, for example, instructed Mr David Williams to propose that BMC undertake distribution responsibilities for the applicants in early negotiations in January 2005.
Accordingly, I find, on the knowledge they possessed, the applicants understood that, before the GSA, Barton International's share of garnet from the mine at Port Gregory found its way, through BIA, to BMC in the United States, where it was usually sold or distributed in packages containing both the GMA name and logo and BMC's branding, by BMC in the North American region.
However, I am not prepared to find that the applicants knew that Barton International did not itself carry on business as a seller or distributor of garnet other than to BMC.
The facts as outlined in evidence rather leave it open to suggestion, from the applicants' point of view, that outside North America, entities such as Barton International and BIA possibly engaged in trading, for example, in the Australian and Asian regions.
I find that the applicants did not know, before the GSA, that BMC or any related entity sold or distributed loose bulk GMA garnet to any of its customers.
Rather, it believed all GMA garnet was sold or distributed to BMC customers in packaging.
(I also find in passing, that BMC did in fact distribute or sell loose bulk garnet to some of its customers in the period before the GSA.
) As to what the parties commonly knew about the extent of Barton group entities' activities in North America, including as to blending of GMA garnet with other garnet, is dealt with further below.
But, on the face of it, the applicants knew nothing of this practice prior to the negotiations in early 2005, to which I now turn.
THE NEGOTIATION OF THE PRINCIPAL AGREEMENT AND GSA 
 On 10 December 2004, Mr Steven Cole, partner at Allens Arthur Robinson and solicitor for Barton International and related companies met with Mr David Williams, partner at Williams and Hughes, and solicitor for GIRL to discuss a paper entitled "Without Prejudice Discussion Paper Prospectively Leading To Terms Of Settlement And Compromise W202 of 2004 Barton --- GIRL --- GMA" (Discussion Paper).
(The Discussion Paper and other negotiating documents referred to below were all issued on a "without prejudice" or "without prejudice subject to contract" basis.
) Mr Cole and Mr David Williams respectively were appointed by the Barton International interests and GIRL to represent them not only as lawyers but also as agents with a view to settling the disputes between the parties and compromising the dissolution proceedings in the Federal Court of Australia.
The reason for this, which apparently emanated from a suggestion made by Mr Cole to his client, was that the respective parties otherwise would have difficulty in communicating civilly.
Mr Cole and Mr Williams did not suffer from that difficulty.
In the course of the trial of these proceedings, objection was taken on the part of the respondent to the applicants adducing evidence of what had passed between the applicants' representative, Mr Torsten Ketelsen and Mr Aaron Williams outside the formal negotiations between Mr Cole and Mr David Williams --- which the applicants sought to adduce on the basis that it was reliable evidence that would assist the Court in determining what in fact passed between and was concluded by Mr Cole and Mr David Williams.
In circumstances in which Mr Cole and Mr David Williams were not merely engaged by the respective clients as lawyers to draft the terms of an agreed settlement and compromise, but were charged with the primary responsibility of acting as agents for their clients for the purpose of negotiating a settlement as well as drafting the terms of the compromise, the Court upheld the respondent's objections to this evidence and ruled in the following terms.
In Codelfa [1982] HCA 24 ; 149 CLR 337 at 352 --- 353, (as noted earlier) Mason J said, of the relevance of the intentions of a party to the meaning to be given to a term of a written contract, the following: 
 Consequently when the issue is which of two or more possible meanings is to be given to a contractual provision we look, not to the actual intentions, aspirations or expectations of the parties before or at the time of the contract, except in so far as they are expressed in the contract, but to the objective framework of facts within which the contract came into existence, and to the parties' presumed intention in this setting.
We do not take into account the actual intentions of the parties and for the very good reason that an investigation of those matters would not only be time consuming but it would also be unrewarding as it would tend to give too much weight to these factors at the expense of the actual language of the written contract.


 
 There may perhaps be one situation in which evidence of the actual intention of the parties should be allowed to prevail over their presumed intention.
If it transpires that the parties have refused to include in the contract a provision which would give effect to the presumed intention of persons in their position it may be proper to receive evidence of that refusal.
After all, the court is interpreting the contract which the parties have made and in that exercise the court takes into account what reasonable men in that situation would have intended to convey by the words chosen.
But is it right to carry that exercise to the point of placing on the words of the contract a meaning which the parties have united in rejecting?
It is possible that evidence of mutual intention, if amounting to concurrence, is receivable so as to negative an inference sought to be drawn from surrounding circumstances.


 
 The importance of this evolution of the law as it affects the construction of contracts is that it centres upon the presumed, rather than the actual, intention of the parties.

 Senior counsel for the applicants drew attention to the decision of the majority in Horton Geoscience Consultants Pty Ltd v Energy Minerals Pty Ltd QCA 169, cited above, where Williams JA (with whom Holmes JA agreed) at [20] took into account the evidence of the two persons who negotiated a contract for the contending parties, to determine the mutual intention of the parties which negatived an inference to be drawn from the agreement.
At [20], Williams JA stated: 
 The evidence I have referred to essentially amounts to an agreement between the parties limiting the operation of the second paragraph of the agreement to year 1 and in consequence it is evidence of mutual intention negativing an inference sought to be drawn from the words of the agreement to the effect that the obligation imposed by the words used in the second paragraph extended throughout the whole term of the EPM.

 Senior counsel for the applicants contended that in assessing the objective intention of the parties as to what, if any, mutual intention the parties had in relation to certain branding requirements in cl 2.5 of the GSA, it is permissible for the Court in the present circumstances to receive the internal communications of officers of the applicants that are said to have informed communications between the applicants' lawyer/negotiator, Mr David Williams, and the lawyer/negotiator for Barton International, Mr Cole.
In my view, mutual intention of the parties, if any, must be found in the intentions, however expressed, of the lawyer/negotiators in their communications (whether verbal or non-verbal; as to which see discussion of what is required to prove common continuing intention for the purposes of granting rectification, which may be considered generally relevant to proving intention in this context, in Ryledar Pty Ltd v Euphoric Pty Ltd 69 NSWLR 603, Campbell JA (with whom Mason P agreed especially at [281]), not from what may or may not have lain behind the communications in the minds of the parties themselves, or more correctly their officers who did not directly participate in the negotiations.
To engage in an analysis of the latter would, in my view, be to take into account the intentions, aspirations and expectations of those who instructed their lawyer/negotiator --- and would simply constitute the internal communications of the applicants.
In other words, as Mason J said in relation to the primary rule excluding parol evidence, to do this would be time consuming and unrewarding and give too much weight to those factors at the expense of determining the consequences of the actual communications of the parties' agents appointed for the purpose of concluding the agreement.
That ruling had the consequential effect, as acknowledged by the counsel for the parties, of excluding a number of other paragraphs of witness statements of Mr Ketelsen and Mr Aaron Williams and other evidence that the applicants had proposed to lead.
Focussing then on what evidence was received of what passed between Mr Cole and Mr David Williams in the course of their negotiations on behalf of the parties, the following events are of particular relevance to what, if any, understanding or agreement the parties commonly formed concerning the issues of blending by "Barton" of GMA garnet and marketing of GMA garnet by "Barton" in North America, and/or any representations in respect thereof.
Mr Cole's Discussion Paper of 10 December 2004, outlined prospective litigation outcomes, and prospective settlement outcomes.
In the light of these, the paper noted (para 3.1) there was only one "remaining prospectively viable settlement outcome", namely, the prospect of Barton International selling 100% of its partnership interest and GMA Garnet shareholding to GIRL.
The paper further noted (para 3.2) that Barton International was "a continuing player in the global garnet abrasives business, albeit with a different business strategic approach to that of GIRL".
The paper then noted (para 3.3) that nevertheless this prospective outcome need not be an anathema to Barton International per se provided that: 
(a) a sale price can be agreed upon; and
 
(b) absolute security and long term availability of GMA Garnet products supplied to Barton International on acceptable terms can be assured.
The paper then addressed (para 3.4) questions of price, sales terms and a long term supply contract.
In relation to the proposed long term supply contract, the paper specified that the contract must address Barton International's requirement for a very long term commitment, "at least commensurate with the projected life of mine", an obligatory minimum annual tonnage - in the region of 50,000 tonnes divided equally between 30/60 mesh and 80 mesh - the price per tonne of product, security of an ongoing supply with "a first ranking charge over the mine and related assets", and other miscellaneous terms.
Under the heading "Other Miscellaneous Terms" the paper noted as follows: Barton is an independent agent and not a GIRL/GMA "distributor".
Therefore there are no performance KPI's applicable to Barton's sale of product.
There are no market or territory allocations or restraints applicable.
Barton will be granted a non-exclusive licence to use GMA product branding.

(emphasis in original)
 Mr David Williams in his evidence recalled little detail of what was said in meetings and telephone discussions between him and Mr Cole, and was largely dependent on the written record for any recollection of events that he had.
Mr Williams recalled however, that at the time of the first meeting on or about 10 December 2004 he had no involvement in the then current dissolution proceedings.
His partner, Mr David Stone, was preparing those proceedings for trial on the assumption that the matter would not settle.
Mr Williams' only real knowledge of the litigation was that he knew there was a trial commencing in early February 2005 and that if the settlement was to occur it needed to do so before then.
As explained above, Mr Williams did not recall having any real understanding of the entities within the Barton group during the negotiations.
However, he acknowledged that he knew from certain correspondence there was more than one "Barton" corporate entity.
However, he was not told by Mr Cole and was not instructed about what role each Barton entity played within the Barton group of companies.
He was also aware that Barton International was a 50% owner of GMA Garnet.
He does not recall being informed by Mr Cole or ever being instructed about the role that BMC performed or how it differed from the role performed by Barton International, although he plainly was aware of the existence of BMC.
He was not informed by Mr Cole and was not instructed as to which Barton entity was a distributor of garnet within the Barton group of companies.
In particular he does not recall ever being told by Mr Cole about or instructed that Barton International did not itself carry on businesses as seller or distributor of garnet or that Barton International onsold to BMC all of the GMA garnet which it acquired.
Nor was he ever told by Mr Cole or instructed as to how the GMA garnet purchased under the GSA would be dealt with.
Mr Williams knew however, that "Barton" took its share of GMA garnet in both bags and loose bulk shipments and also knew in general terms that GMA garnet as taken was labelled with both the GMA Garnet and Barton logos, although he did not know the details of that arrangement.
In the course of negotiations, Mr David Williams learnt from Mr Cole's letter dated 15 February 2005 that an entity in the Barton group used warehouses in the United States.
But he did not know which entity did so, nor did he know which Barton entity distributed garnet to Canada, within the USA or elsewhere, nor any of the logistics by which the garnet was labelled.
Mr David Williams' recollection is that in all his discussions with Mr Cole he referred to Mr Cole's clients as "Barton".
By letter dated 10 January 2005, Mr David Williams sent a letter by email to Mr Cole responding to the Discussion Paper, noting that the paper "has now been considered by GIRL".
He noted the preferred outcome from the GIRL viewpoint of acquiring 100% of Barton International's partnership interest in the GMA Garnet shareholding.
He also noted that a sale of Barton International's interests not coupled with a long term supply contract was evidently not commercially attractive to Barton International.
He noted Barton International's desire to have a long term supply obligation of GMA product to Barton International.
He further noted that: 
 GIRL recognises that it is an important commercial objective for Barton to be able to continue to source GMA product to feed its distribution network in the USA.
At present Barton is the sole supplier of GMA product in the USA.


 Mr David Williams then set out in his letter what GIRL considered to be "the essential terms" of acquisition irrespective of whether the acquisition was coupled with a long term supply contract.
The essential terms of acquisition were stated to be: GIRL purchases Barton's partnership interest and Barton's GMA shares, including the Barton held promissory notes from GMA and including all unappropriated stockpiles of product, on a going concern and walk in/walk out basis.
No adjustments and no profits/cash distributions are to be made at completion.
To the extent that any third party guarantees had been given by Barton to support the partnership or GMA which are unable to be released at completion, GIRL will provide an indemnity to Barton.
The terms of acquisition are subject to all necessary regulatory approvals and both parties being reasonably satisfied that the transaction does not give rise to a breach of any of the provisions of Australian Trade Practices legislation or US Antitrust legislation.
The parties must be satisfied that any terms do not result in an inadvertent contravention of Sections 45 and 47 TPA; obviously there must be no breach of Section 46 TPA (ie.
there must be a level playing field (in terms of price and other conditions of acquisitions) for all purchasers who supply the Australian market) and the ACCC will need to be satisfied that there are no Section 50 issues.
GIRL proposes to give a copy of any final settlement proposal to ACCC, and settlement will be subject to ACCC not voicing any objection or concern about the terms.
The letter then stated that, subject to essential term 4 above, GIRL considered the following to be the essential terms of a long term supply agreement to supply GMA product to Barton International: 
 (a) Barton Mines Company LLC (New York) (hereafter "Barton Mines") be appointed the exclusive distributor of GMA product in the USA by GMA Garnet Pty Ltd; the terms of delivery shall be FOB Geraldton or FOB Fremantle;
 (b) Barton Mines be entitled annually to take a quantity of up to 35,000 tonnes of GMA product, divided equally between 30/60 mesh and 80 mesh, at a price equal to cost of production (escalating annually in line with increases in the Australia Consumer Price Index) plus government royalties, plus FOB costs Geraldton or Fremantle;
 (c) The entitlement to product under (b) above does not accumulate;
 (d) Barton Mines also be entitled annually to take additional quantities of product at the rate of up to 5,000 tonnes escalating at 10% per annum but capped at 10,000 tonnes per annum, divided equally between 30/60 mesh and 80 mesh, at a price equal to the price referred to in paragraph (b) above plus 15%, with delivery FOB Geraldton or FOB Fremantle;
 (e) The entitlement to product under paragraph (d) above does not accumulate;
 (f) The above terms are for supply of GMA product to Barton Mines' USA market;
 (g) In addition to (the product taken under (b) and (d)) Barton Mines may take GMA garnet, if available, at a price commensurate with the price offered by the Mine to its other distributors;
 (h) Barton Mines to pay for product by irrevocable  confirmed letter of credit payable at sight;
 (i) The term of the distribution/supply contract is to equate with the period of the projected life of mine; 
 (j) No security will be granted by GIRL/GMA to secure the distribution/supply contract;
 (k) Barton Mines will not be entitled to maintain stockpile/warehousing rights at the processing plant; and
 (l) Barton Mines will be granted a non exclusive licence to use GMA product branding.
For any market other than the USA, GMA product may be taken by any other Barton company, if available, at a price commensurate with the price offered by the mine to its other distributors and customers.


 
Barton International was invited to propose a price at which it would be prepared to sell its GMA Garnet interests to GIRL on the above terms.
It is apparent from the terms of this letter from Mr David Williams to Mr Cole dated 10 January 2005, that a number of the essential terms of the GSA as ultimately executed on 31 March 2005, were expressed from the outset, although a number of others went through an evolutionary process before finding final expression in the GSA.
For example, the proposal by Mr David Williams on behalf of GIRL in (a) that BMC be appointed the "exclusive distributor" of GMA product in the USA by GMA Garnet, and in (f) that the terms specified "are for supply of GMA product to Barton Mines USA market", did not survive.
It should also be noted that, the proposal in (k), that Barton Mines will not be entitled to maintain stockpiles/warehousing rights at the processing plant was, however, developed.
The questions of stockpiling at Geraldton and possible blending issues in the stockpile were raised later in negotiations.
The proposal that Barton Mines will be "granted a non-exclusive licence to use GMA product branding" developed along the way, into cl 2.5.
By "Without Prejudice Memorandum of Proposal (Subject To Contract)" (Memorandum of Proposal) emailed by Mr Cole to Mr David Williams on 25 January 2005, Mr Cole provided Barton International's response to the invitation of GIRL to propose terms of settlement and compromise.
The Memorandum of Proposal noted there was "common appetite" for an outcome whereby GIRL acquired Barton International's interests in the partnership, and GMA Garnet and Barton International and GIRL entered into a long term supply contract for GMA garnet.
In relation to the sale and purchase of the partnership, and GMA Garnet interest of Barton International, the Memorandum of Proposal specified a price.
In relation to a long term supply contract, the Memorandum of Proposal (para 4.1) stated as follows: 
 To minimise the risk of opportunity for future dispute interface between Barton and GIRL, to optimise the prospect of arrangements being non-offensive to competition law regulatory intervention, and to simplify matters generally, it is Barton's strongly preferred outcome that the contract merely be an open 'product supply' contract and not an "exclusive territorial distribution" contract.
If an exclusive distribution arrangement is a critical requirement of GIRL then please let us have details of the proposed terms, so that Barton can give further consideration to this aspect.


 The Memorandum of Proposal then went on to deal with the term and product quantity, and accepted a number of the other terms already proposed in Mr Williams' last letter.
In respect of the topic "Territorial benefits and constraints" the Memorandum of Proposal (para 4.2(c)) noted as follows: 
 There be none (refer to paragraph 4.1 above).
This should also facilitate ACCC (and related) clearances.
Some comfort may be gained for GIRL from the first bullet point at the end of paragraph 4.2(b)(i) above [to the effect that the tonnages required of up to 50,000 tonnes primary product and up to 15,000 tonnes secondary product 'are Barton's estimates of its needs for the Americas'].

 In other words, it was plain enough that, by its Memorandum of Proposal, Barton International then considered that while it was not prepared to enter into any territorial benefits and constraints for exclusive distribution arrangements, the fact that it required primary product of up to 50,000 tonnes and secondary product of up to 15,000 tonnes particularly for the "Americas", should be of some "comfort" to GIRL who were wanting Barton International through BMC to be its exclusive distributor in the USA.
Mr David Williams then emailed to Mr Cole a letter on 2 February 2005 putting a firm proposal for GIRL's acquisition of Barton International's GMA Garnet interests.
First, it specified a price and then set out terms of acquisition including those referred to initially, that the terms of acquisition were subject to all necessary regulatory approvals particularly under competition law.
Nothwithstanding the earlier resistance of Mr Cole to the idea, in cl 2 of the letter, Mr Williams again proposed as follows: DISTRIBUTION 
 Barton Mines LLC (New York) ( Barton Mines ) to be appointed the exclusive distributor of GMA product in the USA by GMA Garnet Pty Ltd. (emphasis in original) 

 Mr Williams' letter then went on to deal with production entitlement, whereby "Barton Mines" would be entitled annually to take a quantity of up to 35,000 tonnes of GMA garnet, with an additional entitlement annually to take up to 15,000 tonnes.
Other terms included that: 
 4.2 Barton Mines will not be entitled to maintain stockpiles/warehousing rights at the processing plant.
4.3 Barton Mines will be granted a non-exclusive licence to use GMA product branding.
4.4 The exclusive distribution rights and production entitlement granted to Barton Mines will be personal to Barton Mines and not capable of assignment.

 On 3 February 2005, Mr David Williams and Mr Cole discussed GIRL's settlement offer on a without prejudice basis.
Mr Williams made a note of that conversation without reference to which he would not have had a clear recollection of the fact, or the content of the conversation.
However, the note enabled him to refresh his memory in recalling some, but not all of the matters in the note.
He was satisfied however, that the matters contained in the note were an accurate and reliable record of events at the time.
The Court has no difficulty accepting that the note should be accepted as an accurate and reliable record of events at the time.
It is a carefully written note of the telephone conversation with Mr Cole.
Amongst matters dealt with in the conversation on 3 February 2005 were the following: By letter sent by email to Mr Cole on 9 February 2005, Mr David Williams referred to his discussions with Mr Cole "over Thursday and Friday of last week" in respect of which he then had instructions to respond to.
In respect of cl 1 dealing with the sale and purchase of Barton International's interests, much was agreed.
In respect of distribution, Mr David Williams proposed as follows: DISTRIBUTION 
 2.1 In our discussions I advised that GIRL has structured its offer on the basis of an exclusive distribution contract in the belief that this was Barton's wish.
It seems, however, that Barton's position appears to be:
 (a) that it is not essential for Barton to be an exclusive distributor for the USA market --- in fact its preferred outcome is that the contract be an open 'product supply' contract and not an 'exclusive territorial distribution' contract (Barton Memorandum of Proposal 25/1/05);
 (b) that Barton wishes to have the (presumably non-exclusive) right to distribute through the Americas, ie North America, Central America and South America; and
 (c) if, however, Barton was to be an exclusive distributor of GMA Garnet in a specific territory it would not accept its distribution rights being tied to performance obligations.
2.2 To address these concerns GIRL proposes the following:
 (a) Barton be appointed as a distributor of GMA Product on a non-exclusive basis which it would be at liberty to distribute in any territory; 
 (b) Barton, along with all other GMA distributors, would be entitled to purchase GMA product on prevailing market terms;
 (c) to incentivise (sic) ie the maintenance and development of the North American (USA/Canada) market, GMA product distributed into that market each year would attract a rebate/discount for the first 50,000 tonnes of product sold.
This would be equivalent to the difference between the prevailing market price and;
 (i) the price referred to in paragraph 3.1 in our letter of 2 February 2005 for the first 35,000 tonnes; and
 (ii) the price referred to in paragraph 3.3 of our letter of 2 February 2005 for the next 15,000 tonnes;
 (d) Barton would have the first right to take the first 35,000 tonnes of product on the terms of (c)(i) above;
 (e) to the extent that Barton does not exercise this right the quantity not taken may be offered, on the same terms, to any other distributor in that market;
 (f) the first distributor in that market to commit to at least 35,000 tonnes would also have the sole right to take up to an additional 15,000 tonnes on the terms (c)(ii) above.
2.3 GIRL would be uneasy with any distribution agreement which gives one distributor a significant price advantage over others in Australia by, in effect, being able to take product at cost or near cost.
GIRL wishes to maintain a level playing field for all of the distributors/customers and is concerned that the ACCC may not authorise a settlement which gives Barton the potential to create/maintain a monopoly in the Australian market.


 
 ACCC authorisation is fundamental to any agreement.
If Barton is concerned that the structure of its distribution arrangements may be in breach of the Trade Practices Act then we are prepared to write to the ACCC on the issue now and seek its views.

 Mr Williams' letter went on to deal with production entitlements and some other matters including the proposal that GIRL would allow Barton International to remove its existing stockpile of product over a period of six months, provided the product is removed first from the GMA Garnet shed.
This proposal was a reference to the existing stockpile of product at Geraldton, Western Australia.
By letter dated 10 February 2005 and sent by email that day, Mr Cole responded to Mr David Williams' letter of 9 February 2005.
In para 1 of his letter, Mr Cole indicated that Barton International was prepared to proceed to the negotiation of formal documents within the parameters of the principles therein set out.
In para 2, Mr Cole noted that Barton International had noted the distribution arrangements now proposed by GIRL "are designed in the context of the mutual desire of both Barton and GIRL to structure arrangements to minimise the prospect of adverse response from competition law regulators".
Barton International however perceived that aspects of the proposed structure in para 2.2 may unnecessarily over complicate matters.
Mr Cole then set out in para 3 the simplified approach to which Barton International was prepared to commit.
Subject to those comments, Barton International responded on the numbered paragraphs of para 2.2 of Mr Williams' letter, as follows: 
 (a) noted on the assumption that distribution rights will not be tied to performance obligations and that also that Barton will not be restricted in any way from distributing other than GMA product.
(b) noted.
(c) the pricing of the product within the threshold tonnage levels must be by way of a net discount at the time of payment of the primary price rather than as an after the event rebate back to Barton.
Further, Barton is prepared to accept an undertaking that the discount is offered as an incentivisation with respect to the market in the relevant territory (but without performance and market growth obligations) and that the product acquired at a discount must only be distributed into that market.
Further, the relevant market must not be confined to North America, but also must extend to Central America and South America.
(d) the provision is superfluous --- Barton's right is an absolute right at its discretion.
(e) GIRL's intention is noted.
Barton does not wish to contractually constrain or oblige GIRL in any respect whatsoever as to the price and the terms upon which it can offer product to any of its other distributors.
(f) the provision is superfluous --- refer paragraph (e) above.

 In para 3, Barton International's simplified approach to the ongoing product supply agreement was set out as follows: 
 (a) Barton has the right to acquire up to 50,000 tonnes of GMA Product per annum for a term until 30 June 2017.
(b) The first 35,000 tonnes is priced as per paragraph 3.1 of your letter of 2 February 2005 (i.e.
not by payment and rebate back).
(c) The next 15,000 tonnes is priced as per paragraph 3.3 of your letter of 2 February 2005 (i.e.
not be paid and rebate back).
(d) GMA product other than for that 50,000 tonnes, is subject to contract on commercially negotiated terms.
(e) The concessionally priced product under (b) and (c) above may only be sold/distributed by Barton into North/Central or South America (' Americas ') --- as incentivisation and development of that market.
Barton will so undertake.
GIRL can also gain comfort of this through the shipping bills of lading etc at the time of delivery.
(f) Subject to force majeure/non performance of deliveries by GIRL, annual tonnage discount entitlement is non cumulative.
(g) Barton has no restraint undertaking in its favour to restrict GMA or other GMA Distributors from entering into any market, including the Americas.
(h) Barton is also not subject to any market restraint undertaking other than in (e) above to the extent of the price discounted product (b) and (c).
(i) Barton accepts that its orders for GMA Product under (b) and (c) above must be for no more than 50% 30/60 Mesh (compared with 80 Mesh), although a greater than 50% order for 80 Mesh is acceptable to GIRL.
(emphasis in original) 
 At this point, it is important to note that Barton International was acknowledging that the concessionally priced product may only be sold or distributed by Barton International into the Americas --- "as incentivisation and development of that market".
Barton International was prepared to "so undertake".
To that letter, Mr David Williams responded by letter dated 11 February 2005 sent by email and enclosing a document entitled "Principles of Proposed Settlement GIRL/Barton" (Principles of Proposed Settlement).
Clause 1 of the Principles of Settlement dealt with sale and purchase on terms that had more or less been negotiated to that point.
Clause 2 dealt with supply in the following terms: SUPPLY 
 2.1 Barton shall have the right to acquire up to 50,000 tonnes of GMA product per annum for a term ending on 30 June 2017.
2.2 The proportion of 30/60 Mesh and 80 Mesh of GMA product taken by Barton shall be as Barton elects in each year provided that 30/60 Mesh constitutes no more than 50% of total GMA product taken in any year.
2.3 Barton will not be subject to any market restraint undertaking.
2.4 A commercially negotiated price shall apply to GMA product purchased by Barton save that where Barton distributes that product to the North American market (ie USA/Canada) the price shall be discounted to:
 (a) for the first 35,000 tonnes of GMA product: a price equal to the 2004 Partner Transfer Price (escalating annually in line with a mutually agreed index) plus government royalties plus FOB charges at cost ex Geraldton or Fremantle; and
 (b) for the next 15,000 tonnes of GMA product: a price being 15% above the price specified in paragraph (a).
2.5 To derive the benefit of the discount Barton must demonstrate the delivery of the GMA product to North America to the reasonable satisfaction of GMA, including producing the relevant bills of lading.
2.6 Barton's annual entitlement to the 50,000 tonnes of GMA product does not accumulate except where Barton has been unable to take its required tonnage through the default of GMA or an event of force majeure.
2.7 GMA, GIRL and other GMA distributors will not be restricted from distributing GMA product in any market, including North America.
2.8 Barton shall pay for all GMA product by irrevocable and confirmed letter of credit payable at sight.
2.9 Barton may deal with GMA product as it wishes and will not be restricted from assigning its above rights to acquire GMA product.

 Clause 4 dealt with existing stockpiles, in the following terms: 
 Barton shall be allowed a period of 6 months from Completion to remove its product stockpiled in the GMA shed free of storage costs provided that Barton removes that product before it removes any other Barton stockpiled product.


 
(On one copy of the Principles of Proposed Settlement, Mr David Williams at a later date, wrote in the margin adjacent to this clause "possible blending issue".
To this note I will return).
Clause 5 dealt with the topic of product branding in these terms: PRODUCT BRANDING 
 Barton must label all product purchased from GMA as GMA product and will be granted a non-exclusive licence to use GMA product branding for that purpose.


This clause is the predecessor to that which ultimately became cl 2.5 of the GSA.
Clause 6 confirmed that the formal contracts would be subject to all regulatory approvals including any authorisations that may be necessary for the purposes of Australian Trade Practices Legislation or US Anti-Trust Legislation.
On 11 February 2005, Mr David Williams had a number of separate telephone conversations with Mr Aaron Williams and Mr Ketelsen, and also with Mr Cole.
He made a note of some of those conversations.
But for the note he would not have a clear recollection of the fact or content of the conversations.
He refreshed his memory from the note and was thereby able to recall some, but not all of the matters recorded in the note.
He had no reason to doubt that the matters contained in the note are not an accurate and reliable record of events at the time.
On the right hand side in the top two thirds of the note, Mr David Williams recorded the "what ifs" which Mr Ketelsen or Mr Aaron Williams instructed him to raise with Mr Cole.
They are headed "For SC".
On the left hand side of the file note Mr Williams made provision for Mr Cole's responses to those "what ifs".
Following the noting of the points for discussion with Mr Cole, Mr David Williams spoke to Mr Cole about the issues noted in the top two-thirds of the page and made notes.
Then Mr Cole raised other issues which Mr Williams noted in the bottom third of the page as follows: 
 S/Pile 
 --- Removal --- may be issue of blending
 --- Product quality: to be consistent with other suppliers
 --- Ops continue as is pending Compl
 --- Issue: do not wish to be compelled to label as GMA --- may be blending.


By "S/Pile"---or stockpile---Mr David Williams said he understood Mr Cole to have been referring to the stockpile located in Geraldton.
This was a continuing issue that had been referred to in the earlier negotiations.
Apparently, the concern was that GMA garnet not subject to the GSA might be mixed up with GMA Garnet product provided under the GSA, and cause GSA compliance difficulties later.
The second and third points concerning product quality and operations speak for themselves.
The last issue is, however, critical.
Mr David Williams says to the best of his recollection Mr Cole did not specify the nature of the blending to which he referred.
Mr Williams says that following his discussion with Mr Cole on this point, he raised the issue with Mr Ketelsen who said words to him to the effect: 
 If the product is labelled GMA, it must be 100% GMA product.
The product cannot be labelled as GMA product otherwise.

 Mr David Williams says that, to the best of his recollection, at no time did Mr Cole say anything to him regarding: 
(a) the blending of GMA garnet with other garnet, save for the comment in the conversation on 11 February 2005 referred to above;
 
(b) the branding of bulk or loose bulk shipments of garnet;
 
(c) how the product received under the long term supply contract would be dealt with once it had reached North America; or
 
(d) future plans with respect to branding, mixing or distribution of garnet once it reached North America.
By the weekend of 12 and 13 February it seems the question had arisen for GIRL as to whether Barton seriously wished to conclude a compromise and settlement in relation to the existing dissolution proceedings due to what it considered a prolonged negotiating process.
By email from Mr Cole to Mr Williams on Sunday 13 February, Mr Cole advised that he had been able to "speak to my people overnight" and "confirm I have instructions to proceed with formal documentation as soon as is practicable".
The email concluded with the note that: 
 I note you are amending the draft documentation prepared by your office last October as well as incorporating into that settlement and release terms, and also documenting the proposed supply agreement.
I look forward to receiving drafts for prompt consideration.

 On 15 February 2005, Mr Cole emailed a letter to Mr David Williams enclosing copies of documents Mr Williams had prepared with Mr Cole's preliminary comments shown "by way of compare function".
These related to the Principal Agreement, of which the GSA was expected to be an attachment.
At this point Mr Cole indicated he had not provided his clients with these initial draft documents as he intended to refine them to the next draft stage before doing so.
In the penultimate paragraph of his letter, Mr Cole stated: 
 With respect to the proposed Supply Agreement, I look forward to receiving your draft.
In this context, and as part of further discussions I have been having with my client in connection with the mechanical logistics and difficulties of stock piling the USA/Canada discounted priced GMA garnet without risk of co-mingling with other GMA product (either existing stock piles of Barton or new fully priced product), a number of practical difficulties have been identified.
As a proposed solution to these practical difficulties that have been identified, and without resiling from the principle that up to 50,000 tonnes per annum of the special contractually priced GMA Garnet must be delivered into and distributed/sold within USA/Canada, I attach a proposal for your consideration.
I believe it would be beneficial if I could meet with you to talk through and work with you in explaining the various formulae proposed in order to satisfy constraint 2.

 As can been seen from the terms of these comments, Mr Cole appreciated that in essence the 50,000 tonnes per annum of the concessionally priced GMA garnet "must be delivered into and distributed/sold within USA/Canada".
The expressed concern here was that the discounted garnet to be so sold or distributed may become "co-mingled" with stockpiled GMA garnet which was not subject to the GSA obligations.
Attached to that email was Mr Cole's document entitled "Barton/GIRL Settlement Proposal" (Settlement Proposal).
Paragraph 2 of the Settlement Proposal stated: 
 The long term supply arrangements include the principle of the special contractually priced GMA garnet (up to 50,000 tonnes per annum) being delivered into and distributed/sold within USA/Canada.


 
Then in para 3, the Settlement Proposal provided:
 
 Without resiling from that principle, and to manage assurance of compliance by Barton with this requirement, notwithstanding the mechanical logistics of stockpiling and co-mingling of GMA Product within Barton's warehouse and wholesale distribution network, Barton proposes it be bound by the 2 constraints set out below in satisfaction of its obligations in the terms of that principle: 

 
 Constraint # 1 

 
 All shipments of contractually priced GMA garnet must be for delivery, and be delivered, to USA/Canada.


 
 Constraint # 2 

 
 Z must never exceed X + Y (for each grade of GMA garnet) 

and then the formula was further set out therein.
It appears that Mr David Williams did not respond to the stockpiling and risk of co-mingling issue raised by Mr Cole in his emailed letter.
A question arises, of course, whether this logistical "co-mingling" and "compliance" issue is the issue to which Mr Cole drew attention and Mr Williams noted on 11 February.
For reasons given later, it appears not to have been.
On 16 February 2005, Mr David Williams sent to Mr Cole by email a draft GSA for his review, noting that it remained subject to his client's instructions as various aspects were still being considered.
On 17 February 2005, Mr Cole by email returned a marked up revised GSA, noting that his client was yet to comment on the document and that he reserved the right to suggest amendments.
On his copy of Mr Cole's marked up "DRAFT " of 17 February 2005 (produced as Attachment DJW 17 to witness statement of Mr Williams, exhibit I), Mr David Williams made handwritten notations.
