
 The applicants each bought apartments off the plan in a resort development on the waterfront at The Entrance, a town on the Central Coast of New South Wales.
The Entrance and other locations were, and are, popular holiday destinations within a relatively short driving distance from Sydney.
The promotional material which got them interested in purchasing promised them a guaranteed 7% p.a.
net return "with the security of strata title and a ten year lease to Pacific International Hotels'.
They were told this was a "five star investment".
They borrowed most, if not all, of the purchase price.
But, less than 2 years after completing their purchases, the lessee, Mustara Holdings Pty Limited a subsidiary of Pacific International Hotels Pty Limited, went into administration.
Subsequent operators of the resort paid the applicants a return of far less than 7% p.a.
before expenses.
One or more companies in the group of companies controlled by the fifth respondent, Austcorp International Limited ( Austcorp ), was or were involved in developing the resort and promoting the sale of apartments in it.
Senior Austcorp group executives wrote or approved the promotional material.
A critical issue of causation involve the assessment of responsibility of Austcorp, as opposed to one of subsidiaries, in, and the impact of, the marketing of apartments in the resort to potential investors and the decision making process of each investor.
The applicants claimed that Austcorp itself engaged in conduct that was misleading or deceptive and caused them to purchase their apartments and thus incur loss.
Austcorp both denied that it, rather than a subsidiary, was liable and that the applicants were misled or deceived.
It said that if the applicants were misled or deceived they should have sued one or more of its subsidiaries that actually carried out the development rather than Austcorp itself.
The parties also are in dispute as to how any loss should be quantified.
THE PARTIES AND STRUCTURE OF THESE PROCEEDINGS 
 A considerable number of investors began these proceedings.
These reasons deal with three test cases.
Originally I had made orders for a separate hearing of five claims which the parties had selected as raising questions representative of most issues common in a variety of situations involving the various other applicants and respondents.
During the early part of the hearing those investors who had dealt with Landillo Pty Ltd, the first respondent, in its initial marketing and its real estate agent, D  B Project Marketing Pty Ltd, the second respondent, and those with claims against a real estate agent at The Entrance, Lamont Bros PRD Realty, resolved their disputes.
PRD was operated by Xepa Pty Limited, the fourth respondent.
I will refer to this agent as PRD .
Warren Walker worked as a real estate agent at PRD.
(In 2002 Pacific International Hotels, changed its name to Frisbo Holdings Pty Ltd.
It was named in the application as the third respondent but was then in liquidation and the applicants never sought leave to proceed against it.
) This left as active parties in the overall proceedings only those investors who had claims against Austcorp.
The three test cases are claims by: Brian Owers in respect of his purchase of a one bedroom loft style apartment for $330,000; Sear Tan-Bounkeua in respect of her purchase of a one bedroom studio apartment for $190,000; Joseph Luciani and Taldarmar Holdings Pty Ltd (the family company of his sister Marie Di Giulio and her husband, Dino) in respect of their purchase of a one bedroom loft style apartment for $340,000.
For simplicity I will refer to these investors as "Luciani/Taldarmar".
PRINCIPAL ISSUES 
 (1) Misleading or deceptive representation
 Each of the three claims requires individual consideration of the circumstances leading to the investors' entry into and completion of their contracts for purchase.
In addition to the issue of whether Austcorp itself, as opposed to one or more of its subsidiaries, engaged in the conduct complained of, this also involves assessing whether each investor was misled by that conduct into making the purchase.
Both Mr Owers and Luciani/Taldarmar engaged solicitors to act for them on their purchases, while Ms Tan-Bounkeua did not.
There is a dispute as to whether the solicitors explained, or could reasonably have been expected (by Austcorp) to have explained to their clients the true nature of the proposed investment, as disclosed by the contract for sale, so as to dispel any claimed deficiencies and alleged misrepresentations in the marketing material (including Mr Walker's and PRD's statements to like effect).
And, in Ms Tan-Bounkeua's case, there is an issue as to whether her failure to retain a solicitor to advise her resulted in her not being able to claim that she was misled or deceived by the conduct complained of when she entered into the contract for sale.
(2) Disclosure statement
 There is also a dispute as to whether a disclosure statement by Landillo provided to Luciani/Taldarmar had a dispelling effect.
In addition, Austcorp claimed that it is likely that a disclosure statement was provided to Mr Owers, although there is no direct evidence that this occurred.
(3) Valuation and Damages
 There were also significant questions as to whether the apartments were worth less than what each investor paid under the contract.
The expert witnesses dealing with valuation and related issues had substantively different methodologies.
Finally, there are questions whether Mr Owers is entitled to damages in respect of some cash savings he invested in his purchase and his net gain after taking into account the effect of the tax benefits he received.
(4) Limitation Issue
 Austcorp alleged that the investors' claims were statute barred, being commenced only on 1 August 2006, more than six years after they had entered into their contracts to purchase.
It also argued that in early 2000 Mr Owers and Luciani/Taldarmar had incurred liability for their respective solicitors' legal fees and that this was damage incurred more than six years before the expiry of the limitation period.
STRUCTURE OF THESE REASONS 
 In order to understand the context in which most of the issues arise, at the outset I will briefly describe the general nature of how the apartments were marketed and the principal representations which the applicants claimed were made to them.
I will outline first, the marketing activities (consisting of the promotional brochure, a similar leaflet and the confirmatory statements by the real estate agent, Mr Walker) and the representations complained of.
Secondly, I will deal with the evolution of the project, Austcorp's involvement and the other circumstances leading up to when the applicants entered into their contracts to purchase their apartments and the related documentation.
This will involve ascertaining whether Austcorp itself was a party to any conduct complained of.
Thirdly, I will examine whether each applicant established that any of the representations was misleading or deceptive and if any relevant representation was in fact a cause of the applicant's decision to purchase.
Fourthly, I will consider whether Austcorp had reasonable grounds for making any representations as to future matters.
Fifthly, I will deal with Austcorp's limitation defence.
Sixthly, I will examine each applicant's conduct after Mustara collapsed in respect of his, her or its failure to sell in 2002 or 2003 when sales of apartments in the resort were realising prices in excess of the earlier purchase price.
Then I will consider the valuation issues to determine whether the apartments were worth less than the purchase price at the time of completion of the contracts.
Last I will deal with damages.
1.
HOW THE MARKETING WAS DONE IN 1999-2000 
 The Austcorp group's business was founded at the beginning of 1992.
Trevor Chappell was and remains the managing director of Austcorp.
He was a certified practising accountant and an experienced company director.
During the period between 1999 and 2001 the group's business was property development.
As Mr Chappell described, by early 1999 the group had extensive experience in that field.
Moreover, Mr Chappell, himself, by that time had over 25 years experience in property development and the investment industry.
Mr Chappell worked closely with Edgar Hung , who was an executive director of Austcorp.
He was an experienced and qualified engineer.
Mr Hung had been involved in the property development and investment industry for about seven years.
By late 1999, construction of the resort was underway.
Signs were displayed on the building site, including a large and prominent one with "Austcorp" in black block letters against a white background with a small Austcorp logo at the top right and the words, in smaller block letters, "development by" at the top left.
The logo had Austcorp's name in white against a dark brown background with a light golden kangaroo below the name.
Each applicant (except Mrs Di Giulio) described how in late 1999 or early 2000 he or she was at The Entrance, noticed the development and then went to the PRD sales office adjacent to the building site.
There he or she met with Mr Walker.
He gave them a brochure and, in some cases, a leaflet, which I will describe shortly.
He also gave them a price list with the apartments then on offer, their prices, size, entitlement to carspaces and, under the heading "Rent Guarantee", the amount of the yearly rent.
Additionally, Mr Walker gave Ms Tan-Bounkeua two indicative depreciation schedules for a two bedroom apartment, one with and one without furniture and a pro forma negative gearing worksheet.
These showed that if a large part of the purchase price were borrowed on an interest only loan, the tax deductions for interest and depreciation would result in a not insubstantial positive flow after tax.
Generally, most applicants had two meetings with Mr Walker in which he, in substance, repeated what was in the written promotional material he had given them.
While these discussions emphasised or reinforced that material, the applicants did not suggest that he added anything new of substance to the representations that they alleged were conveyed in writing.
Usually after the second meeting the applicant paid a holding deposit of $1,000 for their chosen apartment and gave Mr Walker details of their solicitor, or person to whom the contract should be sent.
1.1 THE BROCHURE 
 Mr Chappell and Mr Hung participated in preparing the brochure which was used to attract, and interest, potential purchasers in the resort.
The brochure was printed on glossy paper folded in three so that it appeared as the size of an A4 page turned on its side.
On the front cover of the brochure there is a theme of star fish, with four displayed towards the bottom right and a fifth in the hands of a snorkeller who is surfacing in the water.
To the left of the snorkeller are the words: 
"A 4-star
 
waterfront
 
serviced
 
apartment
 
returning
 
7% net?
"
 Below this "The Entrance" is written in the sand.
When the reader opens the brochure, two pages initially appear.
On the left page, forming the underside of the front cover, are pictures of The Entrance area, and some text.
On the right page is an artist's impression of the resort building.
Across the bottom of the two pages, written in sand, are the words "That's a 5 star investment" and next to that are five star fishes.
Above the star fishes and the word "investment" is an artist's impression of the hotel showing it facing the waters at The Entrance with its well-known bridge in the background and some pelicans in the foreground.
On the left hand page there is a logo of Pacific International Waterfront Resort (which uses the first two words and the logo of Pacific International Hotels).
On the right hand side of the left hand page the following text appears: 
 "Position, potential and performance 

 
 The Central Coast is booming.
And right in the heart of the area at The Entrance, where several lakes meet the ocean, a new waterfront resort is being built in a prime position.


 
 The Pacific International Waterfront Resort investment apartments will capitalise on the Coast's growing reputation as a tourism and conference destination.
Each comes with the security of strata title and a ten year lease to Pacific International Hotels, with options for renewal for two further ten year periods.
" 

 When the right hand page is opened two more pages appear.
In the centre there are four columns with a total of five star fish.
Above or beside the entries are various photographs of activities associated with The Entrance and the following text: 
 
 " An investment package without equal 
 
 It's hard to imagine a real estate investment offering so much.
From day one your return will be a guaranteed 7% p.a.
Rents are subject to annual CPI linked reviews, with provision for market adjustments every five years.


 
 Also, above average depreciation allowances are part of the picture.


 
 Choose from studios, one or two bedroom apartments 

 
 All apartments are completely furnished and feature a large balcony or terrace.
Many will feature a dual-key format providing many options for travellers.


 
 No outgoings, levies or maintenance 

 
 Outgoings and levies will all be paid by the operator (except for land tax and capital items if they occur).
The operator, Pacific International Hotels, will fully maintain the apartments and the resort to a 4-star standard including redecorating and replacement of furnishings.


 
 No managing agent 

 
 When you invest in Pacific International Waterfront Resort, you won't pay between 7% and 10% to a managing agent, because Pacific International Hotels takes care of it all for you.
They have advanced accounting and reporting systems in place enabling direct rental payment and owner reporting.


 
 Spoil yourself with a free week, every year 

 
 Feel like a break?
Each year of the lease period, you or your friends can enjoy a FREE 7 day off-peak stay at the Pacific International Waterfront Resort.


 
 You'll also qualify for 

 
 * Free membership to Pacific's International Club, with accommodation discounts up to 50% off published rates at other Pacific properties, discounts at retail establishments, cinemas and on Hertz rental cars.


 
 * Free membership to Flag's Inn Club, with benefits including discounts at any of Flag's 450 properties Australia-wide.
" 

 On the far right hand page, on the right hand side are more pictures of The Entrance with another five starfish and the word "investment" written in sand.
Thus, when the whole brochure is folded out, the words "That's a 5 star" and "investment" appear respectively on the left hand and right hand pages.
Again, there are two pages with five star fish on each of them in this form of the brochure.
On the right hand page on the right hand side there are more pictures of scenes from The Entrance.
The text on that page is set out as follows: An experienced and successful operator Invest now --- 70% already sold Pacific International Hotels are leaders in resort apartment management.
They are supported by a substantial international bookings network as well as being members of Flag Choice.
Pacific International has been awarded "Best Property" and "Best Hotel" Australia-wide within the Flag Group.
The Central Coast's premier resort 
 The Pacific International Waterfront Resort will make the most of its sensational waterfront position.
It has been designed from the outset to provide guests with the ultimate getaway and to become the Central Coast's premier conference destination.
It offers guests the chance to do as little or as much as they like, enjoy facilities including: Pacific International Waterfront Resort is currently under construction and due for completion mid 2000.
However, with 70% of the apartments already sold, your prompt action is recommended if you wish to take advantage of this prime investment opportunity.
* heated swimming pools  spas * child care facilities, kids' club  children's aquatic recreation area 
 * pool bar * restaurant and coffee shop 
 * fully equipped conference centre * Resort shops and tour desk 
 * Gymnasium * 
 
 
 On the back of the brochure, a second but smaller reproduction of the artist's impression of the hotel appears with an arrow locating it on a map of The Entrance, showing it as proximate to the channel, the pelican feeding area and The Entrance Bridge.
To the right of that is another map showing the F3 freeway as being 45 minutes drive from Hornsby, a northern suburb of Sydney.
There are five starfish below that map.
On the left underneath the artist's impression are the following words: 
"A unique investment in
 
tourism and waterfront
 
property available now at
 
Pacific International
 
Waterfront Resort ...
 
and remember, the views last forever.
"
 
 Below the drawings and maps there is a white band with printing.
On the left of the band are the display's office hours of 9am to 5pm seven days a week and PRD Realty's address.
To the right of that is the PRD Realty logo with its telephone number and the mobile telephone number of Warren Walker.
To the right of this is a logo of Pacific International which has the words "Hotels-Inns-Resorts-Apartments" as part of it.
To the right of that are the words "DEVELOPMENT BY" and underneath that Austcorp's logo.
To the right of that is the logo of Great Pacific.
1.2 THE LEAFLET 
 Mr Walker gave to Ms Tan-Bounkeua and Messrs Luciani and Di Giulio a leaflet printed on glossy A4 paper.
On the top third of the page in white print on a blue background there was printed in large letters: 
 "A RELAXING WAY TO EARN 7% NET ... FROM WATERFRONT PROPERTY" 

 Underneath that, on the left hand side of the page was the following wording which appeared adjacent to an artist's representation of the resort, under which were pictures of a snorkeller with a starfish in his hand, an angler fishing at The Entrance with the bridge visible in the background and some golfers: 
 "The Pacific International Waterfront Resort investment apartments will capitalise on the Central Coast's growing reputation as a tourism and conference destination.


 
 It's a combination of factors.
Like its prime waterfront position at The Entrance, on the booming Central Coast, the security of a 10-year lease +2x10 year option, and a guaranteed 7% net return.
Other advantages of investing in Pacific International Waterfront Resort include: 

 
 Individual Strata Title for each apartment 

 
 Above average depreciation allowance 

 
 Choose from 145 studios, one bedroom
 apartments and two bedroom apartments 

 
 Annual 7 day free off-peak stay for owners 

 
 Priced from $145,000" 

 
At the foot of the leaflet were contact details for Mr Walker and the logos of PRD, Pacific International, Austcorp and Great Pacific.
1.3 APPROACH TO REPRESENTATIONS AND CONDUCT 
 The applicants pleaded that Austcorp engaged in misleading or deceptive conduct in three ways, based on the contents of the brochure, the leaflet and Mr Walker's repetition or reinforcement of some of the representations in those two documents.
First, the applicants pleaded that by providing the brochure which Mr Walker gave them at PRD, and causing it to be published to them, Austcorp engaged in conduct in contravention of s 52 of the Act.
They alleged that Austcorp represented to him or her, as a potential purchaser of real property in relation to apartments in the resort, that: 
(a) they would be assured of a net rental return of 7%p.a.
of the purchase price for 10 years;
 
(b) this net rental return would be achieved through the lease of apartments in the resort to Pacific International Hotels for a term of 10 years with two further 10 year options;
 
(c) the entity that would lease the apartments in the resort from purchasers was a well known and/or well respected and/or experienced and/or successful and/or profitable and/or financially worthy provider of hotel management services;
 
(d) the entity that would lease the apartments in the resort was a leading manager of resorts and apartments;
 
(e) the purchase of an apartment in the resort would be an outstanding investment with no hidden risks;
 
(f) those responsible for its marketing were so confident of its success that they could and were prepared to say, without qualification, that investment in the complex would lead to a guaranteed 7% p.a.
return for at least 10 years;
 
(g) "Pacific International" was so confident in the development's prospects that it was prepared to guarantee for a 10 year period a 7% p.a.
net return on the investment together with annual CPI reviews and five year market adjustments.
Each representation in the brochure was alleged to be misleading or deceptive or likely to mislead or deceive because of the following factors: Mustara was not a leader in resort apartment management and had no involvement in hotel or apartment management, had not received any awards for hotels or properties that it managed and had no significant assets other than its proposed interest as manager of the resort and lessee of the apartments in it.
There was a real risk that purchasers would not receive the promised rental return from their leases if Mustara did not make a sufficient net profit from its operation of the resort to meet the obligations under the leases.
The receipt of the 7% net return would depend on occupancy levels being sufficient to generate enough profit for Mustara to meet its rental obligations and that there was a real risk that Mustara might not be able to meet all of the outgoings under the lease if it did not make a sufficient net profit.
There was also a real risk that Mustara might not be able to maintain the apartments to a four star standard, replace carpets, furniture and the like if it did not make a sufficient net profit and that depended, again, on occupancy levels.
There was a real risk that Pacific International might transfer its shares in Mustara to a company with little or no reputation, experience or success in the management of hotels or serviced apartments.
Mustara was a company with $2 paid up capital first incorporated in May 1997 and Pacific's obligations to the applicants, as purchasers, were limited to those in cl 20.9 of the lease.
Secondly, Ms Tan-Bounkeua and Luciani/Taldarmar also pleaded that by providing the leaflet which Mr Walker gave them at PRD and causing it to be published to them, Austcorp engaged in conduct in contravention of s 52 of the Act by representing to him, her or it as a potential purchaser of apartments in the resort that: Each representation in the leaflet was alleged to be misleading or deceptive because of factors 2 and 3 complained of in respect of the brochure and a (truncation of factor 1, namely) that Mustara had no significant assets other than its interest as manager of the resort and as lessee of the apartments in the resort.
In addition, the applicants also pleaded that PRD, through Mr Walker, informed each of them that a return of 7% p.a.
was guaranteed for 10 years.
The evidence satisfies me that Mr Walker made such a statement to each applicant [see 3. below ] .
That statement is no different in substance to representations (a) and (h) and I will not deal separately with it for that reason.
Each of the applicants gave evidence to the effect that he or she understood that the 7% net guaranteed return was "guaranteed" because the lease provided for a fixed return, rather than a return ascertained from or dependent upon occupancy rates of the resort [see 3. below].
In other words, the lease itself guaranteed the return.
Each also said that, taken in isolation, if Mustara were known to them to be a $2 company with no substantive assets, but was a subsidiary of Pacific International Hotels, that would not have troubled them.
However, if it were not known to have been a subsidiary of Pacific International Hotels, they would not have gone ahead.
Likewise, each of the applicants said that they would not have gone ahead if he or she had realised that Pacific International Hotels' guarantee was limited to a maximum of 12 months' rent under cl 20.9 of the lease to Mustara.
That was, in effect, because they were intending to borrow 90% or 100% of the purchase price and then obtain the benefit of negative gearing under the income tax legislation using the "guaranteed" rent to finance most of their expenses it being (in the sense of it being fixed at 7% of their purchase price).
There were also other taxation benefits such as depreciation and a small amount of amortisation.
Austcorp argued, however, that each applicant received all contractual documents which, if properly read and understood, revealed the true position in respect of the limitation of Pacific International Hotel's preparedness to guarantee the venture.
There are issues between the parties concerning the ongoing effect of the representations juxtaposed against the receipt of the whole of the contract, the use, by some of the applicants, of solicitors to give them legal advice, the provision to some of the applicants of disclosure statements and the capacity of the representations to continue to influence the applicants at the time they entered into the contract or completed it.
2.
THE EVOLUTION OF THE PROJECT
2.1 THE INITIAL PHASE --- THE DEVELOPMENT STALLS 
 By early 1997, Landillo was seeking to develop its land at The Entrance as a resort style serviced apartment hotel.
It prepared a strata plan for the development and in May 1997 obtained development consent from Wyong Shire Council for a building with over a hundred and forty apartments, a restaurant, hotel lobby and conference facilities.
The effect of the development would nearly double the supply of rooms in The Entrance area: room supply would increase by about 10% in the Central Coast area generally.
Importantly, the council imposed a condition on the consent that required the apartments to be used solely as serviced apartments, providing short term stay accommodation.
Thus, a person considering the purchase of an apartment would be likely to consider it as an investment property with which to earn a return, rather than as a holiday home, except perhaps for intermittent short term breaks.
Each apartment would be a separate strata title unit registered in the investor's name.
On 9 June 1998 Landillo entered into a management agreement with Mustara Holdings and Nigel Corne , personally, for the operation of the resort.
Mustara was to be the operator of the resort.
It was then a wholly owned subsidiary of Pacific International Hotels.
Mr Corne guaranteed Mustara's obligations under the management agreement.
He was then the sole director of Mustara.
He was also the chief executive and, at least, 50% beneficial owner of Pacific International Hotels.
In broad terms, the management agreement contemplated that Mustara would enter into a number of leases in order to operate the resort.
First, it would lease all the apartments from Landillo's purchasers.
Secondly, Mustara would lease from Landillo, or the registered proprietor of each strata title unit, two areas on the ground floor of the building, known respectively as the manager's lot, and the restaurant lot.
The manager's lot comprised the hotel reception desk and some office space.
(Later in September 1999 it also came to include most of the common area on the ground floor).
The restaurant lot included the restaurant and kitchen (which would enable the resort to provide room service food and beverages).
The important features of these arrangements for present purposes are that first, Landillo could sell either or both of the management lot and restaurant lot to one or two, different purchasers, and, secondly, Mustara might not be in a position in the future to transfer or assign its interest as lessee in all its leases (i.e.
of the apartments, management and restaurant lots) to any incoming operator, e.g.
if Mustara were insolvent and its leases were terminated.
In that latter case, any new operator would have to negotiate new leases with all the landlords in order to operate the resort, without any assurance that it could obtain similar or commercially acceptable terms from all or any of those landlords.
Landillo engaged D  B to devise and conduct the initial marketing campaign for the sale of the apartments to investors.
But Landillo never obtained finance.
By April 1999 construction of the resort had not started, while Landillo had entered into many conditional contracts to sell apartments off the strata plan.
Each purchaser had paid a deposit.
Their contracts initially provided that the purchaser had a right of rescission if the strata plan was not registered in the Land Titles Office of New South Wales before 31 December 1999.
And the contracts provided that once the strata plan was registered, completion had to occur within 14 days after that event.
For a period preceding May 1999 Mr Corne had been dealing with Alfred Wong and the Great Pacific Finance group (which Mr Wong appears to have controlled) in pursuing the development of other hotel projects to be operated by Pacific International Hotels.
They and their companies had been involved in developing a serviced apartment project in Kent Street, Sydney, for Pacific International Hotels to operate.
The two had also continued to work on developing an apartment hotel in Parramatta which would also be operated by Pacific International Hotels.
Neither Mr Corne nor Mr Wong gave evidence.
I infer that they discussed the difficulties Landillo was experiencing but were unwilling to take on the burden of financing the development themselves.
They decided to approach Austcorp.
Sometime in 1998 Mr Wong had raised with Mr Hung the possibility of Austcorp being involved in the Parramatta project his group was developing for Pacific International Hotels.
But that proposed co-operation did not go ahead.
By then Mr Hung had known Mr Wong for over four years and considered Mr Wong to be a very capable businessman.
Mr Wong's companies had assisted the Austcorp group with finance for its developments and Mr Hung and Mr Wong had met regularly since 1995 to discuss potential projects that one or the other had come across.
2.2 AUSTCORP IS INVITED TO BECOME A PROMOTER 
 In about late April 1999 Mr Wong approached Mr Hung with a proposal for Austcorp to become involved in the development of the resort.
Mr Wong told Mr Hung that Mr Corne had described the resort as being a project at a fantastic site that he really liked.
He said that he had worked with Mr Corne for the previous two or three years.
Mr Wong described the project to Mr Hung, telling him that Pacific International Hotels had been signed up to manage and operate the hotel.
Mr Wong told him that the operator would lease the apartments from investors with the restaurant, office areas and conference areas on the ground floor.
Mr Wong explained that originally it had been planned to open the resort before the Sydney Olympics in August 2000, but the current developer was unable to finish the project.
He told Mr Hung that he wanted the resort to happen and sought Austcorp's help.
Mr Wong outlined that Mr Corne had gained his experience in the hotel industry initially through working in his family's business, operating the Cosmopolitan Hotel in Double Bay, close to Sydney.
He said that Mr Corne held a high position on the Australian Hotels Association and that he trusted Mr Corne's judgment because he was a very good and very conservative operator.
Next, Mr Hung related to Mr Chappell his conversation with Mr Wong.
Mr Chappell had met Mr Corne previously in connection with the Parramatta project.
He was impressed by Mr Corne and considered him to be an experienced operator with a long track record of experience in the industry.
Mr Chappell understood that Pacific International Hotels were then operating six or more hotels and proposed to operate up to twelve.
In about late April or early May 1999 Mr Chappell and Mr Hung met with Mr Wong.
Mr Wong told them that he was keen for Mr Corne to proceed with the venture at The Entrance.
He encouraged Mr Chappell and Mr Hung to get Austcorp to enter into a joint venture with his group to develop the building so that Pacific International Hotels would be able to operate the completed resort as part of its hotel chain.
Mr Wong told them that he had conducted his own investigations and was satisfied that the project was sound and viable.
He provided then with a pamphlet which summarised various hotels that Pacific International Hotels then operated and those it was proposing to operate in Victoria and New South Wales.
That pamphlet was a double side printed A 4 page headed "Flash Facts", with Pacific International Hotel's logo at the top.
It described 12 hotel, apartment and resort projects.
Only six of those projects were actually operating businesses.
As the pamphlet described, the others were proposed to be opened, the first from about March 1999.
Three of the operating businesses were in Sydney and Bankstown.
Two more were proposed to be in Sydney, one in George Street, another in Kent Street and a third in Parramatta.
Two properties were on the Central Coast, one being the resort which was described as being proposed to be opened in April 2000, the other was a resort at Toukley.
The two other properties were operating in Central Melbourne with a further two proposed to open in Melbourne later.
Thus, the pamphlet demonstrated that in mid 1999 Pacific International Hotels was engaged in a very considerable expansion of its business and operations.
Mr Chappell said that the pamphlet was the only information concerning Pacific International Hotels which he received other than what he learnt at the meeting that he attended with Mr Hung and Mr Corne shortly afterwards.
At this time the Austcorp Group, Mr Chappell and Mr Hung had no experience in the operation of hotels.
An experienced businessperson in the position of Mr Chappell and Mr Hung would have appreciated immediately that Pacific International Hotel's financial position was critical for the purposes of it being able to undertake the development and operation of six new properties over the period of about one and a half years as described in the pamphlet.
It would be obvious to such a person that the establishment costs of each business would be substantial and that each of the hotels, apartments or resorts would take some time to develop a goodwill or reputation from which any reliable return and occupancy rate would be achieved.
New businesses need time and access to substantial working capital while they develop a reliable income stream.
Experienced businesspersons like Mr Chappell and Mr Hung must have appreciated this, and I find they did.
However, this issue was of no concern to them because Austcorp was examining the proposal as a developer that would earn its profit by selling all the units in the development.
In early May 1999, probably at their meeting with Mr Corne, Mr Chappell and Mr Hung received a five year forecast for the operation of the resort prepared by Pacific International Hotels.
In giving evidence, they identified a copy of a contemporaneous forecast as either the one, or similar to the one, they saw then.
This forecast projected profits of about $1.4 million before interest, rent and taxes commencing in the year ending April 2000 and rising to about $3.9 million in 2004.
Mr Chappell said that he understood that the first year's operations in the projected figures showed that the project was "marginal at best".
The projection allowed $1,223,000 to be contributed to the operator by Landillo for half of the first year's rent together with a further sum of $500,000 for pre-opening expenses as provided in cl 22 of the management agreement, at cll 22.3 and 22.6.
After the rent the operator paid to the owners of the apartments (the investors) to generate their returns, its net profit in the first year was $4,000.
By the year 2004 in the projections, the hotel profit, after payment of rent to investors, was projected at being $877,000.
The key aspects of the projections are in the following table: 
 OLYMPICS ($ 000) 
 
 
 YEAR ENDING APRIL 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 NO.
ROOMS 143 143 143 143 143 OCCUPANCY 40.0% 57.0% 65.0% 65.0% 65.0% AVERAGE TARIFF $145.00 $166.80 $166.80 $175.10 $183.90 ..... .... .... .... .... .... NET PROFIT B4 [BEFORE]
INTEREST, RENT  TAXES 1410 3053 3494 3679 3891 BASE RENT 1223 2447 2447 2557 2557 HOTEL PROFIT 4 247 637 801 877 
 That projection evidently had been prepared some time before because it proceeded on the basis that by April 2000 the resort would have been operating for a year which was impossible since Mr Chappell and Mr Hung received it in May 1999 in connection with a discussion as to whether the construction of the resort would proceed at all.
Mr Chappell said that one of Pacific Hotel International's senior managers attended the meeting and they all spent about half an hour going through the projections.
However, Austcorp did not make or obtain any independent analysis of Pacific International Hotels' overall financial position, or market analysis of the area in which the resort was to operate.
Austcorp made no attempt then or later to obtain any updated projections for its own use.
And, it was a five year, and not a ten year, projection.
Mr Corne told them that the Crown Plaza Hotel at Terrigal (a beach resort not far from The Entrance) had been achieving better occupancy levels than were forecast in the projection for the resort.
He also gave them an Australian Hotels Association set of confidential statistics showing that the Terrigal hotel's 196 rooms achieved an average occupancy of 71.45% with a gross revenue per room of $204.55 and a net revenue of $146.14.
Austcorp argued that it could not be expected to examine projections of this kind with any particular expertise or knowledge of the hotel industry because it had no experience in that industry.
I reject that argument and deal with it in more detail below [see 6. below].
Broadly, Austcorp simply accepted the projections at face value for the purposes of making representations relating to a projected return over a ten year period for an investment in a resort to be operated by Pacific International Hotels.
Both Mr Chappell and Mr Hung knew that Pacific International Hotels was then undergoing the very considerable proposed expansion of its activities.
While each said that he considered that the projections he had seen in May 1999 seemed to be reasonable or conservative, I do not accept that either of them gave any detailed attention to them.
They took the view that Austcorp could rely on the projections as a sufficient analysis of the likely financial operation of the resort once the development had been built, and as a basis on which to proceed because of Mr Wong's and Mr Corne's assertions of comfort with them.
This was despite them being aware that the projections were out of date, for the shorter period of five years, lacked independence and were put forward by Mr Wong and Mr Corne who were seeking to involve Austcorp in the project after others had failed to raise sufficient capital to enable it to proceed.
In late May 1999, Mr Hung received legal advice from one of Austcorp's solicitors, Tzovaras Yandell, concerning the application of the Managed Investments Act 1998 (Cth) (which inserted Ch 5C into the Corporations Law ).
Tzovaras Yandell discussed issues which are not of any present relevance but observed emphatically in their advice of 31 May 1999 that the guarantor (i.e.
Pacific International Hotels) "... is not a public company of substance".
The reason for Austcorp's casual approach to the accuracy and reliability of the projections was explained by each of Mr Chappell and Mr Hung in his evidence.
Each said that Austcorp's involvement was to be relatively short-term.
It would develop the building and then take its share of revenue from sales.
After that point, he said that Austcorp would not be involved in the ongoing operation of the resort or derive any further revenue from it.
Thus, the projections had no apparent bearing on Austcorp's decision to invest, because it would not be involved with the operation and financial performance of the completed development.
Austcorp was not intending to expose itself to any risk from the actual operations of the resort once built.
As Mr Chappell said, his overriding concern at the time of deciding on becoming involved in the development of the resort was whether or not it would be a profitable exercise for Austcorp.
Austcorp did not confine its role in the development merely to building the resort project.
It involved itself in selling apartments to investors including the applicants.
To achieve those sales, from which its ultimate profit would derive, Austcorp put forward the marketing material in the brochure and leaflet stating that the financial return generated by an investment in the resort would be 7% p.a.
net "guaranteed" over the period of ten years.
For the reasons I will explain below it was not reasonable for Austcorp, without any independent analysis by it, to place any reliance on the projections [see 6. below].
Moreover, the return to an investor was far from a "sure thing" as Mr Hung confirmed in the following evidence: 
 "... but you did know that to the extent a guarantee was there, it was only for 12 months?
--- Yes, correct.


 
 Such that if Pacific International formed the view that the hotel was not operating successfully, it could effectively walk away from the hotel after paying out 12 months rent?
--- Yes.


 
 And because of that possibility, you were aware, weren't you, that whether or not the investors would receive seven per cent net on their investment each year for ten years was not a sure thing ?
--- Yes .
" (emphasis added) 
 2.3 AUSTCORP'S GENERAL INVOLVEMENT IN ITS GROUP'S AFFAIRS 
 In his evidence in chief Mr Chappell referred to a group policy that general correspondence and communications were made on Austcorp's letterhead because it was the holding company.
He said: 
 "Did you in 1999 have any practice which you followed concerning the use of letterhead for companies with the Austcorp group?
--- Yes, we did.
We had a ... company policy, that general correspondence and communications were communicated on the holding company letterhead , and every project that we undertook there would be a separate company formed for that activity, either as an outright development on our own or in joint venture with other people.
And in every case there would also be an appointment of an Austcorp development management as the developer manager of the respective development project.
I can't recall the number of subsidiary companies we had at the time but I think currently we have got something 250 and 300 subsidiary companies.
So from a practical standpoint it would be difficult to have a letterhead for every individual company when communicating, particularly under the signature of the managing director or chairman .
So it has been my practise unless there involves some formal, covering some formal legal agreement or some contractual arrangement, to use the holding company letterhead.
" (emphasis added) 

 In light of that state of affairs, Austcorp, as the holding company, cannot complain that members of the public who saw a document or a hoarding bearing the Austcorp logo could not associate that logo with Austcorp itself, whether or not it could also be associated with one of the up to 250 or 300 subsidiaries which Mr Chappell mentioned.
2.4 AUSTCORP ENGAGES PRD AND MR WALKER 
 Mr Chappell met with Mr Walker at The Entrance in late April or early May 1999.
They were old friends and had worked together many years before, just after they both had qualified as accountants.
Mr Chappell was aware that Mr Walker had a full real estate licence.
Mr Walker took Mr Chappell for a tour of the site and they then visited other sites in the area which had recently been, either, developed, or were the subject of development applications or consents.
Mr Chappell said that he then formed the view that the prices achieved by Landillo on its presales and those sought on the about 50 unsold apartments were within a range justified by what Mr Walker had shown him of the market.
On 3 June 1999, Mr Walker wrote to Mr Chappell reporting on his review of the asking prices for the unsold apartments, suggesting increases resulting in about $1 million extra revenue if the proposed prices were achieved.
He stated that "... the guaranteed return on investment is a prime consideration to prospective purchasers".
Mr Walker made an extra allowance (or increment in price) for "perceived value" for apartments on the eastern wing.
Mr Chappell gave this letter to Mr Hung.
Both of them agreed with Mr Walker's conclusion as to the importance of the guaranteed return.
On 30 July 1999 Mr Chappell discussed with Mr Walker terms of the appointment of PRD as exclusive selling agents.
This led on 3 August 1999 to Mr Walker writing to Mr Chappell, as managing director of Austcorp, proposing a reduction in PRD's commission "... in recognition of the extensive marketing campaign to be undertaken by Austcorp and the support this will provide for our sales staff".
Subsequently, in October 2000, when Mr Walker was about to cease his association with PRD, he resent the letter of 3 August 1999 to Anthony Zantiotis , a development manager at Austcorp, as the "listing agreement" for PRD.
He used this to negotiate terms on which he was appointed as the selling agent by Austcorp.
Ordinarily, a vendor of land will engage a real estate agent to market the land and, so, any commission would have been paid by Landillo, as vendor, out of the proceeds of sale.
On 28 March 2000, Mr Hung on letterhead with both Landillo's and Austcorp's names on it wrote "for and on behalf of Landillo" to Mr Walker.
The letter sought his confirmation that the maximum commission to which he and PRD were entitled was 2.25% of the purchase price of each apartment and that he would pay any forfeited deposits to the financier, Credit Agricole Indosuez Australia Limited.
Mr Walker signed and returned the letter to Mr Hung.
I accept the evidence of George Tan, Austcorp's finance director, that no Austcorp group company paid any money to PRD or Mr Walker.
But here, Austcorp, through Mr Chappell, agreed the terms on which PRD would be retained to sell Landillo's land.
Although he said that he could not recall seeing or signing a formal sales agency agreement with PRD or Mr Walker, I am satisfied that Austcorp, through Mr Chappell, appointed PRD as selling agent for apartments in the resort on the terms of Mr Walker's letter of 3 August 1999.
Even though Austcorp itself did not pay any commission to PRD, the terms of its agreement to the 3 August 1999 letter reflect Austcorp's position of control over the marketing of the unsold apartments in the resort.
And, later, when Mr Walker was engaged on 30 October 2000, Austcorp agreed that it and he would each pay $150 on settlement to any staff member of Pacific International Hotels who initiated a sale.
Again, there is no evidence that any such payment was ever made.
2.5 AUSTCORP BECOMES A PROMOTER 
 On 5 July 1999 a unit trust was established to take over the conduct of the development from Landillo.
The trustee was Dalnick Pty Limited.
It later changed its name to Austcorp Waterfront Resort Pty Limited.
That company is now deregistered.
The trustee issued 100 units in the unit trust.
Austcorp Group Pty Limited acquired 50 units.
The remaining 50 units were acquired by Richfield Developments Australia Pty Ltd, a company associated with Mr Wong.
Also on 5 July 1999, Austcorp Group Pty Limited entered into a deed with Landillo, the unit holders of the Landillo unit trust, Richfield and Dalnick.
That deed, in effect, gave Austcorp Waterfront (i.e.
Dalnick) and its directors control over the beneficial interest in the site at The Entrance and the development of the resort including the proceeds of the contracts for the sale of apartments previously entered into by Landillo.
Austcorp Waterfront agreed to meet some of Landillo's existing mortgages and debts and to pay Landillo a small fee as the price of that control and beneficial interest.
Subsequently, on 8 September 1999 Austcorp Waterfront entered into a development management agreement under which it engaged Austcorp Development Management Pty Ltd to manage the project.
That agreement had a recital that Austcorp Waterfront had agreed to provide consultancy services to, and financial accommodation in respect of, the project.
Austcorp Waterfront agreed to pay Austcorp Development Management a fee of $300,000 and 20% of the net profits for the performance of services under the development management agreement.
Austcorp Development Management agreed to be responsible for, among other matters: Austcorp relied on the provisions of the development management agreement to refute the applicants' allegation that Austcorp itself engaged in any conduct complained of that was alleged to contravene s 52 of the Act.
The applicants pleaded that: 
(a) PRD and Austcorp caused each of the leaflet and brochure to be published and that in doing so:
 Austcorp acted on its own behalf and for its own benefit; or PRD acted as agent of Austcorp pursuant to Austcorp; 
(1) having engaged PRD in the letter of 3 August 1999 to act as its and Landillo's real estate agent in the marketing and sale of the apartments;
 
(2) consenting or agreeing to PRD doing so within the meaning of the s 84(2) of the Act;
 
(b) PRD caused each of the leaflet and the brochure to be distributed to potential purchasers including each of the applicants and that in doing so it acted pursuant to Austcorp:
 
(1) having engaged PRD in the letter of 3 August 1999 to act as its, and Landillo's, real estate agent in the marketing and sale of the apartments;
 
(2) consenting or agreeing to PRD doing so within the meaning of s 84(2) of the Act.
In the context of the conduct complained of, it is not obvious what distinction the pleader sought to make between publishing, on the one hand, and distributing, on the other.
That is because the pleading went on to assert that in the case of the leaflet the relevant applicants read it prior to entering into the contract, and in the case of the brochure he, she or it was "... provided with" it by PRD.
There was no dispute that PRD engaged in the conduct which led to the leaflet, brochure and other promotional material being communicated to each applicant.
The critical issue was whether Austcorp itself had engaged in the conduct of making the representations thus communicated so as to have contravened s 52 of the Act.
2.6 AUSTCORP BEGINS WORK 
 Earlier on 30 July 1999, Mr Chappell, using his title of managing director, wrote and signed about 100 letters on Austcorp letterhead to purchasers of apartments from Landillo informing them that construction of the resort had commenced on 19 July 1999.
The letter said: 
 "...
Earlier this month Austcorp International Limited, as part of a consortium formalised an agreement with Landillo Pty.
Ltd. (the owner of the land) for the delivery of your new serviced apartment together with a guaranteed net annual return on your investment (a rental guarantee).
... 

 
 Austcorp is a successful development company with projects in New South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and Northern Territory.
... 

 
 We at Austcorp are delighted to now be involved in this very exciting development and outstanding investment opportunity which will become a major attraction at The Entrance for years to come.
" (emphasis added) 

 
Mr Hung, using his title as executive director, wrote similar letters to other purchasers on 6 August 1999.
The portions of the letter I have quoted ascribed a role in the development to Austcorp itself which it vigorously denied at the hearing.
The letter conveys a colloquial understanding of the role of the principal operating company in a group where many activities of the group are conducted by subsidiaries.
But the brand or name of the operating principal or parent is usually used in publicity and identified by the public, as Mr Chappell's letter showed.
Here, Austcorp Development Management, not Austcorp, entered into a design and contract agreement with the resort's builder, St Hilliers (NSW) Pty Ltd. In the witness box Mr Chappell read the whole letter and agreed that its contents were true and accurate.
But, when taken specifically to his express identifications of Austcorp as the company undertaking the development, he claimed that he "... was referring to the Austcorp group as the proposed development manager of this joint venture" and to "the Austcorp brand".
Mr Chappell did not suggest he made a mistake in his letter.
On the other hand, Mr Hung did say that he made a mistake in the letter's first reference to Austcorp.
Neither was a convincing witness.
I am satisfied that they wrote their words to convey the commercial reality of Austcorp's position in a way which the investors would understand.
Mr Chappell was responsible for the issue of press releases in late July 1999 concerning the project.
One draft press release was prepared announcing that: 
 "Sydney property developer Austcorp International Limited has commenced construction of the much-anticipated $36 million Pacific Waterfront Resort, located at 91 The Entrance Road, The Entrance.
" 

 The draft press release said that an executive director of Austcorp, Mr Hung, was confident that the resort would breathe new life and excitement into The Entrance.
Mr Hung and Mr Chappell at "Austcorp International" were named as two contacts for further information.
It referred in extolling terms to the nature of the development and said that Austcorp had contracted a successful builder, St Hilliers, to construct the resort.
It then referred to a number of successful projects that Austcorp had conducted and concluded with a statement by "Managing Director of Austcorp, Mr Trevor Chappell", that said: 
 'We are very pleased with Wyong Council's refreshing can-do attitude towards this important tourism project, which will bring many benefits to the Central Coast.
"' 

 That draft appeared to be the basis of an article highlighting Austcorp's role in the development of the resort that was published in the Sydney Morning Herald on 18 August 1999.
Mr Chappell asserted in cross-examination that the description of Austcorp was inaccurate and "... should be interpreted as Austcorp International [Limited] acting on behalf of Austcorp Development Management".
I reject that evidence.
2.7 THE USE OF AUSTCORP'S LOGO AND BRAND 
 Austcorp argued that I should find that the use of its logo in the brochure, the leaflet and on the building site, did not refer to it, but to a subsidiary, as the company responsible for the logo on each.
I reject this argument.
In early 1998 Austcorp applied to register a trademark consisting of its whole corporate name with the words "Austcorp" and "International Limited" separated by a depiction of a leaping kangaroo figure similar to that used in the promotional material.
That application was, however, for a mark distinctly different to the logo used on the promotional material.
There was no evidence that any applicant was aware of any particular trademark --- rather, they were aware of the general existence of the Austcorp brand or name.
That level of awareness of brand or name by members of the public is a common feature of modern life.
Ordinarily, the precise name of the owner of the brand or name is not known to those in the public to whom it has been promoted, nor is it usually of any concern to them.
Austcorp argued that, it as a distinct entity, would not be identified by the use of the logo in the promotional material, and thus an ordinary reasonable person would not consider that it was involved in the publication of the brochure.
In my opinion Austcorp associated itself with development projects conducted by the group of companies which it controlled throughout Australia.
A number of the applicants said that they recognised Austcorp as a developer or a name or large company with which they were familiar.
Thus, Austcorp's name and logo appeared on the hoarding of the development site as well as on its own letterhead and in letters written by Mr Chappell and Mr Hung on behalf of Austcorp in connection with the resort project.
Austcorp argued that the presence of its logo on the back of the brochure and on the leaflet could not be understood as indicating that it, rather than some other company within the group, had published the brochure.
It argued that people would understand that the Austcorp group member company in fact responsible for developing the project was the publisher of the brochure, or authorised the Austcorp logo to be placed on it.
Austcorp argued in that context that the publisher was Austcorp Development Management.
In my opinion these arguments are untenable.
Mr Chappell, as managing director, used Austcorp's letterhead and name to associate the company with the resort project.
Moreover, the Austcorp logo and name were intended to be a brand which members of the public would identify as the generic developer.
While Austcorp was happy to have references to "Pacific International Hotels" in the brochure read as being to an organisation, rather than to Pacific International Hotels Pty Limited, it contended that the ordinary reasonable reader of the brochure would not understand that Austcorp was associating itself with what was said in the brochure.
In my opinion, the failure of the brochure to identify a particular Austcorp group member in express terms, demonstrated that Austcorp was content to have itself associated with the development by use of its logo and its encouragement of others to invest in the apartments.
Indeed, that is how Mr Chappell and, through him, Austcorp behaved.
Mr Chappell wrote much of the wording of the brochure.
He wrote letters to the investors saying that Austcorp was the developer.
While he may not have done this with any intention to mislead people, he did it to publicise the fact that Austcorp was the active parent company responsible for the Austcorp group's overall development activities throughout Australia, including that of the resort.
Austcorp was prepared to allow a loose and ambiguous representation, connecting Austcorp with the development, to be made in the brochure.
In my opinion, this is a case where it is clear that any Austcorp company which in fact had an association with the development could be taken to have published the brochure: Webb v Bloch (1928) 41 CLR 331 at 363-366 per Issacs J; see also Abigail v Lapin [1934] UKPCHCA 1 ; (1934) 51 CLR 58 at 70-71 per Lord Wright.
Austcorp's accountant, George Tan , said that although work, including the design and production of the brochure, was invoiced to Austcorp and paid for by it, those payments were loans by Austcorp to Austcorp Development Management.
In my opinion, the reality of how Austcorp presented itself to the outside world can be seen in its letters of 30 July and 6 August 1999 to the existing investors.
Those letters demonstrated the way in which the logo was used by Austcorp as what they referred to as branding for "our projects".
That is the "Austcorp" which the public would associate with the use of its name and logo in the brochure, leaflet and on the site.
Austcorp's direct or indirect (through subsidiaries) involvement was a crucial reason that the development had begun to be built.
No-one seeing the Austcorp signs on the building site, or its logo on the brochure or leaflet, would stop to ask or think about if these identified a special purpose subsidiary.
Rather, the use of the Austcorp name on these branding symbols, created an association with the group and, importantly, with the common company involved in the group's projects ------ Austcorp itself.
Mr Chappell and Mr Hung emphasised that associative use, namely that Austcorp was now behind the resort project, by their deliberate explanation of its role in their letters of 30 July and 6 August 1999.
Now, Austcorp has been sued as responsible for the contents of the brochure and leaflet, as well as PRD's and Mr Walker's statements.
It, through Mr Chappell and Mr Hung, sought to throw up a corporate veil to shield Austcorp from responsibility for the very project they, and the promotional material they crafted in 1999, said was its doing.
I reject this attempt by Austcorp to evade recognition of the norm of conduct imposed by s 52 of the Act.
In early September 1999 one of Austcorp's development managers, Nelson Rainey , placed a post-it note for Mr Hung next to the statement on a draft of the brochure that "From day one your return will be a guaranteed 7% p.a.
" asking "Edgar is this correct?".
Later in September 1999, Mobius , Austcorp's advertising and marketing agency, asked Messrs Hung, Walker and Corne to approve the final version of the brochure.
It also sought Mr Hung's and Mr Walker's approval of the leaflet.
These contained the Austcorp logo, as I have described.
Next, on Austcorp letterhead, Mr Rainey asked architects to prepare amendments to the strata plan.
In the meantime Mr Hung, who, had primary charge of this project as between himself and Mr Chappell, as well as Mr Zantiotis, corresponded on Austcorp letterhead, and received correspondence addressed to Austcorp from, Mr Walker and Mobius.
2.8 THE CONTRACT OF SALE TO THE APPLICANTS 
 The contract for purchase had a colour cover page in the same livery as the brochure and the leaflet.
It was headed "Pacific International Waterfront Resort CONTRACT" with a representation of the same snorkeler as on the brochure and leaflet.
There were five starfish and the apartment number.
At the foot of the cover page Pacific International Hotel's logo appeared with the words "Waterfront Resort".
The contract offered investors a cognate structure for the operation of the hotel and their return on their investment.
The contract used the template of the 1996 edition of the contract for the sale of land commonly used in New South Wales.
The first page was in the usual form of that edition.
PRD was named as the vendor's agent and deposit holder, Landillo as vendor, with Coudert Bros (for Ms Tan-Bounkeua and Luciani/Taldarmar) and Teys McMahon (for Mr Owers) as its solicitor.
The purchasers' details and name of their solicitor were included as was the price, 10% deposit and balance due on completion.
In addition, there was a figure for the yearly rent which worked out as 7% of the price.
The contract had a considerable number of annexures, including many pages of special conditions, schedules of finishes, fixtures, fittings and equipment, draft by-laws, floor and strata plans.
The final two annexures were a draft services agreement between the owners corporation (for the strata plan when registered) and Mustara, and a draft lease of the apartment to Mustara.
The special conditions included cl 39.
That provided first, that the contract contained the entire agreement between the parties "... notwithstanding any negotiations or discussions held or documents signed or brochures produced or statements made by the Vendor or any agent or person on behalf of the Vendor prior to the execution of this contract" (emphasis added).
Next cl 39.2 contained a series of acknowledgments by the purchaser including that: 
 "...
 (b) in entering into this contract he has not relied upon any warranty or representation made by or any other conduct engaged in by the Vendor or any agent or person on behalf of the Vendor except such as are expressly provided in this contract but has relied entirely upon his own enquiries relating to and inspection of the property: 

 
 (c) neither the Vendor nor any agent or person on behalf of the Vendor has made any representation or warranty upon which the Purchaser relies as to: 

 
 (1) the fitness or suitability for any particular purpose of the property or the Common Property; 

 
 (2) any financial return or income derived or to be derived from the property; or 

 
 (3) as to any tax benefits or depreciation allowances in respect of the property or the Common Property;
 ... 

 
 (f) he has obtained his own independent legal advice in respect of this contract; 

 
 (g) he has satisfied himself regarding the financial and tax aspects of the transaction comprising the purchase of the property, 

 
 and the Purchaser will not make any Objection in respect of any of the matters referred to in this clause.
" 

 Under the draft services agreement Mustara was obliged to maintain, clean and generally keep the common property in good condition and repair.
Mustara was permitted to assign its interest if its assignee was respectable and financially sound to meet is obligations under the services agreement with experience in, a good reputation for and had "... the capability of conducting the business of motel/serviced apartments (sic)" from the resort (cl 10.1).
And, if Mustara underwent a change of control, its incoming controlling shareholder(s) would have to satisfy the criteria for an acceptable assignee (cl 10.2).
2.9 THE LEASE 
 In cl 44 of the special conditions of the contract the purchaser agreed on completion to enter into a lease to Mustara of the apartment in the form annexed to the contract.
The draft lease was relevantly in the same terms as the final one.
The lease required Mustara to pay a net rent for the first year equivalent to 7% of the purchase price.
The rent would be reviewed annually in later years to increase at least at the same rate as the consumer price index.
The lease contained a guarantee given by Pacific International Hotels of the performance by Mustara of its obligations over the term of 10 years.
However, cl 20.9 limited the maximum liability of Pacific International Hotels over the term of the lease to no more than the total sum of the first year's rent.
Mustara was to be the operator of the resort and that business was to be its only relevant asset.
It was also to be the lessee of those areas on the ground floor of the building which were required for the reception area, office and restaurant.
The draft lease and the lease permitted the lessee to assign, provided that it simultaneously assigned the management services agreement with the lease of the manager's lot and gave 28 days notice to the lessor.
The lessee had to give full details about the proposed assignee and any further information that the lessor might reasonably require (cl 14).
Additionally, the lease provided that if the lessee was not a listed company, then a proposed change in its controlling shareholding or that of its holding company could only be made if the person acquiring control had taken an assignment of the management services agreement and the lease of the manager's lot (cl 14.5).
Each of the applicants entered into a lease on these terms about the time of completion around August and September 2000.
2.10 THE PENRHYN PARKER CONTRACT SUMMARY 
 In late October 1999, Mr Zantiotis had discussions with Penrhyn Parker, solicitors.
On 21 October 1999, Mr Smith of that firm sent him a summary of the contract as Mr Zantiotis had requested.
Mr Smith said that the summary was meant to be a guide only and suggested that any purchaser should still see his firm in conference to go through the contract in full.
Penrhyn Parker quoted a fee for acting on a purchase of $1,000 plus likely disbursements of $400.
Mr Zantiotis responded the next day suggesting that some amendments needed to be made to the draft.
He deleted reference to an explanation about a special condition relating to goods and services tax (which in late 1999, was foreshadowed to be introduced the next year).
After they had a discussion on the phone, and a final version was produced, Mr Zantiotis sent a facsimile to Mr Walker on 22 October 1999 saying: 
 "Please find attached a summary of the purchase contract that should be made available to realistic prospective purchasers.
It is a reasonably concise summary of a somewhat large document that is easy to read.
" 

 The contract summary prepared by Penrhyn Parker extended for a little over five pages.
Both the draft and final versions contained the following explanation under the heading "Leases": 
 "The Lease is guaranteed by Pacific International Hotels.
Therefore if the lessee was to default you have the comfort of a guarantor to pursue if you wish to do so for any damages you incurred because of the default.
(emphasis added) 
 
 The summary contained no suggestion that cl 20.9 of the lease existed or that it limited the liability of Pacific International Hotels to the total of one year's rent over the 10 year term.
Of course, Austcorp and Mr Zantiotis knew of the existence of that limitation as did Mr Chappell and Mr Hung.
However, Austcorp allowed this solicitor's summary to be given to prospective purchasers even though it omitted reference to the significant qualification in cl 20.9 of the "guaranteed return".
None of the applicants received that summary.
2.11 THE DEVELOPMENT PROGRESSES 
 Later in 1999, Austcorp Development Management arranged for the strata plans to be amended and for the development approval to be modified.
All of the investors in the current dispute entered into contracts for purchase that provided that the time before which the strata plan had to be registered was 30 August 2000.
(As a result of agreed variations, the contracts made before Austcorp became involved also had the date for registration of the strata plan extended to that time.
) On 2 November 1999, Mr Zantiotis sent to Mr Walker indicative annual tax depreciation entitlement schedules for the various apartments on offer to be provided to prospective purchasers.
In mid November 1999 Mr Chappell approved a draft press release in which he was described as "... managing director of Pacific Waterfront Resort's developer, Austcorp International Ltd, Mr Trevor Chappell".
In the margins of the draft Mr Chappell wrote out some details of media publicity for the development which he was considering, including paid newspaper, an advertorial and the involvement of Alan Jones, a well-known radio personality.
The second paragraph of that draft press release stated that there were "... over $200 million of accommodation developments, totalling 800 apartments, currently approved by Wyong City Council and under construction".
One of the approved developments was for an apartment building with about 200 apartments located within a few hundred metres of the resort.
Mr Chappell knew that if this development were constructed it would be in direct competition with the resort.
Yet Austcorp did not undertake any study or analysis of how the overall increase in potential supply of accommodation at The Entrance would, if all the other 655 approved apartments were developed, affect the capacity of the operator of the resort to meet the guaranteed 7% net return over 10 years.
There were in evidence a number of drafts created in late November 1999 for "live reads" by Alan Jones, a well-known radio personality.
The "live reads" were advertisements to be read by Mr Jones live on air during his daily radio show.
The scripts named "Austcorp's Pacific International Waterfront Resort" as offering a "guaranteed 7% net return" for a minimum of 10 years and emphasised that "your 7% net return is guaranteed ".
Mr Jones was asked to emphasise the guaranteed return when he did the "live read" on air.
Mr Chappell based the use of that emphasis on his long experience in marketing developments.
Mr Chappell's reasons for emphasising the guaranteed return as part of Austcorp's general marketing strategy, were: Although only drafts of press releases and "live reads" were in evidence, I am satisfied that Austcorp used and published, or caused publication of, final versions of press releases and live reads in the same or substantially similar terms.
These had been approved by Mr Chappell or Mr Hung and they were prepared with assistance on occasion from other employees, Mobius, and a media or public relations agency, City Public Relations.
Mr Chappell accepted that final versions of these drafts were used by Austcorp itself to market the project.
He gave this evidence which I accept as revealing the true position: 
 "And Austcorp International Limited did issue press releases about the project, didn't it?
--- It did.


 
 Thank you?
--- As the manager of the project .


 
 Austcorp International Limited?
--- Yes .
" (emphasis added) 

 Austcorp argued that Mr Chappell's evidence and conduct were not admissions by it.
Where I have expressed my findings to have been made in reliance on that evidence as in the passage above, I have acted on his oral evidence as probative of the facts I have found.
It is not necessary to decide that he was authorised to make these statements as admissions by Austcorp.
However, Mr Chappell's extra curial conduct is evidence in a different category.
That conduct is capable of being found to be conduct by Austcorp through Mr Chappell as one of its officers.
And he was also capable of verifying that he acted in that capacity when giving his evidence.
Austcorp argued that in the above passage and similar evidence, Mr Chappell was "... giving evidence as a businessman and not a lawyer".
I reject that submission.
Mr Chappell was an astute and experienced businessman.
When giving his evidence, he was fully aware of the significance of corporate personality, corporate names and the issue about whether Austcorp itself had engaged in the conduct complained of.
I do not accept that he used that language loosely.
Having seen and heard him over an extended period, I am satisfied that when Mr Chappell referred to Austcorp in the witness box such as in the above passage, he was doing so consciously and advisedly.
Mr Chappell was fully capable of naming any other subsidiary which did some act if he considered that it were truly the actor.
After all, Mr Chappell volunteered that Austcorp issued press releases "as the manager of the project" in the context that this was what the press releases expressly stated themselves.
Austcorp cannot disavow the contemporaneous public admissions it had made, through Mr Chappell's conduct, of its role in 1999 in publicising the resort and generating sales.
Later, on 29 November 1999, Mr Hung wrote on Austcorp letterhead to existing purchasers from Landillo advising them of the latest progress.
He enclosed photographs which clearly depicted the large sign on the site saying "Development by AUSTCORP" and using its kangaroo logo in the same colours and scheme as on the brochure and leaflet.
Mr Hung wrote: 
 "All of us involved in the project are confident of having the building finished prior to 31 st July 2000, the final completion date under your Sales Contract.
" 

 He referred to a recent review of the strata plan and amendments to the development consent and asked for the purchasers to sign deeds of variation and the new strata plan "... and return to us".
He noted that 20 apartments had been sold since the final stage had been released in October 1999 and enclosed the brochure and the article based on a press release approved by Mr Chappell published on 18 August 1999 in The Sydney Morning Herald which commenced: "Austcorp International is to open up the Central Coast with a $36 million serviced apartment and retail development, Pacific Waterfront Resort at The Entrance".
The article referred to Mr Hung as an executive director at Austcorp and quoted some enthusiastic remarks he had made.
Mr Hung's 29 November letter left no room to doubt that Austcorp was the developer of the resort.
Of course, none of the present applicants received it, but it makes Austcorp's defence that it did not engage in the conduct complained of ring hollow.
A similar line of defence seeking to exculpate a principal for the act of its agent was criticised by the Earl of Halsbury as being like the schoolboy's game of "I did not take it, I have not got it" in S. Pearson  Son, Ltd v Dublin Corporation [1907] AC 351 at 357.
After all its activity in promoting the development and the sale of apartments in the resort, it would be extraordinary if Austcorp now could hide behind its previously hidden corporate veils.
2.12 THE DISCLOSURE STATEMENT 
 Mr Zantiotis discussed the guaranteed return and the lease with investors from time to time.
In early December 1999, he obtained a letter of advice from Chris Mitchell of Corrrs Chambers Westgarth, solicitors, about the application of Ch 5C of the Corporations Law to Austcorp in relation to its involvement with the development of the resort.
Mr Zantiotis was then unaware that on 26 August 1999 the Australian Securities and Investments Commission ( ASIC ) had granted Landillo an exemption for offers made to investors before 1 January 2000.
Coudert Bros had acted on Mr Hung's instructions to obtain this.
Mr Mitchell recommended seeking an exemption from ASIC.
Mr Mitchell reviewed a number of documents including the contract, the lease and the brochure.
Corrs Chambers Westgarth's letter referred specifically to the statement in the brochure that "your return will be a guaranteed 7% per annum".
Mr Mitchell advised that this "... seems inconsistent with the limitation of the guarantee under the Lease".
Mr Zantiotis was not concerned by this inconsistency at the time.
He took the view that when asked by potential investors about how the 7% return related to the lease and the guarantee for the 10 years that "...
I was always responsible enough to refer the contract and all its contents to their solicitors".
I formed the impression that Mr Zantiotis was a fairly straightforward witness and that he chose this response to investors' questions to enable him to avoid giving them the direct answer (exposed in Mr Mitchell's letter) while giving them access to the full contractual position through their own solicitors' advice.
Mr Zantiotis reviewed the letter from Corrs Chambers Westgarth with Mr Hung who told him that it was not necessary to get an exemption.
On 16 February 2000, Coudert Bros sought an exemption from ASIC from having to prepare a disclosure statement.
However, ASIC granted limited relief on 18 February 2000 and required that a disclosure statement be provided to intending purchasers that provided specific information.
ASIC required the statement to describe the main features and terms and conditions of the investment as well as to set a number of specific questions and to answer them.
Austcorp engaged Coudert Bros to prepare a disclosure statement, purportedly by Landillo.
It was signed on 6 March 2000 by Mr Hung as attorney of Landillo.
Mr Hung was identified in par 8 of the statement as the person from Landillo to be contacted for more information that gave his address and contact phone number as care of Austcorp at its head office address.
Although Landillo was notionally Coudert Bros' client, they reported directly to Austcorp, through among others, Mr Zantiotis.
The statement appeared to have been printed on A4 paper with two columns on each of its pages of text.
However, if anyone read the statement they would be struck by the fact that on page 3 the text in the columns dealing with "what is being offered" did not flow naturally from the base of one to the top of the next.
This dysfunction of intelligibility continued on its later pages.
This made the statement difficult to follow and in some parts it did not seem to make much sense.
The problem was calculated to frustrate the very class of readers for whom the statement notionally was provided.
It appears that the drafters of the statement, including their solicitors, had not bothered to read its final form to see if it was correct and made sense.
The document should never have been sent out in its confusing and obviously unproofed state.
And that was not the only confusing aspect of the statement.
Its substantive text was also less than pellucid.
In section 4 , headed "What are the risks and returns of the Investment?
", the statement set out the following (original emphasis and setout): (iii) Are Investors in the Scheme guaranteed or promised that they will receive a particular rate of return from the Scheme?

 Yes.
If so, 
 (A) What are the conditions for receiving the benefits of this guarantee or promise?

 
 Pursuant to clause 20 of the Lease, the guarantor unconditionally and irrevocably guarantees to the Lessor the due and punctual performance and observance by the Lessee of its obligations under the Lease.
(B) What (if any) are the circumstances in which the person providing the guarantee or promise may be unable to honour it?

 (a) In the event that the Operator/Lessee did not pay the rent and the guarantor was also unable to pay the rent, then the Guarantor would be unable to honour the guarantor.
(b) The liability of the guarantor under this Guarantee and Indemnity is limited so that the total amount that the Guarantor may be required to pay under the terms of the Lease is limited to an amount equal to the rent per month payable at the date of commencement of the term x 12 
 (c) Accordingly, if the rent was in arrears for more than 12 months, then the amount payable by the Guarantor would be limited to the 12 months rents.
Austcorp argued that the information in (B)(b) and (c) above would disabuse anyone who read the statement about the effect of cl 20.9 and the nature of the guarantee involving Pacific Hotels International.
I reject this argument.
First, the unequivocal terms of (A) in the extract set out above emphasised that cl 20 did not contain any qualification of Pacific International Hotel's liability.
"[U]nconditionally and irrevocably guarantees" were plain, clear words.
They meant what they said.
And, those words were used in answer to question (A) to explain that there were no conditions to prevent investors receiving the benefit of the plenary guarantee.
The qualifications in (B)(b) and (c) did not identify conditions for receiving that benefit.
Rather, question (B) was directed to providing an answer on a different subject, namely inability (not absence or limitation of liability) to honour the guarantee.
However, if the reader went beyond the obvious instance in (B)(a), they would have seen in (B)(b) and (c) a formal explanation of the effect of cl 20.9.
Next, the disclosure statement dealt with the question in par 4(c) "What is the financial position of the person giving the guarantee or promise" by saying merely that the guarantor was "... part of the Pacific International Hotel Group which currently manage the following ..." five named properties.
The answer also noted that that group was affiliated with Flag International.
Significantly, the statement did not give any information at all about Pacific International Hotel's financial position.
Later, it also said that the only way that occupancy rates could affect the rate of return would be if they "... were so bad that the Lessee was unable to pay the rent.
In that instance, the Investor has the protection of the Guarantee offered by the Guarantor" (emphasis added).
Under the heading "6 Who is the Operator?
" the statement simply read: 
 "The money of the Scheme will be held and distributed by the Operator.
" 

 
It is likely this was the answer to an earlier question and appeared where it did because of the printing dysfunction.
Nonetheless, this further detracted from an ordinary person in the position of an investor thinking that this document was significant or required careful reading.
The disclosure statement asserted:
 
 "The Operator [Mustara] is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Guarantor [Pacific International Hotels].
" (emphasis added) 

 The disclosure statement was no match to disabuse anyone who had the patience to read through its dense and confused terms for the powerful simplicity of the messages in the promotional material.
2.13 WAS MUSTARA A SUBSIDIARY OF PACIFIC INTERNATIONAL HOTELS?

 Originally, in the agreement made on 9 June 1998 Landillo had agreed to lease the manager's and restaurant lots to Mustara for $225,000 p.a.
But on 14 January 2000 a deed of variation increased the rent to $335,000 p.a.
in consequence of the variation of the strata plan and Mr Wong's company Richland Investment (Australia) Pty Ltd agreeing to acquire what became the three lots on the ground floor of the varied plan necessary to operate the hotel (the manager's, restaurant and the new hotel lots).
The new lots comprised most of the lobby area, the back of house or office area for the operator and the restaurant.
Richland agreed to buy these lots for $3,680,000 and contracts were exchanged on 29 December 1999.
I infer that as part of the same overall transaction, Mr Wong's group acquired control and ownership of Mustara from Pacific International Hotels in the following way.
On 13 June 2006, a notice of change in Mustara's members name or address was received by ASIC.
That change recorded a transfer of the two issued shares in Mustara to Parkes Street Pty Limited, another company associated with Mr Wong.
It noted that the shares were beneficially held by Mustara.
Earlier on 28 November 2000, ASIC received a notification of change of office holders in Mustara.
That gave an effective date of 23 December 1999 for the resignation of Mr Corne as Mustara's sole director and the appointment in his place of Mr Wong.
Mustara was deregistered by ASIC on 10 July 2006.
On 4 August 1999 Mr Corne completed Mustara's annual return for the year ended 30 June 1999.
This recorded that the two issued shares in Mustara continued to be owned legally and beneficially by Pacific International Hotels.
This was lodged with ASIC later in August 1999.
He completed the 2000 annual return on 6 October 2000 and lodged it with ASIC in early November 2000 recording the same details of Mustara's shareholding.
Next, on 9 November 2001, Mr Wong, as a director, completed Mustara's 2001 annual return and lodged it with ASIC on the same day.
It continued to record that Pacific International Hotels was the legal and beneficial owner of the two issued shares in Mustara.
Just before Mustara appointed administrators on 14 May 2002, Mr Wong lodged with ASIC three correcting documents on 1 May 2002 and a correction of one of those on 3 May 2002.
Each of the three corrections lodged on 1 May 2002 dealt with the identity of Mustara's shareholders in the 1999, 2000 and 2001 annual returns.
The three corrections commenced by stating: 
 "Share members details was not updated at the time of lodgement.
It should be as follows.
" 

 These documents then recorded that each of Pacific International Hotels and Parkes Street held one share in Mustara legally and beneficially.
In the further correction of 3 May 2002, Mr Wong changed the shareholding information in the 2001 annual return significantly by recording that both shares in Mustara were held by Parkes Street legally but not beneficially.
Also on 2 May 2002 Mustara executed a fixed and floating charge in favour of Parkes Street which was registered with ASIC on 8 May 2002.
The administrator was of the view that this charge would be void against a liquidator.
On 11 June 2002 Mustara's creditors resolved that it be wound up under s 439C(c) of the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) on the administrator's recommendation.
In his second report to Mustara's creditors of 30 May 2002 the administrator said that he was in receipt of a share transfer form in which Pacific International Hotels transferred its shareholding to Parkes Street.
The administrator reported that: 
 " The transfer of shares was effected on 23 December 1999 .
I am advised that the reason for the transfer of the shares was due to a change in the overall structure of Pacific International Hotels Pty Ltd within the group.
This restructure included Pacific International Hotels Pty Ltd divesting itself of all interests in leasehold properties and focusing on management agreements only on a national basis.
The principal [sic] was to structure the company to allow it to expand nationally without having any contingent liability on its balance sheet, as this would have restricted development.
" (emphasis added) 

 Pacific International Hotels' divestiture of its leasehold assets would have radically altered its net assets by removing about $3.5 million from its balance sheet and, if the 1998 special purpose accounts were substantially similar as at December 1999, Pacific International Hotels' unaudited net assets would have consisted of a capital profits reserve of $110,992.
Thus, in 1999 and 2000 no public record revealed that Mustara was legally or beneficially owned by Parkes Street.
There was no evidence of any public revelation prior to May 2002 that Pacific International Hotels no longer owned or controlled Mustara.
And until ASIC processed the notification of Mr Wong's appointment as the sole director of Mustara on 5 December 2000 (a week after it had been lodged), there was no public record that Mr Corne was not a director of Mustara or that any connection of Pacific International Hotels with the ownership and control of Mustara had then ceased.
None of the applicants (including their solicitors) was aware of these changes in Mustara's ownership structure prior to completion.
Indeed, the publicly available records did not reveal any change in the management of Mustara until early December 2000.
I also am satisfied that Austcorp and its officers were not aware of these significant changes in Pacific International Hotels shareholding position prior to Mustara's collapse.
There was no suggestion that Mr Chappell and Mr Hung had any contemporaneous knowledge of these matters.
The branding of the resort as the "Pacific International Waterfront Resort" remained in place until after Mustara's collapse.
There was also no evidence about the relationship between Parkes Street or Mr Wong's group and Pacific International Hotels or about how the latter was or was intended to be involved in the operations of the resort beyond the use of its name.
I find that from 23 December 1999 Mustara was not a subsidiary of or controlled by Pacific International Hotels.
There was no revelation of any of these significant changes in the disclosure statement signed on 6 March 2000.
It contained the false statement that Mustara was a wholly owned subsidiary of Pacific International Hotels.
Although the evidence is wholly documentary and somewhat scanty, it is likely that Mr Wong had sought to secure his group's investment in the manager's, restaurant and hotel lots.
Mustara's 2000 annual return, the first which could have been filed after those dealings, recorded Mr Wong as Mustara's director although it continued the old recording of shareholding.
But, it is unlikely that Mr Wong would have become a, or the, director of Mustara without his group acquiring a shareholding or that Mr Corne would have relinquished his directorship if he or his group still had an interest.
The administrator's explanation makes commercial sense in the context of Richland's entry into the contracts to acquire the three lots in the resort in late December 1999.
I infer that Mr Wong's corrections in May 2002 were genuine and resulted from earlier sloppiness.
No reason was suggested why he would have made these corrections if they were not accurate.
And, the administrator noted that he had a copy share transfer form with the same date, 23 December 1999, as the change of directors for Mustara recorded by ASIC, albeit on 28 November 2000.
2.14 COMPLETION AND MUSTARA'S LATER COLLAPSE 
 The strata plan was registered on 1 August 2000.
Shortly after, Mr Zantiotis wrote on Austcorp letterhead to the investors advising them of this saying: 
 " [w]e intend to progressively hand over the serviced apartments to the hotel operator from the end of August onwards ... once we hear from your solicitor we may extend settlement throughout September without penalty to assist you.
" (emphasis added) 

 Once again, this letter conveyed to the applicants and other investors that Austcorp itself was in control of the development and sale of the apartments.
Most investors, including the applicants, completed their purchases and executed formal leases to Mustara in the following month.
The whole development was completed and Mustara commenced operating the hotel as part of the Pacific International brand.
In October 2000, again on Austcorp letterhead Mr Zantiotis wrote to the investors advising them of the grand opening on 9 December 2000 to which they would receive a formal invitation.
The letter said that they would be welcomed by the "[d]irectors of Austcorp and Pacific International Hotels" and that those two named entities offered a 50% discount off the room rate for the weekend of the opening.
The expert valuation evidence revealed that in the year ended 30 June 2001 the resort had a 29.2% occupancy rate which rose to 40.9% in the next year.
For over one year rental returns to investors were paid at the promised level of 7% of the purchase price net of expenses.
But, in May 2002 payment of rent ceased and an administrator was appointed to Mustara.
The administrator observed in his report to creditors that his appointment followed a number of events which he had been told (presumably by Mr Corne or Mr Wong) adversely affected the tourism market in Australia generally, including the terrorist attacks in New York City on 11 September 2001, and the concurrent collapse of Ansett Airlines, a major airline company in Australia, together with the development of a large carpark opposite the hotel.
The administrator said that he had been advised by the operators that the indirect effect of the events occurring on 11 September 2001 led to a downturn in overseas travellers to Australia with a consequent oversupply of holiday accommodation for the internal market in Sydney.
That, in turn, "... led to a plunge in prices charged for rooms and increased market aggression".
He said that the shareholder of Mustara, Parkes Street, had been injecting funds into Mustara to enable it to continue to trade but as soon as that financial support was withdrawn Mustara appointed an administrator.
He also said that the development of the car park adjacent to the functions rooms at the resort had also resulted in the reduction of local guests attending the hotel due to there being no car parking facilities and that additionally, noise pollution and the presence of heavy equipment had affected the hotel's business.
He concluded by saying that "the director [of Mustara] has indicated that these factors combined with the current rental obligations in the depressed hotel industry had led to the appointment of the administrator".
The administrator reported that the company had made an average monthly loss of $161,483 in the nine month period from 1 July 2001 to 30 April 2002 totalling $1,614,826, compared to a net loss for the previous financial year of $420,678.
He commented that although it appeared the revenue of the hotel increased marginally, the costs of operating it had increased "dramatically" and that the rent, management fees and property taxes had more than doubled in the last 12 month period ending 30 April 2002.
He prepared a summary of the financial results, part of which is in the table below.

 1 July 2000 to 30 June 2001 1 July 2001 to 
30 April 2002 Revenue 
 
 Rooms 1,719,631 2,582,178 Food  Beverage 1,093,943 1,556,244 ... ... ... TOTAL REVENUE 2,838,219 4,193,106 
 
 
 Departmental Expenses 
 
 ... ... ... Food  Beverage 1,189,430 1,562,971 ... ... ...
Rent, Property Taxes  Insurance 664,208 2,397,624 ... ... ... TOTAL EXPENSES 3,258,897 5,807,932 
 
 
 NET INCOME/LOSS -420,678 -1,614,826.00 
 Also on 14 May 2002 Mustara wrote to the apartment owners.
It asserted that the hotel and tourism industry in general had been very volatile and difficult over the preceding 18 months particularly with the unexpected tragedy of September 11, the collapse of Ansett Airlines and financial strains for corporations due to the introduction of the Goods and Services Tax.
Mustara asserted that the resort, like most hotels within the industry had been undergoing tremendous financial pressures which had been exacerbated principally by: Mustara said that it had responded by significantly lowering its room rates and increasing marketing activities and that over the preceding 18 months associated companies had provided it with funding of over $1.6 million.
Mustara said that it had become abundantly clear that it was no longer commercially viable or in the best interests of its associated companies to continue that assistance.
On 14 May 2002 Pacific International Hotels, through Mr Corne, told the investors that although no administrator had been appointed to it, it was still in financial difficulties.
He said that, in essence, Pacific International Hotels had been supporting the return paid by Mustara until it had satisfied in full its maximum liability (of a total of the first year's rent) under the guarantee.
The financial collapse of Mustara raised another unexpected problem.
Because Mustara had leased the manager's, restaurant and hotel lots, its collapse meant that any new operator of the resort would need to negotiate a new lease with Richland for the lobby area, hotel administration offices and restaurant.
And, on 14 May 2002 yet another company associated with Mr Wong, The Entrance Resort Pty Limited, wrote offering investors a new deal in which they would receive 40% of their present rent but without any guarantee.
That would equate to a new return of just under 3% for those investors who had a guaranteed of 7% return.
Soon, after conducting his preliminary enquiries, Mustara's administrator wrote to the investors informing them that Mustara had lost about $420,000 for the period ended 30 June 2001 and $1.6 million for the period to 30 April 2002.
The owner's corporation (for the strata plan) retained Horwath Asia Pacific Pty Ltd, who were consultants to the tourism, hotel and leisure industries, to seek an alternate operator for the resort.
Ultimately, Mirvac Hotels, a well known hotel operator, entered into an agreement with the owner's corporation to manage the hotel.
Horwath reported that there was considerable difficulty in finding an operator to take on this burden because of the fact that Richfield owned the manager's and restaurant lots and was not under any obligation to agree terms with any operator.
In late September 2002, Howarth reported that Pacific International Hotels, Mirvac and Accor had provided proposals which included trading forecasts, although Mirvac and Accor did so with a limited knowledge of the property and its trading history and reserved their right to change those forecasts if they became aware of more information.
The following table sets out the forecast revenues by (I infer) calendar year commencing in 2003 summarised by Horwath: 
 Pacific International Mirvac Accor 
 Occ
% ADR [average daily rate]
$ Revenue
$'000 Occ
% ADR
$ Revenue $'000 Occ
% ADR
$ Revenue $'000 Year 1 50 142.00 3.1 52 144.73 3.3 55 140.00 3.4 Year 2 57 151.90 3.8 60 149.79 3.9 60 150.00 3.9 Year 3 68 162.50 4.8 65 155.78 4.4 65 165.00 4.7 Year 4 74 172.30 5.6 67 162.02 4.7 65 169.95 4.8 Year 5 74 180.90 5.9 67 168.50 4.9 65 175.05 4.9 
 In comparison the actual results by calendar year were: Year Operator Actual occupancy rate Operator's forecast occupancy rate Actual average room rate Operator's forecast average room rate 2001 Mustara 29.2% 57.0% 
 $ 166.80 2002 Mustara/Mirvac 40.9% 65% (Pacific International Hotels) 
 $ 166.80 2003 Mirvac 38.8% 52% (Mirvac) $139.67 $144.73 2004 Mirvac 43.1% 60% $174.85 $149.79 2005 Mirvac 51.2% 65% $136.72 $155.78 2006 Mirvac/The Oaks 54.2% (Detailed results from the Oaks were not in evidence) 2007 The Oaks 58.8% 
 
 More recently, another hotel operator, The Oaks Group , bought the manager's, restaurant and hotel lots from Richland in 2006.
Then, Mirvac found it could not continue to operate the resort and the operations were taken over by The Oaks Group.
2.15 OTHER ASPECTS OF AUSTCORP'S GENERAL CONDUCT 
 Austcorp also argued that in giving instructions for the publication and distribution of the brochure (and other promotional material) Mr Hung was acting only in his capacity as a director of Austcorp Development Management.
It contended that he had sent facsimile transmissions to Mobius for the preparation and printing of the brochure and that Mr Walker and PRD probably distributed the brochure on Mr Hung's instructions.
(I have also understood this submission to extend to conduct by Mr Chappell and, even if they were not directors of Austcorp Development Management, other Austcorp employees such as Mr Zantiotis and Mr Rainey.
I consider that their position was indistinguishable from Mr Hung's for the purposes of this argument.
) When the Austcorp companies' internal accounting was done the payments made by Austcorp for the brochures and Mobius' involvement were posted to ledgers of Austcorp Development Management.
In addition, Austcorp argued that the deed of 5 July 1999 (to which Austcorp itself was not a party) between Austcorp Group Pty Ltd, Landillo, Richfield, Austcorp Waterfront Resort and others provided that Austcorp Waterfront Resort had responsibility for marketing and sale of the lots.
Austcorp contended that that responsibility was passed to Austcorp Development Management under the project management deed of 8 September 1999.
Mr Hung was a director of the latter company.
Austcorp argued that these facts required a finding that Austcorp Development Management and not Austcorp engaged in the conduct complained of relating to the use of the brochure, its publication and distribution.
Mr Tan gave a number of examples of how payments for the development were made.
Some supported Austcorp's contention that Austcorp Development Management was the usual contracting party in the Austcorp group.
Mr Tan said that at the time of the development of the resort, Austcorp used its bank account as the main operating cash account.
Payments were made from that account to suppliers of goods and services to the project.
A number of those suppliers addressed their invoices to Austcorp, rather than Austcorp Waterfront or Austcorp Development Management.
After Austcorp paid those invoices from its account, Mr Tan or his staff raised book entries internally allocating the payment to the company Austcorp regarded as the entity to which the supply had been made and debiting that entity's loan account in one of the Austcorp companies' debtors' ledgers.
He said that Austcorp Waterfront had a bank account but, because Austcorp was financing the project, there were never sufficient funds in that account.
Mr Tan said that since Austcorp Group was the holder of 50% of the units in the unit trust, it provided Austcorp Waterfront (the trustee) with funds and Austcorp itself, as the investor, provided funds to Austcorp Group to finance the project.
He asserted that it was convenient for Austcorp to cause the third parties with whom the relevant Austcorp group company dealt to issue invoices to Austcorp.
And it was Austcorp's practice to pay those invoices As he said: 
 "Most of the suppliers that we have dealt with, we have dealt with for quite some time and therefore they know Austcorp very well .
And secondly, is the person who deals with the suppliers usually will carry an Austcorp International business card and that is why on normal circumstances it is very easy for them to just render an invoice to which they can refer to very quickly which is Austcorp International Limited .
" (emphasis added) 

 Mr Tan sought to explain some evidence of payments by Austcorp itself including those made to Photobition Pty Ltd, a printer for work in November 1999 which was associated with the development of the resort.
There were invoices issued by Photobition to Austcorp in its name.
Austcorp paid Photobition monthly with a cheque drawn by it for all printing work done in respect of Austcorp group projects for the previous month.
There was nothing to indicate that Photobition had a contractual relationship with any member of the Austcorp group other than Austcorp itself.
In late 1999 Mobius rendered invoices to Austcorp for designing and supplying the brochure, at a cost of about $17,000, the leaflet at a cost of about $3,000, letterhead, the covers for the contracts at a cost of about $1,600 and signage at a cost of about $14,000.
Austcorp paid those invoices.
Mr Tan identified internal accounting entries that posted these as expenses to a ledger code for promotional materials in Austcorp Development Management's accounts related to the resort project and debited them to the latter's loan account with Austcorp.
Mobius was paid by a single Austcorp cheque each month in respect of all individual invoices it had rendered to Austcorp for work done on various Austcorp projects.
Again, on their face these dealings appeared to be ones in which Mobius would regard Austcorp as its customer.
The significance of this method of doing business, which had a number of practical attractions to Austcorp as Mr Tan explained, is that third parties with whom it dealt may not always have been aware of the underlying web of relationships.
Austcorp was the apparent contracting and paying party.
The invoices were addressed to and paid by it.
But more significantly, the various individuals acting for Austcorp, were in fact its actual officers or employees and gave people with whom they dealt their personalised Austcorp business cards.
Hence, Mr Walker wrote to Mr Chappell in the capacity that his business card identified, namely the managing director of Austcorp.
Of course, the mere fact that Austcorp did not disclose to the third party the name of any subsidiary for which it was acting as an agent, did not mean that Austcorp necessarily became a party to the contract provided it disclosed that it was acting as an agent: Carminco Gold  Resources Ltd v Findlay  Co Stockbrokers (Underwriters) Pty Ltd [2007] FCAFC 194 ; (2007) 243 ALR 472 at 473 [1] , 479 [22]-[23] per Finn, Rares and Besanko JJ.
If a person is to be found objectively to have no personal liability as a party under a contract he, she or it has made, it is because the person has disclosed at or before the time of contracting that they do so as an agent, even if the identity of the principal is not then disclosed.
The general principle in contract is that " ... if a man signs a written contract, he is considered as the contracting party, unless it clearly appears that he executes it as agent only": Cooke v Wilson [1856] EngR 883 ; (1856) 1 CB (NS) 153 at 164 per Crowder J, see too at 162 per Cresswell J; Minister for Youth and Community Services v Health and Research Employees' Association of Australia, NSW Branch (1987) 10 NSWLR 543 at 558E-F per McHugh JA; H O Brandt  Co v H N Morris  Co Ltd [1917] 2 KB 784 at 793-794 per Viscount Reading CJ, 796-797 per Scrutton LJ.
The same principle must apply where the contract is made orally.
The question of whether a person so acts as to be a party is determined objectively: Carminco 243 ALR at 479 [23].
Thus, it appears on the objective material here, that Austcorp was not involved in its dealings with third parties as a mere agent or conduit for a separate and disclosed, or undisclosed, principal.
Its chosen method of doing business is likely to have made Austcorp a principal in many transactions it effected for the purposes of the project because it does not appear to have disclosed any intention to contract as an agent.
When Mr Chappell or Mr Hung made decisions, wearing their Austcorp hats, their position was distinguishable from that of acting as an agent for an Austcorp subsidiary.
In Yorke v Lucas [1985] HCA 65 ; (1985) 158 CLR 661 at 666 Mason ACJ, Wilson, Deane and Dawson JJ said: 
 "... even though a corporation acts honestly and reasonably, it may nonetheless engage in conduct that is misleading or deceptive or is likely to mislead or deceive: .... That does not, however, mean that a corporation which purports to do no more than pass on information supplied by another must nevertheless be engaging in misleading or deceptive conduct if the information turns out to be false.
If the circumstances are such as to make it apparent that the corporation is not the source of the information and that it expressly or impliedly disclaims any belief in its truth or falsity, merely passing it on for what it is worth, we very much doubt that the corporation can properly be said to be itself engaging in conduct that is misleading or deceptive.
" (references omitted) 

 Austcorp was the guiding hand and ultimately benefited from what its subsidiaries did.
It argued that its conduct vis a vis its subsidiaries should be viewed as akin to a real estate agent who passes on the vendor's instructions.
I reject that argument.
Austcorp did not confine itself to communicating what its subsidiary said, did or represented, without adopting or endorsing it: cf: Butcher v Lachlan Elder Realty Pty Limited [2004] HCA 60 ; (2004) 218 CLR 592 at 605 [38] - [40] per Gleeson CJ, Hayne and Heydon JJ.
To the contrary, the reality was that the subsidiaries were Austcorp's vehicle for realising its investment in the project.
The subsidiaries acted as Austcorp caused them to act.
While each of Austcorp and its subsidiaries was a separate legal person, acting through the individuals who were employees of Austcorp, all acted in dual capacities: cf: Hamilton v Whitehead [1988] HCA 65 ; (1988) 166 CLR 121 at 128 per Mason CJ, Wilson and Toohey JJ.
The activities of each member of the Austcorp group involved in the development and marketing of the resort were interlocking and Austcorp controlled each of them: cf: NSW Mutual Real Estate Fund Ltd v Brookhouse [1979] FCA 7 ; (1978) 38 FLR 257 at 263 per Franki J, 264 per St John J, 266 per Deane J.
Austcorp argued that the perception of its officers as to who was wearing what corporate hat at the time affected the objective relationship which was created with a person outside of the Austcorp group organisation.
In my opinion, that subjective perception is not determinative in ascertaining whether Austcorp engaged in the conduct complained of by the use of the promotional material.
The conduct of Austcorp created a situation in which people would associate it in trade or commerce as a promoter of the resort.
It argued that Mr Chappell's written communications and press releases should be understood in the context in which they appeared, namely as: 
 "... in communications being made in business by businessmen, not in a legal context by lawyers.
" 

 That may be so but its consequence is that Austcorp's submission fails at its threshold.
Austcorp conducted itself in trade and commerce as a promoter of the resort.
It did so in clear language using its exact name.
It also associated itself by the use of the logo on the promotional material.
The logo was not used in a legal document by lawyers.
It was used in trade or commerce by Austcorp to convey its association with the project, whatever may have been the legal formalities and structures in which subsidiaries of Austcorp may have participated.
The message which Austcorp wished to pass to the public was, that it, as the ultimate owner of the brand, was responsible for the development.
It cannot accept the credit and refuse to take responsibility under the Trade Practices Act for its conduct: cf: see Gardam v George Wills  Co [1988] FCA 194 ; (1988) 82 ALR 415 at 427-428 per French J; Cassidy v Saatchi  Saatchi Australia Pty Ltd [2004] FCAFC 34 ; (2004) 134 FCR 585 at 593 [39] per Moore and Mansfield JJ, 599 [65] per Stone J; see too Downey v Carlson Hotels Asia Pacific Pty Ltd [2005] QCA 199 at [40] , [48] per Keane JA (Williams JA and Atkinson J agreeing at [1], [145]).
As Keane JA observed the presence of a logo and name in a brochure or similar material can mean that a reader will be entitled to conclude that the contents of the brochure state the reasons for the involvement of the person whose logo and name were used.
Mr Chappell gave evidence, which I accept, that the use of the logos of well established companies such as Pacific International Hotels and Austcorp on the brochure gave considerable weight to the representations made in it and real assurance to potential investors that the promised net 7% p.a.
return for 10 years would be paid.
He agreed that: 
 "... the imprimatur of companies such as Pacific International Hotels and Austcorp on the brochure through their logos would give real assurance to potential investors that they would receive seven per cent net return on their investment every year for 10 years?
--- Yes.


 
 And you appreciate[d] the fact that the imprimatur of those substantial organisations , the fact that those organisations were prepared to advertise or market the property on that basis gave them comfort that those companies were absolutely confident that the guaranteed return would be achieved?
--- Yes .
" (emphasis added) 

 I am satisfied that Austcorp made the representations even if one or more of its subsidiaries did too.
Two entities can contravene s 52 of the Act simultaneously: Cassidy v Saatchi  Saatchi 134 FCR at 592 [31], [37] per Moore and Mansfield JJ, see too at 588 [13], 591 [28], 599 [65] per Stone J.
After all, a fundamental purpose of the Parliament prescribing the norm of conduct enacted in s 52 of the Act is to ensure the protection of the public, particularly consumers.
I reject Austcorp's argument that it did not engage in the conduct of providing to the applicants the brochure, leaflet and their repetitions by Mr Walker.
Austcorp was the hands and brains of its subsidiaries' conduct and Austcorp cannot evade responsibility for any contravention of s 52 by seeking to draw down between itself and them a corporate veil for the contraventions it perpetrated: cf: Hamilton 166 CLR at 128; Campomar Sociedad Limitada v Nike International Limited [2000] HCA 12 ; (2000) 202 CLR 45 at 88 [108] .
Austcorp argued that it could not be liable for Mr Walker's or PRD's conduct in distributing the brochure or leaflet or making the representations in the promotional material simply because of its involvement in their preparation or printing.
It contended that Saatchi 134 FCR at 585 [32]-[39] supported this argument.
Nothing that Moore and Mansfield JJ said there suggested that a promoter or principal (as opposed to an advertising agency that was an independent contractor) could not be liable in circumstances like the present.
Nor does any delay between Austcorp's design of the brochure and leaflet, and their dissemination to the applicants prevent Austcorp being held to have made the representations complained of.
Austcorp's conduct, when viewed as a whole, taking account of all the surrounding circumstances, brought about what it wanted; namely that the promotional material would be given to persons in the position of the applicants and that they would be induced to purchase an apartment: Barton v Croner Trading Pty Ltd [1984] FCA 195 ; (1984) 3 FCR 95 at 106-107 per Bowen CJ, Beaumont and Wilcox JJ.
PRD and Mr Walker, as much as Austcorp's subsidiaries, were intermediaries in Austcorp's marketing plan: Barton 3 FCR at 107.
2.16 THE IMPACT OF THE MARKETING MATERIAL 
 The brochure presents as a powerful marketing tool.
So too does the leaflet.
Because each of the applicants is an individual, who received and read the brochure and claimed to have been misled and deceived by it and Mr Walker's repetition or reinforcement of its contents, it is necessary to consider its effect on two levels.
(The same considerations apply to the leaflet.
) I will consider later how each of Mr Owers, Ms Tan-Bounkeua, Mr Luciani and Mr and Mrs Di Giulio understood the material [3.1, 3.2 and 3.3].
The brochure was a document prepared for distribution to the public, but in circumstances where particular members of the public would read it and, as a consequence, be interested in pursuing the "prime investment opportunity" which it promoted.
In Butcher 218 CLR at 604-605 [36]-[40], Gleeson CJ, Hayne and Heydon JJ discussed the principles to be applied where an alleged misrepresentation is made to a particular individual, even though the individual is one of a class of other persons to whom the same representation may have been made.
They held that even though a representation may have been made to a class of persons, in a case like the present it is the individuals who claim to have been mislead and the person by whom they claim they were mislead whose relationship must be examined.
The applicant for relief must establish a causal link between the impugned conduct and the loss that is claimed.
They said that this depended on analysing the conduct of the alleged wrongdoer in relation to the applicant alone and continued ( Butcher 218 CLR at 604-605 [37]): 
 "So here, it is necessary to consider the character of the particular conduct of the particular agent in relation to the particular purchasers, bearing in mind what matters of fact each knew about the other as a result of the nature of their dealings and the conversations between them, or which each may be taken to have known.
Indeed, counsel for the purchasers conceded that the mere fact that a person had engaged in the conduct of supplying a document containing misleading information did not mean that that person had engaged in misleading conduct: it was crucial to examine the role of the person in question.
" 

 
 And, Gleeson CJ, Hayne and Heydon JJ observed that it was relevant to consider the circumstances of the representor: Butcher 218 CLR at 604 [42].
Here, the claim against Austcorp was not alleged simply to be that it passed on to PRD and Mr Walker or through him to the applicants information from a vendor.
Rather, the applicants alleged that Austcorp itself engaged in the conduct of making the representations to them through the promotional material (including what Mr Walker told them).
In June 1999, Mr Walker had written to Mr Chappell saying that "the guaranteed return on investment is a prime consideration to prospective purchasers".
And, Mr Chappell agreed with that assessment based on his then experience in selling property over nearly three decades.
Mr Chappell considered a guaranteed return on an investment was obviously attractive to potential purchasers and sent a message to them that their investment was secure.
He said that, based on his experience, he held the view in 1999 that marketing an investment as having a guaranteed return was a very powerful and forceful means of marketing.
He acknowledged that one reason why it was attractive to investors to have a guaranteed return was because it told the investor that whatever happened in the market they would get the guaranteed return, even if there were some unforeseen circumstance.
I accept that evidence.
Before the brochure's wording was settled, Austcorp had used Coudert Bros, solicitors, to discuss with ASIC the use of the word "guarantee" and "net return 7%p.a.
guaranteed ten years minimum lease" in an earlier form of marketing of the resort.
With Mr Hung's approval, Coudert Bros had told the Commission, in August 1999 that the word "guarantee" was often used colloquially simply to mean '"assured" --- "a sure thing"'.
They told the Commission that, in a strict sense, the return was guaranteed.
That was because the lease which was accepted from each purchaser would provide the agreed percentage return in the amount of the rent identified by the contract (being 7% of the purchase price, payable each year).
The Commission was told that "the rent (as with all lessee obligations) is guaranteed by Pacific International Hotels Pty Limited", although Coudert Bros did not mention that guarantee was limited to a maximum of 12 months of the initial rent.
Coudert Bros addressed a concern of the Commission about a sticker that asserted a net guaranteed return with a 10 year minimum lease saying: 
 "Further the return is guaranteed (assured) in the colloquial sense.
The rent payable is a predetermined amount in no way dependant on the serviced apartment business of others.


 
 We suggest there is no sense in which the 'sticker' can be seen as making a claim which is not backed up on sale.
" 

 Austcorp was a very experienced developer skilled in marketing its projects.
It was essential that it have that skill, and exercise it, so as to ensure the commercial success of the significant projects it undertook.
The significance of the resort to Austcorp can be seen from draft press releases Mr Chappell prepared in November 1999, describing the resort project as involving Austcorp constructing a $36 million development.
That figure had been used, earlier, in an article publicising the project in the Sydney Morning Herald in August 1999.
Mr Chappell and Mr Hung spent some time considering the form and wording of the brochure before it was printed.
The marketing strategy, using the brochure, for the sale of the remaining 30% of the apartments in the resort was an integral component of the Austcorp group's involvement in the development.
The statements made in the brochure (and the leaflet) were deliberately and carefully structured by the experienced hands and eyes of Mr Chappell and Mr Hung in such a way as to attract investors to the resort.
In addition to their own skills they had expert assistance in that task from Mr Walker, solicitors and, Austcorp's advertising agency, Mobius.
Mr Rainey also assisted in drafting the brochure and reviewing it with Mobius, Messrs Chappell and Hung.
Mr Chappell understood that the statements in the brochure about the guaranteed return conveyed the meaning that the resort would be so successful that any investor would get 7%p.a.
net of expenses.
He thought that representation was lent considerable weight by the fact that well established companies like Pacific International Hotels and Austcorp were prepared to allow their logos be shown on the marketing material .
He knew the imprimatur of those companies in the brochure, through the use of their logos, would give real assurance to potential investors that they would receive 7% net return on their investment every year for 10 years.
Mr Chappell agreed that because those organisations were prepared to market the resort on that basis, investors would obtain comfort that those companies were absolutely confident that the guaranteed return would be achieved .
And Mr Chappell also agreed that the statement in the brochure that "from day one your return will be a guaranteed 7%p.a.
" was unequivocal and communicated to an investor that notwithstanding any vicissitudes in the market, they would receive that guaranteed return net of all expenses each year for 10 years.
He considered that a guaranteed return on the investment was a prime consideration for a potential purchaser.
As Mr Hung said, the use of the phrase "guaranteed return" in the promotional material was an important aspect of the marketing and enhanced Austcorp's ability to sell apartments in the resort.
The impact of the brochure (and the repetition or emphasis of some or all of its messages by the leaflet and or Mr Walker) on each applicant was immediate and, I find, lasting.
Its whole tenor was assurance, first of a 7% p.a.
net return on the purchase price, secondly, of the good location of the resort, thirdly, of the good standing of the named operator, "Pacific International Hotels" and, last, of the absence of any thing which might go wrong with the earning of the 7% net return.
The brochure presented, as it said, "a 5 star investment" and "an investment package without equal".
The guaranteed return was, in Coudert Bros' phrase "a sure thing".
Yet, despite the care and deliberation with which it was prepared, Austcorp submitted that the brochure was marketing material that contained a degree of puffery in the sense that Davies and Einfeld JJ had explained in General Newspapers Pty Limited v Telstra Corporation [1993] FCA 473 ; (1993) 45 FCR 164 at 178; Gummow J agreeing at 194.
They said that in the ordinary course of commercial dealings, "... a certain degree of 'puffing' or exaggeration is to be expected.
Indeed, puffery is part of the ordinary stuff of commerce".
A puff is something that is not meant to be taken seriously or acted on: see also Downey [2005] QCA 199 at [92] per Keane JA.
