
 INTRODUCTION 
 Over several years the respondent (Swansea) accumulated a valuable collection of artwork and antiques.
It treated those acquisitions as 'creditable acquisitions' for the purposes of s 11 -5 of A New Tax System (Goods and Services Tax) Act 1999 (Cth) (the GST Act).
They therefore attracted 'input credits' pursuant to s 11-20.
The applicant (the Commissioner) cancelled Swansea's registration under the GST Act on the basis that it was not carrying on an enterprise.
On an application for review to the Administrative Appeals Tribunal (the Tribunal), the Tribunal concluded that Swansea was carrying on an enterprise for GST purposes.
This application challenges that conclusion.
Essentially the challenge is based on the argument that Swansea was not conducting an enterprise.
Rather, it was simply a vehicle for carrying out the hobby of its sole director or, alternatively, was simply accumulating assets as an investment, but without disposing of them.
Compared with the value and number of acquisitions over the years, the value and number of sales were very small.
The Tribunal expressly concluded that the purpose of Swansea acquiring the assets was to eventually sell them at a profit.
The Commissioner complains that such a conclusion of fact was not open at all on the evidence and that to take into account the subjective intention expressed by Swansea's director was inappropriate.
In my view it was open for the Tribunal to take into account the entirety of the transactional history together with explanations regarding that history, its context and statements (both contemporaneously with the events in question and in the hearing) as to the corporate objective.
The Tribunal was not bound by rules of evidence.
In any event, the conclusion that it reached was open to it with or without the subjective evidence of purpose.
As there was a reasonable basis for the factual finding reached, and no other error is demonstrated, the conclusion should not be disturbed.
The argument that the finding could not possibly be open on the evidence, that is, that there was no evidence at all to support the finding cannot be accepted.
BACKGROUND 
 On 18 November 2005, the Commissioner decided to cancel Swansea's registration under the GST Act.
This cancellation took effect from 1 October 2001.
The basis of the cancellation was that Swansea was not 'carrying on an enterprise' within the meaning of those terms in s 25-55(2) of the GST Act.
On 17 January 2006, Swansea objected against the Commissioner's decision (the Cancellation Decision).
The objection was raised pursuant to Pt IVC of the Taxation Administration Act 1953 (Cth).
On 8 August 2006, the Commissioner disallowed the objection.
On 28 May 2008, the Tribunal set aside the Cancellation Decision and remitted the matter to the Commissioner with a direction to the Commissioner to restore Swansea's GST registration with effect from 1 October 2001 ( "The Taxpayer" v Commissioner of Taxation [2008] AATA 461).
THE TRIBUNAL'S DECISION 
 Because of the Commissioner's argument that there was no evidence upon which the Tribunal could have reached its decision, it is necessary to consider the reasons and the evidence in some detail.
The key facts identified by the Tribunal in its decision were these.
Since 1 July 2000, on the commencement of the GST Act, Swansea had spent at least $4 million on the acquisition of various artworks and antiques.
Swansea had treated that expenditure as being for creditable acquisitions in relation to which it claimed input tax credits in various business activity statements (BASs) that it lodged.
The basis for those claims was that the acquisition of the artworks and antiques was made in the ordinary course of an 'enterprise' consisting of the dealing in such items.
All of the shares in Swansea have been held by Mr Nigel Satterley either directly or through interposed companies which he controls.
Mr Satterley controls the Satterley Group, a group of companies which has substantial real estate development activities and business in Western Australia.
Swansea is, in turn, a member of the Satterley Group.
In the relevant period, Swansea's sole business was acquisition of (and the very occasional and modest sale of) valuable artworks and antiques.
It has been exclusively in that business since early 1997.
As the Tribunal noted, in Swansea's tax returns for the years following 30 June 1999 inclusive, Swansea's activities were described consistently as being 'investment in artwork and antiques'.
In the eight years to November 2005, some $4.8 million was spent by Swansea on the acquisition of 225 antique items and 87 paintings.
During the time of those acquisitions, Swansea had no employees but was provided with services by employees within the Satterley Group.
Contractors and consultants also provided expert advice on art to Swansea.
From 11 September 2003, Swansea was funded by a $1 million bank facility from the ANZ Bank.
That facility was secured by guarantees given by Mr Satterley and the Satterley Group.
Prior to that, funding was from the Satterley Group or Mr Satterley personally.
The balance sheet for Swansea as at 30 June 2004 showed that Swansea owed $2.7 million in unsecured loans to the Satterley Group and to Mr Satterley and $492,255 in respect of commercial bills arranged by ANZ pursuant to the facility.
Of significance to the Commissioner's appeal is the fact that no sales of any items occurred until November 2002 and even then, all that was sold was one antique item which had been purchased in 1998.
It was sold for a profit of $315.
In the year ended 30 June 2004, another antique item and a painting were sold at losses of $1,090 and $34,090 respectively.
In short, up until that time only one item had ever been sold for a profit which was minimal.
Subsequent sales, if any, were also modest.
It was not in dispute and was certainly acknowledged by Mr Satterley that very little attempt was made in the relevant period to actively market the artworks or antiques.
His evidence was that items were generally not advertised or displayed in galleries where they could be viewed by the public at large.
All of the antiques and most of the paintings were kept on display at the two private residences owned by the Satterley Group.
A few items were kept at the Group's head office or were loaned out for short periods of time.
The evidence of Mr Satterley, which was accepted, was that the purchased art was displayed in the offices of the Satterley Group in South Perth and was also on display in his home in Peppermint Grove and at a property owned by a related company at Quindalup.
Mr Satterley's wife was closely involved in a number of charities and regularly hosted functions in the Peppermint Grove home to enable people to view the artworks on display.
Mr Satterley gave evidence about such functions and about the acquisition of a property as a place of future residence which was expected to include an art gallery sufficient to accommodate up to 200 visitors at a time.
He gave evidence that two art dealers with whom he had regular dealings had both given advice in relation to the design and construction of the proposed art gallery.
One of those dealers was a Mr Purves.
In the Tribunal Mr Purves was cross-examined by senior counsel for the Commissioner on the purpose of Swansea establishing the collection.
From the extracts of such cross-examination below, evidence was given (on which the Tribunal relied) of specific directions given to Mr Purves (perhaps to his disappointment) that the whole purpose of acquiring the art was to make a profit and that Mr Satterley talked about money, not art.
Mr Purves said 'That's the unusualness about it': 
 But the focus of his brief was the acquisition of artwork that could constitute a great collection in due course?
--- Yes, but it was accompanied with the fact that the rule, that I had not taken much notice of before that, that it must double in value every seven years or beforehand and that's when I say that was --- in fact I wasn't sure that I wanted to do it, because it wasn't --- and then I'd put off the meeting because Mr Satterley was introduced to me by a friend who tried to introduce us earlier and I said that it's not particularly my role to treat art as a product.
But it's business and times have gone that way.


 
 You didn't have an instruction to sell art?
--- No, but I knew that was going to be part of it and not only that, I think the first conversations there was a sense of actually perhaps vetting what would have been there previously, to make sure there wasn't anything that would hold the collection back.
I could see that I was preparing a collection that would be sold in part or in a lump at some stage down the track - 

 
 I have to say in general, in very specific terms, that Nigel would be telling me to sell things that only made a profit and would instruct me to buy things that made a profit.


 
 It was my impression that Nigel would sell everything if there was a profit in it.


 
 Has Mr Satterley ever discussed selling a painting with you of real value?
--- It's a constant discussion.
It's not a specific work at all in the collection, but generally the whole collection.
When the time is right, and as I've said earlier.


 
 What has he said to you?
Rather than give it to me in reported speech, can you recall a conversation with Mr Satterley --- if you can't, please say so - in which he said to you something and you said something back to him in response in connection with a sale of paintings?
--- He said to me, "We'll watch the values.
When the time is right, and they'll have to be at least double, we'll sell" .


 
 What, the whole collection?
--- Whole or part.


 
 Do you agree with me that selling the whole of the collection is incompatible with building up a great collection?
--- In the terms of the Satterley collection, it's just something that one could be aware of.
There are cases where people have bought whole collections at good profit.
That's happened three or four times in recent years.


 
 Do you agree with me that selling, if the whole of Mr Satterley's collection were to be sold today, that would be incompatible with building up a great collection of art?
--- Well, it depends on the starting base, doesn't it?
And the fact is that this collection is being built so it can be sold.


 
 Has Mr Satterley said to you, "I'm just waiting for the day when the market is right, and I'm going to offload the whole lock, stock and barrel and turn a profit on in"?
Is that what he's said to you?
--- In basic terms, it is true.
He talks about money instead of art.
That's the unusualness about it.
(emphasis added) 

 The theme of profit making was also evident in Mr Satterley's evidence under cross-examination.
There were the following exchanges: 
 And you go on to say that all existing artwork is for sale at the right price?
--- Yes, it is.


 
 The point is, you haven't sold any at a profit, have you, during this period?
--- We haven't, but when the time is right, we will sell at a profit.


 
 Does that include the whole artwork, lock, stock and barrel?
--- If someone came along and said they'd like to buy the whole collection and the price suited me, they could have the whole lot, including yourself - 

 
 Would you say that the activity of the very few sales which have been generated since 1997 from this collection is an activity of a business or commercial purpose?
--- I believe so.
We are acquiring and putting together a collection that is to be sold for a profit.


 
 And when is it to be sold, and in what circumstances?
--- When the price is right.


 
 When is the price likely to be right?
--- I couldn't tell you when the price is likely to be right.


 
 It might never be right.
Is that one possibility?
--- I don't believe so.
The price could be right tomorrow.
I don't know.


 
 Well, I would hope that we could build up a very, very good collection that would be able to be sold for a very good profit one day.
(emphasis added) 
 In Mr Satterley's evidence he described an investment strategy, an underlying philosophy and a business philosophy in terms of acquisition and sales.
The Tribunal accepted that the few sales that had been made were made as a result of conscious decisions to actively market the items by engaging art dealers to sell them.
At this point, they had been restricted to items which were no longer desired to be kept in the 'Swansea collection'.
While Mr Satterley spoke at some length about his underlying philosophy or investment strategy, there exists no written business plan for Swansea.
The investment strategy included developing a museum quality collection and investing to achieve a 10-15 percent per annum increase yielding a doubling in value of investments over a seven year period.
The Tribunal concluded that the evidence showed that the business and commercial activities of Swansea were conducted in accordance with a pre-formulated policy coupled with a carefully devised investment strategy.
The Tribunal noted that all of Swansea's activities were characterised by systematic repetition and regularity which were consistent only with the carrying on of a business and the carrying on of an enterprise.
Swansea did not have its own bank account but detailed accounts of financial records were maintained.
An accounting package was used by Swansea.
Creditors' invoices were recorded on a monthly basis through the accounts payable system.
The system allowed all other appropriate accounting and business entries to be made in Swansea's general ledger.
Financial statements were produced annually.
The tax returns were audited by external accountants before lodging.
Prior to 2003, Swansea was engaged in very little activity apart from the purchase of artworks and antiques.
The only expenses incurred were in relation to accounting fees, fees paid to the Australian Securities and Investments Commission and other minor expenses including repairs and maintenance.
Those expenses have increased since that time.
Within the accounts of Swansea, the purchased artwork has been treated not as 'trading stock' but rather as capital or 'fixed assets', that is, it has been described under the heading of 'Property, Plant and Equipment'.
Artwork and antiques both appear to have been depreciated.
The Tribunal concluded that the evidence demonstrated that Mr Satterley as the sole shareholder and director of Swansea caused it to acquire the artworks with the intention of eventually selling them at a profit.
On that basis, the Tribunal concluded that Swansea's activities constituted the carrying on of an enterprise for the purpose of the GST Act.
It did not accept that the Cancellation Decision was justified.
The analysis by the Tribunal of the argument that Swansea was doing no more than carrying out Mr Satterley's hobby was as follows: The Tribunal rejects the respondent's assertion that the taxpayer's operations amount to a hobby.
The Tribunal finds that the facts do not support any such conclusion.
In the Tribunal's view there are no facts to support a conclusion that the applicant's activities fall within the exclusion, either on the basis that this is a private recreational pursuit or hobby of the applicant or that of [Mr Satterley].
On the contrary, the evidence shows that the business and commercial activities of the applicant are conducted in accordance with a pre-formulated policy, coupled with a carefully devised investment strategy.
The applicant retains specialist art consultants.
It keeps detailed records.
It uses a database of records.
It has an annual budget and banking facilities.
It purchases valuable property, which is insured and properly stored and housed.
All its activities are characterised by system, repetition and regularity.
Such activities are in the Tribunal's opinion consistent only with the carrying on of a business and the conduct of an enterprise.
In determining whether what was initially a pastime or hobby has developed and become a business operation or not, the use of a system and the systematic conduct of the activity is often particularly important.
The Tribunal examined the conclusions reached in Martin v Federal Commissioner [1953] HCA 100 ; (1953) 90 CLR 470 and Case N27 (1991) 13 NZTC 3229 and continued: In the Tribunal's opinion the applicant's activities cannot be said to fall within that description, having regard to the manner in which they are carried out, its corporate character and the size and scale of activities.
The fact that the artworks are displayed or stored in premises owned by related entities or by [Mr Satterley] does not convert the activity of the applicant to that of a hobby or other pastime.
Conceptually it is difficult to see how a corporate entity could be said to be carrying on a hobby or private recreational pursuit of an associated director or shareholder.
This finds support in the United Kingdom VAT cases referred to below.
It is the opinion of the Tribunal that the costs incurred by the taxpayer in the present case are neither "private" nor "domestic".
It cannot be said that these are:
 
 "Losses and outgoings which relate solely to the house, home or family organization of the person incurring them.
(CTBR (NS) Vol 5, Case 50 at 332).
" 
 The Tribunal then examined and compared a number of cases, particularly those involving United Kingdom Value Added Tax, including Tarrakarn Ltd v CE Commissioners [1996] VDR 516, Ian Flockton Developments Ltd v Commissioners of Customs and Excise [1987] STC 394, and KPL Contracts Limited v Commissioners for Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs LON/04/1605 Decision Number V 19629.
Further the Tribunal considered the cases Applicant for an Australian Business Number v Registrar of the Australian Business Register [2007] AATA 63 , Block v Commissioner of Taxation [2007] AATA 1897 , and Case U79 8780 C465 and continued: Overall, the Tribunal finds that the activities of the applicant are consistent with the conduct of a business.
The expenditure incurred in relation to the acquisition of paintings and artworks would in the Tribunal's view be deductible under s 8-1 of the ITAA 1997 , and would not be excluded by s 26-50.
In fact the taxpayer has accounted for the artwork and paintings as plant and equipment, and has not claimed a deduction for the purchase of such items.
The taxpayer has accounted for such items as plant and equipment because the taxpayer did not expect to sell those items within 12 months of purchase.
In the Tribunal's opinion that does not defeat the taxpayer's purpose of embarking on the acquisition and eventual sale of artwork and antiques at a profit which is a business for both income tax or GST purposes.
In the Tribunal's opinion the operations and activities of the taxpayer over a period of seven years also establish clearly the carrying on of an enterprise for GST purposes.
The activities are in the Tribunal's view clearly activities done in the form of a business or in the form of an adventure or concern in the nature of trade: s 9-20 of the GST Act .
The Tribunal finds that at all relevant times it was the intention of [Mr Satterley], as the shareholder and director of the applicant, to acquire and to hold the paintings and the artwork, including antiques, with a view to turning these to account when circumstances are right, in order to derive a profit.
The Tribunal takes the view that the income on sale of such artworks and antiques will be assessable income.
It is highly unlikely that such proceeds would not form part of the taxable income of the applicant when in due course they are sold.
As the High Court has held, as a general proposition, in McNeil a gain derived from property had the character of income and this included a gain to an owner who has waited passively for that return, at [21].
On the evidence before the Tribunal all of the indicators identified in matters such as Ferguson supra , Stone supra and Ell supra are present and satisfied.
There is and has always been the requisite intention to make a profit.
The activities are organized and are carried out in a businesslike fashion.
The Tribunal also notes that the dictionary definition of "trade" also refers to "a purchase, sale, or exchange".
The volume of capital employed in the relevant purchases is also clearly significant.
The Tribunal notes that, on the authority of what Hill J said in Stone at para 64, [Mr Satterley's] state of mind is clearly relevant.
What differentiates the case of a taxpayer engaged in business and one engaged in a hobby is the purpose for which the activity is carried on.
The profit motive is important in leading to the conclusion that the activity undertaken is a business.
The evidence demonstrates that [Mr Satterley], as the sole shareholder and director, caused the applicant to acquire the artworks with the intention of eventually selling them at a profit.
The Tribunal finds that the applicant's activities constitute an enterprise for the purposes of the GST Act .
STATUTORY FRAMEWORK 
 Carrying on an enterprise includes doing anything in the course of the commencement or termination of the enterprise.
An enterprise, then, is defined as having the same meaning as that given by s 9-20 of the GST Act.
Section 9-20 of the GST Act relevantly provides: 
 9-20 Enterprises 

 
 (1) An enterprise is an activity, or series of activities, done: 

 (a) in the form of a *business; or 
 
 (b) in the form of an adventure or concern in the nature of trade; or 
 
 ... (emphasis added) 
 A business is by s 195-1 is defined as: 
 ...
 business includes any profession, trade, employment, vocation or calling, but does not include occupation as an employee.
... 
 Certain other definitions are also relevant including s 11-10, the meaning of acquisition and s 11-15, the meaning of creditable purpose.
Relevantly, those two terms are defined respectively as follows: 
 11-10 Meaning of acquisition 

 
 (1) An acquisition is any form of acquisition whatsoever.


 
 (2) Without limiting subsection (1), acquisition includes any of these: 

(a) an acquisition of goods;
 
 ... 

 
 11-15 Meaning of creditable purpose 

 
 (1) You acquire a thing for a creditable purpose to the extent that you acquire it in *carrying on your *enterprise .
... (emphasis added) 
 For the purposes of Div 23 Pt 2-5 of the GST Act, s 23-10 provides: 
 (1) You may be *registered under this Act if you are carrying on an *enterprise (whether or not your *GST turnover is at, above or below the *registration turnover threshold).


 
 (2) You may be *registered under this Act if you intend to carry on an *enterprise from a particular date.


 
By s 23-15, there was a threshold level which Swansea clearly passed.
Finally, in terms of the GST Act, the Commissioner 'must' cancel registration under s 25-55 amongst other reasons if the Commissioner is satisfied that the taxpayer is not carrying on an enterprise.
QUESTIONS OF LAW 
 The Commissioner's amended notice contends that the following 'questions of law' are raised on the 'appeal': Whether having regard to the undisputed facts as found and the admissions made by Mr Satterley it was open to the Tribunal to hold that by reason of the circumstances relating to Swansea's past and intended future activities that it has at all relevant times been carrying on an enterprise done 'in the form of a business' or 'in the form of an adventure or concern in the nature of trade'; Whether the apparent legislative intention in s 9-20 of the GST Act was that the form of an activity by itself will suffice to bring the activity within the definition of 'enterprise' or whether it is necessary that the substance of the activities must also amount to the carrying on of a business or adventure in the nature of trade (see the Tribunal's reasons at [113]); Whether, in circumstances in which the relevant activities are carried on through a company structure which is, in effect, the alter ego of Mr Satterley, it is nevertheless open to conclude that the relevant activities are a private recreational pursuit or the pursuit of a hobby carried on by the taxpayer company for the benefit of Mr Satterley (see Tribunal's reasons at [167]); Whether having regard to the undisputed facts as found and the admissions made by Mr Satterley in his evidence, the Tribunal should have further held that the activities of Swansea amounted only to long term private investment and not to the carrying on of an enterprise as defined.
GROUNDS OF APPEAL 
 On the first 'question of law', (whether an enterprise) the grounds of appeal are reasonably extensive.
They are: 
4.1.1 The Tribunal erred in law in holding that by reason of the circumstances relating to Swansea's past and intended future activities, Swansea has, at all relevant times, been carrying on an enterprise, done 'in the form of a business' or 'in the form of an adventure or concern in the nature of trade' (see Tribunal's reasons at [104]).
4.1.2 The Tribunal should have held upon the application of the provisions of the relevant statutory scheme, properly construed and applied to the undisputed facts as found and the admissions made by Mr Satterley in his evidence, that:
 
(a) Swansea was not carrying on an 'enterprise' for the purposes of s 9-20 of the GST Act and was therefore not entitled to be registered under the GST Act pursuant to s 23-10;
 
(b) the activities of Swansea during the relevant periods in relation to the acquisition of antiques and artworks had no significant business or commercial purpose and were merely the expression of Mr Satterley's private hobby or interest in collecting and appreciating such items; and
 
(c) Swansea was carrying on a private recreational pursuit or hobby in terms of s 9-20(2)(b) of the GST Act.
4.1.3 The Tribunal's holding referred to in 4.1 above was not reasonably open on the undisputed facts as found and the admissions made by Mr Satterley in his evidence.
4.2.1 The Tribunal erred in law in holding that Swansea's acquisition of artwork was a process of acquiring and consolidating a valuable collection of sound saleable artwork, in order to turn it to account profitably and which all took place as part of carrying on an enterprise, and not as an investment and hobby or recreational pursuit (see Tribunal's reasons at [105]).
4.2.2 The only conclusion properly open on the facts as found and the admissions made by Mr Satterley in his evidence was that Swansea's fundamental intention was to build and establish one of the great private collections of art in Australia, and accordingly the Tribunal should have held that the relevant activities of Swansea were not an enterprise for the purposes of s 9-20 of the GST Act.
4.3.1 The Tribunal erred in law in finding that none of the indicia relied upon by the Commissioner in taxation Ruling TR 97/11 and referred to in [146.1], [146.2], [146.3], [146.4], [145.5] and [146.7], was present in the matter subject to review (see Tribunal's reasons at [146]).
4.3.2 The Tribunal should have found that the indicia on which the Commissioner relied were in fact present on the undisputed facts as found by the Tribunal and the admissions made by Mr Satterley in his evidence.
4.3.3 The Tribunal's finding that none of the said indicators was present was not reasonably open on the basis of the Tribunal's undisputed findings of fact and the admissions made by Mr Satterley in his evidence.
4.4.1 The Tribunal erred in law in holding that 'in both an income tax and GST context there is no doubt that the activities of the applicant [Respondent] constitute the activities of a business' (see Tribunal's reasons at [147]).
4.4.2 The only conclusion reasonably open on the undisputed facts as found and the admissions made by Mr Satterley in his evidence was that the activities of Swansea did not constitute the activities of a business in either an income tax or GST context.
4.5.1 The Tribunal erred in law in finding that there are no facts to support the conclusion that Swansea's relevant activities were the pursuit of a recreational pursuit or hobby of either Swansea or Mr Satterley (see Tribunal's reasons at [162]).
4.5.2 The undisputed facts as found and the admissions made by Mr Satterley in his evidence did support the conclusion that Swansea's activities were a private recreational pursuit or hobby in terms of s 9-20(2)(b) of the GST Act.
4.5.3 The only proper conclusion open on the facts as found and the admissions made by Mr Satterley in his evidence was that the activities of Swansea did constitute the pursuit of a recreational pursuit or hobby by either Swansea or Mr Satterley.
4.6.1 The Tribunal erred in law in finding that the matters outlined in [163] of its reasons are consistent only with the carrying on of a business and the conduct of an enterprise.
4.6.2 The undisputed facts as found and the admissions made by Mr Satterley in his evidence are consistent with the pursuit of a recreational pursuit or hobby or long term investment strategy, not being the carrying on of a business.
4.7.1 The Tribunal erred in law in holding that the expenditure incurred in relation to the acquisition of paintings and artworks would, in the Tribunal's view, be deductible under s 8-1 of the Income Tax Assessment Act 1997 (Cth) (the ITAA 1997) (see Tribunal's reasons at [184]).
4.7.2 To the extent that such holding is relevant, the Tribunal should have held that outgoings incurred on the acquisition of paintings were not necessarily incurred in gaining Swansea's assessable income or in carrying on a business for the purpose of gaining or producing assessable income, but rather in the pursuit of Mr Satterley's private recreational interest or hobby of collecting and appreciating art.
4.8.1 The Tribunal erred in law in finding that at all relevant times it was the intention of Mr Satterley, as the shareholder and director of Swansea, to acquire and to hold the paintings and artwork, including antiques, with a view to turning these to account when circumstances are right, in order to derive a profit (see Tribunal's reasons at [186]).
4.8.2 On the undisputed facts as found and the admissions made by Mr Satterley in his evidence, the only finding properly open to the Tribunal was that the paintings and artwork were acquired for the sole or dominant purpose of pursuing Mr Satterley's private recreational interest or hobby in collecting and appreciating art.
For the remaining three questions of law, the grounds are much briefer.
For the second question of law (form versus substance), the grounds, in effect, simply repeat the question of law.
They are that the Tribunal erred in law in holding that the apparent legislative intention was that the form of the activity by itself will suffice to bring the activity within the definition of 'enterprise' (see Tribunal's reasons at [113]).
The Commissioner contends that the legislative intent is that it is the substance of the activities which must also amount to the carrying on of a business or adventure in the nature of trade.
On the third 'question of law' (a hobby), the grounds of appeal are that the Tribunal erred in law in holding that conceptually it was difficult to see how a corporate entity could be said to be carrying on a hobby or a private recreational pursuit of an associated director or shareholder.
The ground of appeal is that the Tribunal should have effectively lifted the corporate veil to recognise that the taxpayer company was the alter ego of Mr Satterley.
On the fourth 'question of law' (long term private investment), the grounds of appeal were that it was open for the Tribunal to conclude on the undisputed facts as found and the admissions made by Mr Satterley in his evidence that it was his intention to acquire and to hold paintings and artwork including antiques with a view to turning these to account when circumstances were right in order to derive a profit and, accordingly, on that evidence, the Tribunal should further have held that Swansea's activities amounted only to long term private investment and not the carrying on of an enterprise as defined.
Competency of the Appeal --- Is there a Question of Law?
There is a threshold question as to the competency of the appeal.
In assessing Swansea's competency argument three issues arise.
The first is to identify the Court's jurisdiction.
The second is to determine whether the conclusion reached by the Tribunal was one of law or one of fact.
The third arises if the conclusion reached was one of fact.
The third issue is to consider whether there can be any circumstances in which a conclusion of fact is amenable to review.
As far as the jurisdiction of the Court is concerned, s 44(1) of the Administrative Appeals Tribunal Act 1975 (Cth) (the AAT Act) provides as follows: 
 44 Appeals to Federal Court of Australia from decisions of the Tribunal 

 
 Appeal on question of law 

 
 (1) A party to a proceeding before the Tribunal may appeal to the Federal Court of Australia, on a question of law , from any decision of the Tribunal in that proceeding.
(emphasis added) 
 In Birdseye v Australian Securities and Investments Commission (2003) 76 ALD 321 Branson and Stone JJ observed that an appeal from the Tribunal to the Federal Court must be on a 'pure question of law'.
It has also been clarified that the existence of a question of law is not simply a qualifying condition to ground the appeal but also the subject matter of the appeal itself: TNT Skypack International (Aust) Pty Ltd v Federal Commissioner of Taxation [1988] FCA 119 ; (1988) 82 ALR 175 at 178 per Gummow J.
In Birdseye (2003) 76 ALD 321 Branson and Stone JJ agreed with the comments of Ryan J in Lambroglou's case ( Australian Telecommunications Corporation v Lambroglou (1990) 12 AAR 515) , observed that: 
 O 53 r 3(2) discloses an intention that a question of law to be raised on an appeal from the tribunal should be stated with precision as a pure question of law.
It is in the specification of the grounds relied upon in support of the orders sought that, in our view, one should expect to find the links between the question of law, the circumstances of the particular case and the orders sought on the appeal.

 Brennan J in the High Court in Waterford v Commonwealth [1987] HCA 25 ; (1987) 163 CLR 54 (at 77) observed: 
 A finding by the A.A.T.
on a matter of fact cannot be reviewed on appeal unless the finding is vitiated by an error of law.
Section 44 of the A.A.T.
Act confers on a party to a proceeding before the A.A.T.
a right of appeal to the Federal Court of Australia "from any decision of the tribunal in that proceeding" but only "on a question of law".
The error of law which an appellant must rely on to succeed must arise on the facts as the A.A.T.
has found them to be or it must vitiate the findings made or it must have led the A.A.T.
to omit to make a finding it was legally required to make.
There is no error of law simply in making a wrong finding of fact.

 In Comcare v Etheridge [2006] FCAFC 27 ; (2006) 149 FCR 522 , the Full Court held that 'on a question of law' is narrower than an appeal that merely involves a question of law.
The subject matter of an appeal under s 44(1) is of the same character as the subject matter of a reference of a question of law to the Court under s 45 of the AAT Act.
In Australian Broadcasting Tribunal v Bond [1990] HCA 33 ; (1990) 170 CLR 321 at 356, Mason CJ said: 
 Thus, at common law, according to the Australian authorities, want of logic is not synonymous with error of law.
So long as there is some basis for an inference --- in other words, the particular inference is reasonably open --- even if that inference appears to have been drawn as a result of illogical reasoning, there is no place for judicial review because no error of law has taken place.

 Further, in Blackwood Hodge (Aust) Pty Ltd v Collector of Customs (No 2) [1980] FCA 96 ; (1980) 47 FLR 131 , Fisher J in the Full Court (at 145) observed: 
 It is my firm view that this Court when hearing appeals from a Tribunal constituted for the purpose of reviewing decisions of [an administrative] nature should adopt a restrained approach.
Parliament contemplated that only in exceptional circumstances should the decision of the Tribunal not be the final decision .
(emphasis added) 
 Although the basic proposition that an 'appeal' from the Tribunal is confined to a question of law is well understood, distinguishing between a question of law and a question of fact on occasions is less straight forward.
The High Court in Craig v South Australia [1995] HCA 58 ; (1995) 184 CLR 163 at 186 said that almost any question that arises for determination by a judge can be 'dressed in the garb of a question of law' and in Collector of Customs v Agfa-Gevaert Ltd [1996] HCA 36 ; (1996) 186 CLR 389 at 394 that: 
 Notwithstanding attempts by many distinguished judges and jurists to formulate tests for finding the line between the two questions, no satisfactory test of universal application has yet been formulated.

 Swansea submits that the question of whether or not it was carrying on an enterprise is a question of fact.
By comparison and in the context of carrying on a business, in Federal Commissioner of Taxation v Shields (1999) 42 ATR 504, O'Connor J said at [21]-[23]: A number of other submissions of the same kind were made repeating the gist of those referred to.
None in my view demonstrated any perversity or failure to consider the evidence before the decision maker.
Whether the respondent carried on a business is a question of fact.
The test to be applied in forming a conclusion as to that issue is both subjective and objective.
Regard is to be had to the nature and extent of the activities undertaken and the purpose of the individual engaging in them ( Martin v FCT [1953] HCA 100 ; (1952) 90 CLR 470 at 473 [1953] HCA 100 ; ; 5 AITR 548 at 550-1; 10 ATD 37 at 39 per Webb J).
The decision-maker accepted the evidence of the respondent who gave evidence before him and gave it weight in coming to his decision.
The submission that the conclusion reached was perverse or that material evidence was disregarded is not supported by a balanced reading of the decision.
It is clear from the transcript (to which I was taken during the hearing) that the decision-maker saw his conclusions as "finely balanced".
After detailed consideration he decided the question of whether he was "carrying on a business" in favour of the respondent.
On all the material presented to the court he was entitled to do so.
No error of law has been established.
