
 The origin and nature of the present dispute
 At an age when the limit of many a man's ambition is frequently little more than a long and tranquil retirement, Jorge De Moya (Mr De Moya) embarked upon a bold, new project --- the establishment of a large olive grove near Wallowa in the Mallee Country in Central Western Victoria, the on site production of olive oil of the highest quality from the fruit of the grove and the exporting of that product to an apprehended market in the United States of America.
To observe Mr De Moya as I did closely, especially during his time in the witness box, but also during his regular attendance in the course of a lengthy trial, as well as to learn in evidence something of his background, is to gain an understanding of why such a limit proved utterly foreign to him.
He is an articulate man of great natural dignity, obvious intelligence and no little pride.
He approached the undertaking of the project with drive and determination.
I formed the clear impression that in so doing and characteristically he set high standards for himself and expected the same of those who came to be engaged in the project.
An awareness of Mr De Moya's character and background assists in understanding the origins of the present litigation and the claims that have come to be made.
Mr De Moya was born in Santiago, Cuba in January 1932.
He was educated in the United States, graduating from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1953 with a Bachelor's Degree in Civil Engineering.
After graduation Mr De Moya returned to Cuba, where he practised as an engineer in a private company between 1953 and 1960.
In 1960 , shortly after Fidel Castro came to power, Mr De Moya quit Cuba suddenly with his wife and their then six children.
The family arrived in Miami, Florida in the United States of America with neither money nor other assets.
Initially, Mr De Moya was forced to engage in menial employment just to support his family.
Gradually, he secured employment in the field of engineering.
Over the course of the ensuing decades Mr De Moya came eventually to hold the position of chairman of a very successful private civil engineering company called the De Moya Group, which to this day engages in the construction of roads and bridges, principally in the State of Florida.
Mr De Moya's now seven children are the shareholders in the De Moya Group.
By 1997, Mr De Moya was semi-retired from his involvement with the operations of the De Moya Group.
He came to Australia on holidays.
Our country soon came greatly to attract him.
When in Adelaide in the course of his holiday he was provided with a Department of Primary Industries brochure concerning the growing of olives for olive oil.
Even though he was without prior experience in the growing and processing of olives, the challenge of doing this intrigued and appealed to him.
He undertook further research and this, in turn, led to his embarking on a tour of Europe, particularly its Mediterranean regions, where he made further investigations of the olive oil industry.
This further research and tour confirmed his interest in the growing of olives and in the associated production of olive oil.
Even at this stage he envisaged the exporting of the olive oil to the United States.
In November 1997, Mr De Moya caused the Applicant, Olivaylle Pty Ltd (Olivaylle), to be incorporated in South Australia.
In its name, Olivaylle recalls a purpose it has come to fulfil, "valley of olives".
Following Olivaylle's incorporation, a unit trust known as the Olivaylle Unit Trust was settled of which Olivaylle became and remains the trustee.
All of the units of the trust are held by the Atalaya Corporation, a company incorporated in the Cook Islands, which is controlled by the members of the De Moya family.
Mr De Moya has been the managing director of Olivaylle ever since its incorporation.
On the evidence, there can be no doubt that he exercises a high degree of control over it in its corporate trustee capacity.
There is no suggestion on the evidence that Olivaylle has acted other than in that capacity.
These preliminaries completed, Mr De Moya embarked upon a search for a suitable site for the olive grove.
He came to select a property of some 800 hectares at Telopea Downs near Wallowa.
His investigations disclosed that the region in which it was located had a "Mediterranean" climate --- long, wet winters and dry, hot summers.
Further, the property's soil was sandy, offering, as he saw it, good drainage and preventing the threat presented to the viability of olive trees if their roots are kept damp ("wet feet").
Olivaylle acquired the property on 8 April 1998.
When acquired by Olivaylle the property was in a very raw state.
There was mallee tree scrub to be cleared, service roads to be planned and built, related road base to be quarried, sheds for plant, equipment and other uses to be constructed, housing for employees permanent and seasonal to be established, water licences to be acquired and a bore to be sunk, olive groves and associated irrigation to be designed and laid out and a planting programme to be devised and embarked upon.
All of this took time and money.
To date, Olivaylle has expended in excess of $A12 million in the acquisition and development of the property as an olive grove and in the acquisition and commissioning of an on-site olive oil processing line and bottling plant.
Funding for these acquisitions and activities has come by way of loans from the Atalaya Corporation to Olivaylle.
Over the course of 1999 and 2000 the first stage of the olive grove was planted.
A variety of olive tree types was selected for planting --- Nevadillo Blanco, Corrgiola and Paragon (Frantoio).
Almost 80,000 olive trees were planted.
After planting olive trees take about 3 years to start to bear fruit.
They do not reach full fruit bearing maturity until about 7 or even 10 years after planting.
This imposed both a necessary lag on the project but also, as I find, as the prospective fruit bearing maturity date approached, lent a degree of urgency on the part of Olivaylle and Mr De Moya in particular to the satisfactory commissioning of a plant for the processing of the olives.
One task which Mr De Moya undertook while waiting for the first stage of the grove to reach maturity was the investigation of the type of plant and equipment used internationally by olive oil processors and manufacturers.
Once again, his inquiries were principally directed to processors in Mediterranean countries.
That direction of inquiry was not co-incidental.
Olives have been grown and processed for oil in such countries for centuries.
He came to learn of the following manufacturers of equipment for the processing of olives --- Hiller, Palacin, Westfalia, Pieralisi, Alfa Laval and the Respondent, a company now known as Flottweg AG (Flottweg).
Flottweg is a long established, successful German company.
It is headquartered in Vilsbiburg, 60 km Northeast of Munich.
Increasingly over the course of the last half century it has come to specialise in the design, development and manufacture of industrial separators --- decanter centrifuges.
Most of its production is for the export market.
Its separators have a range of industrial applications including in the production of olive oil.
Of the thousands of separators that Flottweg had produced, by 2003 it had produced about 600 for use in olive oil processing, especially for producers in various Mediterranean countries --- Greece, Spain, Italy, Syria and Tunisia.
On the evidence I am quite satisfied that there was then and remains considerable corporate knowledge within Flottweg of separation technology and its industrial applications, including in the processing of olive oil.
By the second half of 2003 Mr De Moya had drawn together the results of his investigations.
He produced for Olivaylle a document entitled "New Olive Oil Plant Equipment Design Criteria" (the Design Criteria Document).
Though it will be necessary later to consider the Design Criteria Document and its role in this matter in greater detail, on its face the document gives the impression of reflecting wide ranging research and bears the hallmarks of an author with formal qualifications and experience in engineering.
In late 2003 Olivaylle circulated the Design Criteria Document to various companies soliciting interest in the supply to it of a production line for the processing of its olives into olive oil.
As a result, and via Flottweg's Spanish agent, Palacin, the Design Criteria Document came to Flottweg's attention in November 2003.
In the result, it was Flottweg with which Olivaylle came to enter into contractual relations.
Negotiations and exchanges of correspondence directed to that end commenced in December 2003 and continued throughout 2004.
These negotiations were both extensive and intensive.
They ranged across both the mix of equipment that would comprise the production line, the characteristics of that line, both as desired by Olivaylle and as Flottweg was prepared to offer, and related costs.
They were undoubtedly conducted at arm's length on behalf of two companies controlled by persons well experienced in business.
Fully to detail the ebb and flow of these negotiations, their form and participants, as charted in the evidence, written and oral, would add unnecessary length to these reasons for judgement, unnecessary because it could not, as I find, alter their culmination or assist in the construction of the contract that was that culmination.
It will though be necessary to refer in the course of this judgement to some aspects of the anterior negotiations and correspondence in light of particular submissions made by the parties and for the insight they offer in relation to the attitudes and behaviours of particular key representatives of the parties.
It is admitted on the pleadings that these negotiations culminated in Olivaylle's entry into a written contract with Flottweg on 8 February 2005 (the Contract).
In form, on 8 February 2005, Flottweg's Export Manager in Germany, Ms Barbara Hofer, sent by email from Germany to Dr Stuart Paterson, Flottweg's Australian representative, based in Roseville, New South Wales, a detailed quotation.
This quotation was, in turn, sent by Dr Paterson to Olivaylle under cover of an email of 10 February 2005 addressed to Mr De Moya.
There is no doubt that Olivaylle agreed with the terms specified in this quotation or that it was in response to this that Olivaylle came to make its further payments to Flottweg.
As it has not been submitted by either party that anything of significance turns on the giving of a more precise description to the date of agreement between the parties and of character of the document dated 8 February 2005, I propose to act on the basis of the admission made by the parties on the pleadings, even though strictly, the date of communication of the quotation to Olivaylle was 10 February, not 8 February, 2005.
An analysis of the application of the law with respect to the formation of the Contract and a lengthy excerpt from it appear later in this judgement.
In the course of Olivaylle's closing oral submissions, it was alternatively submitted that the contract for the supply of the production line was made in October 2004 and confirmed in February 2005.
