
 INTRODUCTION 
 On 18 February 2009, Aurium Resources Limited (Aurium or the company), a listed public company, which is the respondent in these proceedings, published to its members (shareholders) and the Australian Stock Exchange (ASX) a Notice of General Meeting (Notice), in which the sole agenda item was an ordinary resolution for the approval of the new issue of securities, and an Explanatory Memorandum.
The Notice advised that the general meeting would be held at 35 Great Eastern Highway, Rivervale, Western Australia 6103 on Thursday 26 March 2009 at 11am (WDST).
The agenda item was specified in the following terms: 
 Ordinary Resolution 

 Approval of new issue of Securities 
 
To consider, and if thought fit, pass with or without amendment, the following resolution as an ordinary resolution:
 
That for the purposes of ASX Listing Rule 7.1 and for all other purposes, the Company approves and agrees to the issue of 35,000,000 ordinary fully paid shares in the capital of the Company to Greater Pacific Gold Limited as consideration for the variation of the Joint Venture Agreement entered into between the Company and Greater Pacific Gold Limited on the terms and conditions set out in the Explanatory Statement accompanying this Notice of Meeting.
The Agenda further provided as follows: 
 Voting Exclusion: 
 In accordance with ASX Listing Rule 7.3.8, any votes cast on the Resolution (other than by a person as proxy for a member who is entitled to vote where the instrument of proxy specifies how the proxy is to vote on the Resolution, or by the chairman of the Meeting as an undirected proxy for a member who is entitled to vote) by, or on behalf of, Greater Pacific Gold Limited or any other person who may participate in the proposed issue or who might obtain a benefit, except a benefit solely in the capacity of a holder of ordinary securities, if the Resolution is passed, or any of their respective associates, will be disregarded.


 
 Record Time 
 The Company may specify a time, being not more than 48 hours before the meeting, at which a record of shareholders will be taken for the purposes of determining entitlements to vote at the meeting.


 
 The Company's directors have determined that as all shares of the Company are quoted on ASX, 11.00 am (WDST) on Tuesday 24 March 2009, being 48 hours before the meeting will, for the purposes of determining voting entitlements at the General Meeting, be taken to be held by the persons who are registered as holding the shares at that time.

 The Notice was issued under the signature of Graham D Anderson, Company Secretary, who had earlier that day settled the terms of the notice with the chairman of the board of directors of Aurium, Mr Peter Remta.
The Explanatory Memorandum that accompanied the Notice had also been settled by Mr Remta in his capacity as chairman of the board of directors.
The Explanatory Memorandum relevantly provided: 
 INTRODUCTION 
 This Explanatory Memorandum has been prepared for the information of Shareholders in connection with the General Meeting of Shareholders to be held on Thursday, 26 March 2009 at 11.00am (WDST).


 
The purpose of this Explanatory Memorandum is to provide Shareholders with all information known to the Company which is material to a decision on how to vote on the Resolution set out in the accompanying Notice of General Meeting.
This Explanatory Memorandum:
 is a brief explanation of the matters for which Shareholder approval is sought by the Resolution; and forms part of and should be read in conjunction with the accompanying Notice of General Meeting.

 APPROVAL OF NEW ISSUE OF SHARES 
 The Resolution outlined in the Notice proposes the approval pursuant to ASX Listing Rule 7.1 for the Company to issue 35,000,000 Shares to GPN [a reference to Greater Pacific Gold Limited] as consideration for the variation to JV Agreement [a reference to a joint venture agreement between the Company and GPN, dated 14 March 2007 as varied by deed of variation dated 6 June 2007] entered into between the Company and GPN.


 
 The Company and GPN entered into the JV Agreement on 14 March 2007.
The joint venture was established to develop a mining operation over the tenements to mine, market and sell gold to implement exploration programmes for gold and uranium.
