
 INTRODUCTION 
 Sub-section 340(2) of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) ('the WR Act'), provided that: 
 (2) An employee collective agreement or union collective agreement is approved if: 

 
 (a) the employer has given all of the persons employed at the time whose employment will, or would but for the operation of an ITEA that has passed its nominal expiry date, be subject to the agreement a reasonable opportunity to decide whether they want to approve the agreement; and 

 
 (b) either: 

 
 (i) if the decision is made by a vote - a majority of those persons who cast a valid vote decide that they want to approve the agreement; or 

 
 (ii) otherwise--a majority of those persons decide that they want to approve the agreement.

 Under the WR Act, the approval of an employee collective agreement was significant because it was an essential prerequisite for such an agreement coming into operation; and once the agreement came into operation, it bound the employer and "all persons whose employment is, at any time when the agreement is in operation, subject to the agreement": see s 351.
The agreement had this effect notwithstanding that particular employees may have voted against it being approved, or were not even employed at the time the agreement was approved.
Blue Star Pacific Pty Ltd ('Blue Star') claims it obtained approval from its employees in accordance with s 340(2) of the WR Act to an employee collective agreement.
It says it did this in a postal ballot of its employees which was concluded on 20 February 2009.
The Communications, Electrical, Electronic, Energy, Information, Postal, Plumbing and Allied Services Union of Australia ('the CSU') challenges that claim in these proceedings.
It claims a declaration in the following terms: 
 A declaration that the Respondent has not given all persons employed by it and who are entitled under s.340 of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) (the "Act") to decide whether they want to approve the proposed Blue Star Pacific Employee agreement 2009 --- 2013, a reasonable opportunity to so decide, within the meaning of s.340(2) of the Act.


 
 A declaration that the Blue Star Pacific Employee agreement 2009 --- 2013 has not been validly approved pursuant to section 340 of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) ("the Act").


 To put the CSU's challenge in some context, apart from employee collective agreements, there was a number of other types of agreements provided for in Division 2 of Part 8 of the WR Act including: Australian workplace agreements (s 326); union collective agreements (s 328); union and employer greenfields agreements (ss 329 and 330 respectively); and multiple business agreements (s 331).
It is self evident that a union, like the CSU, would have preferred the workforce to enter into union collective agreements, with which it was directly involved, rather than employee collective agreements, with which it was not necessarily involved at all.
THREE ISSUES RAISED 
 In particular, the CSU claims that the employee collective agreement in question was not approved in accordance with s 340(2) for three reasons.
They are: In the circumstances, Blue Star did not give its employees a reasonable opportunity to decide whether they wanted to approve the agreement because it did not afford them the opportunity to meet and confer as a collective group; The ballot paper circulated by Blue Star was misleading in that it stated that the proposed agreement was to operate for a period of two years, when in fact, it was to operate for a period of four years; and The voting process used by Blue Star did not allow it to determine whether a majority of valid votes had been cast.
DECISION AND ORDERS MADE 
 I heard this matter in Brisbane on 15 and 16 June 2009.
By 30 June 2009, I had come to a decision.
At the time, I was conscious of the fact that the WR Act was to be significantly altered by the Fair Work Act 2009 (Cth) which was to come into effect on 1 July 2009.
While s 340 was not significantly altered, the changes made to other provisions of the WR Act could have affected the orders I proposed to make.
To remove any doubt, I advised the parties of my decision on the afternoon of 30 June 2009 and made the orders sought by the CSU.
I gave that decision on the basis that I would provide my reasons at a later date.
These are those reasons.
I should add that since the WR Act is no longer in force, I have referred to the various sections of that Act in the past tense throughout these reasons.
FACTUAL BACKGROUND AND LEGISLATIVE SETTING 
 Blue Star's business and employees
 Blue Star conducts an electrical contracting business in South East Queensland.
That business is divided into two divisions: a commercial construction division and a client services division.
In February 2009, more than 40 employees were employed in its commercial construction division and about 14 in its client services division.
The construction division employees worked at a number of different sites in and around Brisbane, including: the Northlakes Health Precinct site; the Polo Club site; the ICB Central site; the Browns Plain site and the Queen Street site.
The CSU had 21 members among Blue Star's commercial construction division employees and one or two among its client services division employees.
