
 INTRODUCTION 
 "Kookaburra Sits in the Old Gum Tree" ("Kookaburra") is a well known Australian round.
It was written and composed in about 1934 by Ms Marion Sinclair.
Larrikin Music Publishing Pty Ltd ("Larrikin") is an Australian music publisher which claims to have acquired the copyright in "Kookaburra" from either or both the Public Trustee and the Libraries Board of South Australia.
The Public Trustee was the trustee of the estate of Ms Sinclair, who died in 1988.
The Libraries Board claimed to be the owner of the copyright by reason of a donation of records made by Ms Sinclair in 1987.
Larrikin has brought proceedings for copyright infringement against the composers of another well known Australian song "Down Under", which was composed and published in Australia in 1981.
Larrikin claims that Mr Colin James Hay and Mr Ronald Graham Strykert, the composers of "Down Under", reproduced in that composition a substantial part of "Kookaburra".
Claims of copyright infringement are also brought against EMI Songs Australia Pty Limited and EMI Music Publishing Australia Pty Limited, who are, respectively, the owner and licensee of the copyright in the words and music of "Down Under".
I will refer to Mr Hay and Mr Strykert as "the composers", and to the two EMI companies as "EMI".
The proceedings were listed for a final hearing in June 2009 but shortly before the hearing date, it appeared that the case was not ready for trial.
It seemed to me that there was utility in determining as a preliminary point a question raised by the composers and EMI in their defence, namely whether Larrikin is the owner of the copyright in "Kookaburra".
Of course, if Larrikin is not the owner of the copyright, its claim of copyright infringement must fail at the outset.
THE PRELIMINARY POINT AND THE ISSUES ARISING 
 The question of whether Larrikin is the owner of the copyright in "Kookaburra" raises two essential issues.
The first was described by Senior Counsel for the composers and EMI by the Latin maxim " nemo dat quod non habet ", literally, no person can give what he or she does not own.
This issue arises because in 1934, Ms Sinclair entered "Kookaburra" in a competition conducted by the Girl Guides Association of Victoria ("the Victorian Girl Guides").
Indeed, "Kookaburra" was the winning entry in that competition which had, as one of the rules for entry, a condition that:- 
 
 All matter entered to become the property of the Guide Association.

 
 The question of whether the entry of "Kookaburra" in the competition constituted an assignment of the copyright to the Victorian Girl Guides is to be determined under the Copyright Act 1912 (Cth), ("the 1912 Act"), which was in force in 1934.
It is sufficient to say that the effect of the 1912 Act was that the assignment was required to be in writing and signed by the owner.
This raises questions of both fact and law which I will describe in more detail below.
The second issue is whether, in the event that Ms Sinclair did not assign the copyright to the Victorian Girl Guides, certain deeds of assignment between Larrikin, the Public Trustee and the Libraries Board were effective to assign the copyright in "Kookaburra" to Larrikin.
The nemo dat issue
 The nemo dat issue raises three questions of fact and one question of law.
The first question of fact is whether I ought to infer that Ms Sinclair was aware of the rules of entry so that it may be said that they contained the terms of a written contract between Ms Sinclair and the Victorian Girl Guides.
The second factual question is whether the "assignment" was signed by Ms Sinclair.
The composers and EMI rely upon two signed or initialled manuscripts of "Kookaburra" submitted by Ms Sinclair as her entry in the competition to satisfy the statutory requirement that an assignment be signed by the copyright owner.
However, even if the manuscripts formed part of the contract between Ms Sinclair and the Victorian Girl Guides, an issue arises as to whether Ms Sinclair signed them in the capacity of an assignor or merely to identify the manuscripts as her own works.
The third question of fact is whether, in light of the surrounding circumstances in which the competition took place, viewed in light also of the subsequent communications between the parties, Ms Sinclair had an intention to assign the copyright to the Victorian Girl Guides.
This question turns largely upon a consideration of certain correspondence between Ms Sinclair and the Victorian Girl Guides in late 1934 and early 1935.
Larrikin also sought to rely on much later correspondence covering the period from the 1950s which was said to point to actions by Ms Sinclair that were inconsistent with the claim that she had assigned the copyright to the Victorian Girl Guides.
The composers and EMI relied on statements made by Ms Sinclair in her 1984 autobiography which were said to disclose an intention to assign the copyright in 1934.
A question arises as to whether this later correspondence, which includes correspondence with third parties, and the statements in the autobiography, may be taken into account to determine the question of Ms Sinclair's intention when she submitted the work to the Victorian Girl Guides in 1934: Australian Broadcasting Corporation v XIVth Commonwealth Games Ltd (1988) 18 NSWLR 540 at 550---551 per Gleeson CJ.
The question of law which arises in relation to the entry of "Kookaburra" in the competition in 1934 is one of construction of the rules of the competition.
The question is whether, in the event that Ms Sinclair's entry was governed by the rules, the rule which provided that all matter entered was to become the property of the Victorian Girl Guides was effective to assign the copyright in the work to that Association.
The deeds of assignment of copyright
 The remaining issue arises from the assignments of copyright obtained by Larrikin from the Public Trustee and the Libraries Board.
This issue arises because the composers and EMI contend that even if Ms Sinclair did not assign the copyright to the Victorian Girl Guides, the chain of title from Ms Sinclair to Larrikin, through the Public Trustee and the Libraries Board, was nonetheless ineffective to assign the copyright in "Kookaburra" to Larrikin.
The composers and EMI press their contentions notwithstanding that the chain of title appears to be clearly documented in a Deed of Assignment made between the Public Trustee and Larrikin in 1990, a further Deed of Assignment between the Public Trustee, the Libraries Board and Larrikin in 2000 and a Deed of Confirmation made between all of those parties in 2008.
The substance of the argument of the composers and EMI contains two steps.
The first is that in the Deed made in 2000, the Public Trustee admitted that the assignment made in 1990 was ineffective.
The second step in the argument is that, according to the composers and EMI, Ms Sinclair did not deposit the relevant copyright work with the Libraries Board, so that the purported assignment from the Libraries Board to Larrikin was also ineffective.
If the composers and EMI are correct on these contentions, the effect of them would be that upon Ms Sinclair's death, the copyright in "Kookaburra" fell into a legal status which might be described as analogous to that of terra nullius , or property belonging to no one.
THE LEGISLATION 
 The 1912 Act adopted, with certain modifications, the Copyright Act 1911 (UK) ("the British Copyright Act").
The effect of s 8 of the 1912 Act was that the British Copyright Act was deemed to be in force in Australia from 1 July 1912.
Section 5(1) of the British Copyright Act provided that, subject to certain provisions, the author of an original literary, dramatic, musical and artistic work would be the owner of the copyright.
Section 5(2) went on to provide that the owner of the copyright in any work may assign the rights, either wholly or partially: 
 
 ... but no such assignment or grant shall be valid unless it is in writing signed by the owner of the right in respect of which the assignment or grant is made, or by his duly authorized agent.

 
 The assignments purportedly effected under the Deeds of 1990, 2000 and the Confirmatory Deed of 2008, are governed by the Copyright Act 1968 (Cth) ("the Act').
The Act deals with assignments of copyright in s 196.
That section provides, relevantly:- 
 
 (1) Copyright is personal property and, subject to this section, is transmissible by assignment, by will and by devolution by operation of law.
...
 (3) An assignment of copyright (whether total or partial) does not have effect unless it is in writing signed by or on behalf of the assignor.

 
 The effect of those subsections is to preserve the requirements for an assignment stated in s 5(2) of the British Copyright Act , namely that the assignment be in writing and signed by the owner of the copyright or his or her agent.
THE VICTORIAN GIRL GUIDES COMPETITION 
 On, or shortly after 20 April 1934, the Victorian Girl Guides published a circular which was headed "Guide Village".
The circular commenced by stating that the Guide Village was a "big effort" of all members of the Victorian Girl Guides to raise money for a proposed Guide Camp House, and that "everything possible will be for sale".
The circular stated that it was not a competition between Districts, but was: 
 
 a great combined effort of everyone working together for the good of the whole.

 
 The circular went on to announce certain competitions as follows: 
 
 The following Competitions will be held in connection with the Guide Village.

 
 A Singing Round with Music.
A short Story (not more than 2,500 words).
A Poem.
A design suitable for a Xmas Card.
The circular stated the following rules of entry: 
 
 RULES for ENTRY.
(a) The entrance fee for each entry in any of the Competitions to be 6d.
(b) A prize of 10/6 to be given to the winner of each section.
(c) The Competitions to be open to all enrolled members of the Guide Association in Australia.
(d) All matter entered to become the property of the Guide Association.
(e) The decision of the Judges to be final.
(f) All entries to be accompanied by the entrance fee of 6d.
also name and address of entrants.
(g) All entries to be in by July 31st.

 
 On 2 July 1934, the Victorian Girl Guides' journal, known as "Matilda", was published.
It is not clear how regularly the publication was produced but the July 1934 edition was Vol 11 no 1.
The July 1934 edition of "Matilda" recorded on page 5, under the heading "Guide Village News", further details of the competition referred to in the April circular.
It enquired whether members had started working on the competitions and listed the four competitions stated in the circular, including the singing round with music.
It also listed the seven rules for entry in exactly the same terms as stated in the circular, including the rule that provided for all "matter" entered in the competition to become the property of the Victorian Girl Guides.
The News item on page 5 of the July edition of "Matilda" went on to say: 
 
 Now do let us have hundreds of entries, there is plenty of talent in the Guide Movement.
Think of the PRIZE that you might win and also that every entry helps to swell the Fund for our Guide Camp House.

 
 Also on page 5 of the July edition of "Matilda", in the column directly opposite the details of the competition, was a short news piece under the heading "Honours for the Chief Guide".
The news piece recorded details of the appointment of Lady Chauvel as the State Commissioner for the Victorian Girl Guides in a letter to "Matilda" from Ms Sinclair.
The piece concluded: 
 
 On behalf of the Guiders of Victoria, 
 
 
 
 
 Yours, etc., 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 MARION SINCLAIR 
 
 
 
 THE CORRESPONDENCE 
 The contemporaneous correspondence
 On 2 October 1934, the Victorian Girl Guides wrote to Ms Sinclair as follows:- 
 
 Dear Marion, 
 

 
 
 I should have written to you weeks ago to express to you the thanks of Lady Chauvel and the Executive Committee for the gift of your three Rounds to the Association.
We now have to thank you further for having these Rounds printed, and for your donation of the proceeds to the Guide House Fund.
We do think it is ever so good of you to have made such a delightful contribution.

 

 
 
 I collected the enclosed Rounds from the Centenary Committee, I thought you would be interested to see Dr Floyd's opinion, you may have been told of it, but I just want to be certain.

 
 Dr Floyd, who was referred to in the letter, was the organist and choirmaster at St Paul's Cathedral in Melbourne, and a well-known musical authority.
He was the judge of the competition.
The three rounds referred to in the letter were included in a publication, the cover of which bore the heading "Girl Guides' Association, Victoria, 1934".
The cover was described as "Three Rounds by Marion Sinclair".
It stated "Proceeds for Guide House Fund".
The three rounds in the publication included a manuscript of the words and music of "Kookaburra".
Although it is not entirely clear from the evidence, it seems likely that this was in the same form as the manuscript which was submitted for entry in the competition.
The other two rounds included in the publication were not entered in the competition.
It seems clear from the letter of 2 October 1934 that Ms Sinclair paid for the printing and publication of the three rounds, that the publication was made available for sale by Ms Sinclair and that she donated the proceeds of sale to the Victorian Girl Guides' House Fund.
It is evident from two further letters to Ms Sinclair, written in 1935, that she continued to donate the proceeds of sale of the publication of the three rounds to the Victorian Girl Guides.
The first letter from the Victorian Girl Guides to Ms Sinclair was dated 22 February 1935.
It was described, in the mode of that era, as a "wee note" and was as follows: 
 
 Dear Marion, 
 

 
 
 Just a wee note to thank you from Lady Chauvel for what the enclosed receipt represents, she has asked me to say again how grateful the Committee are to you for your gesture, and how glad everyone is that Guides have a chance of purchasing your delightful songs.

 
 The second was dated 3 September 1935 and stated: 
 
 Dear Miss Sinclair, 
 

 
 
 I am happy to be able to tell you that a further sum of 13/7 has just been paid over on your behalf to the Camp House Fund as a result of further sales of the Rounds.

 

 
 
 I am taking several dozen to the Training Week with the expressed design of teaching them the songs and making them all buy copies to take home to their Companies --- here's to us!

 
 The subsequent correspondence
 On 22 February 1955, Ms Janet Tobitt, an employee of the Girl Scouts of the United States of America, National Headquarters in New York, wrote to Ms Sinclair seeking permission to publish "Kookaburra".
The letter from Ms Tobitt included the following: 
 
 Dear Miss Sinclair, 
 

 
 
 Last October, not knowing your whereabouts, I wrote Miss Manning at the Sydney Girl Guide office asking her help in locating you and explaining why I needed to get in touch with you.
The letter was never acknowledged nor was it returned; a further request for your address was ignored.
This time I am trying via your National HQ.

 

 
 
 Upon returning from abroad and assembling my scattered possessions I could not find any authorization to reprint your charming round "Kookaburra" which we have been using for years, the one permission I cannot trace.
I am greatly disturbed about it and can only conclude from your silence that somewhere there was a grievous error.
... 
 
 Ms Tobitt's letter went on to say that she had a number of publications which she used for the Girl Scouts and other youth groups, including a publication known as "The Ditty Bag", in which "Kookaburra" had been included.
She said that a commercial firm, Silver Burdett, and a New York college press had paid $15 and $10 respectively for permission to reprint "Kookaburra".
Ms Tobitt passed on the cheques she had received commenting about the size of the amounts as follows: 
 
 This is unusual in the case of something as short as a round.

 
 Ms Sinclair replied to Ms Tobitt but a copy of the reply is not available.
Ms Tobitt replied to Ms Sinclair's letter on 23 March 1955 as follows: 
 
 Thank you very much for your very kind letter which greatly relieved my mind.
Years ago, I was attached to Imperial Headquarters in London to do a special music job and at that time compiled THE WORLD SINGS.
I imagine that the British Guides told me then that it would be all right for American Girl Scouts to use "Kookaburra".

 

 
 
 You certainly are entitled to keep the money since it was voluntarily offered by the organizations which asked to reprint the round.

 
 Further evidence of a request to Ms Sinclair for permission to publish "Kookaburra" is found in a letter from an Australian publisher, F. W. Cheshire Pty Ltd, to Ms Sinclair dated 21 May 1963.
The letter stated, relevantly: 
 
 We are preparing to publish an inexpensive educational song-book for use in Australian Secondary Schools, provisionally entitled "Singing Together", and edited by Alexandra E. Cameron (author of 'Music Appreciation for Australian Schools', and a Victorian High School teacher).

 

 
 
 We would like your permission to include "Kookaburra" canon, --- Australian traditional melody, with words by yourself, as published in 'The School Paper'.

 
 Ms Sinclair replied on 26 May 1963 granting permission to include "Kookaburra" in the collection.
In acknowledging this, F. W. Cheshire commented that it was a compliment to Ms Sinclair "that the tune should be thought to be traditional and ... so well-loved.
" There were a large number of other items of correspondence evidencing the grant of permission by Ms Sinclair to the printing and publication of "Kookaburra".
The most significant letter is one dated 4 August 1969 from the Victorian Girl Guides to Ms Sinclair, which I will set out in full: 
 
 Dear Miss Sinclair, 
 

 
 
 This Association is hoping to publish, in conjunction with the Guide International camp to be held here in January, 1970, a book of Campfire songs.

 

 
 
 One song we would definitely like to include is "Kookaburra", and we would be pleased to have your permission for this reprinting.

 

 
 
 The book would sell through our Guide shops at approximately 75 cents Australian.

 

 
 
 I personally have very happy memories of teaching this song (with sound effects!
) in the town square of a small town in the Philippines, and I do hope you will be willing to give us permission to print it in our book.

 

 
 
 With all good wishes to you, and greetings, 
 

 
 
 Yours sincerely, 
 

 
 
 (Miss M. Shaw)
 Editor 'Matilda' 
 
 A copy of the relevant part of the songbook published by the Victorian Girl Guides in 1970 was in evidence.
It contains a manuscript of "Kookaburra" with the following acknowledgment: 
 
 By Marion Sinclair --- used by permission.

 
 In June 1975, Ms Sinclair assigned to the Australasian Performing Right Association ("APRA") all her performing rights in all copyright works composed or written by her.
The catalyst for the assignment to APRA was a letter to Ms Sinclair from the Australian Broadcasting Commission ("ABC") dated 17 March 1975 alerting her to the danger that "Kookaburra" was being reproduced without authorisation, thereby depriving her of performance royalties.
In a further letter from the ABC to Ms Sinclair dated 25 March 1975, the ABC informed her that it had requested APRA to contact her and that APRA collects performing rights royalties on behalf of composers.
On 11 May 1978, a violin teacher, Ms Penny Layton, wrote to Ms Sinclair seeking permission to publish a reproduction of "Kookaburra" in a form suitable to be played on the violin.
It appears that Ms Sinclair gave permission and the adaptation of "Kookaburra" appears to have been deposited by Ms Sinclair with the Libraries Board.
There are other examples of Ms Sinclair depositing various versions of the manuscript for "Kookaburra".
One such example may be seen in a letter to the State Library of Victoria to Ms Sinclair dated 22 November 1979 thanking her for sending the manuscript to the Library.
As late as 1983, Ms Sinclair may be seen to have maintained the stance that she had copyright in "Kookaburra".
