
 These representative proceedings concern a dispute over the alleged failure of the respondents to treat a fuel surcharge as part of the applicable fare for the purpose of calculating the commission to be paid to the applicant and members of the group.
The application proceeded to final hearing in relation to the liability of the second respondent and was dismissed as against the second respondent: Leonie's Travel Pty Ltd v International Air Transport Association (No 2) [2009] FCA 646.
This brief judgment concerns an outstanding issue in relation to the costs of the first respondent, the International Air Transport Association (IATA).
When the proceedings were commenced, the applicant brought them against IATA as well as a number of individual airlines.
Ultimately the applicant accepted that it was unnecessary to maintain the proceedings against IATA and the proceedings against it were discontinued.
IATA seeks its costs but the applicant submits that each party should bear their own costs.
It is unnecessary to rehearse the details of the submissions made in support of these competing positions.
Having commenced the proceedings against IATA unnecessarily, the applicant should, in the ordinary course, pay IATA its costs.
The only point of possible substance telling against such an order, is that some of those costs were said to have been incurred unnecessarily.
That is, IATA participated, it was submitted, in the proceedings at a time when it was apparent the proceedings would not continue against it.
However I do not accept the IATA's participation was, at any relevant point, unnecessary.
It is true that the solicitors for the applicant informed IATA in late February 2007 and before the discontinuance, that there would be a discontinuance if the other respondents raised no point about the non-joinder of IATA.
Ultimately the applicant secured that commitment from the other respondents.
However the intimation in late February 2007 was obviously conditional.
While there may be cases where, in analogous circumstances, a party continuing to participate in the proceedings ought not get their costs, this is not such a case.
IATA was, in my opinion, entitled to continue to participate in the proceedings having been joined as a party.
IATA should have its costs.
Accordingly I will order that the applicant pay IATA's costs of the proceedings.
I certify that the preceding five (5) numbered paragraphs are a true copy of the Reasons for Judgment herein of the Honourable Justice Moore .
Associate:
 
 
Dated: 21 July 2009
 
 Counsel for the Applicant: B Coles QC and N Beaumont 
 
 Solicitor for the Applicant: Slater  Gordon 
 Counsel for the First Respondent E Muston Solicitor for the First Respondent Minter Ellison Date of Last Written Submissions: 23 May 2007 Date of Judgment: 21 July 2009 
 

 
 AustLII: Copyright Policy | Disclaimers | Privacy Policy | Feedback 
 URL: http://www.austlii.edu.au/au/cases/cth/FCA/2009/767.html 
 
 
