
 INTRODUCTION 
 
 1 These reasons for judgment relate to 14 proceedings that were heard together.
The evidence in each was evidence in the others, subject to all just exceptions on grounds of relevance.
2 The fourteen proceedings concern Part XIC (ss 152AA - 152EQ ) of the Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth) (the Act) headed "Telecommunications access regime".
That Part provides for a regulated access rgime specific to telecommunications services.
3 The proceedings relate to access to two services that are "declared services" under s 152AL of the Act: the Line Sharing Service (also known as the High Frequency Unconditioned Local Loop Service) (LSS) and the Unconditioned Local Loop Service (ULLS).
The applicant in each proceeding (Telstra) owns the lines over which the LSS and the ULLS are provided.
4 There was an access dispute between Telstra and the second respondent in each proceeding.
The first respondent in each proceeding, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC), was the arbitrator.
Some access disputes related to the LSS and the others to the ULLS.
The following table identifies the LSS and the ULLS proceedings, the names of the respective second respondents, and the abbreviations by which I will refer to them:
 Second Respondent Abbreviation Proceeding 
 NSD No LSS 
 
 
 Agile Pty Ltd Agile 69/2008 Adam Internet Pty Limited Adam 70/2008 Primus Telecommunications Pty Limited Primus 72/2008 Amcom Pty Ltd Amcom 73/2008 Network Technology (Aust) Pty Ltd Network 75/2008 TPG Internet Pty Ltd TPG 77/2008 
 
 
 ULLS 
 
 
 Primus Telecommunications Pty Limited Primus 78/2008 Macquarie Telecom Pty Limited Macquarie 105/2008 XYZed Pty Limited XYZed 529/2008 PowerTel Limited PowerTel 531/2008 Request Broadband Pty Ltd Request 533/2008 Optus Networks Pty Limited Optus 717/2008 Chime Communications Pty Ltd Chime 718/2008 Primus Telecommunications Pty Limited Primus 719/2008 
 
In referring to the respective proceedings I will incorporate a reference to the LSS or ULLS, as the case may be; for example, "the Agile LSS proceeding", "the PowerTel ULLS proceeding".
It will be noted that there are three proceedings, NSD 72/2008, NSD 78/2008 and NSD 719/2008, in which Primus is the second respondent.
I will call the first "the Primus LSS proceeding" and the second "the Primus ULLS proceeding" in accordance with the convention just mentioned.
I will call the third "the Primus ULLS (Connections) proceeding".
5 In certain circumstances Part XIC of the Act permits an access dispute to be arbitrated by ACCC (referred to as "the Commission" in the Act and in various parts of the evidence and in the parties' submissions).
Arbitration takes place under Div 8 of Pt XIC.
6 In these fourteen proceedings Telstra challenges final determinations (FDs) made by ACCC in its arbitrations under Div 8 of the access disputes between Telstra and the 14 second respondents.
7 I have previously heard and determined three proceedings in which Telstra challenged FDs made by ACCC in relation to access disputes under Div 8: see Telstra Corporation Ltd v Australian Competition and Consumer Commission [2008] FCA 1436 ; (2008) 171 FCR 174 (Earlier Reasons) and Telstra Corporation Ltd v Australian Competition and Consumer Commission and Others (No 2) (2008) 251 ALR 372; [2008] FCA 1640.
8 In those proceedings, Telstra sought review of FDs made by ACCC in respect of LSS access disputes between Telstra of the one part and Request, Chime and Primus respectively of the other part.
9 The grounds on which Telstra relies in these proceedings are set out in the following table (Table), the numerals being the number of the ground in the relevant current form of the application for an order of review:
 
 
 TELSTRA'S GROUNDS PROCEEDINGS Agile LSS 69/2008 Adam
LSS 70/2008 Primus
LSS 72/2008 Amcom
LSS 73/2008 Network Tech LSS 75/2008 TPG
LSS 77/2008 Primus
ULLS 
78/2008 Macquarie
ULLS
105/2008 XYZed
ULLS
529/2008 PowerTel
ULLS 531/2008 Request
ULLS
533/2008 Optus
ULLS
717/2008 Chime
ULLS 718/2008 Primus 
ULLS
(Connections)
719/2008 A Pooling and Allocation Method --- s 152CR(1)(d) 
- error of law 
 5 
 5 
 5 
 5 
 5 
 5 
 2 
 2 
 1 
 1 
 1 
 1 
 1 
 B ULLS Model Terms --- s 152AQB(9) ---procedural ultra vires and failure to take into account relevant consideration 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 4 
 3 
 3 
 3 
 3 
 
 C Call Diversion --- FD not authorised by Act and made in excess of jurisdiction 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 4 
 4 
 1 D WACC (Weighted Average Cost of Capital) --- error of law and Wednesbury unreasonableness 
 6 
 6 
 6 
 6 
 6 
 6 
 3 
 3 
 2 
 2 
 2 
 2 
 2 
 E Line costs --- error of law, no evidence and statutory procedural
ultra vires 
 3, 4 
 3, 4 
 3, 4 
 3, 4 
 3, 4 
 3, 4 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 F 2007 LSS Pricing Principles --- s 152AQA(6) ---
Errors of law and taking into account
irrelevant consideration 
 2 
 2 
 2 
 2 
 2 
 2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 10 The second respondents can be conceived of as falling into groups according to their legal representation.
Mr A Robertson SC with Mr S J Free of counsel appeared for Optus and XYZed.
I was told that those companies form part of the Singtel Optus group.
Ms M Sloss SC with Mr M J Hoyne of counsel appeared for Agile, Adam, Amcom, Network, Macquarie, PowerTel, Request, Chime and Primus.
Mr M J Hoyne of counsel appeared for TPG.
11 In all proceedings Dr J E Griffiths SC and Ms M N Allars appeared for Telstra.
Mr J S Hilton SC and Mr M H O'Bryan appeared for ACCC.
12 Although any particular ground referred to in the Table may have borne different numbers in the respective applications for an order of review, the ground was mutatis mutandis the same as between the various proceedings in which reliance was placed upon it.
The parties agreed that:
 the Adam LSS proceeding (NSD 70/2008) was representative of the LSS proceedings; the Chime ULLS proceeding (NSD 718/2008) was representative of the ULLS proceedings, except in respect of the ULLS Model Terms ground; in respect of the ULLS Model Terms ground, the Optus ULLS proceeding (NSD 717/2008) was the representative proceeding.
13 Accordingly, submissions were made by reference to the representative proceedings on the basis that a decision on the issues in them would also resolve the same issues in all of the proceedings of which they were representative.
14 The hearing took place in two tranches.
The first tranche related to the Pooling and Allocation Method and the ULLS Model Terms grounds (A and B in the Table).
The second tranche related to the Call Diversion, WACC, Line Costs, and 2007 LSS Pricing Principles grounds (C, D, E and F in the Table).
15 As can be seen from the Table:
 the Pooling and Allocation Method ground (A in the Table) is Ground No 5 in the Adam LSS proceeding and Ground No 1 in the Chime ULLS proceeding.
It features in all proceedings except the Primus ULLS (Connections) proceeding; the ULLS Model Terms ground (B in the Table) is Ground No 3 in the Optus ULLS proceeding and does not form part of any of the LSS proceedings; the Call Diversion ground (C in the Table) is Ground No 4 in the Chime ULLS proceeding and does not form part of any of the LSS proceedings (it occurs only in the Optus ULLS proceeding, the Chime ULLS proceeding, and the Primus ULLS (Connections) proceeding); the WACC ground (D in the Table) is Ground No 6 in the Adam LSS proceeding and Ground No 2 in the Chime ULLS proceeding and occurs in all proceedings except for the Primus ULLS (Connections) proceeding; the Line Costs ground (E in the Table) is Grounds Nos 3 and 4 in the Adam LSS proceeding.
It occurs in all of the LSS proceedings but does not form part of any of the ULLS proceedings; and the LSS Pricing Principles ground (F in the Table) is Ground No 2 in the Adam LSS proceeding, and occurs in all of the LSS proceedings but in none of the ULLS proceedings.
16 In the Earlier Reasons at [11]-[14] I referred to some technical matters and gave a summary at [15]-[46] of the provisions of Pt XIC that were relevant to the three proceedings the subject of the Earlier Reasons (the Earlier Proceedings).
I will take those paragraphs as read, rather than encumbering these reasons with them.
17 Annexure A to these reasons is a list of acronyms and terms of present relevance.
18 One technical matter to which it is useful to refer at this stage is the nature of the LSS and the ULLS.
First, I quote [12] and [13] from the Earlier Reasons:
 Telstra owns a variety of networks which it uses to provide telecommunication services.
One such network is the Public Switched Telephone Network (PSTN).
Through the PSTN, Telstra provides to end-users various telephony and data services such as local, long distance, national and international calls and dial-up internet connections.
Another Telstra network is its "Broadband" network.
The PSTN and the Broadband network use what is called the Customer Access Network (CAN).
Generally speaking, the CAN can be understood to be the network of connections between end-users, whether business or private, and some aggregation point within the network, which is usually a local exchange building.
Connection between the end-user and that point within the network is normally achieved by way of "line" (or "metallic pair" or "twisted pair") of copper or aluminium wire, or where there is no fixed line, by radio.
The copper or aluminium wire is often referred to as "unconditioned communications wire".
It forms a continuous copper or aluminium path between the premises of end-users and exchanges and is commonly referred to as the Unconditioned Local Loop (ULL), "local loop" or, simply, "line".
The word "unconditioned" signifies that the wire is bare or unqualified, that is, the equipment required to make it serviceable is not yet attached to it.

 19 Both the LSS and the ULLS are provided over Telstra's Customer Access Network (CAN).
They are provided to an access seeker such as any of the second respondents (access seekers) which provides them to a retail customer (end-user) over an Unconditioned Local Loop (ULL).
The CAN is the generic expression that applies to all of the ULLs; the ULLs, taken together, constitute the CAN.
The LSS and ULLS are provided by Telstra to the access seeker, not to the end-user.
However, once the access seeker has access to the LSS or the ULLS, it becomes a "service provider" vis--vis the end-user, that is to say, it provides to the end-user the service that the LSS or the ULLS, as the case may be, permits it to provide.
20 In its declaration of the LSS as a declared service, ACCC also identified the LSS as the "High Frequency Unconditioned Local Loop Service".
The formal definition of the LSS is as follows: 
 
 The High Frequency Unconditioned Local Loop Service is the use of the non-voiceband frequency spectrum of unconditioned communications wire (over which wire an underlying voiceband PSTN service is operating) between the boundary of a telecommunications network at an end-user's premises and a point on a telecommunications network that is a potential point of interconnection located at, or associated with, a customer access module and located on the end-user side of the customer access module.


 
 21 The other declared service of present concern, the ULLS, gives the access seeker the use of the entirety of a ULL.
In substance, it enables an access seeker to supply both voice (telephony) and broadband services to end-users.
The formal definition of the ULLS is as follows:
 
 The unconditioned local loop service is the use of unconditioned communications wire between the boundary of a telecommunications network at an end-user's premises and a point on a telecommunications network that is a potential point of interconnection located at or associated with a customer access module and located on the end-user side of the customer access module.


 22 In the case of both the LSS and the ULLS, the access seeker's own equipment must be connected to the line in order for access by it to be realised.
A chronology of important events:
 
 23 The following events have assumed importance in the proceedings:
 On 4 August 1999 ACCC declared the ULLS as a declared service under s 152AL(3) with effect on the date of gazettal, 11 August 1999 (ULLS Declaration).
On 18 May 2000, pursuant to ss 152AL(3) and 152AO , ACCC varied the description of the ULLS with effect on the date of gazettal, 24 May 2000.
In March 2002 ACCC published its final report on pricing methodology for the ULLS, determining pricing principles for the ULLS in Chapter 4 (2002 ULLS Pricing Principles), and concluding that they should be based on total service long-run incremental cost (TSLRIC) principles.
In August 2002 ACCC published its final report on whether the LSS should be a declared service under Part XIC (LSS Declaration Final Report), chapter 7 of which set out pricing principles for a declared LSS (2002 LSS Pricing Principles).
On 7 October 2002, pursuant to s 152AL(3) , ACCC declared the LSS a declared service with effect on the date of gazettal, 16 October 2002 (LSS Declaration).
In October 2003, pursuant to s 152AQB(2) , ACCC determined model terms and conditions relating to access to the ULLS in Ch 14 of Final Determination for model price terms and conditions of the PSTN, ULLS and LCS services (ULLS Model Terms or 2003 ULLS Model Terms).
In the light of the new s 152ALA which came into force in December 2002, on 19 November 2003 ACCC specified an expiry date of 31 July 2006 for the ULLS and 31 October 2007 for the LSS, with effect on the date of gazettal, 3 December 2003 In March 2004 ACCC published a (revised) guide to the resolution of telecommunications access disputes (Access Dispute Resolution Guidelines), which included in section 7.4 guidelines under s 152DNA(8) relating to backdating of the date that the provisions of a final determination take effect.
In August 2004 ACCC published its final report on the assessment of Telstra's proffered undertaking for the LSS.
In December 2005 ACCC published its final report on the assessment of Telstra's proffered ULLS and LSS monthly charge undertakings (ULLS and LSS Monthly Charge Undertaking Assessment).
In July 2006 ACCC published its final determination resulting from its inquiry into, relevantly, the ULLS Declaration.
On 28 July 2006, pursuant to s 152AL(3) , ACCC re-declared the ULLS a declared service with effect on 1 August 2006 and expiring on 31 July 2009 (ULLS Re-Declaration).
This is the declaration of the ULLS that was in force at times relevant to the present proceedings.
In August 2006 ACCC published its final report on the assessment of Telstra's proffered ULLS monthly charge undertaking (ULLS Monthly Charge Undertaking Assessment).
In October 2007 ACCC published its Review of the Line Sharing Service Declaration: Final Decision (LSS Declaration Review), Chapter 3 of which discussed LSS Pricing Principles.
On 24 October 2007, pursuant to s 152AQA , ACCC determined pricing principles to apply to the LSS (2007 LSS Pricing Principles).
They contained price related terms and conditions that consisted of indicative prices for the LSS applicable between 1 January 2008 and 31 July 2009.
On 26 October 2007, pursuant to s 152ALA , ACCC extended the expiry date of the LSS Declaration to 31 July 2009 with effect on the date of gazettal, 29 October 2007 (LSS Extension Declaration).
In November 2007 ACCC published its report as to the final pricing principles applicable to the ULLS ( Unconditioned Local Loop Service (ULLS) --- Final pricing principles (2007 ULLS Pricing Principles Report) ).
On 21 November 2007, pursuant to s 152AQA , ACCC determined pricing principles specified in Schedule 1 to apply to the ULLS ( Pricing Principles for the Unconditioned Local Loop Service ) (ULLS Pricing Principles or 2007 ULLS Pricing Principles).
A --- POOLING AND ALLOCATION METHOD 
 General
 
 24 In the amended application for an order of review filed in the Adam LSS proceeding, this ground is ground No 5 which is as follows:
 In making the Decision, the First Respondent made an error of law by misconstruing s 152CR(1)(d) of the TPA [ Trade Practices Act 1974 (Cth)] in reaching the conclusion that the pooling method and the allocation method (as defined in the particulars below) allowed the Applicant to recover its costs, including the direct costs, associated with the LSS, within ss 5(1)(f) and/or 5(1)(j) of the ADJR Act [ Administrative Decisions (Judicial Review) Act 1977 (Cth)].
Particulars 

 
(i) In making the Decision the First Respondent arrived at its calculation of the LSS annual costs by:
 
 
(A) pooling costs of the LSS with costs of the unconditioned local loop service (" ULLS ") and Telstra's own internal costs of a nature equivalent to the specific costs of the LSS and ULLS (" pooling method "); and
 
 
(B) allocating this costs pool across the various lines over which those services are provided (" allocation method ").
(ii) The pooling method and the allocation method are methods which aggregate the costs of a number of services and average those costs across the lines over which those services are provided, rather than providing a method for identifying the direct costs of the relevant declared service (that is, the LSS).
(iii) The First Respondent found that allowing the recovery of LSS specific costs over LSS lines would result in a higher access price than the pooling method and the allocation method on which the LSS annual charge was based.
(iv) As a result, the pooling method and the allocation method do not allow the Applicant to recover LSS specific costs in the LSS annual charge, which is inconsistent with the matter referred to in s 152CR(1)(d) of the TPA .
(v) In concluding that the pooling method and the allocation method allowed the Applicant to recover its costs, including the direct costs, associated with the LSS, the First Respondent misconstrued s 152CR(1)(d) of the TPA .
(vi) In the result the Decision is invalid (or liable to be set aside) as infected by jurisdictional error and on the grounds stated in s 5(1)(f) and/or (j) of the ADJR Act .
[Original emphasis]
 
 
Notwithstanding the discrete references to "pooling method" and "allocation method", I will use the composite expression "Pooling and Allocation Method".
25 The Pooling and Allocation Method ground is raised in thirteen of the fourteen proceedings, the exception being the Primus ULLS (Connections) proceeding.
26 In the application for an order of review filed in the Chime ULLS proceeding, the Pooling and Allocation Method ground was Ground No 1, which was, mutatis mutandis , the same as Ground No 5 in the Adam LSS proceeding set out above.
27 A Pooling and Allocation Method ground was raised by Telstra in the Earlier Proceedings.
I dealt with it at [268]---[345] of the Earlier Reasons.
In the Earlier Proceedings the Pooling and Allocation Method was raised by Telstra's Grounds 5(a), 5(b), 5(c) and 6.
Of these, Grounds 5(a), 5(b) and 5(c) were forms of procedural ultra vires and failure to take into account a relevant consideration --- grounds that are not repeated in the present proceedings.
However, Telstra's Ground 6 in the Earlier Proceedings was error of law in the form of a misconstruction of s 152CR(1)(d) of the Act to permit a conclusion that the Pooling and Allocation Method allowed Telstra to recover its costs, including its direct costs.
28 In respect of its present Pooling and Allocation Method ground, Telstra relies only on error of law in the form of a misconstruction of s 152CR(1)(d).
29 Virtually the entire argument took place by reference to the Adam LSS proceeding ACCC's Statement of Reasons accompanying its FD in relation to the Adam LSS arbitration (Adam LSS FD Statement of Reasons) was, relevantly, mutatis mutandis , identical to the Chime ULLS FD Statement of Reasons.
As noted in Telstra's submissions (para 3.42):
 
 The factual background and legal issues in the relevant proceedings concerning the ULLS are in all relevant respects the same as ... in the proceedings concerning the LSS.


 
Telstra therefore relied on the same argument in relation to both the LSS and ULLS proceedings.
Accordingly, I will refer to the Adam LSS proceeding as representative of all 13 proceedings in which an access seeker relies upon the present ground.
Prior considerations of a pooling and allocation approach by ACCC and the Tribunal
 
 30 ACCC's DFD Consultation Papers had proposed the Pooling and Allocation Method; see the Adam LSS DFD Consultation Paper, section 4.1.8 on "Specific costs" and the Chime ULLS DFD Consultation Paper, section 4.1.6 on "Specific costs".
Both DFD Consultation Papers referred to previous considerations of this issue.
31 Until 2005, ACCC dealt with specific costs by using the cost allocation method for which Telstra contends.
Indeed, at [80] of the Adam LSS FD Statement of Reasons ACCC acknowledged that it could be argued that ACCC's 2002 LSS Pricing Principles were inconsistent with the pooling methodology.
However, in its Telstra's Undertakings for the Unconditioned Local Loop Service --- Discussion Paper of March 2005 (ULLS Undertakings Discussion Paper), ACCC noted that the approach that it had been following had been called into question.
Over a period from October 2004 to March 2007 ACCC embraced the Pooling and Allocation Method.
I outlined the history in the Earlier Reasons at [292] ff.
32 Adam (and Chime) submitted to ACCC that it should adhere to the Pooling and Allocation Method as proposed in section 4.1.6 of the Adam LSS DFD Consultation Paper (section 4.1.8 of the Chime ULLS DFD Consultation Paper).
33 In its present submissions (to the Court) Chime also refers to the Request LSS FD Statement of Reasons dated 1 August 2007 (the subject of consideration in the Earlier Reasons), and the more recent Tribunal decision in relation to ULLS annual charges, Re Telstra Corporation Ltd (No 3) [2007] ACompT 3 at [387] - [413] .
34 The 2007 LSS Pricing Principles, determined by ACCC on 24 October 2007, were as follows: 
 ... TSLRIC + pricing principles should be applied to the LSS a specific cost component should be included in the LSS monthly price, calculated by combining 'LSS specific costs' with 'ULLS specific costs" and Telstra's internal equivalent costs for ADSL, and allocating those costs across the number of active ULLS, LSS and ADSL lines a contribution for line costs will not be recovered in the LSS monthly price connection and disconnection charges should be set with reference to the amounts charged by third party contractors to Telstra for jumpering work in exchanges, indirect costs and back-of-house costs.

 [My emphasis] 

 
 35 The second of the 2007 LSS Pricing Principles set out above expresses the Pooling and Allocation Method.
The 2007 ULLS Pricing Principles of 21 November 2007 also contained, mutatis mutandis , that principle.
36 I do not think it necessary to elaborate on the various prior considerations of the present issue save to note that since December 2005 ACCC and the Tribunal have consistently determined that the statutory criteria in Part XIC of the Act were better served by a pooling and allocation approach than by the method for which Telstra contends.
37 Submissions were also made by Optus and XYZed, and by TPG and Macquarie, but they did not refer to any additional instances of prior consideration of the present issue by ACCC or the Tribunal.
The Adam LSS FD Statement of Reasons
 
 38 In section 4.1.8 of the Adam LSS FD Statement of Reasons, headed "Specific Costs", ACCC addressed the parties' submissions and expressed its conclusions on the present issue.
39 Earlier in the Statement of Reasons ACCC had noted (at [80]) that the 2007 LSS Pricing Principles expressly required the use of the "pooling approach".
40 In section 3.3.4 headed "Section 152CR(1)(d) The direct cost of providing access to the declared service", ACCC stated (at [129]) that it considered that the direct costs of providing access to a declared service were those incurred (or caused) by the provision of access, and included the incremental costs of providing access.
ACCC also noted (at [132] and [133]) that more recently the Tribunal had considered that the direct costs criterion in s 152CR(1)(d) was concerned with ensuring that the costs of providing the service were recovered, and that the Tribunal had noted that direct costs could conceivably be allocated (and still recovered) in a number of ways, any of which would be consistent with s 152CR(1)(d): citing Re Telstra Corporation Limited [2006] ACompT 4 at ([139]).
41 In section 4.1.8 (at [392] ff) ACCC noted that the term "Specific Costs", when used in respect of the LSS, referred to the incremental cost of providing the LSS, and included the costs associated with ordering, provisioning and qualifying the LSS.
ACCC referred to IT system development and operational costs, connection costs, wholesale management costs and indirect costs as categories of LSS-specific costs.
ACCC accepted (at [393]) that some of those categories of costs were recovered through LSS connection charges or other charges that Telstra imposed, and so were not relevant to the calculation of LSS annual charges.
42 Under the heading "Cost allocation" within section 4.1.8, ACCC explained (at [396]) that, consistently with the Tribunal's views, it proposed an approach to cost allocation that, first, pooled the specific costs associated with (i) the LSS and (ii) the ULLS and (iii) Telstra's own internal costs of a nature equivalent to the specific costs of the LSS and ULLS; and, second, allocated this pool to a demand base that included all downstream ADSL services, including the LSS.
ACCC noted that Telstra opposed this approach ([399] ff), while Adam supported it ([406] ff).
Telstra submitted (as noted by ACCC at [400]) that pooling was inconsistent with the direct cost criterion found in s 152CR(1)(d), which required, according to Telstra's submission, that the specific costs of the LSS be recovered in the LSS access charges alone.
43 In the Earlier Reasons at [273]---[280], I gave a more detailed description of the nature of the Pooling and Allocation Method.
44 ACCC noted (at [411]ff of the Statement of Reasons) that it had previously adopted the "pooling approach", which was also consistent with the reasons of the Tribunal, in relation to both LSS and ULLS annual charges (ACCC referred to Re Telstra Corporation Ltd [2006] ACompT 4 at [150] and Re Telstra Corporation Limited (No 3) [2007] ACompT 3 [at 396]-[413]).
ACCC stated (at [415]) that it concurred with the Tribunal's reasoning on the issue of cost allocation.
45 ACCC went on to note ([at 416]) that adopting the method proposed by Telstra would lead to a higher access charge than the Pooling and Allocation Method would do.
ACCC explained, however, that contrary to Telstra's submission, this was not its motive for adopting the Pooling and Allocation Method; rather, its preference resulted from "its detailed consideration of the alternative approaches assessed against the subsection 152CR(1) criteria and the LSS pricing principles".
ACCC concluded that the higher charges that result from Telstra's proposed method could not be supported by those criteria and the 2007 LSS Pricing Principles, and that having regard to them the Pooling and Allocation Method was to be preferred (at [417]).
46 At [418]-[450] of the Adam LSS FD Statement of Reasons, ACCC gave a detailed assessment of the Pooling and Allocation Method against all of the s 152CR(1) criteria.
In relation to s 152CR(1)(d) ([438]-[441]), ACCC stated (at [438], which is mirrored in [612] of the Chime ULLS FD Statement of Reasons), that that criterion:
 
 ...is concerned with ensuring that Telstra will be able to recover its costs in providing access, either to itself or to LSS access seekers.
In this context, the criterion involves consideration of whether Telstra will be able to recover its 'LSS specific costs' inclusive of a normal risk-adjusted return on its capital employed.


 
 47 ACCC explained that the Pooling and Allocation Method could not compromise Telstra's ability to recover its direct costs of providing access to the LSS (at [440]).
Consideration
 
 48 Telstra submits that error of law is found in the passage set out above, because s 152CR(1)(d) speaks only of the direct costs of providing access to the declared service, in the present cases the LSS and the ULLS.
49 Telstra's argument is framed in a similar way to the way in which it was framed in the Earlier Proceedings (see the Earlier Reasons at [283]-[284]).
I dealt with that argument in the Earlier Reasons at [300]-[314] and concluded that ACCC did not misconstrue s 152CR(1)(d), which, properly construed, was not inconsistent with ACCC's adoption of the Pooling and Allocation Method.
In the result, Telstra's error of law ground of review was not made out.
50 I am aware that it is necessary to maintain a distinction between the Earlier Proceedings and the present proceedings.
They relate to different arbitrations, different FDs, and different FD Statements of Reasons.
However, in oral submissions, senior counsel for Telstra conceded, as he was bound to do, that there was some overlap between the argument advanced in the Earlier Proceedings and that which he now advanced and which he described as "more refined".
51 With respect, I have had some difficulty in identifying distinguishing refinements in Telstra's present argument, notwithstanding the customary skill of senior counsel for Telstra.
He has argued that according to the proper construction of s 152CR(1)(d):
 ACCC was bound in the Adam LSS arbitration to identify and take into account the direct costs of providing Adam with access to the LSS with a view to Telstra's recovering those costs from Adam; ACCC was not at liberty to take those direct costs into account only as part of a pool that also included specific costs associated with providing access to the ULLS, and Telstra's own internal costs of providing downstream ADSL services of a nature equivalent to those specific costs associated with the LLS and the ULLS; ACCC was not at liberty to introduce cross subsidisation by Telstra's retail customers (end-users) in respect of ADSL services, of LSS (or ULLS) access seekers and their retail customers (end-users).
52 Telstra seems to disavow, however, any suggestion that s 152CR(1)(d) is to be construed as requiring that an FD have the effect that the direct costs of providing access to the declared service be in fact recoverable through the access charge for that service.
Telstra accepts that ACCC is at liberty to place what weight it thinks appropriate on different aspects of the evidence, and, it must follow, on the evidentiary support for the different criteria in s 152CR(1).
Telstra insists, however, that ACCC must take into account the direct costs as being recoverable through the access charge to be made for the particular declared service.
53 I have difficulty with Telstra's argument.
If the argument is that ACCC must take into account as one possibility , making direct costs recoverable through the access charge alone, the fact is that ACCC did take that possibility into account.
It could hardly avoid doing so because that possibility was urged on it by Telstra.
However, ACCC rejected it.
54 Forming attachments to the Adam LSS FD Statement of Reasons were certain cost models.
These contained figures for various categories of costs and were the subject of confidentiality orders.
Telstra does not dispute that they included the direct costs of providing access to the LSS.
A similar observation applies to cost models that were attached to the Chime ULLS FD Statement of Reasons.
55 If Telstra's contention is that ACCC did not pause to note what the direct costs were before applying the pooling and allocation methodology, the cost models to which I have referred show that it did.
56 There are several answers to Telstra's submission.
57 First, as noted above, ACCC did take into account the direct costs of providing access to the LSS, by taking into account the direct costs particularised in the annexures to the Adam LSS FD Statement of Reasons (and to the Chime ULLS FD Statement of Reasons).
58 Second, if, as Telstra submits, ACCC is required to take into account the direct costs with a view to their being recovered out of the LSS access charge , then since the fixing of the amount of that access charge is itself a matter for ACCC, Telstra's submission seems to become, upon analysis, a submission that ACCC was required to fix the access charge at a level that would allow for full recovery out of the LSS access charge.
Yet this is a submission that Telstra seems to disavow.
In any event, I would reject it.
Allowing for full recovery with the access charge is not the only way in which ACCC was able to take the direct costs into account.
59 Third, Telstra's complaint is in reality a complaint that ACCC did not take into account the direct costs to Telstra of providing access to the LSS, in the manner, to the extent, with the weight, and with the result, that Telstra would have preferred.
ACCC took into account the s 152CR(1)(d) criterion but also other criteria, in particular, the promotion of the LTIE (para (a) of s 152CR(1)), and came up with the result that allowed for Telstra's recovering its direct costs of providing access to the LSS only as part of a pool of costs.
The duty imposed on ACCC by s 152CR(1) to take into account, inter alia, the direct costs of providing access to the declared service was not inconsistent with ACCC's following that course and arriving at that conclusion.
60 Fourth, some of the criteria in s 152CR(1) pull in different directions, and it was a matter for ACCC, provided it genuinely took them all into account, to allocate influence and weight as between them.
It was not required to allow the para (d) criterion full rein, unmitigated by the other s 152CR(1) criteria.
61 With respect, I see no relevant difference between the issues and submissions on the Pooling and Allocation Method ground in the Earlier Proceedings and in these proceedings, and I see no reason to depart from my reasons and conclusion in relation to that ground in the Earlier Reasons.
62 In addition to what I have said above, I adopt, mutatis mutandis , the Earlier Reasons at [300]-[314].
Conclusion
 
 63 For the above reasons and for those which I gave at [300]-[314] of the Earlier Reasons, the Pooling and Allocation Method ground is not established.
B --- ULLS MODEL TERMS 
 General
 
 64 In October 2003 ACCC published the ULLS Model Terms.
As can be seen from its title, this determination is relevant to the ULLS but not to the LSS.
The ULLS Model Terms were determined under s 152AQB(2) of the Act which requires ACCC to make a written determination setting out model terms and conditions relating to access to each "core service".
The ULLS is a core services but the LSS is not: see s 152AQB(1).
65 Section 152AQB(9) provides that ACCC must have regard to a determination under s 152AQB if it is required to arbitrate an access dispute under Div 8 in relation to a core service covered by the determination.
Telstra relies on this provision.
66 Section 152AQB(10), however, provides that a determination made under s 152AQB has no effect to the extent that it is inconsistent with, relevantly, any determination by ACCC under s 152AQA of principles relating to the price of access to a declared service.
67 The ULLS access seekers contend that the ULLS Model Terms are inconsistent with the 2007 ULLS Pricing Principles) determined by ACCC under s 152AQA in November 2007, with the result that s 152AQB(10) causes the latter to prevail to the extent of the inconsistency.
68 Telstra, on the other hand, submits that in making the relevant ULLS FDs, ACCC:
 
 (a) failed to observe procedures which were required by law to be observed in connection with the making of the final determinations in respect of the ULLS, in that it failed to have regard to the ULLS Model Terms...; and 

 
 (b) failed to take into account a relevant consideration it was bound to take into account, in that it failed to have regard to the ULLS Model Terms.


 
 69 The first form of the complaint ((a) above) is procedural ultra vires that is reflected in s 5(1)(b) of the ADJR Act --- "that procedures that were required by law to be observed in connection with the making of the decision were not observed".
The procedure which ACCC is alleged to have failed to observe is the requirement in s 152AQB(9), that ACCC have regard to a determination made under s 152AQB, in this case, the 2003 ULLS Model Terms.
70 The second form of the complaint ((b) above) is a failure to take into account a relevant consideration, that is reflected in s 5(1)(e) coupled with s 5(2)(b) of the ADJR Act --- improper exercise of a statutory power in the form of a failure to take into account a relevant consideration.
The relevant consideration is again that specified in s 152AQB(9), namely, the 2003 ULLS Model Terms.
71 The ULLS Model Terms ground is pressed as Ground 3 in the Optus, XYZed, PowerTel and Request ULLS proceedings, and as Ground 4 in the Primus and Macquarie ULLS proceedings.
72 As noted at [12] above, although the Chime ULLS proceeding is the representative proceeding in respect of all other grounds of review concerning the ULLS, it is the Optus proceeding that is the representative proceeding in respect of the ULLS Model Terms ground.
Telstra no longer presses this ground in the Chime ULLS proceeding.
Notwithstanding this, the parties' submissions frequently refer to "Chime".
In fact, Chime's written submissions include submissions relating to the ULLS Model Terms ground, apparently because they were prepared before Telstra abandoned that ground in the Chime proceeding.
For convenience I will also from time to time refer to certain submissions as having been made by Chime, but it will be understood that they are in fact made on behalf of PowerTel, Request, Primus and Macquarie, and that Telstra no longer presses the present ground in the Chime proceeding.
73 Independent submissions were made by Optus.
74 ACCC made no submissions in relation to the present ground.
Legislation
 
 75 Section 152AQB of the Act relevantly provides:
 
 (1) For the purposes of this section, each of the following declared services is a core service:
 ... 

(c) the unconditioned Local Loop Service [ie the ULLS] (as described in the relevant declaration)
 
 
 (2) The Commission must make a written determination setting out model terms and conditions relating to access to each core service.


 
 ... 

 
 (8) Unless sooner revoked, a determination under this section relating to a particular core service ceases to be in force at the end of: 

(a) the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which the determination was made; or
 
(b) if a longer period is specified in the regulations in relation to the determination --- that longer period.

 (9) The Commission must have regard to a determination under this section if it is required to arbitrate an access dispute under Division 8 in relation to a core service covered by the determination.


 
 (10) A determination under this section has no effect to the extent that it is inconsistent with: 

(a) any Ministerial pricing determination; or
 
(b) any determination under section 152AQA.
76 Section 152AQA, referred to in subs (10), provides in subs (2) that the Commission must determine principles relating to the price of access to a declared service.
77 No regulation under subs (8)(b) has been made.
Accordingly, unless sooner revoked, a determination under s 152AQB ceases to be in force at the end of the period of 5 years beginning on the day on which the determination was made (subs (8)(a)).
The ULLS Model Terms were made in October 2003 (the evidence does not reveal the precise date in that month).
Accordingly, the period of five years expired in October 2008.
78 Section 152AQB was inserted into Part XIC of the Act by the Telecommunications Competition Act 2002 (Cth), s 3 , Sch 2, Item 2.
Telstra points to comments made in the Explanatory Memorandum relating to the Bill for that Act, which show that the purpose of s 152AQB was, through the making of model terms and conditions, to provide certainty as to ACCC's views on the terms and conditions of access that any FD made by ACCC in an arbitration under Div 8 would be expected to reflect.
Indeed, the Explanatory Memorandum stated:
 
 If a dispute about terms and conditions ... arose between parties, any subsequent ACCC arbitration decision (determinations) would be expected to reflect the model terms and conditions.


 
 ... 

 
 This option overcomes the uncertainty that currently exists prior to regulatory arbitrations as to what the ACCC's likely views may be concerning the eventual terms and conditions of access.


 
 79 In relation to s 152AQB(9), the Explanatory Memorandum stated, inter alia: 
 
 While these model terms and conditions will not be binding, they will provide clear guidance about the regulator's views as to what fair terms and conditions for access would be, including price.
The model terms and conditions would be based on an assessment of the current market conditions and would be in a form that could be easily incorporated into an access undertaking.
If a dispute about terms and conditions then arose between parties, any subsequent ACCC arbitration decision (determination) would be expected to reflect the model terms and conditions.


 The 2003 ULLS Model Terms
 
 80 In the 2003 ULLS Model Terms, ACCC discussed the function of model terms and conditions as follows (p 9):
 
 The Commission considers that model price terms and conditions will provide guidance to industry participants in several circumstances.
For example, they will provide guidance to access providers and seekers involved in negotiating the terms and conditions of access to the core services, particularly as they would be taken into account by the Commission in any arbitration of access disputes that arise from such negotiations.
As well, it is expected that these model terms and conditions would also guide to [sic] carriers considering providing access undertakings to the Commission in respect of core services.


 
 The availability of model terms and conditions is designed to overcome any regulatory uncertainty industry participants may have prior to regulatory arbitration of disputes.
Parties will therefore have an up-front view of the likely outcome of a particular issue thereby encouraging the parties to reach commercial agreement on access or by access undertaking.
[The second paragraph was taken from the Commonwealth's Explanatory Memorandum relating to the Telecommunications Competition Bill 2002 , HR, 2002, at pp 2, 32] 

 
 81 The ULLS Model Terms contained "indicative" monthly access charges for the ULLS in respect of the period from 1 July 2003 to 30 June 2006, ie the 2003-04, 2004-05 and 2005-06 financial years.
Although ACCC had power also to set indicative prices for the 2006-07 and 2007-08 financial years (see s 152AQB(8)(a) set out at [75] above), it did not do so.
Its construction of s 152AQB(8)(a) was that while a determination under s 152AQB remained in force for at least five years, ACCC had a discretion as to the number of years within that period for which indicative prices might be published, and it gave reasons for limiting the duration of the ULLS Model Terms to three years only (p 11).
82 The indicative prices for the ULLS were set out in Ch 14 of the ULLS Model Terms, which was headed "Model access prices for ULLS" and provided:
 
 The following are the indicative starting prices for the ULLS for the 2003-04, 2004-05 and 2005-06 financial years: 

 
 Table 14.1: Model ULLS access prices ($ per SIO [Service in Operation]) for 2003-04, 2004-05 and 2005-06 

 
 Indicative monthly total 
 
 Band 1 
 13 
 
 Band 2 
 22 
 
 Band 3 
 40 
 
 Band 4 
 100 
 
 
 ... 

 The remaining two paragraphs of Ch 14 need not be set out.
They provided for, inter alia, an adjustment mechanism for the years 2004-05 and 2005-06.
83 Bands 1 to 4 are references to a progression of geographical areas ranged according to the number of SIOs within them.
The 2007 ULLS Pricing Principles
 
 84 The instrument that determined the 2007 ULLS Pricing Principles was dated 21 November 2007 and stated that the determination started on the day on which it was made, 21 November 2007 The determination was registered in the Federal Register of Legislative Instruments.
Section 5(3) of the Legislative Instruments Act 2003 (Cth) (LI Act) provides that it is taken by virtue of that registration to be a legislative instrument.
Section 12(1)(a) of the LI Act had the effect that the determination took effect from the day specified in the instrument for the purpose of its commencement --- in the present case 21 November 2007.
All of the ULLS FDs were made after 21 November 2007.
