
 Background and short synopsis of the framework contentions
 These proceedings concern two matters which were heard together.
Evidence in one has been treated as evidence in the other.
The central question in controversy is whether work done by employees of John Holland Pty Ltd ("John Holland") at the Abbot Point Coal Terminal ("the Terminal") located at Abbot Point approximately 30 kilometres north of Bowen, and generally described as the marine or off-shore expansion works undertaken by the Terminal owner, Ports Corporation Queensland ("PCQ"), by contract with John Holland, as part of works to expand the annual throughput capacity of the Terminal to 50 million tonnes per annum ("50mtpa") falls, as a matter of construction, within the terms of a greenfields workplace agreement made between John Holland and the Australian Workers' Union (the "AWU"), described as the John Holland Pty Ltd --- Abbots Point Coal Terminal Expansion Workplace Agreement 2008 (referred to in these reasons, alternatively, as the "Workplace Expansion Agreement" or "the Agreement").
If so, the Agreement covers the work carried out on the relevant premises and is binding upon the AWU for the purposes of s 760 of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) ("the Act") to the exclusion of other Unions with the result that officials of other Unions or Organisations are not entitled to rely upon s 760 of the Act as the source of a right to enter the premises for the purpose of holding discussions with employees performing work under the Workplace Expansion Agreement, although those employees may be eligible to become members of the Union or organisation represented by the relevant officials.
Industrial engagement in relation to the relevant work on site is thus a function of the relationship between the employer, the employees and the AWU for the term of the Agreement according to its terms.
The Workplace Expansion Agreement was entered into between 14 and 17 April 2008 and commenced operation on 17 April 2008.
The Automotive, Food, Metals Engineering, Printing and Kindred Industries Union (the "AMWU"); the Communications, Electrical, Electronic, Energy, Information, Postal, Plumbing and Allied Services Union of Australia (the "CEPU'); the Electrical Trade Union of Employees Queensland Branch Union (the "ETU"); and the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union (the "CFMEU") (collectively described as "the Unions") contend that the work undertaken by John Holland employees on an area of Terminal land on the eastern side of the Terminal described as the X50 site (where X signifies expansion) are differentiated from other Terminal expansion works by separate signage, a dividing boundary fence and a separate secure access gate.
The Unions contend that the Workplace Expansion Agreement does not apply so as to regulate the terms and conditions of work of John Holland employees at the X50 site for the purposes of s 760 of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth), because, by the express terms of the Agreement, it is limited in its application to a single expansion project " at the Ports Corporation of Queensland Abbot Point Coal Terminal X25 and X30 Expansion" (cl 4.1 of the Agreement).
The Unions give particular emphasis to the word "at" in that phrase as signifying the geographical limitation in the application of the Agreement to a specific site or project which, in the Agreement, was collectively described as the X25 and X30 Expansion.
The "X25 and X30 Expansion" is therefore said to signify a site specific project other than the differentiated X50 project.
The Unions contend that the "X25 and X30 Expansion" contemplated by the Workplace Expansion Agreement when entered into in April 2008 comprehended, by the language of the Agreement, an expansion project which, it is said, is undertaken on the western on-shore side of the Terminal separated from the X50 site by the dividing boundary fence, separate signage and a separate secure point of access.
John Holland contends that it undertakes works at the Terminal under two contracts.
One, not relevant to these proceedings, concerns construction work undertaken on the western side of the Terminal to expand throughput capacity from 21mtpa to 25mtpa.
The works comprehended by that contract are understood, it is said, as the "X25 Expansion".
The second contract was awarded to John Holland on 29 July 2008 and is described in PCQ's letter of acceptance as "Contract No.
Q08-004 for the construction of X50 Marine Works".
John Holland says, put simply, that there is symmetry in the description of the scope of works to be undertaken, between the invitation to tender issued by PCQ on 21 December 2007; Contract Q08-004 ("the Contract") by reference to the technical specification defining the works; and the Workplace Expansion Agreement.
John Holland says the question of whether the Agreement covers the work carried out by its employees on site is to be determined by examining the content of Appendix 1 to the Workplace Expansion Agreement.
Although cl 4.1 contains the phrase given emphasis by the Unions, the term "X25 and X30" in that phrase is immediately followed by the phrase "as outlined in Appendix A".
Although there is no "Appendix A" to the Agreement, John Holland says "Appendix 1" to the Agreement outlines a scope of works which is consistent with the tender description and the Contract, and accurately describes the work its employees are actually performing on site under the Contract.
John Holland says the Appendix 1 tasks were to form part of a staged expansion of the Terminal to 30mtpa, which explains the reference to X30 in cl 4.1 of the Agreement.
However, John Holland contends that PCQ in response to market demand abandoned a staged approach to expansion of the Terminal through phases X30, X35 and X50 and elected to expand the throughput capacity of the Terminal directly from 25mtpa to 50mtpa with the result, it is said, that the off-shore marine works described in the tender letter and Appendix 1 to the Agreement came to be described by PCQ as works forming part of its "X50 Expansion".
That description of the expansion project was subsequently adopted in the Contract.
The Unions contend that there is work undertaken on the X50 site that is not within the description contained in Appendix 1 (assuming that Appendix 1 is treated as Appendix A for the purposes of cl 4.1) which suggests that the Contract scope of works finally negotiated after the making of the Workplace Expansion Agreement, goes beyond the scope of works in the Agreement.
Moreover, they say that since there is no reference to a separate X50 project or "X50 Expansion" in the Agreement, the parties when describing the expansion project as an X25 and X30 Expansion must be taken, in a practical sense, to have expressed their clear intention that their greenfields workplace engagement was limited to a defined expansion project then contemplated as an expansion to achieve a Terminal throughput capacity of 25mtpa and 30mtpa.
They say the PCQ project description "X50 Expansion" was not a descriptive project term used outside PCQ at 17 April 2008 and therefore not a common term of reference used by the parties to the Agreement at April 2008, which informs the proper construction of the Agreement.
The Unions also contend that John Holland has failed to adduce the necessary evidence to support the factual foundations for the relief claimed by it and has failed to demonstrate that the work carried out at the X50 site is covered by the Contract, forms part of PCQ's X50 Expansion project and is comprehensively covered by the Workplace Expansion Agreement.
The Unions also contend that on 3 November 2008, approximately seven months after the Agreement was entered into, John Holland put a proposal to their employees at the X25 and X50 work sites to vary the Agreement so as to, among other things, delete the existing Appendix 1 described as "Definition of Project" and bearing the subheading "The Scope of Works for X30 includes", and substitute a new Appendix 1 defining the project under a subheading "The Scope of Works for X50 includes the following" with a new textual description of the project works.
The proposed amendment was rejected by the employees.
The Unions contend that the conduct of proposing the amendment is inconsistent with John Holland's notion that Appendix 1 of the Agreement as struck on 17 April 2008 clearly describes and thus covers work said to be carried out under the Contract on the X50 site.
The Unions further say that the attempt to amend Appendix 1 informed their belief that the Agreement did not cover work carried out on the X50 work site.
The Unions accept that if the proper construction of the Workplace Expansion Agreement is that it applies to work undertaken by John Holland employees at the X50 site under the Contract as part of PCQ's X50 Expansion program, officials of the Unions are not entitled to enter the site in reliance upon s 760 of the Act for the purpose of holding discussions with John Holland employees carrying out that work, as the Agreement, binding upon the AWU, is not binding upon the AMWU, CEPU, ETU or CFMEU and thus there are no "eligible employees" of John Holland on site for the purposes of s 760 of the Act.
Section 760 is in these terms: 
 760 Right of entry to hold discussions with employees 

 
 A permit holder for an organisation may enter premises for the purposes of holding discussions with eligible employees who wish to participate in those discussions.
For this purpose, eligible employee means any employee who: 

 
 (a) on the premises, carries out work that is covered by an award or collective agreement that is binding on the permit holder's organisation; and 

 
 (b) is a member of the permit holder's organisation or is eligible to become a member of that organisation.


 The Unions however contend that the Agreement does not cover the work and other awards apply in circumstances where some John Holland employees would be eligible to become members of the Unions.
The relevant awards are the National Metal and Engineering On-site Construction Award 2002 (the "Metals Award"), the Electrical Contracting Industry Award 2003 ("the NAPSA") and the National Building and Construction Industry Award 2000 ("the Construction Award").
John Holland concedes that some of its employees are eligible to become members of the AMWU and the CFMEU, although there are no "eligible employees" in the definitional sense of s 760 of the Act.
It says that it has no employees eligible to become members of the CEPU or ETU, and that the NAPSA, as a matter of construction of the Award, has no application to it in any event.
A subsidiary question arises in relation to contractors to John Holland whose employees may be undertaking electrical work on the X50 site within the Contract scope of works.
On 19 November 2008, Mr Bradley and Mr Lowth, officials of the AMWU; Mr Ong, an official of the CEPU and ETU; and Mr Robinson, an official of the CFMEU entered the X50 work site.
Mr Bradley and Mr Lowth had sent by facsimile an entry notice to John Holland in reliance upon ss 738 and 760 of the Act.
On 13 February 2009, Mr Robinson, Mr Lowth, Mr Ong and Mr Bradley entered the site and held discussions with employees of John Holland.
They purported to do so under s 760 of the Act having issued notices to John Holland in reliance upon s 738 of the Act.
On 5 March 2009, Mr Robinson and Mr Bradley entered the X50 work site and held discussions with John Holland employees having issued notices to John Holland in reliance upon s 738 of the Act so as to exercise a contended right of entry under s 760 of the Act.
John Holland contends that each official, acting for and on behalf of the relevant Union, engaged in conduct in contravention of ss 767(1) and 768(1) of the Act.
The Unions contend that each official exercised a valid right of entry and in the course of doing so and seeking to conduct discussions with John Holland employees, John Holland by its employees and in particular by Mr Ingham, contravened s 767(3) and s 767(7) of the Act.
Those provisions are, relevantly, in these terms: 
 767 Hindering, obstruction etc. in relation to this Part 

 
 (1) A permit holder exercising, or seeking to exercise, rights: 

 
 (a) under section ... 760; or 

 
 (b) ... 

 
 must not intentionally hinder or obstruct any person, or otherwise act in an improper manner.


 
 ... 

 
 (3) A person must not refuse or unduly delay entry to premises by a permit holder who is entitled to enter the premises: 

 
 (a) under section ... 760; or 

 
 (b) ... 

 
 ... 

 
 (7) A person must not otherwise intentionally hinder or obstruct a permit holder exercising rights: 

 
 (a) under section ... 760; or 

 
 ... 

 
 (10) Without limiting subsection (7), that subsection: 

 
 (a) extends to hindering or obstructing that occurs after the entry notice is given but before the permit holder enters the premises; and 

 
 (b) applies whether or not the person who is hindering or obstructing knows at the time which permit holder will be exercising the rights in respect of the entry notice.


 
 768 Misrepresentations about right of entry 

 
 (1) A person must not, in the circumstances mentioned in subsection (2), engage in conduct: 

 
 (a) with the intention of giving a second person the impression; or 

 
 (b) reckless as to whether a second person would get the impression; 

 
 that the first person, or a third person, is authorised by this Part to do a particular thing.


 
 (2) The circumstances are: 

 
 (a) the first person or the third person (as the case requires) is not authorised by this Part to do that thing; and 

 
 (b) the first person knows, or has reasonable grounds to believe, that the first person or the third person (as the case requires) is not authorised by this Part to do that thing.


 The relevant Part is Part 15 of the Act which deals with "Right of entry".
Section 760 falls within Division 6 of Part 15.
Sections 767(1), 767(3), 767(7) and 768(1) are civil remedy provisions of the Act.
John Holland accepts that by Mr Ingham and other employees, although not by reason of any conduct on the part of security officers employed by a third party or PCQ employees, it sought to prevent the Union officials from entering the X50 site to conduct discussions with its employees and directed the officials to leave the site on the footing that they had no right of entry and their conduct constituted trespass.
The Unions assert that their officials entered the X50 site on the footing that they reasonably believed that the Agreement did not cover the work carried out on site by John Holland employees.
The basis for these beliefs, the conduct of the parties and whether a person was actuated by an exculpatory honest and reasonable belief, is a further aspect of the controversy.
Finally, a question arises as to whether industrial action was threatened, impending or probable for the purposes of s 39(1) of the Building and Construction Industry Improvement Act 2005 (Cth) (the "BCII Act").
The Workplace Relations Act 1996 (Cth) continues to apply to conduct that occurred prior to the repeal of the Act, by reason of the Fair Work (Transitional Provisions and Consequential Amendments) Act 2009 (Cth).
The two proceedings heard together are these.
In QUD63 of 2009, John Holland by its Further Amended Application filed on 28 April 2009 seeks declarations binding upon the CFMEU, CEPU, AMWU and AWU that the Workplace Expansion Agreement applies to work performed by its employees at PCQ's Abbot Point site in connection with PCQ's "X50 Expansion" project; the Workplace Expansion Agreement covers exhaustively all work performed by its employees at PCQ's Abbot Point site in connection with PCQ's X50 Expansion project under the Contract to the exclusion of any work which might be performed by members of the CFMEU, CEPU and AMWU; the Workplace Expansion Agreement is not binding on the CFMEU, CEPU and AMWU; and the CFMEU, CEPU and AMWU may not, by their servants, agents or officials enter the Abbot Point site under s 760 of the Act for the purpose of holding discussions with any employee of John Holland performing work under the Agreement.
John Holland also seeks a declaration that Notices issued by the CFMEU and AMWU respectively on 20 November 2008 purporting to initiate a bargaining period in relation to John Holland's operations at PCQ's Abbot Point Terminal, pursuant to the X50 Expansion project, are invalid and of no effect; and an injunction restraining the CFMEU, CEPU and AMWU from engaging in industrial action in connection with John Holland's operations at the Abbot Point Terminal pursuant to the X50 Expansion project.
John Holland seeks an order imposing a pecuniary penalty upon the CFMEU, CEPU and AMWU pursuant to s 769 of the Act in respect of contraventions of ss 767(1) and 768(1) of the Act.
In proceeding QUD63 of 2009, John Holland had initially joined and sought relief against the Union officials, Robinson, Ong, Bradley and Lowth.
Since each Union has accepted that its official acted within the scope of his authority in relation to all relevant conduct and the Union is thus vicariously liable for any contravention of ss 767(1) or 768(1) of the Act, John Holland by its Further Amended Application discontinued the proceeding against the individuals.
By QUD66 of 2009, the AMWU, ETU and CFMEU and Messrs Bradley, Lowth, Ong and Robinson by their Amended Application filed on 5 May 2009 seek declarations that John Holland has contravened ss 767(3) and 767(7) in respect of conduct on the part of its employees in connection with the exercise by the officials of the Union of their contended right of entry to the site of the X50 Expansion works, on 19 November 2008, 13 February 2009 and 5 March 2009.
The applicants in that proceeding seek an order pursuant to s 769 of the Act for the imposition of a pecuniary penalty upon John Holland in respect of each contravention and an order that John Holland pay Messrs Bradley, Lowth, Ong and Robinson compensation as the Court may determine.
The applicants in QUD66 of 2009 had joined and sought relief against a second respondent, Mr Stephen Sasse, in the form of declarations that Mr Sasse had engaged in contraventions of ss 767(3) and 767(7) of the Act in respect of conduct on his part 19 November 2008, 13 February 2009 and 5 March 2009; and related relief.
By their Amended Application the applicants have discontinued claims for relief against Mr Sasse.
Having regard to the reformulation of the relief sought in each proceeding, the applicant John Holland in QUD63 of 2009 and the applicants in QUD66 of 2009 agreed to file amended applications identifying the specific relief pressed in each proceeding.
Rather than amend the Statement of Claim in each proceeding, the parties in each proceeding elected to frame an agreed list of issues for determination in the proceedings, heard together.
The agreed list of issues adopts definitional terms at cl 1, most of which are reflected in these reasons, and to the extent that there are other specific definitions, they are set out below.
The agreed list of issues together with the "notes" of the parties to issues 5, 8 and 9 are these: 
 AGREED LIST OF ISSUES 

 
 Agreed Definitions 

 
 ... 

 
 (g) Relevant Employees means those persons who have been, are currently, and/or will be employed by [John Holland] to perform work at the X50 work site pursuant to Contract Q08-004 [and/or Contract Q08-005]; 

 
 (h) X25 Expansion Project means the project which PCQ is presently undertaking to expand the Terminal to increase the Terminal's throughput capacity from 21 Mtpa to 25 Mtpa; 

 
 (i) X50 Expansion Project means the project which PCQ is presently undertaking to expand the Terminal to increase the Terminal's throughput capacity from 25 Mtpa to 50 Mtpa; 

 
 (j) X50 work site means the work area on the Eastern side of the Terminal known as the X50 work site where work is performed in connection with PCQ's X50 Expansion Project; 

 
 (k) X25 work site means the work area on the Western side of the Terminal known as the X25 work site where work is performed in connection with PCQ's X50 Expansion Project 

 
 ... 

 
 Coverage Issues 

 Is the work which John Holland is presently performing for PCQ at the X50 work site pursuant to Contract Q08-004:
 
 (a) part of PCQ's X50 Expansion Project; and 

 
 (b) covered by the Expansion Agreement [the Agreement].


 Do the Relevant Employees perform work which is:
 
 (a) covered by the Contract Q08-004; 

 
 (b) part of PCQ's X50 Expansion Project; 

 
 (c) comprehensively covered by the Expansion Agreement.


 
 Right of Entry Issues under s.760 of the Workplace Relations Act 1996 [WR Act] 

 Do any of the Relevant Employees carry out work which is covered by the NAPSA, Metals Award or Construction Award?
Can the NAPSA in any event apply to [John Holland]?
With respect to those Relevant Employees who were employed by [John Holland] at the time of Mr Ong's entry on 18 November 2008 [19 November 2008] and 13 February 2009, were any of those persons a member of, or eligible to become a member of the ETU?

 [Note [John Holland] concedes that there are Relevant Employees who were at least eligible to become a member of the CFMEU and/or the AMWU] 

 Are any of the Relevant Employees "eligible employees" of the CFMEU, AMWU and/or ETU for the purposes of s.760 of the WR Act?
Having regard to the answers to Questions 4, 5 and 6, did Mr Bradley, Mr Lowth, Mr Ong and/or Mr Robinson have a valid right of entry to the X50 work site on 18 November 2008, 13 February 2009, and/or 5 March 2009 pursuant to s.760 of the WR Act?
If the answer to Question 7 is no, then did the CFMEU, AMWU and/or CEPU by the conduct of their respective agents, Messrs Bradley, Lowth, Ong and Robinson on 13 February 2009 and/or 5 March 2009 breach:
 
 (a) section 767(1) of the WR Act; 

 
 (b) section 768(1) of the WR Act; and/or 

 
 [Note, it is conceded by the CFMEU, AMWU and CEPU that the conduct of Messrs Bradley, Lowth, Ong and Robinson was at all times within the scope of their actual or ostensible authority as union officials.
] 

 If the answer to Question 7 is yes, then did [John Holland] (by the conduct of its employees or agents) breach:
 
 (a) Section 767(1) of the WR Act; and/or 

 
 (b) Section 768(1) of the WR Act; 

 
 [Note, it is conceded by [John Holland] that Mr Ingham at all times acted within the scope of his authority as [John Holland's] lawful agent.
However, issues will arise as to whether other persons (such as the unnamed security guard) were [John Holland's]agent.
] 

 Is unlawful industrial action threatened, impending or probable for the purposes of s.39(1) of the BCII Act?
If yes, should the Court grant an injunction?
The reference at point 9 of the Agreed Issues to ss 767(1) and 768(1) of the Act should be a reference to ss 767(3) and 767(7) of the Act.
The Australian Building and Construction Commissioner (the "ABCC") has intervened in both proceedings pursuant to s 71 of the Building and Construction Industry Improvement Act 2005 (Cth) (the "BCII Act") and has made submissions on questions of law and some factual questions.
The agreed issues are to be resolved separately from any question of the imposition of a pecuniary penalty arising out of any contravention of ss 767 or 768 of the Act that might be found to have occurred.
The PCQ expansion at the Abbot Point Terminal
 Mr Carrick Stokoe gave this evidence.
Mr Stokoe is engaged by PCQ in the role of General Manager Construction.
He has been engaged by PCQ since 4 July 2005 and is responsible for all works required to be undertaken to provide the Terminal with throughput capacity of 50mtpa.
His responsibilities include the overview of all design phases of the expansion, the advertising and assessment of tenders, the letting of tenders and the overseeing of all construction work to deliver the works involved in the expansion.
The Terminal is owned by PCQ and operated by "Abbot Point Bulk Coal".
Over the years, PCQ has undertaken a number of construction projects to increase the capacity of the Terminal.
In or around July 2006 when PCQ was originally planning the expansion of the Terminal, those expansions were intended to have several phases.
Each phase was intended to represent an expansion of the capacity of the Terminal to facilitate the export of a particular number of million tonnes of coal per annum and the phase of the expansion was designated by an X.
Accordingly, there were initial plans for an X21 Project, an X25 Project, an X30 Project and an X35 Project, with the balance of work required to complete the expansion described as the X50 Project.
It became apparent during the construction of the X21 Project in or about January 2008 and shortly after the expansion works for the X25 Project were contracted to John Holland, that there was sufficient capacity demand from users to move directly to the expansion of the Terminal to 50mtpa.
Accordingly, PCQ dispensed with the phased intervening expansions of the Terminal between X25 and X50.
The work undertaken to expand the capacity of the Terminal beyond 25mtpa became described by reference to two categories of expansion work, namely, the X50 "on-shore" works and the X50 "off-shore" works.
Mr Stokoe says that the reference to the "X50 off-shore" works was a reference to work to be carried out under Contract Q08-004.
The tender process for the letting of a contract for these works was overseen by Mr Stokoe.
It fell within his responsibility as General Manager Construction.
On 21 December 2007, PCQ issued, by letter, an invitation to short-listed pre-qualified companies including John Holland to tender for construction of the off-shore works described in the invitation letter as the "Marine Works" (the "Invitation to Tender").
Mr Stokoe says the Invitation to Tender refers to the intended X30 expansion and includes within the scope of works to be constructed, the intended X30 and X35 works.
The letter enclosed tender documents including a technical specification relating to structural, mechanical and electrical works (Appendix D).
The letter provides that the Marine Works comprise the scope of works to be the subject of the proposed contract Q08-004.
The letter of 21 December 2007 is contextually important and is, relevantly, in these terms: 
 John Holland Pty Ltd 

 
 Ports Corporation of Queensland 
 Abbot Point Coal Terminal 
 X30 Expansion 
 Marine Works 
 Contract No.
Q08-004 
 Invitation to Tender 

 
 1.
Background 

 
 As you are aware, [PCQ] is undertaking a major expansion of its [Terminal] north of Bowen.


 
 The terminal has recently been expanded from 15Mtpa to 21Mtpa throughput capacity with the completion of the X21 expansion.
Further work proposed in 2008 will increase capacity still further to approximately 25Mtpa through: 

 Construction of a second rail receival dump station and in-loading conveyor stream Speeding up of existing yard conveyors and the existing out-loading stream from its current 4,000tph to 6,000tph
 
 This work is defined as the X25 expansion .


 
 Contingent upon construction of the Northern Missing Link (NML) rail link between North Goonyella and Newlands, PCQ is now planning to expand its Abbot Point facility to 50Mpta.
The next stage of this expansion comprises construction of the following works: 

 Upgrading of Dump Station DS1 and inloading Conveyors C101, C102 and C103 Construction of a second yard Conveyor C204 on Bund 2 and fourth Stacker/Reclaimer SR4 Construction of a third bund, Bund 3, yard Conveyors C205 and C206 and additional Stacker/Reclaimer machines SR5 and SR6 Construction of a second berth offshore, referred to as Berth No.
2 and associated shipping gallery Conveyor C335 Construction of a second Shiploader SL2 Construction of a second outloading stream, referred to as CL2
 
 It is PCQ's intention that the onshore works will be undertaken under separate contracts.
Accordingly, the scope of Contract No.
Q08-004 --- Marine Works , broadly includes: 

 
 Scope of Contract No Q08-004 --- Marine Works 

 Construction of Berth 2 to the east of existing Berth 1, approximately 2.85km offshore, including skeletal steel wharf structure, shiploader strong point, berthing dolphins, mooring dolphins and access roadway Construction of shipping gallery Conveyor C335 and associated drive tower Construction of the second jetty Conveyor C334 complete, including all structural mechanical and electrical works associated with the outloading conveyor Modifications at the head end of jetty Conveyor C334 within the existing transfer tower to permit both the existing jetty Conveyor C324 and the new jetty Conveyor C334 to feed each berth 
 ... 

 
 Site access for erection will be available from 28 July 2008.
Export of first coal over Berth 2 is required by 31 March 2010.


 
 ... 

 
 2.
Description of the works 

 
 The proposed second berth, Berth 2, is shown in general arrangement Drawing No's 664-4-X30-SK010 to SK014.
The berth will be constructed to the east of the existing berth and broadly comprise the following features: 

 Western strongpoint connected via an access roadway to the existing C324 Drive Tower support platform Skeletal steel wharf structure comprising piles, slotted headstocks and shiploader long travel rail girders, and including longitudinal anchor Seven independent berthing dolphin structures Mooring dolphins and interconnecting walkways Precast concrete deck units on the strongpoint, wharf and wharf access roadway 
 
 The wharf also supports the wharf shipping Conveyor C335 over its entire length.
The structural, mechanical and electrical works associated with this C335 shipping conveyor and C335 Drive Tower will also form part of the scope of works 

 
 In addition, the Marine Works Contract shall include the supply and installation of the 2.85km long jetty Conveyor C334.
The 24 metre span conveyor gallery trusses will be supported from existing piled headstocks... 

 
 A long travelling, luffing, 7,200tph shiploader will also be located on Berth 2 as part of the X50 expansion.
At this stage, the shiploader is not included in this Tender but PCQ may later include the supply and installation of the shiploader within the scope of the Contract.


 The Invitation to Tender sets out at section 3 the scope of works the subject of the tender, in these terms: 
 3.
Scope of Works 

 
 The Scope of Works proposed in this Contract No.
Q08-004 broadly includes, but is not limited to , the following: 

 Supply and fabrication of approximately 12.8km of 1,200 diameter steel tube piling Delivery to site of this piling and splicing on-shore at site into the required lengths for driving, including provision of the driving shoe.
Two splices will be required at site per pile (ie approximately 480 splices at site producing 240 piles) Handling and pitching of approximately 240/1,200 diameter piles Driving an estimated quantity of 6,000 metres of piles Supply, fabrication, protective treatment, delivery to site and installation of approximately 2,200 tonnes of fabricated steelwork associated with headstocks, rail girders, bracing and access for the marine structures and also the C335 conveyor support trestles Manufacture, delivery and installation of approximately 950 precast concrete deck units of varying lengths Supply and installation of over 530 metres of A150 shiploader rail Supply and installation of other miscellaneous equipment including fenders, mooring hooks, ships access facility, platforms, davits, etc.
 
 Structural steelwork including: 

 Jetty Conveyor C334 gallery trusses, each typically spanning 24 metres, supported from existing piled headstocks, (Note, no additional piling is required on the approach jetty).
The estimated quantity of fabricated steelwork is 1,050 tonnes.
Modifications in the C324 Drive Tower C335 shipping gallery structure comprising over 260 tonnes of fabricated steelwork C335 Drive Tower comprising approximately 45 tonnes of fabricated steelwork Extruded aluminium flooring and aluminium floor grating Aluminium purlins and girts and cladding in C335 Drive Tower Limited concrete flooring
 
 Mechanical works including: 

 Jetty Conveyor C334 complete including all pulleys, idlers, drive units, conveyor belt, takeup, chutes, scrapers, sensors, guarding, etc, and modifications as required within the existing C324 Drive Tower Wharf Conveyor C335 complete including all pulleys, idles, drive unit, conveyor belt, takeup, chutes, scrapers, sensors, guarding, etc.
The diverter chute shall be capable of feeding to either C335 on Berth 2 or existing C325 on Berth 1.
Modifications to chutework to permit existing Jetty Conveyor C324 to feed to either C325 on Berth 1 or C335 on Berth 2 Wharf slurry tanks and clean-up system Maintenance hoisting equipment Conveyor water services
 
 Electrical works including: 

 C334 jetty conveyor complete with electrical/control systems hardware, junction boxes, cabling, testing and commissioning C335 shipping conveyor complete with electrical/control systems hardware, junction boxes, cabling, testing and commissioning Feed centre to shiploader Replacement of existing and the installation of new HV switchgear within the Wharf Substation HV cabling between the Main and Wharf Substations General lighting  power to wharf  jetty structures PA system extension Cathodic protection of marine structures
 
 [emphasis other than emphasis in bold, added] 

 The Invitation to Tender contained a number of key dates applicable to the proposed contract including oral presentations by tenderers on 3 March 2008, the selection of the preferred contractor by 28 March 2008, the formalisation of the Contract by 30 May 2008, access to the site for the establishment of amenities by 7 July 2008, access to the works by 28 July 2008 and practical completion by 31 March 2010.
Mr Stokoe says that by March 2008 the expansion project was known and commonly referred to as the "X50 Expansion Project".
On 29 July 2008, PCQ issued a Letter of Acceptance of John Holland's lump sum tender for the Contract.
The letter notes that on 28 May 2008, PCQ had issued a "Letter of Intent" to contract with John Holland to enable it to commence early works prior to finalisation of the Contract in order to ensure PCQ's delivery schedule for the works was maintained.
The letter of 29 July 2008 describes 10 categories of documents comprising the "Contract Documents" including a Technical Specification (Revision 3) dated 4 June 2008, Standard Specifications listed in an appendix to the Technical Specification and particular Drawings.
Revision 3 of the Technical Specification is actually dated 3 June 2008 and is Exhibit MD-2 to the affidavit of Malcolm Davis sworn 5 March 2009.
An earlier version of the Technical Specification, Revision 1, dated 30 April 2008, one month prior to the Letter of Intent of 28 May 2008, is Exhibit MD-3 to Mr Davis's affidavit of 5 March 2009.
The Technical Specification, Revision 3, contains an introductory explanation of the "X50 Expansion" and the scope of works for Contract Q08-004, in these terms: 
 1.
Introduction 

 
 1.1 X50 Expansion 

 
 The Abbot Point Coal Terminal (APCT) is owned by Ports Corporation of Queensland (PCQ) and operated by Abbot Point Bulkcoal (APB), hereinafter defined as the "Operator".


 
 The terminal is located at Abbot Point, approximately 30km by road north of Bowen, on the Central Queensland coast.
The site of the proposed works is within the boundaries of the existing operating terminal.


 
 X50 is an expansion stage to increase overall throughput at APCT to a nominal 30 million tonnes per annum.
The scope of Contract No.
Q08-004 --- Marine Works is part of X50 and includes but is not limited to the following main areas of scope: 

 
 1.1.1 Berth 2 

 
 Berth 2 is a new skeletal steel framed wharf to cater for Cape Size vessels which will be situated to the east of the existing Berth 1.
It will have an independent dolphin system and will be connected to the existing transfer tower platform via a new wharf bridge and widening to the transfer tower platform.


 
 1.1.2 Conveyor C334 

 
 Conveyor C334 will be a new (second) jetty conveyor which will form part of the new Outloading System 2 (OL2) between the new onshore sample plant tower (to be constructed by others) and the existing offshore transfer tower (which will require modification as part of this contract).
The conveyor will be supported upon the existing jetty structure, which was originally constructed to support two conveyors.


 
 1.1.3 Conveyor C335 

 
 Conveyor C335 will be an elevated wharf conveyor servicing Shiploader SL2 (to be constructed, delivered and installed by others) upon the new Berth 2, feeding from the new Conveyor C334 at the offshore transfer tower and finishing at a new drive tower at the eastern end of Berth 2.


 Section 2 describes the scope of works, in part, in these terms: 
 2.
Scope of works 

 
 The scope of work included in this Contract broadly includes, but is not necessarily limited to, the supply, fabrication, protective treatment, delivery to site, storage at site and installation of concrete, structural steelwork, mechanical equipment and electrical works associated with X50, ... 

 Clause 2.1 summarises the marine structural works in these terms: 
 The following is provided as a summary of the works to be undertaken: 

 280m long Berth 2 wharf with western strongpoint, longitudinal anchor structure and eastern drive tower platform, including structural steel piling, headstocks, rail girders, rails, pre-stressed concrete deck units, conveyor support structures, associated steelwork and concrete and miscellaneous items; 
 Three new mooring dolphins and seven new berthing dolphins, including Mooring Dolphin MD12, Berthing Dolphins BD13 to BD19 inclusive, and Mooring Dolphins MD20 and MD21, including structural steel piling, headstocks, flooring, steelwork, fendering and mooring equipment and interconnecting trusses and walkways; 
 Wharf bridge and transfer tower platform extension, providing roadway connection and wharf conveyor support between Berth 2 and the existing transfer tower platform.
The Technical Specification then sets out specific requirements in relation to tubular pile fabrication (2.1.1), hammer and driving system performance (2.1.2), pile testing (2.1.3), pile tension anchors (2.1.4), marine fender systems (including such matters as the Berthing Dolphin Fender Systems and working load tension specifications for chain systems used in association with the Berthing Dolphins) (2.1.5) and quick release mooring hooks (2.2).
The general description of the structural works is in these terms: 
 2.3 Structural works 

 
 Removal and disposal off site of existing steelwork as required and the supply, fabrication, protective treatment (including site restoration of new or existing protective coatings affected by the Works), delivery and erection of all new steelwork, grating and cladding systems as nominated by the Drawings and Specifications, including preparation of shop details and the design and installation of temporary works necessary to complete the Works.


 The structural works are then described in this way: 
 2.3.1 Jetty Conveyor C334 

 Tail end conveyor and conveyor walkway support structure, built upon the Sample Plant 2 C334 Tail end floor structure (constructed by others) Onshore trestles and conveyor galleries from the Sample Plant 2 tower to Jetty Bent 1, built upon concrete foundations constructed by others.
Offshore conveyor galleries along the typical jetty, mounted upon new stainless steel plates welded to the existing headstock shoes, including conveyor cross-over ladders and platforms at approximately 264 metre centres.
Offshore trestles and conveyor galleries with fully seated flooring at the offshore end of the conveyor where it rises to the existing C324 / C334 drive tower (the offshore transfer tower), including brake platform, and gravity take-up unit with fall arrester assembly.
Modifications to the existing C324 / C334 drive tower to accept the new conveyor installation, and head end conveyor support, conveyor access, and chutework support structure within the tower.

 2.3.2 Wharf Conveyor C335 

 Tail end conveyor support and conveyor access structure.
Trestles and clad truss conveyor galleries with fully sealed flooring from the tail end structure to the western-most tripper travel extent adjacent to the Berth 2 strongpoint.
Continuously welded beam-type open conveyor galleries for the length of Berth 2, which support the conveyor and provide the running beams for the Shiploader SL2 tripper.
Break platform, and gravity take-up unit with fall arrest assembly near the head end.
Elevated, clad drive tower at the eastern end of Berth 2.

 2.3.3 Miscellaneous Structures 

 Berth 2 Ship Access Ladder Removal and replacement of the existing amenities building, and provision of miscellaneous shelters and platforms.
