
 BACKGROUND 
 The applicant (Guylian) is a Belgian manufacturer of boxed chocolates which are sold in over 132 countries around the world, including Australia.
Guylian sells a variety of chocolate products but is particularly well renowned for its sea shell range of chocolates --- or "Perles d'Ocan" --- comprising 11 novelty marine life shapes each filled with a hazelnut praline centre and created by a blend of white, milk and dark Belgian chocolate, which gives the chocolate a marbled appearance.
The sea shell range includes different types of shells and shell-fish, a prawn and a seahorse shape.
Guylian has obtained international registration of its chocolate seahorse shape as a trade mark pursuant to the Protocol Relating to the Madrid Agreement Concerning the International Registration of Marks 1989 (the Madrid Protocol), to which Australia became a party on 11 July 2001.
The seahorse shape is depicted below: Fig.
1 --- Seahorse shape as depicted in Guylian's Application No.
936483 (see [4] below).
Fig.
2 --- View of the two sides (profiles) of the seahorse shape.
The Madrid Protocol was adopted on 27 June 1989 and provides a streamlined process for the registration and protection of trade marks in multiple countries by filing a single international application with the International Bureau of the World Intellectual Property Organisation (via the intermediary of the relevant trade make office in an applicant's home state).
The Trade Marks Act 1995 (Cth) (the Act) and Trade Marks Regulations 1995 (Cth) (the Regulations) incorporate provisions for the making of international registration applications in Australia and the extension of protection to Australia for registered international trade marks applied for in another member state: see s 189A of the Act and Pt 17A of the Regulations.
The latter are accommodated by Pt 17A , Div 3 of the Regulations which provide a process for the registration of what is termed an "International Registration designating Australia", or "IRDA".
An IRDA is "a request, made under ... the Protocol, for extension to Australia of the protection resulting from the international registration of a trade mark".
Essentially the same examination and opposition procedures apply to an IRDA as to ordinary applications for registration of a trade mark under the Act.
Where an IRDA is made the priority date of the IRDA (if accepted) will generally be the date of filing of the original international application in the relevant member state: see regs 17A.4 and 17A.15 of the Regulations.
Following international registration of its seahorse shape in Benelux, Guylian sought protection of the shape mark in Australia.
(Belgium, Luxembourg and the Netherlands which form the Benelux union are treated as one member state under the Madrid Protocol.
) Application for protection was made by way of an IRDA transmitted to the Australian Registrar of Trade Marks on 16 October 2002 (Application No.
936483).
Application No.
936483 sought protection of the seahorse shape as a three dimensional shape mark in respect of goods in class 30 as identified in the Regulations, specifically pralines and chocolate.
Based on the international registration in Benelux, the priority date sought for Application No.
936483 was 16 April 2002 (the priority date).
This proceeding is an appeal from a decision of the delegate of the Registrar of Trade Marks made on 31 May 2007 to refuse registration of Application No.
936483.
The delegate refused to register the seahorse shape mark on the basis that it was not capable of distinguishing Guylian's goods within the meaning of s 41(5) of the Act.
Guylian appeals the decision pursuant to s 35 of the Act, which applies to decisions of the Registrar made under Pt 17A , Div 3 of the Regulations: see reg 17A.26(1).
LEGISLATIVE PROVISIONS 
 Registration and grounds for rejecting
 Regulations 17A.11 to 17A.28 of the Regulations provide the statutory regime for the registration, or "acceptance", of an IRDA by the Registrar.
The Regulations in substance mirror ss 27 to 44 of the Act, which cater for the application for registration of an ordinary domestic trade mark in Australia.
In particular, in essentially the same terms as s 33 of the Act, reg 17A.24 provides: 
 (1) The Registrar must, after the examination, accept the IRDA unless he or she is satisfied that :
 (a) it is not in accordance with this Division; or
 (b) there are grounds for rejecting it .
...
 (3) The Registrar must reject an IRDA, in whole or in part, if the Registrar is satisfied that:
 (a) it is not in accordance with this Division; or
 (b) there are grounds for rejecting it, in whole or in part.
(Emphasis added.
) 

 The relevant "grounds for rejecting" an IRDA are the grounds set out in ss 39 to 44 of the Act: reg 17A.28(1).
Sections 39 to 44 of the Act apply to an IRDA, with appropriate modifications so that the "reference in those sections (i) to an application for the registration of a trade mark were a reference to the IRDA, and (ii) to an applicant were a reference to the holder of an IRDA": reg 17A.28(2).
In the Registrar's view, s 41(2) of the Act provided a ground for rejecting Guylian's application.
It is the only ground the Registrar considered was a basis to reject the application.
It is worth setting out s 41(2) to (6) in full: 
 (2) An application for the registration of a trade mark must be rejected if the trade mark is not capable of distinguishing the applicant's goods or services in respect of which the trade mark is sought to be registered ( designated goods or services ) from the goods or services of other persons.
(3) In deciding the question whether or not a trade mark is capable of distinguishing the designated goods or services from the goods or services of other persons, the Registrar must first take into account the extent to which the trade mark is inherently adapted to distinguish the designated goods or services from the goods or services of other persons.
(4) Then, if the Registrar is still unable to decide the question, the following provisions apply.
(5) If the Registrar finds that the trade mark is to some extent inherently adapted to distinguish the designated goods or services from the goods or services of other persons but is unable to decide, on that basis alone, that the trade mark is capable of so distinguishing the designated goods or services:
 (a) the Registrar is to consider whether, because of the combined effect of the following:
 (i) the extent to which the trade mark is inherently adapted to distinguish the designated goods or services;
 (ii) the use, or intended use, of the trade mark by the applicant;
 (iii) any other circumstances;
 the trade mark does or will distinguish the designated goods or services as being those of the applicant; and
 (b) if the Registrar is then satisfied that the trade mark does or will so distinguish the designated goods or services---the trade mark is taken to be capable of distinguishing the applicant's goods or services from the goods or services of other persons; and
 (c) if the Registrar is not satisfied that the trade mark does or will so distinguish the designated goods or services---the trade mark is taken not to be capable of distinguishing the applicant's goods or services from the goods or services of other persons.
(6) If the Registrar finds that the trade mark is not to any extent inherently adapted to distinguish the designated goods or services from the goods or services of other persons, the following provisions apply:
 (a) if the applicant establishes that, because of the extent to which the applicant has used the trade mark before the filing date in respect of the application, it does distinguish the designated goods or services as being those of the applicant---the trade mark is taken to be capable of distinguishing the designated goods or services from the goods or services of other persons;
 (b) in any other case---the trade mark is taken not to be capable of distinguishing the designated goods or services from the goods or services of other persons.


 Section 41(2) requires the Registrar to reject an application where the purported trade mark is "not capable of distinguishing the applicant's goods ... in respect of which the trade mark is sought to be registered from the goods ... of other persons".
Whether a trade mark is "capable of distinguishing" goods from those sold by other traders is to be determined by reference to subss 41(3)-(6).
As Branson J said in Blount Inc v Registrar of Trade Marks [1998] FCA 440 ; (1998) 83 FCR 50 ( Blount ) at 56, subss 41(3)-(6) are "designed to control the process by which the Registrar is to reach a conclusion as to whether the trade mark for which registration is sought is capable of distinguishing the applicant's goods".
That "process" involves the following steps: 
(a) The Registrar must first "take into account the extent to which the trade mark is inherently adapted to distinguish" the relevant goods from the goods of others: subs 41(3);
 
(b) If that consideration leads to a conclusion that the trade mark is capable of distinguishing the goods from those of others, then, so long as the Registrar is not satisfied that any other grounds for rejecting the IRDA exist, she must accept the IRDA: reg 17A.24 (cf s 33 of the Act);
 
(c) However, if the Registrar is "unable to decide" whether the trade mark is capable of distinguishing the goods by the "inherently adapted" consideration alone, then either subs 41(5) or subs 41(6) applies: see subs 41(4).
Subsection 41(5) will apply if the Registrar finds that the trade mark "is to some extent inherently adapted to distinguish the ... goods ... from the goods ... of other persons but is unable to decide, on that basis alone, that the trade make is capable of so distinguishing the ... goods".
By contrast, subs 41(6) will apply if the Registrar finds that the trade mark "is not to any extent inherently adapted to distinguish".
(d) If the Registrar finds the trade mark is to some extent inherently adapted (subs 41(5)), the Registrar is then required to consider whether the trade mark "does or will distinguish the ... goods as being those of the applicant", by taking into account the combined effect of the following three matters (par 41(5)(a)):
 the extent to which the trade mark is inherently adapted to distinguish; the use, or intended use, of the trade mark by the applicant; and any other circumstances.
(e) After taking those matters into account, the trade mark is "taken to be capable of distinguishing the applicant's goods ... from the goods ... of other persons" only if the Registrar is "satisfied" that the trade mark in fact does or will so distinguish the goods: par 41(5)(b).
If the Registrar is not so satisfied, then the trade mark is taken not to be capable of distinguishing (see par 41(5)(c)), a ground for rejecting the IRDA will thereby exist and the Registrar is then required to reject the IRDA: reg 17A.24(3).
(f) In the alternative scenario that the Registrar finds that the trade mark is not to any extent inherently adapted to distinguish (subs 41(6)), then the trade mark is taken not to be capable of distinguishing the goods unless the applicant "establishes" that, because of the extent to which the applicant has used the trade mark prior to the relevant filing date of the application, the trade mark does in fact distinguish the goods as being those of the applicant: pars 41(6)(a) and (b).
Prior to the commencement of the Act on 1 January 1996, "shape" trade marks were not capable of registration under Australian trade mark legislation: see Trade Marks Act 1955 (Cth) (the 1955 Act).
However they are now recognised in the current Act.
Section 17 defines "trade mark" as: 
 a sign used, or intended to be used, to distinguish goods or services dealt with or provided in the course of trade by a person from goods or services so dealt with or provided by any other person.


 The concept of a "trade mark" thus has both functional and formative aspects.
It must be used "to distinguish" goods, that is "to indicate the origin of the goods to which it is applied": Aristoc Ltd v Rysta [1945] AC 68 at 96 (Lord MacMillan); and it must be capable of description as a "sign", which is defined in s 6 as: 
 sign includes the following or any combination of the following, namely, any letter, word, name, signature, numeral, device, brand, heading, label, ticket, aspect of packaging, shape, colour, sound or scent.


 In applying the provisions of the Act, and in particular the various grounds for rejecting an application (for example, s 41), the task of construction should be approached so as to give effect to the clear legislative intention that a wide variety of trade marks, including shapes, ought be capable of registration: see Kenman Kandy Australia Pty Ltd v Registrar of Trade Marks [2002] FCAFC 273 ; (2002) 122 FCR 494 ( Kenman Kandy ) at [46] (French J).
Nature of appeal
 Section 35 of the Act provides: 
 The applicant may appeal to the Federal Court against a decision of the Registrar:
 (a) to accept the application subject to conditions or limitations;
 or
 (b) to reject the application.


 The nature of an "appeal" to the Federal Court under s 35 (and in respect of a decision in an opposition proceeding under s 56) has been discussed at length in several cases: see Blount 83 FCR at 58D-59A (Branson J); Kenman Kandy [2002] FCAFC 273 ; 122 FCR 494 at [21] - [22] (French J); Registrar of Trade Marks v Woolworths Ltd [1999] FCAFC 1020 ; (1999) 93 FCR 365 ( Woolworths ) at [32]-[34] (French J).
In hearing an appeal pursuant to s 35, the Court exercises its original jurisdiction and conducts a hearing de novo.
It is to determine on the merits the same question that was before the Registrar --- namely, whether or not the trade mark should be accepted --- and in doing so, it is to apply the same legal criteria that the Registrar is required to adopt under the Act.
The Registrar's decision is not to be presumed correct but the Court is entitled to have regard to the Registrar's opinion as that of a skilled and experienced person in the field of trade mark registrations: Woolworths [1999] FCAFC 1020 ; 93 FCR 365 at [33] (French J).
Presumption of registrability and standard of proof
 The parties raised two issues concerning the onus and standard of proof.
The first is whether the "presumption of registrability", as it has come to be known, applies when the relevant ground to refuse registration is s 41(2), having regard to the interrelation of s 33 and s 41(3)-(6).
Assuming the presumption does apply, the second issue concerns the proper standard of proof.
Relying on the Full Court decision in Lomas v Winton Shire Council [2002] FCAFC 413 ; (2003) AIPC 91-839 ( Lomas ), Guylian says that the Court should only refuse registration if it satisfied that the mark should clearly not be registered.
Dealing firstly with the issue of onus, it is now well understood that s 33 of the Act had the effect of reversing the previous position on onus under the 1955 Act.
Whereas under that Act an applicant had to satisfy the Registrar that there were no grounds to object to registration, the position now is that an application must be registered, unless the Registrar is satisfied that there is a ground for rejecting it: see s 33 and reg 17A.24; see also the discussion by French J in Woolworths [1999] FCAFC 1020 ; 93 FCR 365 at [15] and [20]-[24].
An applicant is thus said to have the benefit of a "presumption of registrability" under the Act.
In other words, a mark will be presumed registrable unless the Registrar is satisfied, on the balance of probabilities, that a ground to reject it exists.
In Blount 83 FCR at 58C, Branson J took the view that the question under s 41(2) whether a mark is capable of distinguishing is "governed entirely" by subss 41(3)---(6).
Accordingly, her Honour considered that it is not the case, as might be expected from the terms of s 33, that the Registrar must accept an application if he or she is uncertain whether the mark is capable of distinguishing an applicant's goods.
Her Honour's analysis of s 41 has been followed in a number of cases, including Ocean Spray Cranberries Inc v Registrar of Trade Marks [2000] FCA 177 ; (2000) 47 IPR 579 ( Ocean Spray ) and Austereo Pty Ltd v DMG Radio (Australia) Pty Ltd [2004] FCA 968 ; (2004) 61 IPR 257 ( Austereo ).
In Kenman Kandy [2002] FCAFC 273 ; 122 FCR 494 , the Full Court considered an application for registration of a shape mark where the only ground of possible rejection was s 41(2).
The applicant adduced no evidence of use of the mark and did not rely on either s 41(5) or (6).
As a result the case turned on the sole question whether the mark was inherently adapted to distinguish the applicant's goods under s 41(3).
In discussing the nature of appeals against decisions of the Registrar, French J stated at [22]: 
 Since the enactment of the 1995 Act the onus is no longer on the applicant to establish registrability as it was under the 1955 Act: Registrar of Trade Marks v Woolworths Ltd [1999] FCAFC 1020 ; (1999) 93 FCR 365 at 372---3 ...
The application must be accepted unless the court is satisfied that it has not been made in accordance with the Act or that there are grounds for rejecting it.
If the matter is in doubt then the application should be accepted.
The possibility of refusal after a contested opposition with evidence and closer scrutiny remains open.
The acceptance stage is not the time for detailed adversarial examination of the application that might be involved in an opposition: Registrar of Trade Marks v Woolworths at FCR 377 ....
Acceptance for registration involves an initial screening process albeit it requires the application of statutory criteria and evaluative judgments by the Registrar and the Registrar's delegates.
(Emphasis added.
) 
 Later, in addressing whether the mark was inherently adapted to distinguish, his Honour said at [50]: 
 [I]t is necessary to bear in mind that this trade mark is still at the registration stage.
It enjoys the benefit of the presumption of registrability mandated by s 33.
To the extent that critical criteria upon which registration might be rejected are in doubt, the application should be accepted.
Closer adversarial scrutiny may occur in opposition: Registrar of Trade Marks v Woolworths at FCR 377 .... 

 There is a tension between the operation of the presumption and the text and structure of s 41.
Section 41(3) requires the Registrar to "take into account" the extent to which a mark is inherently adapted to distinguish in deciding whether or not it is "capable of distinguishing" the applicant's goods.
Section 41(4) then directs the decision-maker to subs 41(5) and subs 41(6), if they are "still unable to decide the question".
Section 41(5) will be applicable if there is a finding that the mark is to some extent inherently adapted, but the Registrar is "unable to decide, on that basis alone, that the mark is capable of ... distinguishing".
Accordingly, where there remains some doubt after considering s 41(3) about a mark's capability to distinguish, rather than resolving that doubt in favour of an applicant (by operation of a presumption), the statute expressly directs the decision-maker to consider the criteria in subs 41(5) or subs 41(6) (whichever is applicable).
Reconciling s 41(4) and Branson J's decision in Blount , with the presumption and French J's decision in Kenman Kandy , is not entirely free from difficulty.
The matter is further complicated by the fact that the onus is reversed under s 41(5) (the Registrar must be "satisfied" that the mark does or will distinguish) and s 41(6) (the applicant must "establish" that the mark does distinguish).
In its submissions, the Registrar accepts that the presumption applies in relation to s 41(3), but says that the use of the term "satisfied" in s 41(5) suggests that the presumption no longer applies once the inquiry moves to s 41(5).
I agree.
Sections 41(3)-(6) contemplate that there are degrees to which a mark might be inherently adapted to distinguish: see Kenman Kandy [2002] FCAFC 273 ; 122 FCR 494 at [82] (Lindgren J); Austereo [2004] FCA 968 ; 61 IPR 257 at [35] (Finn J).
The ultimate question under s 41(3) is whether the mark is inherently adapted to a sufficient degree to conclude that it is "capable of distinguishing".
In my view, the effect of the presumption of registrability on s 41(3) is that, in considering whether a mark is capable of distinguishing by reason of the "inherently adapted" criteria, it should be presumed that the mark is sufficiently adapted unless the Registrar is satisfied otherwise on the balance of probabilities.
If the Registrar is otherwise satisfied, then he or she will be "unable to decide the question" (see s 41(4)) whether the mark is capable of distinguishing on the basis of any inherent adaptation alone, and must then proceed to consider s 41(5) or (6).
Under those provisions, the presumption no longer has any operation, as the applicant is then required to either "satisfy" the Registrar (s 41(5)), or "establish" (s 41(6)), that the relevant criteria set out therein is met.
As Branson J said in Blount 83 FCR at 56, referring to Rejfek v McElroy [1965] HCA 46 ; (1965) 112 CLR 517 at 521, a test of satisfaction requires the Registrar to "be persuaded of the matter according to the balance of probabilities".
In reliance on Lomas [2002] FCAFC 413 ; (2003) AIPC 91-839 , Guylian contends that the proper standard to be applied on an appeal under 35 of the Act in respect of a refusal to register is that the refusal should be upheld only if the Court is satisfied that the mark should clearly not be registered.
Lomas was an appeal from a single judge's decision to uphold an opposition to registration.
At [17], the Full Court said: 
 No submissions were addressed to the Court concerning the standard to be applied by a single judge in considering an appeal under s 56 of the Act.
The presence of s 195(2) [which imposes a leave requirement for appeals from a single judge decision] suggests that a parallel should be drawn with the scheme of appeals in opposition proceedings under the Patents Act 1990 (Cth).
On that basis, on appeal under s 56 , the Court should consider whether the trade mark should clearly not be registered.
Only if so satisfied should the Court decide to uphold an opposition.


 These observations have been followed in several first instance decisions, albeit with varying degrees of caution: see Bennett J in Torpedoes Sportswear Pty Ltd v Thorpedo Enterprises Pty Ltd [2003] FCA 901 ; (2003) 59 IPR 318 ( Torpedoes ) at [16]-[22], Finn J in Austereo [2004] FCA 968 ; 61 IPR 257 at [4] - [5] and Lander J in Kowa Company Ltd v NV Organon [2005] FCA 1282 ; (2005) 66 IPR 131 at [123] - [141] .
In Austereo , Finn J considered that he ought "as a matter of comity" apply the Lomas standard as adopted by Bennett J in Torpedoes .
In Kowa , Lander J expressed some doubt about the point but considered he was bound by Lomas and the Full Court decision in Woolworths [1999] FCAFC 1020 ; 93 FCR 365.
Gyles J has on two occasions expressed a different view: see Clinique Laboratories v Luxury Skincare Brands Pty Ltd [2003] FCA 1517 ; (2003) 61 IPR 130 at [132] and Pfizer Products Inc v Karam [2006] FCA 1663 ; (2006) 70 IPR 599 at [6] - [26] ( Pfizer ).
His Honour considered the higher Lomas standard in some detail in Pfizer .
After an exhaustive review of the authorities, and noting that the observations in Lomas itself were "plainly obiter dicta without the benefit of argument", his Honour stated at [21]: 
 The fundamental difficulty with [the respondent's] argument is that it is inconsistent with the language of s 55.
Whether a ground of opposition has been "established" is a conventional concept requiring no particular elucidation.
In my opinion, there is no basis upon which the section can be read as "the extent (if any) to which any ground on which the application was opposed has been clearly established", particularly where that implication changes the practical operation of the section by imposing a special high onus of proof.
It is also worth noting that the construction favoured in Torpedoes is not rooted in the words of the section at all.
The precise finding in that case was that the opposition "should be upheld only if the court is satisfied that the trade mark should clearly not be registered": at [22].
With all respect, that test is not to be found in the statute.
I cannot find anything in the structure or content of other provisions of the 1995 Act that would point to reading s 55 other than according to its ordinary meaning.


 Later, his Honour said at [22]: 
 In my opinion, borrowing further from the field of patents in this respect is impermissible, to adopt the word used by Finkelstein J [in BP Plc v Woolworths Ltd [2004] FCA 1362 ; (2004) 62 IPR 545].
Trade marks and patents are different species of intellectual property and have a different history.
A general desire for uniformity cannot control construction of the statute governing each.
...
 [26] I am faced with the clear words of the statute, on one hand, and the opinions of various judges, on the other.
There is no binding Full Court authority.
I cannot find any instance where a single judge has actually applied the higher standard.
In my opinion, in this case, comity does not demand that I depart from my view as to the meaning of the statute.


 Guylian did not seek to justify in a substantive way the approach of the Full Court in Lomas .
It sought to rely on the decision, and those that have followed it, but it acknowledged that other decisions run counter to it.
In my view, there is nothing in the relevant provisions that supports the imposition of a higher standard, even at the acceptance stage.
The "presumption of registrability" arises from s 33 of the Act: Woolworths [1999] FCAFC 1020 ; 93 FCR 365 at [24] ; Kenman Kandy [2002] FCAFC 273 ; 122 FCR 494 at [50] .
Section 33 does not speak of being "clearly satisfied"; it mandates acceptance of an application unless the Registrar " is satisfied that ... there are grounds for rejecting it".
On this point, I prefer the views expressed by Gyles J and in particular his Honour's observations that an acceptance that there is a presumption of registrability "says nothing as to the standard of proof" and does not import a higher threshold than the conventional balance of probabilities: see Pfizer [2006] FCA 1663 ; (2006) 70 IPR 599 at [18] .
The presumption as it is gives effect to the general position under the Act that an applicant is not required to establish an absence of grounds to refuse or object to registration.
It should also be noted that in both Woolworths [1999] FCAFC 1020 ; 93 FCR 365 and Kenman Kandy [2002] FCAFC 273 ; 122 FCR 494 (both acceptance stage cases) there is no suggestion that any special higher standard was applicable.
In any event, for the reasons I have given at [16]-[21], there can be no question of any special higher standard in respect of s 41(5) or (6), because those provisions place the onus on the applicant.
In my view s 41(3) must be considered with the presumption in mind as I have explained at [21].
RELEVANT FACTS 
 Guylian was established in Belgium in 1960 and is a major international seller of Belgian boxed chocolates.
(The name "Guylian" is a conjoining of the names of the husband and wife co-founders of the Guylian business, Guy and Liliane Foubert.
) Its sea shell chocolate products are sold in boxes of various sizes and configurations, which in each case include an assortment of sea shell and other marine shapes, including the seahorse shape.
Guylian has been marketing and selling its sea shell range, including the seahorse shape, in Australia since 1980 and over time that particular range has become Guylian's top confectionary brand.
Guylian's chocolate seahorse shape has been designed with the typical features of a real seahorse in mind.
Webster's Dictionary, which Guylian referred to during argument, defines "seahorse" in part as: 
 [A]ny of numerous small fishes (family Syngnathidae) mostly of the genus Hippocampus that are related to the pipe-fishes but of stockier build, have the head and forepart of the body sharply flexed and suggestive of the head and neck of a horse, are covered with rough bony plates and equipped with a prehensile tail and in the male a short broad pouch immediately behind the vent in which the eggs hatch and occur in most warm and warm-temperate seas ... 

 Webster's provides a pictorial representation of the definition above.
For comparison, I set out below Webster's representation alongside Guylian's chocolate seahorse shape: Fig.
3 --- Seahorse as depicted by Webster's Dictionary.
Fig.
4 --- Guylian's seahorse shape.
Guylian contends that its shape is a "fanciful stylised" representation of a seahorse, which "depart[s] radically from the shape of seahorses found in nature".
The departure, it says, arises from two particular features of its chocolate shape: 
(a) the tail that wraps up behind the spine of the creature, rather than forwards; and
 
(b) the solid and "chunky" appearance, as opposed to the more slender and elongate shape of a real seahorse.
It was further put that the backwards curl of the tail gives the shape an overall "S" like configuration, absent in the case of a real seahorse.
Guylian provided a photograph of a real seahorse which demonstrates the elongate nature of the creature and the way in which the tail is used (going forward) to take hold of stationary objects (plant life, for example) as a way of anchoring itself.
I set out the photograph below: 
 Fig.
5 --- A seahorse using tail as an anchor.
On the other hand, plainly reminiscent of a real seahorse, Guylian's "seahorse like shape" (as Guylian describes it) has a long snout, a head and neck suggestive of a horse, a prehensile tail and an upright posture.
Positioned alongside other sea shell chocolates the seahorse shape is unmistakably a representation of a seahorse, albeit one with some fanciful or exaggerated features.
Guylian does not sell the seahorse shaped chocolate on its own but as part of Guylian's sea shell collection.
In evidence were six of the boxes Guylian sells containing the sea shell chocolates.
