
 INTRODUCTION 
 The respondent, which is referred to in these reasons as M3FS, is a corporation engaged in the business of providing financial services and which holds an Australian financial services licence (AFSL) under the Corporations Act 2001 (Cth) (CA).
In about July 2007, M3FS formally acquired the business assets of Mawson Group Australia Limited (Mawson) and Aurora Financial Services Pty Ltd (Aurora).
The proposed acquisition had been announced some time earlier.
Prior to M3FS's acquisition, the applicants provided financial services under arrangements with Mawson.
Following the acquisition, the first applicant, Avoca, became an authorised representative of M3FS pursuant to a deed called the Corporate Authorised Representative Agreement (CARA) dated 16 July 2007, and the second applicant, Mr Martin Cunningham, became a sub-authorised representative pursuant to the deed.
On 8 July 2008, nearly a year later, Mr Cunningham was suspended by M3FS for alleged "material breach" of the CARA.
In December 2008, M3FS terminated the CARA and the authorities of the applicants for the same reason.
In this proceeding, the applicants challenged the right of M3FS to take such actions.
OUTLINE OF THE PARTIES' CASES 
 The applicants plead that: The matter went to hearing on the issues of liability only.
At trial the applicants abandoned an earlier claim for a mandatory injunction requiring M3FS to reinstate them as representatives following their appointment on 5 February 2009 as representatives for another duly licensed financial advisor.
Factually, the applicants say, in short, that at all material times they provided financial services to retail clients, including by issuing Statements of Advice (SOAs) and otherwise acted in accordance with the requirements of an M3FS compliance review report dated 29 November 2007, and a December 2007 action plan agreed to by the parties.
They say that, as a result of the conduct of Mr Jonathon Nguyen, M3FS's State Development Manager and their Relationship Manager, on 15 January 2008 --- when, in the absence of Mr Cunningham, he inspected five of Mr Cunningham's client files at the offices of Avoca, ostensibly for the purposes of pre-vetting, and did not thereafter indicate any difficulties with those files --- Mr Cunningham and Avoca were entitled to consider they were compliant with the requirements of M3FS notified through the November audit process and the December action plan.
Further, the applicants says that this understanding was compounded by the subsequent actions of Mr Nguyen in April 2008, when, by prior arrangement with Mr Cunningham, he collected six client files from Mr Cunningham at the offices of Avoca on 8 April 2008 and did not communicate any non-compliant conduct on the part of the applicants revealed by those files until late June 2008.
The applicants say that if there were any compliance difficulties revealed by an inspection of those six client files, they would have expected to have heard from Mr Nguyen, or some other officer of M3FS, well before late June 2008.
The applicants say the real reason why Mr Cunningham was suspended on 8 July 2008 was because the M3FS compliance committee then believed, on the basis of an incorrect electronic file notation made by Mr Nguyen in respect of his visit to the offices of Avoca on 15 January 2008, but not actually made and entered in the M3FS Myworkspace computer system until 4 July 2008, that the applicants had not made any client files available for pre-vetting by M3FS as required by the December action plan.
The applicants say, in effect, it was on the basis of this belief, based on incorrect information, and not for any other alleged "material breach" of the CARA, that the compliance committee initially suspended Mr Cunningham in July and later terminated the CARA in December 2008.
In the alternative, the applicants say that, if M3FS was entitled to suspend the applicants and terminate the arrangements with the applicants for material breach of the CARA, not relevantly related to the incorrect electronic file entry, then the conduct of Mr Nguyen complained of in the period January 2008 to late June 2008, was conduct on behalf of M3FS that impliedly represented to the applicants that they were compliant with the requirements of the CARA.
Thus, at the time the applicants were put on notice and shortly after suspended, on the basis they were in material breach of their obligations under the CARA, they had been provided no opportunity to become compliant.
Put another way, the applicants say that, by reason of these representations, they were induced to believe they were compliant and thereby had no need to, and did not take any steps to, make themselves compliant, as a result of which M3FS was able to suspend and then terminate the arrangements for material breach of the CARA by the applicants.
The applicants also argue that M3FS represented it would properly train Mr Cunningham, which representation it failed to meet.
M3FS defends its position by saying it was justified in first suspending Mr Cunningham's authority and then terminating the CARA deed because, in mid 2008, during the currency of the CARA, it detected that SOAs issued by the applicants were substantially defective in a number of significant respects and those failures on their part obliged M3FS to exercise its power to suspend Mr Cunningham's authority on 8 July 2008.
As to the applicant's plea there were no reasonable grounds to support the alleged representation that M3FS would provide training to the applicants as required by the CA and the conditions of its AFSL, M3FS acknowledge that s 912A(1) of the CA refers to training, but say the licence does not.
In any event, M3FS say the applicants were provided with training.
As to the alleged representations that M3FS would not suspend or terminate Avoca's authority for anything other than a material breach or where there were reasonable grounds for suspecting a material breach, and in respect of training, M3FS contends that as a matter of commonsense, it borders on the absurd that a corporation would enter into a contract without any intention of performing it.
In short, the respondent rejects these grounds.
In relation to the allegations that in December 2007, and then again in January 2008 and May 2008, M3FS represented to the applicants that they were complying with their obligations under the CARA and that there were no areas of non-compliance which required rectification, M3FS says, first, that the evidence does not support such allegations; and secondly that, even if there were satisfactory evidence in proof of the matters pleaded and even if those matters could reasonably have induced the applicants to form the claimed belief (neither of which conditions are conceded), the most that could be said is that the alleged conduct of M3FS's employees amounted to a waiver of its rights to suspend or terminate Avoca's appointment as its authorised representative for a very limited period.
Having regard to the statutory obligations imposed by the CA, a proposition that M3FS would conduct itself in such a way as to forego those rights, even if Avoca did nothing to rectify its faults, is untenable.
Further, M3FS contends that the representations that it is alleged to have made, simply cannot be said to be causative of any loss or damage said to have been incurred by Avoca.
The matters which led to the suspension and subsequent termination were Avoca's non-fulfilment of its obligations under the CARA and the requirements of the CA. M3FS also contends that the claims made against it by reference to s 52 of the TPA cannot be sustained on the basis that this provision is excluded by the operation of s 51AF of the TPA.
REGULATION OF FINANCIAL SERVICES 
 Chapter 7, Corporations Act 2001 : Chapter 7 of the Corporations Act 2001 (CA) at all material times regulated financial services and markets.
The CA followed earlier legislative reforms to the Australian financial system introduced in 1998 that included similar regulatory provisions to Ch 7.
The object of Ch 7 is to promote: 
 (a) confident and informed decision making by consumers of financial products and services while facilitating efficiency, flexibility and innovation in the provision of those products and services; and 
 (b) fairness, honesty and professionalism by those who provide financial services; and 
 (c) fair, orderly and transparent markets for financial products; and 
 (d) the reduction of systemic risk and the provision of fair and effective services by clearing and settlement facilities.
(Section 760A CA) 
 The provisions of Ch 7 impose a range of duties, including disclosure duties, on licensees and their representatives in relation to the provision of financial services including advice.
Australian Financial Services Licence: Part 7.6 of Ch 7 deals with licensing of providers of financial services.
Subject to s 911A, a person who "carries on a financial services business" must hold an Australian financial services licence (AFSL) covering the provision of financial services (s 911A(1)).
A "financial services business" means a business of "providing financial services" (s 761A Definition).
The meaning of "carry on a financial services business" is affected by s 761C.
A "financial service" has the meaning given by Div 4.
Section 766A(1) within Div 4 provides that for the purposes of Ch 7 a "person provides a financial service " (emphasis in original) if they: 
 (a) provide financial product advice (see section 766B); or 
 (b) deal in a financial product (see section 766C); or 
 (c) make a market for a financial product (see section 766D); or 
 (d) operate a registered scheme; or 
 (e) provide a custodial or depository service (see section 766E); or 
 (f) engage in conduct of a kind prescribed by regulations made for the purposes of this paragraph.


 In the present case, it is the activities of providing financial product advice and dealing in a financial product (s 766A(1)(a) and (b)) that are of particular relevance to the business of the applicants.
A "financial product" under the CA has the meaning given by Div 3 (see s 761A definition).
As a result s 763A provides the following general definition of a "financial product": 
 (1) For the purposes of this Chapter, a financial product is a facility through which, or through the acquisition of which, a person does one or more of the following: 
 (a) makes a financial investment (see section 763B); 
 (b) manages financial risk (see section 763C); 
 (c) makes non-cash payments (see section 763D).
This has effect subject to section 763E.
(2) For the purposes of this Chapter, a particular facility that is of a kind through which people commonly make financial investments, manage financial risks or make non-cash payments is a financial product even if that facility is acquired by a particular person for some other purpose.
(3) A facility does not cease to be a financial product merely because: 
 (a) the facility has been acquired by a person other than the person to whom it was originally issued; and 
 (b) that person, in acquiring the product, was not making a financial investment or managing a financial risk.
(emphasis in original) 
 The expression "financial product advice" has the meaning give by s 766B (s 761A Definition).
Section 766B provides that for the purpose of Ch 7 "financial product advice" means a recommendation or a statement of opinion, or a report or either of those things that: 
 (a) is intended to influence a person or persons in making a decision in relation to a particular financial product or class of financial products, or an interest in a particular financial product or class of financial products; or 
 (b) could reasonably be regarded as being intended to have such an influence.

 The respondent, M3FS, carries on a financial services business and holds an AFSL.
General obligations of holder of AFSL: The holder of an AFSL has general obligations that arise under s 912A(1), which relevantly include the following: 
 (a) do all things necessary to ensure that the financial services covered by the licence are provided efficiently, honestly and fairly; and 
 ...
 (b) comply with the conditions on the licence; and 
 (c) comply with the financial services laws; and 
 (ca) take reasonable steps to ensure that its representatives comply with the financial services laws; and 
 ...
 (e) maintain the competence to provide those financial services; and 
 (f) ensure that its representatives are adequately trained, and are competent, to provide those financial services; and 
 ... 
 A "representative" is defined by s 910A to mean relevantly: 
 (a) if the person is a financial services licensee: 
 (i) an authorised representative of the licensee.

 In this case, the applicants fall within this definition.
Under s 912D, the holder of the AFSL has an obligation to notify the Australian Securities and Investments Commission (ASIC) of certain matters if it breaches or is likely to breach any of the relevant obligations under s 912A or the obligation under s 912A(1)(c).
Relevantly, under s 915B(3), ASIC may suspend or cancel an AFSL held by a body corporate by giving appropriate notice.
Division 5 of Pt 7.6 deals with authorised representatives.
Section 916A(1) empowers the holder of an AFSL to give the authorised representative a written notice authorising the person for the purposes of Ch 7 to provide a specified financial service or services on behalf of the licensee.
Under s 916B(3) a body corporate who is an authorised representative of a financial services licence may give an individual a written notice authorising that individual, for the purpose of Ch 7 to provide a specified financial service or services on behalf of the licensee, but only if the licensee consents in writing given to the body corporate.
In the present case, M3FS authorised the body corporate of Avoca as its authorised representative, and approved of Mr Cunningham and Mr Gyi as sub-representatives.
Division 6 of Ch 7 deals with liability of the holder of an AFSL for representatives.
Under s 917B, if the representative is the representative of only one financial services licensee, as is the case here, the licensee is responsible, as between the licensee and the client, for the conduct of the representative, whether or not the representative's conduct is within the authority.
Financial Services Guide (FSG): Part 7.7 of Ch 7 deals with financial services disclosure.
Section 941A places an obligation on the holder of the AFSL to give a FSG if a financial service is provided to a person as a retail client.
Section 941B places an obligation on an authorised representative to give a FSG if a financial service is provided to person as a retail client.
Section 941B(2) provides a FSG must not be given to the person by the providing entity (which includes an authorised representative) unless the authorising licensee has authorised its distribution by the providing entity.
Section 941D deals with the timing of giving a FSG.
Section 941D(1) states that the general rule is that the FSG must be given to the client as soon as practicable after it becomes apparent to the providing entity that the financial service will be, or is likely to be, provided to the client.
It must in any event be given to the client before the financial service is provided.
Section 941E provides that the information contained in the FSG must be up to date as at the time when it is given to the client.
Section 942A(1) provides that the title "Financial Services Guide" must be used on the cover, or at or near the front, of a FSG.
Section 942C sets out requirements where a FSG is given by an authorised representative.
Section 942C(2) specifies the contents, which by para (f) includes information about the remuneration (including commission) or other benefits that the providing entity or its employer or authorised licensee is to receive in respect of the provision of any of the authorised services.
Section 942D provides that a FSG may consist of two or more separate documents given at the same time.
But each document must contain words to indicate that it is part of a FSG.
Section 942DA provides that a FSG and a Product Disclosure Statement may be combined in a single document.
Statement of Advice (SOA): Division 3 specifies additional requirements for personal advice provided to a retail client, which applies where advice is provided by an authorised representative of a holder of an AFSL (s 944A).
Subdivision B of Div 3 specifies requirements relating to the "basis of advice": Subdivision C specifies the requirements for a Statement of Advice (SOA) to be given: Subdivision D deals with "content" of a SOA.
Sections 947A and 947C specify the following requirements: Product replacement requirements: There are additional requirements under s 947D when advice recommends replacement of one product with another, namely information about the following, to the extent that the information is known or could reasonably be found out, by the providing entity: General: A SOA is not to be combined with a FSG or Product Disclosure Statement (s 947E).
Other disclosure requirements are imposed by Div 4, s 949A including: The Corporations Regulations 2001 (Cth) also supplement the requirements of Ch 7 of the CA: Section 51AF TPA: ASIC was established by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 1989 (Cth), and was part of the 1998 package of reforms to the Australian financial system.
This Act was repealed by the Australian Securities and Investments Commission Act 2001 (Cth) (ASIC Act 2001).
Part 2 of the ASIC Act 2001 deals with "Consumer protection in relation to financial services".
Section 12DA deals specifically with misleading or deceptive conduct and provides: 
 (1) A person must not, in trade or commerce, engage in conduct in relation to financial services that is misleading or deceptive or is likely to mislead or deceive.

 Part V of the TPA had prior to 1998 dealt with "Consumer protection".
Following the 1998 reforms, s 51AF of the TPA was introduced to provide that Pt V does not apply to financial services: 
 51AF Part does not apply to financial services 
 (1) This Part does not apply to the supply, or possible supply, of services that are financial services.
(2) Without limiting subsection (1):
 (a) sections 52 and 55A do not apply to conduct engaged in in relation to financial services; and
 (b) if a financial product consists of or includes an interest in land, section 53A does not apply to that interest; and
 (c) section 63A does not apply to:
 (i) a credit card that is part of, or that provides access to, a credit facility that is a financial product; or
 (ii) a debit card that allows access to an account that is a financial product.
(3) In subsection (2):
 credit card has the same meaning as in section 63A.
debit card has the same meaning as in section 63A.
(emphasis in original) 
 THE PERIOD LEADING UP TO AUTHORISATION OF APPLICANTS AS REPRESENTATIVES OF M3FS ON 16 JULY 2007 
 Leading up to the authorisations by M3FS of Avoca and Martin Cunningham, and Melvyn Gyi, in July 2007, while time plainly was of the essence in getting the new business arrangements into the market place, it seems there were pressures in settling arrangements with the many new advisers coming over to M3FS from Mawson and Aurora, including the applicants.
Mr Cunningham, on behalf of Avoca, had been pressing M3FS to confirm when they and Mr Gyi would be duly authorised.
They were also anxious for M3FS to approve the documents they were required by the CA and the CARA to utilise in their businesses, including the Financial Services Guide (FSG) and pro forma Statement of Advice (SOA).
In Western Australia, at that time, Mr Jonathon Nguyen was the State Development Manager for M3FS.
He was also the designated Relationship Manager for the applicants.
The joint managing director of M3FS with responsibility in relation to the engagement of advisers and regulatory compliance issues was Mr Barry Martin, who was based in Brisbane, Queensland.
Ms Dale Hare was also based in Brisbane and held the position of Risk and Compliance Manager.
She had an active role in relation to the authorisation process for new advisers and the materials to be approved by M3FS for their use, although she had line responsibilities to Mr Martin.
She was assisted at material times by Ms Susan Papi, a compliance analyst.
Ms Helen Ruano was at material times M3FS's Training Manager as well as a compliance analyst, also based in Brisbane.
Ms Ruano was not however involved in the initial contractual and regulatory authorisation and materials approval processes affecting the applicants.
Prior to his appointment as the Western Australian State Development Manager M3FS, Mr Nguyen had also been a compliance analyst.
On 28 May 2007, Avoca completed its written application to be appointed as an authorised representative of M3FS.
It indicated that the level of authority required was life risk and superannuation and accumulation only.
The application was accompanied by applications for individual authority completed by Mr Cunningham and Mr Gyi.
On 21 June 2007 Jonathan Nguyen sent an email to Martin Cunningham advising: 
 FYI, in the next couple of weeks M3 will be designing and completing your FSG.

 On 5 July 2007, Jonathon Nguyen sent an email to Dale Hare concerning amendments to an Avoca Consultants' brochure.
Jonathon Nguyen advised Ms Hare he had "taken into consideration your points and you will notice a lot of the text that has been amended on the marketing brochure have been taken from the FSG to ensure safeguarding".
He invited Ms Hare's comments.
Between 9 July to 17 July emails were exchanged between Jonathon Nguyen and Worldwide Printing regarding the brochure.
On 11 July 2007 Mr Cunningham sent Jonathon Nguyen an email concerning the brochure and requesting that he take out the back page, because it needed to read that Avoca Consultants were authorised representatives of M3FS.
On 13 July 2007 Dale Hare sent an email to a number of M3FS officers including Jonathan Nguyen and Helen Ruano, which was copied (cc'd) to a number of other M3FS officers including Barry Martin, and further copied (bcc'd) to a large number of persons (seemingly a number of the proposed advisers) including Martin Cunningham and Melvyn Gyi, advising: 
DO NOT ACTION ANYTHING CONTAINED WITHIN THIS EMAIL UNTIL YOU HAVE BEEN OFFICIALLY ADVISED OF YOUR AUTHORISATION UNDER MILLENNIUM 3 FINANCIAL SERVICES PTY LTD.
 
 
WE WILL EMAIL YOUR AUTHORISATION WHEN APPOINTED ON THE ASIC REGISTER.
As of next week we anticipate you will be an Authorized Representative of Millennium3.
Once authorized you will receive written authority of your appointment.
This sets out what you are authorized to provide advice on.
If you have any queries please contact your Relationship Manager.
Stationery at World Wide Printing is currently being approved by M3 and we will advise you when we have authorized it to print.
All stationary must be approved by M3 prior to use.
I have attached the M3/Mawson Approved Product List transition rules which your M3 Relationship Manager discussed with you.
If you have any questions in relation to the transition rules please contact them.
I have also attached the following documents for your use commencing next week:
 
- M3 Representative Manual
 
- Induction Manual
 
- Xplan Fact Finder
 
- SOA word templates and guidelines for Risk and Super
 
- M3 Risk Profile Questionnaire
 
- M3 Conflicts of Interest Register --- these entries must be inserted into your current register.
...
Important note:
 
- As you are moving licensees you can not use a Record of Advice until you have provided an SOA under the M3 licence.
- Please destroy or amend all documents that refer to Mawson Securities or Aurora eg business stationery, SOAs, email sign offs, websites, newsletters etc.
 
- if you have not returned your M3 FSG for approval please do so immediately.
If you have any questions please contact your Relationship Manager.
KEY TERMS OF CARA DATED 16 JULY 2007 
 On 16 July 2007 the CARA was executed by Avoca.
Mr Cunningham and Mr Gyi also signed the deed as "representatives" and agreed to be bound by its terms (see Sch 5 of the deed).
Section 1 of the CARA dealt with appointment and authority of Avoca as the authorised representative of M3FS.
Clause 1.2 provided that the "Distribution Entity" (M3FS) appointed the authorised representative (Avoca).
Section 1.2 stated that the authorised representative was appointed to "Deal in Approved Products" and "Provide advice to Clients and such other services ... as Distribution Entity may approve from time to time in writing".
Clause 1.6 provided that: 
 Distribution Entity may by Notice to the Authorised Representative immediately suspend the authority of the Authorised Representative or any of its Representatives pending the investigation of any material breach of this Deed or suspected material breach by the Authorised Representative or any of its Representatives.
To avoid doubt, a Suspension Notice may be issued pending the investigation by the Distribution Entity and/or by any Regulatory Authority of: 
 any events, incidents or conduct under clause 2.7(4); or any events, incidents or conduct which may give rise to any of the events listed in clause 2.4; or the issue of any Notice by any Regulatory Authority concerning the conduct of the Authorised Representative or any Representative.

 whether or not such events have been notified by the Authorised Representative.

 Clause 1.7 provided: 
 During such suspension, the Authorised Representative must ensure that neither he or she (if the Authorised Representative is suspended) or its Representatives (if they are suspended) deal in any Approved Products, provide advice to Clients or provide any of the Agreed Services.

 Clause 1.8 provided that: 
 When the investigation is completed, Distribution Entity may do one or more of the following: 
 reinstate the authority of the Authorised Representative or its Representative; revoke the authority of the Authorised Representative or any of its Representatives; impose such conditions or limitations on the authority of the Authorised Representative or its Representatives as Distribution Entity considers appropriate in the circumstances; terminate this Deed immediately under clause 12.
The CARA dealt with the authorised representative's responsibility in s 2.
Section 2.1 dealt with compliance and provided: 
 The Authorised Representative must comply with: 
 the terms of the deed, including the Schedules; its obligations under the law including the Financial Services Reform Act 2001 , the Corporations Act 2001 , the Australian Securities and Investment Commission Act 2001 and the Privacy Act 1988 ; the provisions, from time to time, of any guide, policy or code issued by any relevant industry body such (NIBA) or any Regulatory Authority including the Australian Securities and Investment Commission (ASIC) or the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority (APRA); Distribution Entity's Compliance Manual (as amended from time to time) and perform its obligations under this Manual and this Deed in a diligent and faithful manner; Distribution Entity's training requirements; any lawful instructions given by Distribution Entity to the Authorised Representative which are consistent with the Deed.
Section 2.2 dealt with applications from clients and provided: 
 The Authorised Representative must: 
 represent Approved Products to the Clients in a fair and accurate manner; use the Financial Services Guide, the Statement of Advice and any other standard form documents approved by the Distribution Entity in providing any advice or Agreed Services to Clients; ensure that all disclosures relating to remuneration or other benefits are made to Clients pursuant to clause 9.10 and in accordance with the law; remit all applications and moneys promptly to the Product Providers or their Custodians; promptly remit to Distribution Entity all moneys (without deduction) received from Clients relating to fees charged for advice given or services provided in relation to authorities provided by M3 FS.
Section 2.4 dealt with conduct and provided: 
 The Authorised Representative must not: 
 engage in false or misleading conduct, or conduct that is likely to mislead or deceive; engage in conduct which is unethical, unprofessional or in breach of any guide, policy or code under clause 2.1 or any conduct which may bring the Distribution Entity into disrepute; contract for, or hold itself out as being capable of contracting for, or on Distribution Entity's behalf, including entry into any pledge of credit, other than as expressly authorised under this Deed; represent to any Client either expressly or by way of implication that Distribution Entity endorses or recommends any financial product or instruments other than the Approved Products.
Section 4 dealt with compliance.
Section 4.1 provided: 
 The Authorised Representative will: 
 permit the Distribution Entity to conduct an Annual Compliance Review for the purpose of assessing compliance with this Deed and the law; and permit the Distribution Entity to conduct such Additional Compliance Reviews as the Distribution Entity considers reasonably necessary including those Additional Compliance Reviews conducted under clause 4.4.3; 
on the provision of not less than 24 hours Notice by the Distribution Entity.
Section 4.3 provided: 
 The Authorised Representative will: 
 promptly implement all recommendations made by the Distribution Entity and/or its auditors to rectify any areas of identified non compliance and in accordance with any timetable specified; ensure that its Representatives co-operate and assist in the prompt implementation of all recommendations for rectification of any areas of identified non compliance: promptly notify the Distribution Entity of any difficulties in implementation of any of the recommendations and propose a solution.
Section 12 of the CARA dealt with termination of the deed.
Section 12.1 provided: 
Either party may terminate this Deed by giving the other 14 days' Notice that this Deed is terminated.
Section 12.2 provided that: 
 The Deed may be terminated immediately by Distribution Entity by written notice to the Authorised Representative if any of the following events occur:
 ... 
 the Authorised Representative breaches any material obligation under this Deed; 
...
 Distribution Entity forms the reasonable opinion that the Authorised Representative or any of its Representatives has: failed to perform or observe their material responsibilities under the terms of this Deed or any other arrangement between the Authorised Representative and Distribution Entity; or engaged in any conduct which is prejudicial to Distribution Entity, or unprofessional or unethical or in breach of any relevant Code.
THE PERIOD 17 JULY 2007 TO END OF JULY 2007: FSG AND SOA 
 By letter dated 17 July 2007, Peter Johnson, Managing Director of Mawson Group Australia Ltd, thanked Avoca Consultants for the "wonderful service" and "excellent representation" it had provided and confirmed that Avoca was now released from its obligations as an authorised representative of Mawson.
The same date, 17 July 2007, Dale Hare emailed Martin Cunningham and Melvyn Gyi concerning the subject of "Millennium3 Information Pack and Welcome - Martin please give to Melvyn".
This email was in nearly identical terms to that copied to Martin Cunningham and Melvyn Gyi on 13 July, save that it stated in the second paragraph "As of this week we anticipate you will be an authorised representative of Millennium 3" (emphasis added).
Having regard to the terms of the CARA, and from what had passed between the parties before 16 July, and this email of 17 July, Avoca and Mr Cunningham and Mr Gyi knew they needed M3FS to approve the FSG and SOA and other documents they were required or desired to use as M3FS representatives, and which at the date of the CARA had not been approved.
In this regard, on 16 July 2007, Benita Keen (Office Manager / Personal Assistant) of Avoca sent Dale Hare an email stating: 
 Dear Dale
 Please find attached copies of the statement of advices for Risk  Super, Super only and Risk only together with the fact finder for your perusal.

 It does not appear that there was any response to this email.
Dale Hare states in her witness statement (para 21), after mentioning this email, that "I recall that these amended SOA's and Fact Finder were not approved at that time and there is no record from Myworkspace that states that they were".
She also states: 
 I had a conversation with Jonathon during the appointment of the former Mawson representatives and said to him, 'We will not be approving templates due to the volume of representatives being processed'.

 Mr Cunningham states in his witness statement that he had a telephone conversation with Jonathon Nguyen "In or about mid-July 2007" during which time Jonathon said words to the effect, "Avoca is ready to go once you have received an email from head office approving the SOA templates, FSG and stationery".
On 17 July 2007, just before 2pm, Benita, e-mailed Dale Hare again, as follows: 
 Just spoke to Jonathan --- he said we would receive an email from yourself informing us that we are ready to go.
Are we nearly ready?
I know the stationary (sic) is not but what about the FSG and SOA's?


Look forward to hearing back from you.
On 18 July at about 1.20 pm, Jonathan Nguyen emailed Dale Hare attaching the final draft of the Avoca Consultant's brochure that he had received from the M3FS printer, Worldwide.
He noted that, "Amendments have been made according to your requirements".
He asked for Ms Hare's confirmation of approval.
He copied his email to Martin Cunningham.
On 18 July 2007 at about 2:16pm Martin Cunningham emailed Jonathan Nguyen in these terms: 
 Okay --- lets go --- when can we have them??

 On 19 July 2007 at about 2.11pm, Susan Papi, Compliance Analyst with M3FS, emailed Benita Keen and advised: 
 Dale is away sick today and I'm catching up with emails.
I actually sent the approval email to Martin and Melvyn yesterday.
Can you check whether it was received.
Has Melvyn resolved his email issues yet?

 Benita Keen replied by email on 19 July 2007 just after 3pm and advised Susan Papi: 
 Yes we did receive the authority but there were no attachments with it --- confirming the FSG and SOA that we sent up are okay to use??

 Susan Papi sent a further e-mail to Benita on 19 July 2007, not long before 6pm, attaching "the email I sent earlier yesterday enclosing the FSG's".
The attached e-mail was sent 18 July 2007 just after 9am concerning the subject "FSG".
It was addressed to "Martin and Melvyn" and advised: 
 Thank you for your e-mail and attachments.
I have now attached your FSG which has been approved for use once you are authorized (which we anticipate will be today however please await our formal notification.
) You should also have received from Dale Hare, our Compliance Manager, an Induction Welcome Pack.
Melvyn, please let us know urgently when you have sorted out your email glitch.
As a corporate authorized representative there are two documents that must be provided to your client.
They are your corporate FSG and the M3FS FSG.
(attached)
 These two documents provide the required disclosure to the client.
They must be issued as separate documents to the client.
...
 We remind you that all marketing material of any nature including images automatically attached to your emails, websites, newsletters, signage, advertising material such as TV and radio ads etc and, of course, your letterheads, business cards, 'With Compliments' slips etc must be approved by our compliance team before release.
...
If you have any questions, please contact your Relationship Manager, Jonathan Nguyen.

 It seems the original email sent 18 July was not received at the Avoca end.
Mr Cunningham said he had had difficulties due to a changeover by Avoca to the Aladdin system.
Be that as it may, the email system was working most of the time, as these email exchanges show.
In any event, the relevant text and advice was received by Avoca by this further email communication from Susan Papi on 19 July 2007.
As noted it approved the FSG, but no mention was made of the SOA.
In the period following this exchange of emails, it appears that Avoca decided, with the approval of Jonathan Nguyen, to engage another firm to do the designing and printing of Avoca's required stationery.
On 25 July 2007 Jonathan Nguyen emailed Worldwide and Debbie Stubbs at M3FS, and advised as follows: 
 Please advise(sic) that Avoca Consultants have put into place alternative arrangements for the designing and printing of there(sic) stationary(sic).
This includes stationary(sic) for both Martin Cunningham and Melvyn Gyi.

 Mr Cunningham says (in his witness statement, Exhibit A at para 36) that he started to use the new FSG, stationery and SOA templates "which had been approved on or about 24 July 2007".
This obviously is a generalisation.
At that point only the FSG had been expressly approved and the stationery was still to be printed.
Indeed, in cross examination Mr Cunningham conceded (transcript 69) that he assumed what he had sent for approval --- a merger of two M3FS templates --- had been approved.
By the end of July, the state of play seems to have been as follows--- Whether Avoca and Mr Cunningham had reasonable grounds to believe, in all these circumstances, that the SOA had been approved at this stage perhaps does not need finally to be determined in these proceedings.
However, having regard to later evidence concerning the manner in which Mr Cunningham tended to conduct his business at all material times, he rarely sought guidance or confirmation from M3FS or its representatives as to the relevant state of affairs.
Plainly it was open to Mr Cunningham to seek confirmation about approval of the SOA, but he chose not to do so.
He "assumed" the SOA he had prepared had been approved, and began to use it, but did not check with Ms Hare or Mr Nguyen that it had actually been approved.
This was the case notwithstanding that Mr Cunningham well understood at all material times through July 2007 that, under the CARA, he required M3FS's approval of all documents he was required to give to clients as a representative of M3FS.
The terms of s 2.2 of the CARA set out above, specifically required representatives to use the FSG and SOA and other standard form documents "approved by" M3FS in providing any advice or agreed services to clients.
The M3FS Information Pack and Welcome document, received on 17 July 2007 confirmed those contractual requirements.
It also attached an M3FS Representative Manual (manual).
The manual (TB 325 and following) specified "The key behaviours" required by M3FS representative and the consequences of not meeting those behaviours, as well as key processes utilised by M3FS to monitor and supervise representatives and relevant policies, processes and templates required to be used by M3FS representatives.
Pertinently, the manual under the heading " PLEASE ASK " stated: 
 If you have any questions or do not understand what is required of you, then please ask your Manager of the M3FS Compliance.


 The manual also specified that " I DID NOT KNOW IS NO EXCUSE " and pointedly confirmed to its representatives that: 
 You are a professional.
M3FS anticipates that you will act professionally, run your practice professionally and take responsibility for your actions.

 Consistent with the provisions of the CA (and the CARA) the manual advised representatives that M3FS had obligations to inform ASIC of certain things: 
 INFORMING ASIC 
 If you fail to act professionally in any significant manner, M3FS is required to inform ASIC.
ASIC has the power to ban representatives from the industry.

 The manual then went on to set out the 20 required behaviours of an M3FS representative, the very first one of which was "Know your Obligations", including understanding a representative's legal obligations in relation to: In cross examination (transcript 61 and following), Mr Cunningham acknowledged that he received this manual and was aware of its contents.
Nonetheless, as subsequent events suggest, Mr Cunningham was content to make an assumption that M3FS had approved the merged SOA he had Benita Keen send by email to Ms Hare for approval on about 17 July 2007, when he could not be sure, one way or the other, that it had actually been approved.
He simply did not think to follow up with his Relationship Manager, Mr Nguyen, or Ms Hare, to whom the draft SOA had been sent for approval, to ascertain whether all was in order.
Later, at the November audit, this omission came to light, as explained below, and, in the words of Mr Cunningham, Ms Hare "threw a hissy fit" over the issue (see LMC 31 to Mr Cunningham's witness statement, Exhibit A).
THE PERIOD OF AUGUST TO OCTOBER 2007: SETTLING IN 
 On 6 August 2007, Mr Cunningham says he had a meeting with Jonathon Nguyen to discuss his (Mr Cunningham's) "vision for Avoca Consultants".
Mr Cunningham produced a document (TB 379-380) that he says he prepared for the purposes of this meeting.
It is typed in part and handwritten in part.
The document is headed, "VISION FOR AVOCA CONSULTANTS".
The handwritten date "6 August 2007" appears at the top right together with the words, "Meeting with Jonathon".
In smaller type at the bottom of the first page, "Earnings to date" are noted next to the words, "Current status as of Monday, 11 June 2007".
These are followed by the typed words: 
 Optimum $25 million FUM (981,000 pounds to be transferred in from UK).


Over the page in type are what appear to be some projections, followed by the typed words:
 
 To achieve above, (Must change current business mix Optimum IP 30/2/2 TLI+TPD)
 New Mix TPD outside super + TRAUMA 
 Mr Cunningham insists this is a document that he used as an agenda for a discussion with Jonathon Nguyen on 6 August 2007.
He says that in the course of the meeting, amongst other things he told Jonathon Nguyen about a link he had on a website www.pomsinperth.com/UK_pensions_1.htm, and how he facilitated the transfer of UK pension funds to Australian superannuation funds.
